-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dungeons & Dragons Online: Stormreach
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/ddonline/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fast-paced, no-nonsense action puts the focus on combat and adventure.
 Atmospheric narration and other details help make quests livelier.
 Integrated voice chat makes communicating easy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Poorly suited for those who prefer to play solo or expect the option.
 No player-versus-player combat.
 Doesn't really feel massively multiplayer but still has monthly fees.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 16, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.6, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 1,692 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Turbine Inc.
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Feb 28, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This online RPG lives up to its namesake as far as the quality of its action-packed quests is concerned, 
 but it doesn't have all the features you'd probably want. 

  Dungeons &amp; Dragons Online are four words that go great together, and yet this recently released 
 online role-playing game isn't necessarily the dream come true its name suggests. That's not because 
 D&amp; D Online doesn't do a generally good job in its specific areas of concentration; it does. 
 However, the game's focus on group-based hack-and-slash dungeon crawls comes at the expense of 
 a lot of other elements you might reasonably expect either from a Dungeons &amp; Dragons game or 
 from an online RPG.  

          Hobgoblins, bastard swords, and rust monsters are among some of the compelling reasons 
 to play Dungeons &amp; Dragons Online.     

  D&amp; D Online isn't the sprawling, complicated game that you get in a lot of other online RPGs. 
 It's set in and around the city of Stormreach, so rather than travel to the far corners of a fantasy 
 world, you'll spend a lot of time in dungeons and sewers hidden beneath this seemingly civilized 
 place. It's structured around combat-intensive quests, so rather than blindly exploring an expansive 
 world or countryside, you'll be spending most of your time undertaking meaningful missions with 
 specific objectives. There's no player-versus-player combat and all of the different character 
 classes are combat oriented, as is the gameplay. The combat itself is fairly simple, fast paced, 
 and action packed, occasionally but not usually tactical or strategic. You aren't constantly gaining 
 new skills and abilities, especially since you gain experience points slowly. The point of the 
 game is to play through and enjoy successive quests together with several other players like you. 
 This isn't a game for those who prefer or expect the option to be able to play solo, though it 
 makes quickly finding a player group quite easy.  

  This also isn't exactly the Dungeons &amp; Dragons you may be used to from bygone days of sitting 
 around a kitchen table with your friends, or even from playing D&amp; D computer games like Baldur's 
 Gate II or Icewind Dale. Turn-based, tactical combat from other D&amp; D games is replaced by much 
 more of a frenetic melee, requiring lots of right-clicking by weapon-wielding characters. Sometimes 
 it's hard to tell what's going on until somebody, you or the enemy, drops dead. D&amp; D conventions 
 like saving throws and critical hits are at work behind the scenes, but it's hard to pay attention 
 to the statistics during a fever-pitch battle. As for the setting of Stormreach, it combines the 
 predictable swords and sorcery with inklings of industrial technology. Metal automatons and elaborate 
 arrays of metal piping aren't what you'd typically expect from D&amp; D, and yet this doesn't really 
 succeed at making the game's setting any more inspired or imaginative, since it's been done so 
 many times before. Nevertheless, the game's colorful, often attractive setting is pleasing to the 
 senses and filled with some nice little details, though you'll need a fast system to get the game 
 both looking good and running smoothly, and the character animations leave something to be desired. 
 From an audio standpoint, the game fares similarly well, offering up some good atmospheric sounds, 
 decent musical tracks, and the constant repetition of whooshing weapons.  

  In this dangerous world, you create a character by choosing from a decent selection of races and 
 professions. The professions run the D&amp; D gamut, from fighters and barbarians to wizards and 
 clerics to rogues and bards. However, in the context of the game, it seems clear that standard 
 character classes like fighters, rogues, and clerics widely outnumber other classes like bards 
 and rangers. You might expect for hybrid classes like rangers to be relatively self-sufficient 
 in exchange for not being as adept at one task or another compared with more-specialized classes, 
 but you'd be wrong. D&amp; D Online is strictly designed around players working together in small 
 teams of six or so.  

          No use trying to lone-wolf it through the game's numerous danger-filled dungeons. Thankfully, 
 it's easy to find a group.     

  Thankfully, the game's social interface makes it simple to get into an open player group, and most 
 player groups seem ready and willing to take on new members, since everyone's motivated to go questing. 
 You do have the option to attempt to take on a quest all by your lonesome, but you're liable to 
 fail miserably if you try -- something you might have to learn the hard way if you appreciate having 
 the option to do some questing on your own. Go dungeon-crawling all by yourself, and your small 
 number of hit points will quickly be reduced to nothing by various monsters from slimes to the 
 living dead to bugbears, buying you a trip back out of the dungeon and some experience debt -- punishment 
 for your foolhardiness, but at least your character doesn't get permanently wiped out like in traditional 
 D&amp; D (though options for hardcore rules might have been nice) . After all, you can't easily recover 
 from wounds in the middle of a quest without a healer, and you're vulnerable to deadly traps without 
 the keen senses of a rogue... but healers and rogues can't fight well on their own.     

  It isn't difficult to understand one's place in one of the game's skirmishes, since the D&amp; D 
 rules encourage you to specialize with certain weapons, spells, or tactics. In between fights, 
 there's exploring to do, barrels to break, levers to throw, and so on. The game's dozens of different 
 quests offer a good balance of pure combat and light puzzle-solving, but while each one is technically 
 different, there's still a sameness they all share in common. The important thing is, though, that 
 D&amp; D Online is structured in a way that constantly keeps you in active motion. Whether you're 
 spotting secret doors, swimming through underwater labyrinths, defending against massive kobold 
 ambushes, or smashing barrels and things, you're always doing this to make progress through to 
 the end of your quest.  

          Stormreach isn't quite the traditional high-fantasy setting, but it's filled with the sorts 
 of dungeons and catacombs you'd care to adventure in.     

  Unique, atmospheric narration -- coming from a disembodied dungeon master -- sets the mood for each 
 individual quest, while an automap feature and a solid interface helps keep you oriented. It's 
 always fun to set foot in any new quest for the first time, although it's more than likely that 
 you'll be there with people who've already gone through it numerous times before, diminishing some 
 sense of the surprise. For better or worse, at least you won't run into other players during a 
 given quest. All of the quests are "instances" that offer a fresh challenge exclusively for your 
 party, though this takes away from the massively multiplayer feel of the game. Most quests can 
 easily be completed in a reasonable sitting, although some quests are part of a greater, story-driven 
 series, which can take much longer to complete. There seems like a good balance of quick-hit and 
 lengthier adventures to undertake.  

  Quests are rated in length, level, and difficulty, and it's good that you can optionally repeat 
 quests at a higher difficulty level for commensurately greater dangers and rewards. It's also interesting 
 that you earn experience points for a quest only upon successfully completing it, as opposed to 
 from every individual kill. This is evidently how D&amp; D Online avoids putting players through 
 the typical grind of having to repeatedly kill the same monsters over and over just to level up... but, 
 honestly, you still end up doing something similar. You'll naturally be motivated to get better 
 equipment and grow stronger, and the way to do that is to gain experience, by undertaking the most 
 rewarding quests over and over. You get diminishing experience returns from repeating quests, forcing 
 you to eventually move on. Quests don't always seem well balanced in terms of risk and reward. 
 Take two similarly long, similarly challenging quests, and one might net you three times the experience 
 and better loot than the other. Even so, it's exciting to explore the breadth of the game's content. 
 Initially you're funneled through a few starter quests, but it isn't long before the game really 
 opens up, permitting you to undertake all kinds of different quests in whichever order you choose. 

  It's worth noting that D&amp; D Online is only moderately successful in fostering the role-playing 
 aspects of Dungeons &amp; Dragons. You don't get much in the way of character customization options, 
 and while taverns throughout Stormreach serve as social hubs, there's not much to do in them except 
 heal up and quickly get into quest groups. Combat resolves so quickly that there's really no time 
 for chitchat during a typical encounter, or even during an entire quest. In fact, D&amp; D Online 
 does a fine job of integrating voice chat straight into the game -- all you need is a microphone 
 headset and you can talk, rather than type, to your party members. It's a great way to quickly 
 relay bits of info in battle, yet repeatedly hearing strangers' voices sooner takes you out of 
 the Dungeons &amp; Dragons experience than draws you in. The trade-off is worth it, so long as 
 you'd prefer to quickly, cleanly rush through quests than to lose yourself in a fantasy setting. 

          It's not quite the definitive D&amp; D experience, but Dungeons &amp; Dragons Online makes 
 multiplayer questing fast and fun.     

  Burdened with monthly subscription fees, games such as D&amp; D Online are naturally held to a higher 
 standard when it comes to the breadth and sheer volume of their content. On those fronts, this 
 game might not necessarily have what it takes to keep you glued over the long haul, especially 
 when a similar game like Guild Wars offers at least as much if not more content, without asking 
 you for your credit card number in exchange. Here, you don't have tons of leveling up to look forward 
 to, and there isn't some elaborate competitive player-versus-player element to keep you busy once 
 you max out your character. But there's more than enough good content to keep the typical D&amp; D 
 fan intrigued and entertained for around those first 30 days you get free with the purchase of 
 the retail box. Beyond that, it's going to depend on how quickly you've consumed the content and 
 what types of friends you've got in the game. Having cut their teeth on the Asheron's Call series, 
 D&amp; D Online's experienced developers intend to continue supplementing their game with add-on 
 "modules" that introduce new quests, rewards, and challenges. This dedicated focus on the questing 
 and adventure portions of the game ultimately makes sense and should help keep the quality of D&amp; D 
 Online's content a cut above the traditional online RPG. But in exchange, D&amp; D Online doesn't 
 deliver the broad scope and wide variety of features you could find in other similar games.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (179 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: paauggie
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 21, 2009 5:05 am PT
Review:  Being reasonably new to the world of mmo's but a veteran with 25 years of tabletop AD&D experience 
 I was highly anticipating being able to finally play the game online. Having previously played 
 the masterpiece that is World of Warcraft I assumed that the developer's of this game would have 
 similarly created a seamless virtual world which would bring to live the D&D games of my youth. 
 Never have I been more wrong! 
  The game start promisingly enough and the character creation screen is both graphically impressive 
 and rather fun, but from that point onwards it's all downhill. In fact from thereon in the game 
 plays like a lesson in how not to make a mmo.
  Your character enters a world that looks completely flat and lifeless and interacting with the 
 game's npc's is a joyless experience that harks back to the drop down menu rpg's of the very early 
 90's. The graphics are simply awful. Characters seem to float about the screen as though they are 
 apart from the world rather than a part of it and combat is reduced to a confused mess of trying 
 to work out which of the blur of monsters you are currently targetting. Quest's are both dull and 
 contrived and the opportunities for solo questing seem limited at best. Simply put, if you want 
 to see a great implementation of AD&D then the Baldurs gate series does a vastly superior job. 
 Stormreach squanders the opportunity to bring the D&D world to life in an online environment, and 
 this is doubly disappointing due to the fact that the idea of a persistent online D&D world is 
 something that an awful lot of gamers have dreamed of since the late eighties.
  To be honest this game may have hidden depths of which I am unaware as I despairingly gave up after 
 a few hours play, but the fact is that D&D has already been brought to life in the most fantastic 
 manner - it's called the World of Warcraft, and I'd much rather be spending time enoying the genius 
 of Azeroth than wasing my time with this nonsense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CageSpot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 11:30 am PT
Review:  Affter Comeing off Starwars Galaxys I didnt expect Much SWG was Everything i wanted affter Comeing 
 off i didnt expect a other MMO for me But i Tryed some more I went to World of WarCraft and GuildWars 
 they were allmost as good but they didnt have much quilatys
  
  Then my Brithday Came up and my Father brought me Dungeon and Dragons Stormreach and we both got 
 together and played the game and this game had everything alrite maybe u cant craft or go to level 
 100 or even Wield a Lightsaber but this Game had a Great Combat system and a Great Leveling System
 
  
  I found this game a Enjoyable Sci-fi Fantasy Adventure MMO Orges Orcs Kobolds Drow Elfs Warforges 
 alot of great races and stuff like dat i was once a player of this Game Known as Terrgone i was 
 in a great guild and i left and if i ever decide to go back to a MMO this game will be right alongside 
 me so for any MMO gamer or even Collector Dungeon and Dragons Stormreach and then this game is 
 the game for you
  
  So just get it today
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badbillsbones
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  Don't believe the review Gamespot gave. Check it out yourself. You can solo up to level 6, The 
 quests allow up to 6 per party, or up to 12 for a raid quest. PVP can be found in most of the Taverns. 
 There are many outdoor areas to explore. Many quest are outside the city. A user interface that 
 is compleatly customizeable and a combat system that is far better then EQll or WoW and new Mods 
 that come out about every 4 months that subscribers enjoy at no additional charge. There is crafting 
 at the higher levels and at the time of this review '12/12/08' the new year will bring new races 
 along with 4 additional levels that cap at 20. A free 10 day trial can be had at "www. ddo. com" 
 and a podcast you can get tips and help about the game at "www. ddocast. com". Go ahead, give it 
 a try, its free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redjay
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2008 5:37 am PT
Review:  So, I get into this game a few weeks back now... after reading up on the reviews here and at other 
 sites for better than two hours. At $15 to buy the game, what's the harm, eh?
  And it's completely different than all the user reviews here. The game has changed a lot, apparently. 
 8 different "modules" later and I don't see anything that the negatives have posted about this 
 one.
  Easy to find groups now. Takes a bit of time but the tools to find groups are better than I've 
 seen in any MMO. And I've played pretty darned near all of them.
  There's a solo factor now as well. Bit of an experience loss to play that way but it's nice and 
 scaled down to loners like me. I've played my couple of nOObs for a few hours each now and haven't 
 felt like the game was unbalanced.
  The graphics are outstanding and I'm running a two year old gaming rig with just barely the minimum 
 requirements for Age of Conan. I can run this one at full resolution and it's very pretty with 
 no frame rate drop.
  The gameplay is much faster than the WoW or EQ crowd would be used to. Most fights resolve similarly 
 to the City of Heroes game. Big bunch of baddies and you and your group working to take them down 
 as efficiently as possible.
  The game itself is D&D much like the Neverwinter Nights series for the PC. The graphics and fight 
 pacing are almost the same as Neverwinter Nights 2, without the ability to pause of course.
  Everything is still instanced, but the instances are bigger in some missions, the new module 8 
 area is comparable to the Guild Wars original game prologue area in size and scope of quests.
 
  So... in my opinion, this game is worth a try. Very affordable to download (and it only took me 
 roughly an hour total with patches from a commercial cable modem) . The game itself rates a 7.5. 
 It's fun and time consuming, nothing really ground breaking but very much worth playing. I gave 
 it another .5 because I'm an old-school D&D pencil and paper player from the 70's and I think they 
 did justice to my imagination.
  
  Try this game.
  Excellent bang for the buck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mindcrime67
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I love the game play, it combines hack and slash with turn based RPG's wonderfully for an amazing 
 experience. 
  Unfortunately though unless you belong to a large guild or have a regular bunch of people to play 
 with you spend more time putting a group together than you do actually playing. Whenever I get 
 on I have to plan for 20 min or better just finding people to group with. Then typically one you 
 go through one or more dungeon people start splitting off and you have to go through the whole 
 thing again.
  If you know people who will be online with you when you're playing, or you're a much more social 
 person than I am and make friends with those who are always online, then this is a great game. 
 If not the hassle isn't really worth it. 
  Of course this is somewhat old for a review as I have not yet tried tried again with the single 
 player mode for the dungeons. Also my complaint I'm sure is the same for almost any MMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlambert444
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  Love it hate it, you're going to get all kinds of reviews. I'm not going to tell you that it's 
 great and you have to try it, I just ask that you check it out and learn for yourself. Just don't 
 come in expecting it to be just like the MMO you are playing now.
  
  Think planning, strategy, customization and fast paced combat and you'll be in the correct frame 
 of mind. A very mature player base, so ask someone to help when you first get in and you'll be 
 overwhelmed with the support offered.
  
  Play for a month or two, then come back here and tell people what you think. You won't be disappointed. 
 Then when you think you know what you're doing start researching all the options available to you 
 in creating a character that specializes in exactly what you want. 
  
  Play that toon through and have a great time. Then, just when you are an expert, try a totally 
 different class and get blown away at the role reversals and experience the excitement again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stealthbr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  I started playing DDO back in 2006. The game was great at first, the new quests were very fun, 
 graphics looked cool, and the character customization in terms of feats/skills/etc. was really 
 great. I soon got my rogue to lvl 10 and did my first raid. Boy, it was probably the best experience 
 ever in an MMO. I soon got bored with the lack of content and left though. 2008, I decide to check 
 this game out and it is great to be back.
  
  System: 8800GTX, 680i SLi, E6600, 3GB 800Mhz RAM.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in DDO are good 
 looking. The dungeons are look great with all the shadows and lights. Animations are also pretty 
 fluid. They improved the water and now it looks terrific. Some pieces of armor area dissapointing 
 though while others can make you feel happy about using them. One of my personal favorite pieces 
 of equipment (visual preference) is a helmet called The Tradusor. I have a very stable and high 
 FPS no matter what. Out door environments don't look that great though. Weapons with Elements on 
 them (+1 Flaming Dwarven Axe) look great and the particle effects are well made. Several spells 
 look very nice also such as phantasmal killer.
  
  Sound: Music in DDO is almost great. Taverns usually play the same song except a few like the tavern 
 in this pirate island (forgot the name) . Music is not disturbing though and is pretty well made. 
 Sound effects such as hitting an enemy with armor or hitting the bones of a skeleton are nicely 
 done and unique.
  
  Combat: Combat in DDO is very fun. There is an auto-attack option, but it is best to manually hit 
 your target. It really feels refreshing to be able to swing your big axe wherever you please. You 
 can also block incoming hits and dodge enemies by jumping or tumbling.
  
  Quests: Quests in DDO are probably the best in any MMO created. There are some quests that you 
 just can't forget about them since they are so well made. They aren't just your typical "Go there 
 kill X mobs" or "Collect X supplies". They really require thinking and provide a much refreshing 
 experience. Also, dungeons have traps, secret doors, levers, locks to pick, ladders, underwater 
 parts, and several other things. They have also added SEVERAL quests into the game since launch. 
 Raids in this game are extremely well done. I haven't done them all but I really enjoyed doing 
 the Titan raid.
  
  Character Customization: In DDO, you can choose from a variety of options to make your character 
 very unique and make it so that no one plays like you. You decide which feats, attributes, enhancements, 
 and skills you want on your character. You really feel unique in this game. Character creation 
 is pretty average for MMOs where you pick hair style, color, eye style, color, beards, facial details, 
 noses, lips, etc.
  
  PvP: In DDO, PvP is quite limited. You can only kill other players in tavern brawling areas and 
 in PvP dedicated instances. To me, I only PvP to pass the time because it can be fun. Certain classes 
 are very overpowered in PvP though such as the casters.
  
  Overall, DDO has evolved a lot and until today is a very exciting and fun game to play. Turbine 
 has added things like crafting also which I still need to give a try. The game is very solid and 
 if you are looking for a different, more refreshing experience, give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gennerik
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  Dungeons and Dragons Online: Stormreach is far from the game that was initially launched. Constant 
 free content releases and tweaks of the combat system has continued to improve on this niche MMORPG. 
 Unlike most other MMO's, DDO focuses on tightly written quest instances, which makes it stand out 
 among the crowd but may not be to everyone's taste. The feat and enhancement system allows great 
 customization of characters and with the recent update, the level cap has increased to level 16 
 allowing even more unique (and powerful) characters.
  
  If you haven't ever tried it and are getting tired of the standard MMORPG fare of grinding for 
 hours to get a level or some item, give it a try. The quest set up makes for a great game that 
 can be played on a time budget. For anyone that tried the game initially and felt it lacking, it 
 may be worth your time to see how things have progressed, for the Stormreach of today, almost two 
 years after launch, is not the one originally presented. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Desalbert-
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  Dungeons and Dragons, as many may already know, was essentially the birthplace of everything that 
 is "High Fantasy". The franchise started out (and still is played) as a pen and paper game, where 
 you and you're friends, would create imaginative journeys with heroes, deadly monsters, and a complex 
 set of rules, all in the name of some classic nerdy fun. Since then, the idea behind D&D and its 
 rules set, has made its transition to a more mainstream world, one of videogames. Games like Baulder's 
 Gate and Never Winter Nights one and two, are prime examples of nearly direct adaptations of the 
 D&D system, while games like Diablo II are certainly influenced by the ideals of the early D&D 
 world but are far more indirectly related. Nevertheless, anytime one mentions Orcs, swords, barbarians 
 and Elves, they'll most likely be talking about D&D. Now, for the first time, the franchise's namesake 
 comes to the MMORPG marketwell, sort of.
  
  There are many great things about this title, straight away. It stays true to the Dungeons and 
 Dragons formula which has kept many tied to their coffee tables with friends, or their computers, 
 pounding away at those dastardly kobolds. It's character creation follows the tried and true method 
 of the newest edition of D&D, allowing you to customize nearly every aspect, from Strength to Charisma, 
 and from weapon specializations to intimidation skills. What's more, there are all the classes 
 a D&D fan would expect: Paladin's, Clerics, Rangers and Rogues, just to name a few. What it is 
 lacking however, is the ability to select all of the classic D&D races. Sure, it has humans, and 
 elves, and dwarfs, but it's mysteriously lacking Gnomes and Halflings, instead opting for a new 
 almost robotic-golem race known as "The Warforged". The absence of some races is understandable, 
 as the game is looking to create its own world and own story to add to the archives of D&D, and 
 as such, in no way does it really harm the overall experience. 
  
  The physical (or appearance section) of the character creation is far less time consuming than 
 the ability section, and is fairly well done, though it offers nothing that you couldn't find elsewhere. 
 That said, upon creating your character you're likely to feel satisfied, and eager to jump into 
 the fray.
  
  Upon entering the game, then the world you're greeted with two fairly engaging opening film, which 
 do their best to pull you into what's to come, and they do a fairly good job, getting you ready 
 to slice through hordes of enemies. Upon truly entering the playing world, however, your character 
 is simply standing there, waiting for you to direct him There's no real introduction or sense 
 of tutorial other than a few annoying pop up windows as you mouse over things. These things can 
 be overlooked, however.
  
  What simply cannot be overlooked is the total lack of NPC voiceovers. In this silent endeavour 
 there is simply text on top of text, with not even an acknowledgement voice to tide you over. That's 
 right, no "Hello's", no "Whadda ya want's"; nothing, just silent text windows. That said, the text 
 that is there is written very well, and, as such you may actually find yourself sticking to the 
 storyUnless you're really dying to kill something. 
  
  "Killing something" is really where the game shines. Boasting a new MMORPG combat style which allows 
 you to swing your blade, fire your arrows, throw your axes and launch your magic missiles, freely, 
 with a simple click of the right mouse button. This really helps get you into the adventuring mode. 
 Of course, there is an option for auto attacks, but who wants to do that when you can almost feel 
 the force behind your mace as it fractures the skull of Goblin who's more than sorry he picked 
 a fight with your mouse finger. This said, although the fighting is engaging and innovative, its 
 often very awkward. Or rather, the AI is very awkward, choosing to run circles around you and only 
 occasionally hit you. As well, you'll often find yourself swinging like a mad man just trying to 
 get a hit in, as you watch the kobold, blessed with rag-doll physics, be blown of his feet in response 
 to a thundering blow from a large axe. So although the AI can really be questionable on the default 
 , "normal or solo" difficulty setting, it sure as hell is fun to give it a beatdown. What's more, 
 traversing a dungeon or, any quest, is made all the more intense by the expertly voiced digital 
 dungeon master, who makes sure he tells you what it sounds like behind the door, or how the room 
 is laid out. Like a true dungeon master in the pen and paper version, he sets the stage very well, 
 and, makes you really move forward with caution, fearing any sudden movements, gripping your mouse 
 tightly, waiting, dodging traps and solving deadly puzzles. Much of the great experience in "questing" 
 is derived from such an immersive atmosphere. 
  
  Wait a minute! Did I say Settings? You bet I did. This is when things get odd. You can choose the 
 difficulty for every quest in the game, from solo to elite, and, whether or not you have a party 
 with you will influence this fact. But Being able to determine how hard the task will be, is certainly 
 not a feature found in any other MMORPG to date, and it doesn't make a good transition here. Some 
 may say it's for the best, but being able to decide your fate decidedly brings you back down to 
 earth, and uproots you from the games immersion. Suddenly, you realize that for all the gold you've 
 gathered and the skulls you've crushed, that you're playing a game, and, that you're not really 
 at any risk. This difficulty implementation was a real shame, as they attempted to add "replay" 
 value also allowing you to take quests multiple times over. Again, the ability to customize your 
 adventure or repeat things you may have missed makes you lose your sense of a persistent, dangerous 
 world. What also contributes to this lost feeling of persistence, is the fact that, on any given 
 session, you're only likely to come across one or two other players, most of whom are already well 
 leveled. This means that for most of the quests you'll be solo'ing, and although the Looking For 
 Group feature is very well done, and leads to some good party moments, the game is certainly very 
 sparse in terms of other players. 
  
  
  Despite the great atmosphere, excellent dungeon narration, intense sword-play and great D&D roots, 
 this game really falls short of MMORPG quality, and, were it instead a game like Neverwinter Nights, 
 where one can major in single player and also go online for free, it would be far better. As it 
 stands, it's an MMORPG with a failing grade in the "Massive and Multiplayer portions of this Online 
 RPG. 
  
  For all its great innovations and intense moments, those moments are usually by yourself, and easily 
 snuffed out by the fact that you've been paying a monthly fee for a game which is closely reminiscent 
 of other, single player RPG games before it.
  
  I suggest that another company should create a game that utilizes the great, free-swinging combat, 
 and the intense questing narration, while staying true to the great atmosphere and character roots 
 of D&D without the monthly fee. The bottom line, sees a game that would have great potential and 
 worthiness as a single-player experience, but instead, it is literally forced into the MMORPG category. 
 When it really isn't an MMO, at all. 
  
  Final Score: 6.5 out of 10
  
  The Rundown:
  
  + Great Atmosphere, Sword-fighting, and Narration, as well as an intriguing storyline and true 
 to D&D character generation
  
  - Very sparse player base, an almost non-existent community, sub-par AI, adjustable difficulty 
 settings and (apart from the narration) zero voice work leads to a game which isn't deserving of 
 its MMO classification, and certainly, unworthy of a subscription fee, unless you're truly dying 
 to have some great sword play and a decent story line, with one or two friends.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_Fool_Sq
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 27, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Haha, I remember getting the free trial when I got my special edition of Empire at War. I mean, 
 the cover of the trial box seemed cool. Lets test it out, shall we?
  
  Well, at first it seemed O. K. I got my little mage here.
  But whats that? I can't cast spells? 
 Why? It wont tell me? Maybe I should ask a fellow player... If I can find one.
  
  lol noob it's prolly cause you don't have enough CHA 
  Uh, whats CHA? 
  CHARISMA! 
  
  Ohh... so, 
 why didn't I know of this? Doesn't seem to noob friendly to me. O. K. Well im nit picking but seriously 
 heres the worst part of it.
  The NARRATOR.
  
  You enter the room. You pull the lever, you CLIMB UP THE STAIRS. 
  I know. I can see that. The 
 graphics are mediocre along with the tilt. But, wheres the PvP?
  The exhilirating experience of pitting yourself against your fellow players in a climactic showdown 
 of the champions?! And wheres the MM in the MMORPG? Where are all the people?
  
  I can HEAR MY ECHO!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trantham
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  You've read it before but the biggest issue with DDO is CONTENT; specifically the lack thereof. 
 Every character you start has to run through exactly the same set of quests. And to level, you 
 must run these quests over and over and over for ever decreasing experience awards. Most of the 
 individual dungeons are magnificent but how many times can you enjoy running through them?
  
  Another major issue for me was the fact that the City of Stormreach is 'door to door' dungeons. 
 The evil cult is right next door to the entrance to the sewer lords lair..... c'mon! How can I get 
 immersed (no pun intended) in that?
  
  In Paper D&amp; D, imagine running your character through the same adventure (module) 5 or 10 times........ it 
 just wouldn't work and this just doesn't work. (Nothing about the dungeons is randomized....... even 
 that would have helped a little!)
  
  Why not intersperse shorter cookie cutter quest content in with the 'hand crafted' dungeon quests? 
 At least i'd feel different! Why not allow for travel between population centers with random encounters 
 and Ogre caves to clean out and nasty little goblins to slay?
  
  If Turbine had simply taken the LOTRO model and converted it to D&amp; D they'd have had a huge 
 hit! DDO just feels so limited that even the magnificent combat system and hand crafted dungeon 
 adventures can't overcome the boxed in feeling.
  
  The sad thing is that the game is still fixable if they'd just listen to the gaming community and 
 do it! The world should be huge and explorable; if i take my level 3 character out too far from 
 civilization and get whacked.... so be it! Just open up the DMG and look at the random monster tables 
 for every type of terrain and climate! Ogres and bandits and trolls and orcs and goblins and .................. 
 Mixed in with all these encounters would be the quest adventures given to the players by the powerful 
 personalites of the land. There could be surprise instances hidden out in the Wilderness as well 
 to reward the adventerous. There could be good, evil, and neutral kingdoms to explore along with 
 the untamed wilderness areas........ ruins of ancient empires..... the storys have all been wriiten 
 over the past 30 years all Turbine has to do is ask!
  
  There could be race and class and area of origon specific quests........ there could be story arcs 
 and.............. ah well, I've run on too long.
  
  Please Turbine FIX THIS GAME while you still can! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps2mark
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 1, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun. Thee are a few problems, like the fact that it depends on the skill of 
 othe people to play. You need a good partyto play so if you find some one who is good keep in touch 
 with them so you can party with them more. It also starts out rather slow and is not much in the 
 beginning, but it does get alot better. There is also many great aspects of the game like that 
 every month or so it updates. If there is a problem they will fix it, and they add new parts to 
 the game. Over all if you like mmo's this is a pretty good1 and definately worth buying and plyaing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deighton95
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 21, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  I've been playing DDO for one year and I'm pleased that the producers continue to take their product 
 seriously by making sure that they continue to improve. Very few games are perfect right out of 
 the box, and DDO is no exception. However, with updates on a (close to) monthly basis, new content 
 and features help improve the replay value tremendously.
  
  The gameplay itself is above average thanks in part to a well conceived battle system accompanied 
 with amazing graphics. The audio could use some tinkering, but often times I find myself humming 
 the tunes of my favorite tavern (The Phoenix Tavern) .
  
  My favorite aspect of DDO is the player cooperation that is needed to accomplish the major quests. 
 Some might see that as a detractor, but honestly if you think that by rolling solo will ever amount 
 to any measure of greatness, then you are just fooling yourself. To achieve anything worthwhile, 
 the assistance of multiple people is required. Form a group of Heavy Fighters and throw in a Wizard/Sorcerer, 
 Cleric, and a solid Rogue to be able to handle most challenges in the game and achieve the levels 
 of greatness you deserve!!
  
  Overall, DDO is an exciting game that continues to build upon its successes. Join some friends 
 and play a role in becoming one of Stormreach's Heroes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djinji
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  What to say. This game is awesome. The gameplay rocks. The gpraphics are just stunning (especially 
 on ultra high) . The community is great. The sound awesome. The Atmosphere is incredible (made that 
 way by the narrator (the DM) ) This game only gets better and better every month. Every month there 
 are new quests , bug fixes , etc. Every 2 - 3 months there are modules (expansions) that add even 
 more to the game. The game made a long way since launch and now it is really great and improves 
 over the time (the next 2 updates are going to be awesome) . So I can only recommend it.
  Play this game people&gt; Maybe some of you were dissappointed by it at launch , but right now it 
 is a different piece of cake. Play it !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lev_six
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 12, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  V3.0
  
  This review by no means covers everything about the game. As of October 07 I've gone back to change 
 some things because of recent module updates and other changes that have occurred.
  
  Introduction
  
  I jumped into this game simply because I was looking for a new MMO to play. 
 The D &amp; D 3.5 rules, as well as the franchise's long history of story telling, also had real 
 appeal (and potential) . The problem is, this isn't really an MMO in the classic sense.
  
  This game is run entirely on instancing. The only time you see other players and have a free-for-all 
 type environment is within cities. It is utterly identical to Guild Wars in this regard. Instancing 
 is fine, and I'm a fan of balanced instancing, but in DDO it doesn't really work. Within the last 
 few months they've opened up bigger areas. They are more open and slightly less linear than the 
 regular quests. They are essentially wilderness regions like the ones you'd find in WOW or other 
 games. However, even these are instanced!! The addition of a few open areas is nice but the content 
 is still very limited by MMO standards. The statement I made months ago stands: If you take a 2 
 week holiday and decide to go nuts on gaming, it'd be possible to explore the entire game within 
 that period. You'd EASILY be able to max your character. It's also likely that you would see just 
 about all there is to possibly do within the game.
  
  There is no crafting. There's no housing. There's really nothing at all to do but run the same 
 instanced quests over and over again. The people who play the game run the same quests 20,30,40,50+ 
 times in order to have something to do. I'm not exaggerating and most of the established players 
 have done the main quests 100+ times. The level cap is currently 14th. You can achieve maximum 
 level very rapidly by MMO standards, even without playing 10 hours a day. The level cap was 10 
 until several months ago. It took the entire first year of the game to raise it just 4 levels.
 
  
  There's one race that stands out as being the strongest for casting related classes -- drow. Dwarves 
 tend to be the most powerful combat types. The new enhancement system has given dwarves triple 
 the advantages that other races have. Whether you agree on my 'racial' opinions and preferences 
 or not, the point is that there's no real balance. 70% of the people in the game are the same race (drow) . 
 Even with Dungeons and Dragon's rich history of writing, the world selected (Eberron) was one of 
 the least popular. As for development, Turbine quite simply sucks. I've played many MMOs and know 
 what the industry standards are. They trump up new content in loading screen ads for literally 
 MONTHS on end. The most recent module was advertised as a JUNE RELEASE for MONTHS. June came and 
 went without a word. 2 weeks into July, the June splash screen remained. To give you an idea of 
 how Turbine operates, instead of saying they were behind schedule, they said, 'It was a typo. That's 
 a direct quote from the DDO forum, written by a developer.
  
  Once the quests are released their success is a crapshoot. Some of the later released areas, like 
 the original Necropolis, are ignored and loathed outright. For a long time, the only area worth 
 playing was Gianthold. It's really ALL the high level players had to run. They sometimes went back 
 to run older quests like the Dragon or the Demon Queen, but the vast majority of play time was 
 invested in the Gianthold region. It has maybe 8 quests total, and I can solo almost all of them 
 in 1/2 hour or LESS. Some of them require lever pullers or are just too tedious to solo, but you 
 get my point. The entire area is tiny.
  
  Now, with mod 5, the game has gone through a few changes. The graphics engine was updated. This 
 was very positive. The new area is a higher level add-on to the Necropolis. It's the new Gianthold 
 in that all people just hang out there and pretty much go no where else. Ninety percent of high 
 level characters will be in that one area, doing one of the handful of quests, repeatedly.
  
  Turbine continues to try to update content. The game is still just too small and doesn't have 
 the depth people demand from an MMO these days. Crafting, housing, and true open areas (non-instanced) 
 are non-existent even tho they are preferred by most MMO players. There are no plans to add any 
 of this into the game. If you've got 5 hours or less a week to invest in building a character, 
 this game could work for you. The content it has now, if you have never played it, might keep you 
 going for a while. I think you'll still level very quickly by any MMO standard if you've gamed 
 before. There are actually quite a few more positives but I think that they are overshadowed by 
 the horrible Turbine management. Things that other MMO's management figured out 10 years ago still 
 perplex Turbine. Example: ALL UPDATES ARE DONE IN THE DAY. Not a single update has ever been started 
 before 7 am Eastern. They tend to be done between 7 am and 3 pm. During the last month, there has 
 been at least 40 hours worth of down time during mid-day hours.
  
  As for DDO, the combat system is the best I've ever used, but it really doesn't mean much when 
 you're running the same quest for the 87th time. Instead of spamming icons and sitting back clicking, 
 you can actually control each movement and block in real-time combat. This is tremendous but because 
 you're controlling a character within a very cheeseball and tired world, it doesn't matter.
  
  If someone took the core game and mechanics and put it into the hands of ambitious developers, 
 you'd quite possibly see a game I could give a 9.0. HOWEVER, that's all speculation and based upon 
 imaginary scenarios that do not exist.
  
  I've put several hundred hours into this game. You're probably asking yourself why I STILL pop 
 in from time to to time to play this game? Well, a lot of my real-life friends play it. My best 
 friend lives 3,000 miles away and it is the only game he owns. We can socialize using this game. 
 I renew, play for a week, then quit again... I come back once every couple of months to go sick 
 on it. Rinse and repeat. It's nothing earth shattering and I don't think I have ever recommended 
 this game to a fellow gamer.
  
  The game IS fun for most people until they realize there are only maybe 90 quests in the entire 
 DDO world. Never mind if you've tried other MMORPG games. Once you do that, your expectations increase 
 and DDO is ruined further. I'd say that 30-40% of people in the game have never played another 
 MMO. To me, this seems like a very high percentage and explains why the few 1000 people who still 
 play the game have not run yet. They don't know any better.
  
  In order to try to make people stay, Turbine is constantly coming up with schemes that make it 
 beneficial to run the SAME quests YET again. It's really sad. Instead of coming up with mindless 
 ploys to get people to rehash the same burned-out material, Turbine should wake up. Example: They 
 have a system where you have to do almost every quest on 'elite' difficulty in order to give yourself 
 a few extra points for spending at character creation. Know what that means? You get the huge reward 
 of running ALLLL of the quests AGAIN. Their customer service is HORRIBLE. The game has plenty of 
 bugs that have been there since its release yet they are constantly trying to change things no 
 one wants changed. When I first wrote this review months ago, I stated:
  With Lord of the Rings coming, though, I think that we'll see the DDO development get even more 
 pathetic and worthless. It's all about the money. They're clearly focusing on LOTR, hoping it will 
 be their cash cow. 
  
  This has come true entirely. The best devs see Lord of the Rings as a promotion. When they start 
 doing well for DDO, they are promoted to LOTR. DDO has taken a HUGE back seat to LOTR, making the 
 game sabotaged by its OWN company.
  
  I'd recommend Guild Wars as an alternative to DDO, given the parallels. Also, there's no monthly 
 fee. DDO is NOT worth 15 a month in any way, shape, or form.
  
  It is important to note that only ONE YEAR into this game they've had to do a HUGE server merge. 
 The number of servers was cut down drastically to only a small handful. Does this sound like a 
 thriving game to you? I've caught myself hoping that in a year or two DDO will have expanded and 
 grown into something more interesting. The problem is that by then there will be a new generation 
 of games capturing our interest. With ever increasing investment interest in this niche, the rise 
 of ambitious new gaming companies, higher expectations from customers, and robust/interesting new 
 MMORPG concepts, Turbine's DDO is already one of the walking dead. MMOs such as Age of Conan, Warhammer, 
 Darkfall, and others, will spell the final death of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobbesdknight
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first off, I'ma huge DnD fan. I have books, calendars, shirts, PC games, dice games and all 
 kinds of DnD crap. I know more about DnD than I do about most things (SAD)
  
  The game itself when it first launched was, well good and bad. First all, the bugs in the game 
 crippled it badly. The lack of solo content really did a lot of damage too. There are a lot of 
 players out there like myself who are soloing machines. Can't help it, it's what I'm good at, it's 
 just what I do. DnD online was sooo party reliant that after the beggining quests, you could basically 
 do squat. I was able to accomplish a bunch of quests but it took a lot of skill and time. Most 
 new players to MMORPG's lack that and need the parties. Trying to get a PUG (pick up group you noobs) 
 was hard enough, and trying to get one where everyone stayed til the end was near impossible. There 
 were some of the harder quests that I had to repeat 3 or 4 times because half the group would drop 
 out.
  
  No crafting either, that kind of put a kink in things. Plus there was no bank, or mailboxes til 
 a couple of patches ago. Oh, and don't forget the fact that it was a Dungeons and Dragon game with 
 NO DRAGONS in it! WTF? That'sbeen rectigfied with a content patch. The classes and armour looks 
 good, not a lot of various armour skins. my Clerics +2 splint mail is the same as my Warriors +3 
 plate armour. Almost all the helms in the game too are almost the same. That leather hat with and 
 AC bonus of 1 looks IDENTICAL to my +4 helm of smithing with a 8% crit chance. C'mon developers! 
 What the hell are you doing? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usshaddon
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 29, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is something to do if your really bored of world of warcraft or everquest 2, its a good 
 game but wow is a much better mmorpg. This game starts off teaching you how to make your way into 
 a dungeon, but it doesn't tell you how to get anywhere besides the dungeon. Now don't get me wrong, 
 but the dungeons are fun, but they are just like instances in wow, and thats the whole point of 
 the game is just instances. DAOC grew to that, and look what happen... It also doesn't teach you 
 any of the basics that you would learn from wow or eq2, like where to get your armor &amp; etc, 
 but if you learned from wow about armor and weapons then your ok. Its that if you never played 
 a mmorpg, i highly recommend not to pick this game for your first mmorpg, its not a good one to 
 start off with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarv4973
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 15, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty fun little game. It is not as massive in scope as some other MMORPG's on the market. 
 But what it does, it does well and is fun to play. Also if creating unique characters that are 
 not cookie cutter or run of the mill is something you enjoy, DDO offers probably the best experience 
 for that out of any other online game I have played. The tried and true D&amp; D ruleset is implemented 
 for the most part with some changes and tweaks here and there to make Dungeons and Dragons work 
 as an online game.
  
  All and all a good but not great game that is fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Algolagnia
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 20, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  Boring, and repeating quests over and over didn't appeal to me in the least.
  
  I played a bit with my girlfriend, and we both only played for three hours before letting the trial 
 expire. It is that bad.
  
  Areas are tiny, and nobody said a word to us the entire time we played nor did we even see anyone 
 talk at all. It felt like a MMO without people.
  
  It's a skip most definately, it's simply laughable and now a common joke amongst our friends. The 
 graphics were not even that great at high settings, I mean hell WoW looks ALOT better than this 
 rubbish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattrider
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 8, 2006 5:27 am PT
Review:  Our group meet once a week to play online and DDO is the best game for this...
  
  Dungeons are instanced - so no other pesky groups to contend with - we really do feel like we're 
 building our own group's adventure.
  
  The graphics are pretty, the spells, weapons, treasure and monsters varied, interesting and well 
 designed - as you'd expect drawing from 30 years of a game system's existence!
  
  However, we do find the majority of the dungeons (there are very few outdoors quests - making the 
 ranger a bit pants compared to his pen 'n' paper version) look very similar and the missions can 
 also be competitive (go here, find 3/4/5 levers to activate 3/4/5 runes to open 3/4/5 doors to 
 access final big battle with magic-weilding baddie) .
  
  But it's fun, the voice chat is excellent and we're levellign just about quick enough to keep our 
 interest...
  
  So - it'll do, until something better comes along... Vanguard? LoTR online, Warhammer Online??? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madflabby
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 5, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  The GOOD.
  
  Graphics are very sharp, dungeons are beautiful. No cartoon stuff like in WOW or other MMo's these 
 dungoens look nice, so do the monsters in them. Group-based play adds more to the game, you need 
 to work as a team, they did that well.
  
  instanced based quest, no more travelling 10 minutes to a cave entrance. You can get something 
 done in under 2 hours.
  
  THE BAD.
  
  LEvel cap currently at twelve a game junkie will hit that in two-three weeks. Not enough stuff 
 yet. For all it's beauty there just isn't quite enough of the game yet.
  
  
  OVERALL
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone who's into fantasy RPG's. It'd D&amp; D for crying out 
 loud. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plg2307
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 4, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  First thing, i played many MMO so far from WoW to FFXI and many others. This game do have potential 
 to be one of the best out so far but major problem within it has made it a nothing more than average 
 MMO The game first stand out with the really nice graphics and details there is in it ... that 
 is if you pc can manage them. That and the D&amp; D core made me play this game the first time. 
 The control are ok and you have wide enough possibilities in the game to entertain you for a bit. 
 Problem are: most place are dungeon like that's all, meaning you'll almost always be underground 
 when doing mission/quest, this lack is kind of a let down to me because i really like all the outside 
 world possibilities. The game is caped at lvl 12 for now (When it went out it was lvl 10) and if 
 you are even a bit of a gamer you would have made it in less than a month. There is a lack of end 
 game content which make the game repetitive in the end. Lvling (gaining exp) is only possible by 
 making quest, meaning you gain nothing with killing enemies and such, which means you'll probably 
 have to make the same repetitive dungeon again and again to reach the lvl max. As an MMO there 
 is of course a pay per month with it (exception made for GW) and the payment requirement for it 
 is big, good thing is i've not seen a limit to how many character you can make.
  
  Last word: Not a bad game for people who like the D&amp; D universe but if possible, wait some time 
 before playing as they continue to raise the lvl limit. One day ... maybe i'll go back online and 
 change my score, who knows . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cymbol
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 1:30 am PT
Review:  For any D&amp; D fan, this was a dream come true: to be able to share adventures with people across 
 the world any time you desire, to have your imaginations of a fantasy world visualized by today's 
 powerful graphics engines.
  
  DDO is (was) a mostly team based game where you join a party of up to 6 personalities (or more 
 in raid situations) , and kill baddies in instanced dungeons, open treasure boxes, claim the riches 
 and level up. Hardly a new concept, but one of the first to do it as an MMO while claiming to use 
 3.5 rules.
  
  The graphics are beautiful, the sound is enthralling, and dungeons both fun and interesting - on 
 the first 3 runs, anyway.
  
  Then it hit me, what you get with DDO is just a compilation of short stories with little interconnectivity 
 (though, to be fair, hardly any MMO has any story of interest) . What you get in DDO are a lot of 
 dungeon crawling, and many more repetitions of the the same dungeons with little variability.
 
  
  Is it grindy? Not necessarily, for DDO has enough quests that you do not need to repeat many quests 
 over and over in order to achieve level 10 (or 12 with the latest update) , but the imbalances among 
 quests in terms of reward vs time invested pushes many players to only play the quests that offer 
 the most rewards. On top of this, the developers have, incorrectly, equated 'challenging' with 
 'annoying'. Many of its less-frequented dungeons are often the most annoying, i. e. try it once 
 and you won't want to do it again. This coupled with the limited number of dungeons will leave 
 you scratching your head wondering what else is there to do after a month or two.
  
  I enjoyed the game, and it could easily provide a month of fun for any interested. The lack of 
 content reduces this to be not much more than a fancy chatroom after that month (or two) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimboj
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 20, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Even the hardest of gamers will find the end-game of this tedious - constantly grinding quests 
 for diminishing xp in pick up parties where any number of things could go wrong, almost all of 
 them due to human error. The game is fundamentally amazing - complex, themed and fully enjoyable 
 quests - from the graveyard to the fire pits the graphics compete with any console and the atmosphere 
 is captivating. One small problem - They set the bar too high, hired too few developers and launched 
 the game with a fraction of its required content. First time round I played this game for 10 days, 
 Second time 5 days, Third time 2 days... you get the gist. The lastability of the game diminishes 
 and no effort to get back into can get past the fact that you have to repeat the same quest again 
 and again and after a long day at the office its just not what I want to do. The games community 
 is dimishing but is still populated enough (on lyrander server) to form a party at peak, off-peak 
 is a write off (1am onwards) - I played all week on a week off work and from 12:00 onwards I could 
 find parties. You would expect a game like this to settle to its true niche population but unfortunately 
 the sheer lack of content is alienating almost all members besides those utter die hards that enjoy 
 anything DnD branded even though its the 20th time theyve done that quest and are down to 0 xp.
 
  
  If you wanna give this game a go - Get it with the 30 day trial and buy the DnD manual from a book 
 store if you want a perfect character. The true learning curve involves many re-roles just to get 
 one class right without wasting attribute points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lemur911
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Well, the hype has gotten to us, being that this game was in development for a long time... But 
 I don't see how they could have done something to a game with such big expectations and turned 
 it around like this.
  First, the graphics are great, yes, but the art style is bland and, frankly, not very likeable.
 
  There isn't much to explore, as you will be stuck in 'ye ole towne of Stormreach', and so you 
 don't feel that grand feeling when you mount up with your friends and trek a desert in WoW, or 
 when you storm that castle in DaoC, you feel cramped, and you will not like it.
  Combat is an interesting twist, but fighting does not have that 'oomph' as other games, instead 
 you will be most likely swinging wildly at nothing-ness, and it will eventually annoy you.
  Character customization is the most wide-spread I've seen in years, but that doesn't compinsate 
 for the horrible sense of character development. In most games when you level up, you feel that 
 you've accomplished something, and that you want to do it again. But in DDO, it feels like a chore, 
 using an idiotic leveling system utilizing 'ranks' makes you feel no sense of accomplishment, and 
 tells you: You've got a looooooong road ahead of you. 
  Now, it DOES do an excellent job of capturing the feel of the D&amp; D universe, so if you're one 
 of those guys who spends a fraction of his life in his basement, rattling through those character 
 sheets, rolling those dice, and taking a sip of that warm Pepsi that will soon leave a ring on 
 the table, this your game, but if not... Try something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajwall4
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 3, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  I played the stress test, the open beta, and subscribed for a couple of months, so basically I 
 played levels 1-4 at least 5 times with 5 different classes. I believe I can summarize this game 
 in few words.
  
  The graphics are beautiful, and the melee and ranged combat is more fun than WoW because you actually 
 swing your sword by clicking and block by clicking. I must say that the magic effects, while well 
 done, are not quite as impressive or immersive as those in WoW. The detail of indoor environments 
 is unprecedented in an MMO, and you will love the flickering dynamic shadows and the reflections. 
 On the other hand, wilderness and rural areas leave much to be desired and actually seem more blocky 
 than WoW's environments.
  
  From an adventuring perspective, DDO's quests are better because they involve finding traps, pulling 
 levers, and solving puzzles in addition to killing/gathering/locating missions in other MMOs. On 
 the other hand, games that are wide open like WoW and like Vanguard promise to be, are much better 
 because you really get the sense that you are traveling and exploring. In DDO areas open like boxes 
 and your map is filled, explored, and charted. Exploration does not quite feel like exploration 
 in DDO, though it isn't bad.
  
  Character customization in DDO is quite excellent. YOur characters can be a very interesting mix, 
 but be sure you study the feats and skills and classes carefully because by mixing and matching 
 classes, racial bonuses, and talents you can get a lot more out of a character than if you don't 
 pay much attention. For instance if you make a warforged warrior, and forget to add the admantium 
 or mithril plating feat, your armor class will always be terrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vanaaxus
Rating: 6.6
Date: Oct 31, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I have just cancelled my subscription after being a part of the beta test group and playing the 
 game from it's releases until today. I can say I gave the game an honest chance and while some 
 aspects of the game were fabulous, the game disappointed as a whole.
  
  Whats good about the game: 1. Graphics, Sound, and in game chat are first rate.
  2. Most of the 
 good quests fun and well designed.
  3. It felt like D&amp; D for the most part.
  
  What was bad:
  1. Bugs, The game is loaded with them.
  2. Lack of Content. (The game came out 
 a year too early.)
  3. Poor customer service (The GM's are horrid.)
  
  I really wanted this game to succeed, I am sorry to say it failed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revryk
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 28, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  After months of playing , one can only say damn, I wont be getting that time in my life back , 
 will I 
  The problems continue to stack and the most recent being hour and hours of unscheduled downtime 
 with no CS response. A look at the official forums can give you all you need to know from various 
 players views.
  
  http://www. ddo. com/forums/index. php
  
  Fun when it works, but a rushing out mods and changing the game to a point where the manual that 
 comes in the box is worthless has made more than one player crave NwN2 , or anything else that 
 might help them get their DnD fix on a PC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whheiman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 16, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are great, not a huge memory hog either. The settings allow you to set the options 
 to run on whatever PC you have available. Granted, the better your system, the better the experience. 
 Meeting new people every day and night going on adventures that are different with every party 
 you play with, its the greatest game ever played online. The audio needs work when in open mic 
 chat mode, but being able to hear everyone and talk live is a huge bonus. My ten year old picked 
 it up and plays after a few hours, so it's very user friendly, the more you play the more you get 
 addicted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azrael666
Rating: 6.4
Date: Sep 22, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  How dark is too dark? When you type in lights in the help menu the game masters justifiy their 
 dark and gloomy world as just that. Dark and gloomy. Well thats fine make it gloomy and dark but 
 then why make is part of Eberron? Why not RavenLoft? And to add to the problem the creaters of 
 the game left out a portable light source. Example torches or lanterns. All they would have to 
 have done was create it as a weak weapon that can be combined with two-weapon fighting penalties 
 of a light weapon. By leaving this tool out it leaves the user having to turn off the room light 
 that their computer is in so there is no glare. And turn up the brightness in the game to the max 
 so that the player can see ten feet infront of them.
  
  All gamers love to get weapons and armour that is 'cool' and powerful. Well too much too soon is 
 just that. After two days the character I personally created is walking around with a +1 two-handed 
 weapon, a +1 hand weapon, a +1 protecton pendant and a +1 save vs ref cloak. And to start all gamers 
 off with preset weapons and gear is already and mistake. The freedom to pick and buy every piece 
 of the equipment the character has creates the character the user wants. The only thing that is 
 truely kind of the start is the choice of 1 weapon at 6 sp regardless of type. (Nothing like buying 
 a 150 gp bow for 6 sp.)
  
  Now lastly if you are going to add feats and equipment that pertain to certain character parts 
 of the playing class don't do it half way. As a personaly plee the creaters placed in the game 
 many of the weapons related to the new base player class 'Monk . Now why would you add the weapons 
 but not the class. Personally this writer feels that it was a quick cop out way to lighten the 
 programmer work load to get the game out. As I mentioned above 'feats'. Yes feats there is a feat 
 in the game call rapied shot which is supposed to allow the user to shoot two shots with a distance 
 weapon. Well how do you use it. It is discribed as an auto-matic effect that the character fires 
 two 'rapied shots'. Well for all the gamers out there I am sorry it does not. Do not waist your 
 time and take this feat as you are just as slow with it as without. A feat that does show some 
 quickness is the quick draw. Over all if you liked Never Winter Nights you probably would like 
 this game. If you liked World of Warcraft you probably would not. This game is a dungeon and dragons 
 title with none of the true freedom that playing the RPG gives. If that is what you are looking 
 for, buy the books meet some people and forget that Stormreach exisits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DigitalZ
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 2, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  This is very sweet game, it has different approaches then other mmorpgs, some are good, some are 
 fatal.
  
  Graphics are very nice, sound is normal and has no stupid shouting, thou you better turn on your 
 favorite radio station, bgm is sparse and boring.
  
  If you are familiar with D&D you shouldn't have much problems getting used to this game.
  
 
  When you start the game you choose from human, elf, dwarf, warforged and halflings, drows are 
 bonus race that you get when you have 400 favor points (gotten by doing quests) . Like D&D it lets 
 you do what you want with your char.
  
  Now, this game uses instances, which is quite nifty. What that means is that when you enter a dungeon 
 its only yours and that of your party, no one to steal your loot, ks etc.
  Loot is very nice done, each quests holds items for all players in party, given randomly.
  EXP 
 is gotten by completing the quest, not per kill, and it doesn't make any difference if there are 
 2 or 6 party members, exp is the same.
  EXP is calculated by different things, like max player level, how many crates party destroyed, 
 aggression etc.
  
  PARTY is the name of the game, you can't solo unless you are way higher level then the quest, and 
 even then you can't do it on elite level. Good party and you can do any quest, bad party and you 
 die.. like everywhere else there are idiots here (like rogues who love to go into front lines so 
 cleric has to waste SP on them like mad, or rushing fighters etc) .
  
  The game takes you trough dungeons and more dungeons, very little levels are outside, meaning party 
 has to stick together, and rangers are at disadvantage, due to having wiz and sor class. You will 
 repeat quest several times for rewards and exp.
  
  Party search system is wonderful, other games need to learn from this, you have a nice party window 
 where you can either put yourself on Looking For Group or your party on Looking For Members and 
 add filters on what you look for (level, class,...) , so its quite easy to find partys without shouting 
 "XCLASS LVLX LOOKING FOR PARTY" all over the place. Personally I really love this system.
  
  When you die you drop soulstone that partymember can pick and carry it to resurrection shrine.
 
  
  The game also plays more like action (similar to GW) then mmorpg, which really draws the player 
 into action, even clerics.
  
  However this game has flaws, big ones.
  
  First you notice you do not recharge your HP and SP by sitting, outside you need to go to tavern 
 and wait... usually buying expensive food to quicken the process. In dungeons you rest at shrines. 
 Shrine restores your HP and SP and can resurrect party members, there are not many and can only 
 be used once, on lower levels usually leading to frustrated mages and clerics.
  
  Second, top level is 10, which can be reached very quickly, I reached lvl 7 and 320 flavor points 
 in 6 days of medium play time. After that you can play with level 10 or create new one, serious 
 players usually having lots of alts. They promise to make max level 12 in September, but still 
 thats very little IMO.
  
  Third, there is no PVP, they promise it in September 06 but we'll see.
  
  Fourth, I know this 
 is D&D but dungeon and more dungeons is getting boring quicly, more open quests are needed.
  
  Fifth, IMO the world is very small.
  
  And finally... there are many others you will find.
 
  
  The DDO online gives you free 7 days trial, which is enough for DD MMORPG fix you might need. If 
 you are serious player and want more, you will have to buy the game at advised price of 50$ and 
 monthly payment of 15$, if you have too much money go ahead, otherwise check other online games, 
 IMO this is not worth that kind of starting payment nor monthly payment.
  
  I seriously recommend playing trial, its very fun 7 days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RikusGirl
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 24, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  I've always been a hardcore fan of the original pen and paper Dungeons and Dragons. So when I heard 
 they were making an online version of D&D, naturally I was way excited! And after all that waiting 
 and frustration at the beginning when there weren't enough copies to go around, it's finally out!
 
  
  In my opinion this game compares quite well to the pen and paper version aside from some of the 
 technical stuff that would be hard to do on a computer game. If you're a fan of the old school 
 style this should be pretty entertaining for you.
  
  My only problem with this game is that it's way too addictive! My dad plays this game day and night, 
 skips work to come home and play it, and completely ignores his family. This game has single-handedly 
 managed to tear my family apart. My siblings honestly hate my dad and my stepmom has seriously 
 considered leaving.
  
  So while I think that this game is awesome and holds true to the original version, I can't help 
 but feel a strong sense of bitterness towards it. If you're easily addicted to games, especially 
 if you have a family, I strongly discourage you from buying it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xx_Absolute4_xx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 18, 2006 5:54 am PT
Review:  this game has such a focus on the multi-player gameplay, that is makes it near impossible to play 
 solo, the game has good graphics, nice gameplay, the game has a good voice client though its a 
 little quiet at times. this game is definatly worth checking out the 8 day free trial if you like 
 mmorpg's. it isnt as much like other free rpg's on the net, the exp isnt gained by killing monsters 
 forsay but mostly on completeing quests/adventures. there is many class's and race's that you can 
 choose from, including you can multi-class players fighter (2) paladin (1) (3) i think that this game 
 has an exceptional custamization that allows you to feel more involved in the game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TruGillies
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 15, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  DDO or Dungeons and Dragons Online, is one of the best MMORPGs on the market. I say this becuase 
 to be a good MMORPG you need an easy tutorial or instructions to set new comers of the MMORPG genre 
 on their merry way. Also you need to have a fantastic world and should always be adding things. 
 Also you need a nice range of classes. DDO keeps to all of these. Now DDO keeps D&D close to its 
 heart. Sometimes you don't hit an enemy because of a dice roll. No lie there is actually a little 
 dice in the corner that determines, a hit, damage, etc. To make a character you have to tweak its 
 mods and feats and skills (just like the pen and paper game) . You get the standard races such as 
 dwarves. Then the classes list is a pretty good size ranging from a fighter to a ranger. I wish 
 the game had a couple more classes, such as a illusionist. Now the beginning of the game is straight 
 foreward. Although the combat takes a lil bit to get used to its very simple and well thought out. 
 Now it takes awhile to get group dungeons crawling adventures. Finding a group is as easy as press 
 ctrl-g. That finds a groups of people ding different quests. The games looks were pretty nice on 
 the eyes and the music was great. Sadly my computer is pretty slow and not very good so I really 
 didn't give the game justice. My only true complaints are is the long loading times between areas. 
 Also when you exit the game in a dungeon, you actually have to start the quest over. Also if you 
 attempt to go solo, its fun but difficult to newer MMORPG players. All in all a great game. If 
 you want a good MMORPG and get the taste of D&D look no further than Dungeons and Dragons Online. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: september_basic
Rating: 3.9
Date: Mar 17, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I was on the bulletin boards for this game during its design and saw numerous splendid suggestions 
 that could have served remarkably, during the years of development. However, the design team of 
 Turbine had the pre-eminent philosophy that D&amp; D would serve them only as a mometary money-maker, 
 not a long-term achievement. Hence, they chose to make the game inflexible and with weak entertainment 
 potential at outset.
  
  The potential for offering extensive factional interaction, extensive and interactive adventure 
 panoramae, and a wide range of ways players could operatively influence the total game experience 
 and campaign plot were lost on the developers although it was clear they understood how to achieve 
 these goals. It was also clear the designers did not want to offer players quality entertainment, 
 but rather gain the greatest money for the least work and slightest planning.
  
  For a game that offers less in long term breadth and depth of play than most single-player computer 
 role-playing games, D&amp; D Online and its design team are quickly trying to patch up their errors 
 but only so much as does not invalidate their cynical philosophy of consumer gullibility. In this 
 way it does not exceed the design methods of Cryptic (City of Heroes) , SOE (Everquest, etc.) , and 
 all the other MMO design companies that appear operational at present.
  
  If I were seeking a new computer game, I would not choose D&amp; D Online nor any MMO until there 
 was a game that had as much to offer as the best of single-player computer games (such as Medieval 
 2: Total War, Elder Scrolls 4, and Baldur's Gate 2) .
  
  If I were a reviewer, I'd hesitate to rate any MMO highly that does not match design values of 
 a single-player computer game, despite supposed problems and issues facing such a purportedly complex 
 design problem as an MMO. Text-based MU* such as MUDs, MUSHes, MOOs, and MUX have been dealing 
 with these issues for decades and the best of these far outstrips the meager offerings that have 
 appeared commercially although at present the MU* crowd tends to be as unpleasant and deceptive 
 as the corporate administrata of MMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 4, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  I''ve always been such a huge D&D fan. Since I was young, I played the pen and paper game as a 
 DM and as a player. Greyhawk and Forgotten Realms were the setting I grew up using, and now Eberron 
 expands the possibilities of adventure in D&D on the PC.
  
  I'll admit I am more of a fan of FR, but I am slowly starting to appreciate Eberron in DDO. Aside 
 from the setting, DDO offers a convincing PnP game on the computer. I feels like D&D to me, and 
 that was important for a good first impression.
  
  Of course, on the computer, DDO is not the same as playing on the table top with friends and the 
 dice, but the dice are still there, so all you really need to have some fun with DDO is some friends. 
 The 3.5 ruleset is implemented and followed as closely as possible while keeping DDO computer-game 
 friendly. Unlike the tabletop game, there is no player DM creating content and controlling the 
 game, but there is a built in DM that describes things, gives clues, and creates an aura that there 
 is someone behind the DM screen.
  
  The action in DDO is a highlight. Combat is fast and furious, and actually allows a player to control 
 movements, attacks, and strategy rather than simply clicking on a target for an auto attack and 
 waiting for the result. Most actions your character makes will require a dice roll, which can be 
 seen onscreen, out of the way (you have to take your eyes off the action to see the dice rolls, 
 so it is easily missed) . 
  
  The graphics in DDO are fantastic. The general appearance of Stormreachs zones, the outdoor and 
 dungeons environments, character models, and monsters all look good. More fluid animation from 
 the character models would have been nice, although they look pretty lifelike most of the time. 
 I haven't noticed yet if characters blink, but little details like this I look for in RPGs. Also, 
 character will be holding onto their weapons all the time, unless you goto the inventory screen 
 and unequip the weapons. In modern games, characters now sheath their swords, sling their bows 
 and staves onto their backs, and hang their daggers at their sides. This should have been done 
 in DDO as well. It's nothing that gets in the way of the fun of DDO, but little details can go 
 a long way sometimes.
  
  Sounds in DDO are very well done. In dungeons, listening is a skill that many rogues and rangers 
 do well to have, and dice rolls determine what they hear, but as a player, listening what is going 
 on is also important, and there can sometimes be clues to what's ahead if you listen. Atmospheric 
 and environmental sounds are mediocre. Hopefully these will be expanded in the future updates to 
 the game. The music in DDO is sparse, unless you are in the Taverns, but the music in the background 
 during quests can be good when you pay attention to it, otherwise, it is something that can easily 
 missed, which I suppose is a good thing for players who get annoyed by background music, especially 
 if it is repetitive. Voice-overs are done well.
  
  The overall feeling I get from DDO is not the same as I get from playing Everquest II, World of 
 Warcraft, and other mmorpgs. It is more of a tactical RPG that focuses solely on quests and dungeon 
 crawls. Not the mindless, hack-and-slash dungeons crawls, either. These quests can be engaging 
 sometimes, and require some planning and strategy to get the most out of them, and the highest 
 rewards.
  
  It feels different from most mmorpgs also in the way that the game is almost completely instanced, 
 and requires the player to join a party to complete most of the games content. This isn't a complaint 
 from me at all, as Dungeons and Dragons is all about grouping with others and finding adventure. 
 As much as I would have liked to when I was a kid, I couldn't play Dungeons and Dragons on my own.
 
  
  There has been some solo content created for the game however, and I've been hearing about PvP 
 and crafting in Turbines pipepline for DDO. The game has changed somewhat from when I played beta. 
 It has always been fun to play, though, and hopefully it will only get better in time. This will 
 require some work on Turbines part, since there is limited quests and content in the game right 
 now.
  
  Due to the heavy instancing, limited quests and areas to explore, a relatively low maximum level 
 cap, etc. some players have been expressing their opinion about how DDO should not be a subscription-based 
 game. On this I happen to agree, and I would not be playing if I didn' have a great group of friends 
 to play DDO with. However, if you've played other mmorpgs, and then played DDO, you may find that 
 you are not getting all that you are paying for in the other mmorpgs, but what you do get is as 
 close to pen-and-paper Dungeons and Dragons as you can get on the PC, until Neverwinter Nights 
 2 comes out.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mydasx
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 2, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  This game was a "MAJOR" disappointment. After 5 hours i was ready to unistall, after 10 hours i 
 did. The player base is your usual, geeky fan fest, but typically unhelpful, and dull. No economy 
 = no long term commitment from players or the vendor. Updates are weak at best, and bring little 
 new value to people paying a monthly fee for instanced gameplay w/ "chat" features in the "little 
 world" given to all players to interact in. Dungeons are straight forward and while sometimes "tricky", 
 monotonous. I would suggest sticking these cd's in your microwave and watching them do that neat 
 lightning thing cd's do in microwaves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hepburn22
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  UPDATED AT BOTTOM Played this game now for about 5 months think its one of the best rpg ive played, 
 graphics are amazing, sound is good, and gameplay is really great.
  
  all the classes are very diverse, and each play a unique role in party or quest, depending on variety 
 in your party quests can be very different, and can be completed in different ways, after 5 months 
 i still have not reached the level cap or played every quest, i am lvl 9 ranger and there is always 
 stuff for me to do wether its a new quest soloing a previous one, or repeating a previous one on 
 a harder difficulty to raise my favour with the patrons.
  
  The Quests vary imensely some being indoor some being out and even between the two there is alot 
 of variety, one min you could be in a dense forest killing bugbears, next you could be in a long 
 forgotten crypt killing undead or fighting your way through a jungle fortress and taking the place 
 of gladiators in an arena, and many many more, and have to say they all look great the gaphics 
 are really excellent, even down to birds in the sky and rubbish blowing through the city streets, 
 monsters look great too from the lowly kobold to the beholder shooting different rays from each 
 eye stalk or the vampire changing into a pack of wolves or a swarm of bats when it movs.
  
  There are lots of solo quests now for the new players to get you used to your character before 
 you group for the majority of quests in a party of 2-6 untill you get to the 12 man raids for the 
 high end characters, the stories for each quest are very intrigueing and well thought out some 
 running over a series of 2-8 quests while others are completed just after 1.
  
  With the new modules added there is more high end and low content, more game features such as mailing 
 system favour with patrons, the new drow elf race and more arcane spells.
  
  Although this game is not perfect just yet after 5 months it is certainly moving closer with each 
 update and is deffinately moving in the right direction, and is a great game for you and your friends 
 to enjoy playing, so why not try the trial now?
  
  UPDATED 16/07/2007
  
  Well being playing this game now since march 2006 although had 3 month break as have a real life 
 too lol, this game since my last review has just got beeter, with the additon of mod 3 the dessert 
 area and several more updates we now have a lvl cap of 12 (soon to be 14 in less than a week) many 
 more quests, feats spells, monsters and in game features such as Auction houses and in game mail. 
 The dessert area has some of the best graphics i have seen in a game with the day/night cycle and 
 huge landscapes, the quests in this area also have new features and many new mobs and some great 
 story lines leading to another 12 man raid fighting a marilith (half woman half snake with 6 arms 
 and a sword in each) thie game continues to get better and better with the anouncements of the 
 monk class and half-elf and half orc races being added later this year, and from what ive seen 
 of the new module coing to Europe in less than a week, this game is going from strength to strength.
 
  
  UPDATED 24/10/2007
  
  Well MOD 4 and updates (4.1 /4.2) offered new content and another Raid as well as more adventure 
 areas for all lvls (great for few mins solo or groups)
  Added huge new Giant Hold area with new mobs also with the lvl cap to 14 came loads of new spells 
 (maybe around 40+) new feats and greater rewards as well as adding the S in dungeons and dragons 
 with 3 more smaller dragons, also dragonmarks brought more an eberron feel to the game as well 
 as special abilities and more racial diversity,
  
  MOD 5 with this mod the game recevied another large area with most all the new quests set in a 
 haunted forest and crypts, which also finnshes off the Litany fo the dead saga started last year, 
 there were more new monsters added mostle undead types and another raid, but what was also great 
 was the graphics upgrade to this game, the water and lighting/shadows in the game were upgraded 
 significantly as well as a greater range of grpahics settings, water now fully reflects the sceneray 
 around it and lighting and shadows are much more realistic with whole dungeons shimmering with 
 torchlight.
  
  With news after this release that the small updates would be stopping for a while and the gmae 
 would move straight to MOD 6 with a lvl increase to 16 and more quests content spells etc i look 
 forward to this game becoming even better than what it already is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeyDL
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 24, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  After playing with World of Warcraft (WOW) for over a year Ive gotten pretty burned out on it. 
 The time constraints for raid guilds and amount of time you have to put into the game is demanding. 
 Its hard to be a casual player in WOW and then spend all your time drooling at other players with 
 their Tier 1 to 3 gear. Gear that is completely out of reach unless you put in massive hours in 
 a raiding guild. So I decided to give it a rest and try something different for a change. I ended 
 up getting into Dungeons and Dragons Stormreach (DDO) . One fact that I have to point out is that 
 I have only been playing this game for about five days. Im certain that there are some features 
 that Im going to miss since I havent been in the game long enough.
  
  Dungeons and Dragons has been a part of my life for along time. As a kid I remember playing the 
 paper version with friends and it was always a great time. There have been various computer versions 
 of games similar to D&D such as Ultima, Bards Tale. Perhaps my favorite computer D&D type games 
 were Balders Gate and Neverwinter Nights. So I was really looking forward to trying out this version 
 to see how well it worked.
  
  In DDO the process starts with Character Creation. Character creation can be a really fun part 
 of any game. For MMOs most people want to create a character that looks unique and different than 
 others. The king of uniqueness in MMOs is probably City of Heroes but then I always ended up rushing 
 through that process since it took so long to create your hero. On the other side you have World 
 of Warcraft (WOW) which has really too few character creation (in terms of looks) options so that 
 most races pretty much look the same. D&D Storm has a pretty good character creation system that 
 has just enough options to allow you to build a different look without taking too long in the process. 
 With DDO you are allowed to change basic features such as hair style, eye color, skin color, lip 
 and eyebrow styles. It gives you a pretty decent character creation ability without taking overly 
 long. As a side note Ive always thought that MMO developers need to include some really ugly and 
 fat toon models into the character creation models. It would be fun to be that pudgy dwarf who 
 can barely squeeze into his +2 plate! Sometimes you get tired of looking at these MMO worlds where 
 everyone looks like a super model! If you dont believe me spend a week in Guild Wars!
  
  Once youve worked through the character creation process you are placed in the starter area of 
 the game. Once you begin playing DDO you start to notice some very different play aspects that 
 you dont find in other MMOs. As soon as character creation process is complete your character 
 is placed in the starter island. There is a one starter quest in the first tavern that you can 
 start with. This quest has you performing basic tasks such as opening doors, puzzle solving and 
 combat. 
  
  From the beginning you can see several significant differences in DDO form other type MMOs. To 
 begin with the quest are more varied in nature than most MMOs. Most typical MMO quest involve 
 either kill-quota or kill a specific bad guy to finish out the quest. In DDO the basic quest types 
 are more varied. With DDO you still have your standard kill a target or get X of item type quests. 
 However, you can also have protection (for so many minutes) quests or stealth quests where you 
 have to AVOID killing too many of certain mobs before gathering a certain item. Some quest seem 
 to be targeted for specific classes (i. e stealth quest) which give some melee classes a bit more 
 of a hard time to complete (its hard to stealth in plate!) . Even with the first into quest you 
 can see that stealth and puzzle solving are an important part of the quest. This adds a specific 
 uniqueness to DDO quest with makes them more entertaining then the standard quest you find in other 
 MMOs. 
  
  Another change with DDO is the inclusion of the narrator. The narrator is a disembodied voice which 
 sounds out background comments. Some of these are related to the quest such as when the narrator 
 tells you that you can feel a sudden draft which can tip you off to a secret entrance. Other narrator 
 comments are background to help flesh out the quest area for the player. The narrator plus puzzle 
 solving are some of the features in DDO which help it stand out from other MMOs. 
  
  One of the biggest changes to get used too is the way DDO handles Hit Points (HP) and Mana (or 
 spell points) for spells. With spell casting at least they made a break from D&D by allowing you 
 to preload a selection of spells and then cast as many times as you want as long as you have spell 
 points left. Without this change magic classes would probably have been pretty much neutered in 
 the game. Once you start loosing HPs or spell points the only way to replenish is by healing back 
 in a tavern or at special rest spots in the quest area. The rest spots in the quest areas can only 
 be used once per quest run. This forces the player to be extra carefull as healing and conservation 
 of spell points becomes an important factor in playing out quests. Unlike WOW where you can expend 
 all mana and get down to 1HP by the end of a single battle in DDO you have to make sure that you 
 come out in good enough shape to get to the next rest shrine or finish out the quest. This method 
 was obviously a way the developer tried to stay more in tune with Dungeons & Dragons rule sets 
 on how to regenerate health. I dont have too many issues with the way they set this up since it 
 adds a strategic aspect to running the quests. I wouldnt have complained too much if you could 
 heal up naturally like in most MMOs either though!
  
  Combat in DDO is another change from what most players will experience. Combat in most MMOs takes 
 the form of autocombat where you toggle combat mode and then supplement the battle with special 
 features (such as special strikes or heals) . Although DDO has an autocombat feature most players 
 just use the right click on the mouse to swing at the bad guys. Combat in DDO uses D&D 3.5 rules 
 and you can see a little 20 sided dice with your swing pop up and tell you if you have a hit in 
 what DDO calls the Focus Orb. At first try for me combat seemed to be pretty shallow since I 
 basically just ran circles around the bad guys swinging like mad. I didnt use any special abilities 
 at first until some of the party members started giving me helpful advice such as pointing out 
 that you get negative effects calculated into your hit rolls when you are moving. In DDO you can 
 be better off standing still and then swinging to get a hit as opposed to simply dashing around. 
 Also using combat feats such as trip, sunder armor and stunning blow start to work in better as 
 you learn more about using your character. Im not sure if Im totally sold on combat in DDO but 
 at least it is different then the other MMOs Ive played in.
  
  Advancement in DDO is different then other MMOs as well. In order to advance you have to gain 
 experience (exp) but this can only be obtained by completing quests. There is no critter grinding 
 to obtain levels although kills can factor into your exp as a modifier. They even have quests rigged 
 in the sense that you cant just find one easy 15 minute quest and then repeat it over and over 
 to level up. Each quest iteration reduces the amount of exp you can earn until you pretty much 
 have to do other new quests in order to advance. In addition to the way you advance in DDO you 
 also quickly notice how long it takes to level up. In fact your level exp bar in the interface 
 doesnt show you hard far to get to the next level, it shows you how far to get to the next quarter 
 level (called ranks) . Advancement is so slow that they allow the user to earn what is called Action 
 Points (AP) which you can spend on some mid-level skills. Probably so the player doesnt go insane 
 waiting on the next level. However, even these special action point skills only allow you to have 
 four of them chosen at one time so you end up having to trade off for better skills when something 
 comes available. Although the inclusion of experience by quest might on the surface seem to eliminate 
 the repetitive critter grind for exp that other MMOs in practice it just leads to a new type of 
 grind. I was part of a group of quest grinders the other day and the method used is one commonly 
 practiced. You take a quest that you can come up with shortcuts (i. e. finish quickly) and then 
 repeat over and over. You do it at normal level a few times, then hard level and finally elite 
 to maximize the exp you earn for the quest. Unfortunately this method of advancement just seems 
 to lead to a new type of grinding. This type of quest grinding detracts from the experience that 
 the developer was probably trying to build.
  
  How you quest is another specific with DDO. In other MMOs you can solo most or all of the game 
 if you choose to. In DDO soloing quest is really not an option. When you enter a quest instance 
 you are presented with a difficulty level. For most quests you start off on normal, and have an 
 unlockable hard and elite mode that can be accessed upon the successful completion of the quest 
 on a lower mode. Many of the quests in the harbor section of Stormreach have a solo mode that you 
 can choose to use. However, in practice Ive found that it not only takes longer to complete in 
 solo but the experience you earn is also lower (as much as 50%) than completing the quest in normal 
 mode with just one other player. In practice this means that you pretty much have to group if you 
 want to level up quick enough to keep your sanity! Grouping is pretty easy in DDO. Just turn on 
 the LFG flag from a quest, or social dialog, and then other people will start giving you invites 
 pretty quick. DDO even has voice chat built into the game to make group running easier. However, 
 most of the groups Ive been with so far in the game have pretty much run all the quest before 
 and it ends up feeling like a race to get from point A to B. Plus even with voice chat built in 
 most players havent seemed very talkative. Im hoping that as I progress that the quest group 
 runs have some of the strategy and advanced type runs Im used to in WOW. Just running with five 
 other people and spamming rclick is starting to get old. 
  
  The emphasis in DDO is performing quest. The quest can be well designed but this focus has limited 
 other areas of the game that most MMO players might be looking for. There are no gathering or crafting 
 professions in DDO, there doesnt seem to be an auction house or place to sell you gear to other 
 players. In short it lacks some of the common features in other MMOs that you might come to expect. 
 You will find nice gear when questing but most of it is dumped off at vendors. Gear doesnt seem 
 to have the same importance as it does in other MMOs. 
  
  Another problem is with the user interface. The inventory system in particular seems inadequate, 
 you have a hard time identifying gear and equipment since the representing icons are tiny and hard 
 to identify. You can drag other action bars out on the interface but it doesnt feel as polished 
 other MMO interfaces that Ive played with. I had a hard time setting up my basic bar and getting 
 used to using special feats. I hope it get smoother with practice!
  
  One of the high points for DDO (for me) is the graphics or visuals. Im not trying to imply that 
 they are ultimate state of the art, some of the character models are somewhat blocky. However, 
 the visuals for the town and dungeons seem well done. Spell effects are nice and combat animations 
 seem pretty smooth. The only problem I see with the graphics is that since many of the quests are 
 run in run down warehouses or sewers the sameness of the main quests areas will probably get old 
 after awhile.
  
  Sound is another high point for the game. The sound effects seem well done and the background music 
 is good enough that you dont feel the need to turn it off in the audio options. 
  
  Although the developers have made a pretty faithful replication of the Dungeons and Dragons rules 
 into a good game; I think the weakest part is the content. Without gather and crafting professions, 
 a more expansive world and more player interactions (i. e. auction houses for the merchant players) 
 Im not sure how long DDO will hold any but the most die hard D&D advocates. It seems a niche product 
 which will cater to old school D&D players but might fail to hold the interest of most people who 
 give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GB1787
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 19, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  A masterful blend of gameplay that should appeal to any serious or casual gamer. No other game 
 brings good hack and slash to a multiplayer setting but also gives strategy oriented players the 
 option of pointing and clicking.
  
  Adventures range over a large variety of settings in and around the coastal city of Stormreach. 
 Well over 200 different masterfully designed adventures that can be attempted on three different 
 difficulty settings. Dynamic gameplay expands as your character develops in any number of directions. 
 Adventure by yourself, with one or a few others, or with a group of up to six, with an effortless 
 grouping system. 
  
  Very well built, with all the features you will want in terms of control and perspective. Extremely 
 detailed world with the purchased version (additionaly three GB of textures) that runs surprisingly 
 well considering how good it looks. Vast variety of customization and item differentiation.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorenf31
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Let me first say played D&D since the red box days, played Ultimo Online through Asheron's Call, 
 DAOC up to City of Villains and of course World of Warcraft. I am not new to pen and paper role-playing 
 nor am I new to MMORPG.
  
  D&D Online has some neat ideas... but much like Turbine forgot with AC2, you need to have fun when 
 you are sitting behind a computer alone. I played AC2 beta and the first month of the game and 
 walked away saying they missed the mark... I played D&D online in beta and refused to buy the game 
 because I thought they missed the mark by a mile again... went back in July to try the free week 
 because I heard they made improvements... and was disappointed again.
  
  With Turbine it seem they think the game should match the table top experience, and that is stupid. 
 You are trapped playing with strangers all the time in this game beyond the first few areas, mainly 
 because you can not do anything in this game unless you complete quests... there is no free form 
 hunting
  
  If I wanted to play RPGA... I would go to cons and play with strangers and go on missions with 
 them. Course the number of people that are RPGA members and want to play RPGA is less than the 
 number of people playing D&D online.
  
  Hell Wizards and a real development company give me 4 million and I'll give you a D&D online game 
 that people actually want to play. Which means multiple provinces, the ability to kill creatures 
 in the wild and gain xp and the sense that you have some freedom to advance your character beyond 
 chundering through the same quest over and over cause you need to do it with strangers just to 
 open up the next locked area.
  
  Shame on Turbine for developing another garbage online game that could have been a serious WOW 
 contender... please fire your game designers... I would hope that AC2 failure and the (what you 
 all ready know will be) D&D online failure would tell you that you do not know how to make games 
 with broad appeal.
  
  And to anyone that thinks this game is the next best thing to sliced bread... I would hope you 
 wake and smell something. Have you seen any successful MMORPG offer a free trial six months after 
 launch... that wasn't failing? Most people that have tried this game do not like it, why because 
 simply it is not fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: midn8t
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  I feel that it was disapointing not becuse of game play or anything or rules it actully is awseome 
 rules and game play and so froth, i my self found it disapointing becuase i just couldnt get into 
 the game world of storm reach.
  
  I guess if it was more of a shadowrun game world of dragonlance or forogtten realms world setting 
 it would been easyer to get into.
  
  but this stormreach thing i never heard of the game world, it was just lacking the game world i 
 found is not as full and as intresting as the above 3 that i stated, and i found that to be most 
 troubling part of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShamusX
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 11, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  Long Wait=Disappointment 
  God help you if you are a group h8er. 'Cuz in D & D Online you have about 30 mins of game play 
 running solo, then kaput!! No more solo for yoo!!! Bye bye. And I do not mean if you are uber you 
 can kick azzer yer way thru. Nope. Uh uh.
  
  Remember the days of AD&D when there weren't PC's in every home and we sat around and rolled little, 
 colored, plastic, multi-sided die?? Well I NEVER recall doing it alone. And Turbine will be damned 
 if they let you do it alone now with their game.
  
  As a soloer by nature I found this VERY disconcerting at first (forced grouping) . I still do to 
 some degree... people are friggin weird, strangers especially...12 year old strangers frighteningly 
 so, so I choose to avoid that demographic completely and solo till I find a mature guild to run 
 with or stay solo. I HATE being forced to do aything in a game. But I chilled out and got in groups 
 for a little while and I did have some fun. But they were strangers... so all the cliches came true 
 eventually. No one really got along. No one was REALLY enjoying themselves. THIS IS NOT FUN I repeated 
 to myself over and over at one point where I just wanted to go home.
  
  This is a VERY accurate rendition of D & D. Unfortunately it's a D & D I never played. I am not 
 used to version 3.5, I have and I have never even HEARD of Ebberon (which I think sucks) . Why didn't 
 they use the timehonored AD&D rulebook? Bust out Dungeons/Quests written for that... even if it 
 meant living in the Forgotten Realms... or tie it all together in whatever the helll that world 
 was called... and go with material all of us nastalgia seekers were looking for? I am not sure wtf 
 they were thinking using Eberron, and no soloing is a drag since technically the PC IS teh DM and 
 I DID play on occasion just me vs. the Dungeon Master. It's called multi-roles or maybe allow us 
 to hire henchmen. Guild Wars handled that quite smoothly.... you? not so much..
  
  I put in enough quarters to last me 60 days.... but I have yet to put any more in until this game 
 goes thru its growing pains. Perhaps I have gotten bent one too many times helping to "age" an 
 MMO... and I SO LOOKED FORWARD to this one... but it is NOT what I was expecting OR hoping for. 
 
  
  It isn't a bad start though. Perhaps some hidden genius will surprise us all with an AD & D sponsored 
 game. Perhaps not. But this isn't the D & D I remember. Warforged??! WTF are those???
  
  I beg the question. Are pen, paper, colored die and warm beer the only way to get AD&D right? I 
 KNOW someone out therer can do this....
  
  Signed,
  
  Disappointed 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coronatus
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 5, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  DDO Stormreach is probably one of the most misunderstood games ever. Most of all people consider 
 it an MMORPG. Well, it is not. Camping unique boss mobs for "phat lewt" and XP doesn't work in 
 that game. If you are into completing tier 0, 1, 2 sets, then you better seek entertainment elsewhere.
 
  
  However, if you take the game for what it is, an instanced collection of 200+ pen and paper D&D 
 campaigns set in the Ebberon fantasy setting, and approach the game with that in mind, then the 
 game will truely meet and excel your expectations.
  
  1. There is very limited solo content. Which makes sense, because D&D campaigns are not meant to 
 be played by one player only. They are meant to be played in a group. Either you get your D&D table 
 top core group to all sign up for the game or you make use of the grouping system implemented just 
 for that very cause.
  
  2. You get no XP for killing monsters. Simply because you get rewarded for completing campaign 
 goals, not grinding your way through hordes of stupid goons the way you do in MMORPGs. Did I mention 
 DDO is not a MMORPG?
  
  3. There are not many players. Compared to what? WOW? Again, it is not massively multiplayer. And, 
 the game is D&D from login to logout. Those who the D&D feel and play doesn't appeal to will not 
 have fun with the game and leave sooner or later.
  
  I could go on and on but I guess you get the point: DDO is a digitalized collection of D&D campaigns 
 set in the Ebberon fantasy setting. Nothing more. Nothing less. If you think you want to give that 
 a try play the game. And most of all it is as little a MMORPG as Diablo 2, Unreal Tournament or 
 Guild Wars are. There are no epic raids or uber bosses that keep 40+ players busy wasting some 
 3 or 4 hours of their life for the epic helmet. (w00t) If you are into MMORPGs then play EQ or 
 WOW. DDO won't do the thing for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Gamplay: I play Dungeons & Dragons in real life, I have played some of the Eberron campain and 
 this game captures the look, feel, and awsomeness of the tabletop game. Its like a hack and slash 
 (ex. Champions Return To Arms) and adds a massive multiplayer component. 10
  
  Graphics: Some of the best visuals on a MMO I have ever seen! The shadows, water, enviroments, 
 everything looks amazing. 10
  
  Sound: For the first time (or the first time I have seen) there is VOIP for partys!! I love this 
 feature. It lets you focus on combat instead of typing. The ambiance is amazing. 10
  
  Value: I have been playing for a couple weeks and still not board. I will be playing this for a 
 while!! 10
  
  Tilt: Any D&D player should pick this up. Heck!! Anyone could pick it up and play! Its very easy 
 to get into. 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: infratek
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 26, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  I was never a fan of Dungeons and Dragons, the closest thing I had ever played to pen and paper 
 Dungeons and Dragons would be Neverwinter Nights. I have always been a fan of MMOs however, i've 
 tried nearly all of them starting with EQ in 99. As a veteran MMO player it is hard to impress 
 me with new games, most new MMOs coming out are just rehashes of old titles with new graphics and 
 renamed mechanics. Many new games also have a problem breaking into this solidified market because 
 they fill no real hole in the market and just do what others have already done.
  
  Dungeons and Dragons Online definately does have a place in the MMO market today. Turbine set out 
 to create an experience that you would get from a session of Dungeons and Dragons - Combat, story, 
 and immersive enviroments to share with some close friends. DDO accomplishes all of these things 
 and does a great job at it. DDO might be missing explorable enviroments and a crafting system, 
 but thats not why you are playing this game in the first place. Another plus is the LFG (Looking 
 for Group) tool, you can easily get a group in less then 10 minutes.
  
  If you are looking for a DIFFERENT experience and want to see some great dungeon and monster designs 
 check out DDO. When I adventure in DDO I get the feeling that I am playing a multiplayer Zelda 
 game... great bosses and great dungeon design with engaging and action oriented combat. Don't let 
 the tutorial or the early level "sewers" turn you off, when you grow in power you fight some mean 
 bosses and visit some pretty intense dungeons! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dracoes
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 18, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  This review is simple: Stormreach is a drastic failure. Completely lacking in exploration, massive 
 worlds, epic quests and grand plans, you're confined to a single city, which can be traversed in 
 minutes, and made to explore endless series of dungeons. The saving grace being that each quest 
 has specific, exciting objectives, provides good experience, and is relatvely quick and interesting 
 to do.
  
  Then comes the kicker. Given all the above, youd think that Codemasters would focus on the depth 
 and breadth of the D&D system, mapping out all its facets to create a game detailed in other ways, 
 something more intuitive and far reaching than any other MMO has yet to achieve, using 30 years 
 of game refining on D&D to their advantage...
  
  But they didnt. No prestige classes. Half a dozen races missing. Some core classes skipped. Level 
 10 cap in place (not hard to reach at all) . A bizarre action-points system that never succeeds 
 in providing great benefits. All quests group-only (which I cannot object to, since that is how 
 D&D works, but not how a MMO should work) .
  
  In short, this could have been such a good game, blending the legendary D&D into an MMO - but it 
 lacks basic MMO functionality and the depth of D&D. Play it for a few hours, but youll get bored 
 soon enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jd1680a
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 15, 2007 12:22 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  Gameplay is great, fun and exciting.
  played neverwinter nights before? this might remind you of it.
  Great, mature community
  
 
  Cons: Not enough content
  may feel this game isnt massive enough to be a MMO
  
  The gameplay for DDO is overall really fun. This game is all instanced so you dont compete with 
 other groups. You have your own monsters, your own quest items, and there is no downtime for waiting 
 for names to spawn. Quest action is pretty fast, taking a player maybe two hours to finish up a 
 quest before moving on.
  
  Running through the quest you may encounter a lock door, you need to kill through monsters to get 
 to a key or a switch to open it. This is the great part of the game, because this adds more excitement 
 and giving the game challange to achieve the goal of getting the door open.
  
  Almost all quests have a chest you could get loot from. All items in the chest are assigned to 
 you and only you. You could use the loot or you could sell it to a vendor. Gaining money isnt a 
 problem, you get lots of it quickly.
  
  Game economy is very good. There is no grind at all in this game. All of the loot players sell 
 to a vendor will be resold at a preset price. No over inflated prices and no grind necessary to 
 get the money needed for the items.
  
  Game community is great and mature. Everyone is very helpful. Most will help you without no motivation 
 to benefit him or herself at all. However, some will feel this game isnt massive enough to be considered 
 a mmo. it is debatable whether it is or not. This game is relatively new, so anyone feel this game 
 doesnt offer enough. It would be suggested to wait another six months or longer to wait for more 
 content to arrive.
  
  If you are a hardcore gamer, playing 10 hours a week or more. you will experience about a month 
 worth of total content. There is no pvp, very little soloable content, no crafting, and no explorable 
 zones like you would find in EQ2. The amount of content this game have to offer is probably the 
 biggest down side of this game. Hopefully this will change over time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elmolivez
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 25, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  Dissappointing game after playing City of Heroes and World of Warcraft and looking for something 
 a little along the lines of both ease of play and ease of communication in them. I was left disappointed 
 in this one while it does let you solo the first level after that is hard to solo by yourself and 
 sometimes you just can't get a party together no matter what you try. The graphics are noce but 
 so are the graphics in most other games out there also. The music is a littel annoying too. All 
 in all your money is better spent elswhere than to waste your time playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajca
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 22, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  I understand the grudges and dissapointments other people have had with this game, but all the 
 same I love it.
  
  Having never strayed from the FPS genre (besides Rise of Nations) I was a little surprised when 
 a family friend gave me unlimited beta as a gift. (He is an excecutive of Turbine) . I played the 
 beta til' release, and I was so addicted by then then I willingly dealed out the 50$, and co-payed 
 another 60$, which gave me enough months till the end of summer. 
  Note - this is not a game for the cheap and stingy. It helps to have a job to support your addiction.
 
  
  The monthly fees are worth it - they give you super fast company servers and a stability/reliability 
 that BF2 lacks. (still a fun game though)
  
  On the gaming side the game feels nice. Despite re-used textures and alot of dungeon crawling its 
 enjoyable. The voice chat is an incredable, and really adds a personally feel to normally socially 
 awkwurd people like myself, allowing one to play for hours at a time without typing pages or getting 
 lonely. By the time you can type "trap" half your party is dead. Horray for voice chat.
  
  Also, I'm running the game at almost 80fps which looks beautiful.
  In short, its the normal addictive-ness 
 of MMORPG's, mixed with the intreaging complexity of pnp DnD which allows for long hours of playing 
 and an extreme amount of flexibility and custizing on character sheets.
  
  Atleast try the 7 day trial. Some people quit after a while, others like my slef become addicted 
 and love it.
  
  So far, Xfire say's I've clocked over 100 hours in a little over 2 months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sodtiwaz
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I started playing dungeons and dragons over 15 years ago and I still remember most of my characters 
 and their various exploits and accomplishments. That being said I've also been into computer gaming 
 even longer and have played most of the various incarnations of D&amp; D put onto PC and platforms.
 
  
  DDO is unique in that you don't gain experience per creature killed as is the case in almost all 
 fantasy/RPG games... instead you gain experience upon successful completion of a quest. Some quests 
 take under 5 minutes to finish while others can take an hour or more. I personally can't say that 
 I like or dislike this particular method more or less than encounter based experience but I will 
 say it does little to remove the repetitiveness of gameplay. So now instead of doing Baal runs 
 or Cow level for exp as in Diablo 2 you do ww, stk, stormcleave, etc runs for exp... little changes 
 except that you don't gain the exp if you can't/don't finish the quest.
  
  There is currently no PvP in DDO however the dev. notes mention it will be implemented soon so 
 if you're a die hard PvPer all hope is not lost.
  
  If you're a die hard D&amp; D fanatic you will most likely be disappointed with this game as it 
 takes creative license and modifies the pen and paper rules to its needs. Combat is no longer turn 
 based in that its a real time combat system however spells/skills do have cooldown periods which 
 limits the frequency of use. Several feats are modified or simply missing from the game as are 
 several skills. Currently there are now monks nor gnomes which are core items that should have 
 been implemented prior to release. And if you want to roleplay you'll have to go to a static NWN 
 server because this game doesn't really allow for any type of non-combat resolution to 99.9% of 
 the quests oh and if you're a cleric you can forget about going to the church to pray to your deity 
 because neither the church nor the deities have any presence in the game.
  
  I personally got the 7 day free trial mainly because a friend of mine was already playing the game 
 and sent me a link. At first i was a bit apprehensive since I heard him describe the combat and 
 such and I wasn't very impressed, however after playing the game for a few hours my views changed.
 
  
  My advice is try the 7 day free trial worst case scenario you hate the game and delete it never 
 to be heard of again... if on the other hand you enjoy the game at least you know its worth shelling 
 out 50 bucks for prior to doing so. While this game is a MMO it doesnt really feel like one since 
 all the quests create their own instance (meaning only you and your party are in that particular 
 quest) if you played guidwars you should be familiar with this. I wish this game had more substance, 
 i might recommend it to people with more than a 6.0 rating... it lacks several races, and more importantly 
 base classes that are in pen and paper and should have been included in the initial game. also 
 after about a month of playing your character will be 10th level which is the current max level 
 of the game, which leaves you with a lot of free time to do absolutely nothing. I suppose you could 
 get all your characters up to 10 but then what... that should really only take a couple of months 
 at most and after that you're stuck waiting for them to finally increase the level limit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twhi1974
Rating: 4.9
Date: May 19, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  I was waiting for this game for the better part of 2 years. I am a huge D&D fan and have played 
 PnP for over 15 years and have also played nearly all of the D&D based games on the PC and the 
 consols. I actually built my computer just to play DDO. 
  
  Unfortunatly, this game fell short for me. After playing through beta, I just could not see myself 
 actually paying money to play this game. It is not any one thing that kills it, it's the game as 
 a whole that is not very interesting or fun. 
  
  Everyone's opinion is different, and this was mine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilblackgirl
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 19, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  I make my comments with the concession that I didn't actually buy the game, but tried it on the 
 free 10 day trial. My experience with MMOs is small, but when a game is offered free for 10 days, 
 there's usually a good reason. Most of the time is based on poor sales, but i can't be certain 
 as i've not looked at the sales for this game and the reviews appear to be mediocre. My review 
 isn't going to be any better. Outright, i'm not impressed. My first reaction was that this was 
 NWN online. The character creation was similar to CoH, but not as excessive. The graphics are not 
 great, the gameplay is dull and uninteresting and the quests don't leave you feeling like you've 
 accomplished anything more than another piece of armor to sell at a vendor. Leveling takes five 
 times longer than most MMOs, so after a solid two hours of gameplay, i'd only made it an 8th of 
 the way thru level one where as i'd have been a level 5 or greater in most other MMOs. The NPC 
 AI is bland and the quest givers don't give you much about the quests other than just getting you 
 to push through the chit-chat to receive the quest. Battle is very one sided. The game is built 
 to be played in groups, which is fine, but if it's not a large group playing, you have no chance 
 of accomplishing the quest. The interface for the game is overly crowded and difficult to manage. 
 Chat is made overly-difficult which pushes players to not interact with their teams. And, unrealistically, 
 the player characters all look like models which seems very out of place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vega666
Rating: 3.4
Date: May 13, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  I decided to try this game when they gave out free 7 day trial accounts. I downloaded and began 
 installation, but got an error message about halfway in. Clicked Retry, still the problem, clicked 
 ignore and it continued installing, but after two files, I got the same error message for a different 
 file. Ignored again and it completed the installation. The game however, didn't work, obviously.
 
  
  So now I go to the DDO forums, and find a thread about my exact problem in a Sticky thread, so 
 apparently, some moderator or other must have seen it. Problem is however, that there is NO official 
 word from codemasters, but a rather long discussion between many customers having the same problem. 
 Solutions ranging from buying new  clients. None of 
 this is a viable option for me, as I'm not made of money.
  
  Now, I've NEVER EVER had this problem with ANY programs or games I have EVER installed, so the 
 problem is OBVIOUSLY with the codemasters' install software, but they are apparently happy to let 
 their customers sort out their own problems, while these code"masters" themselves sit on their 
 butts doing nothing.
  
  CodeMASTERS? I THINK NOT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esfoad
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 12, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Being an MMO fan since Ultima Online was first announced, a D&D fan since the late 80s, and a Turbine 
 supporter because of Asheron's Call, imagine my excitement when D&D Online was first announced. 
 While my expectations changed as more previews and game descriptions were released I was still 
 relatively optimistic for the final product. I kept thinking that there were too many solid components 
 involved with this project for it to fail and, at the very least, could expect an enjoyable adventure 
 or two through the D&D environments with various online friends.
  
  I was wrong.
  
  The game world doesn't feel like one as it's mostly just a hub (taverns) to acquire quests and 
 group up with other players. While this was a concious design decision and advertised as such, 
 I knew to expect this change... but it's that much harder to overlook given the game's many other 
 shortcomings. The questing and grouping engine feels incomplete and does not often work as it should. 
 There is very little chatting or emoting available to players which in turn limits the amount of 
 communications between players to help simulate a gaming world. That, plus the lack of an open 
 world area to explore, just further helps to make the game feel less and less realistic. The "Online" 
 aspect fails.
  
  Too many core D&D rules have been compromised to make the game conform to a real-time gaming environment 
 to appeal to the D&D player. Saving throw resolutions are changed, core classes/spells/feats are 
 omitted from the game, popular content is missing, and many different kinds of gear is either not 
 available yet or out all together. The list goes on. The "D&D" piece of the game fails.
  
  Turbine & co. continue to be fairly active on their boards in taking questions but nothing is being 
 done to implement the changes required to make this game a true D&D experience. The few changes 
 that have been made with the one content patch since release either introduced new problems into 
 the environment or didn't do enough to justify the changes to begin with. The game feels rushed 
 and feels like a side project to trade water while they work on another big MMO that's currently 
 under development. Turbine's once sturdy customer service reputation takes a big hit with this 
 game.
  
  I can appreciate those players that are enjoying the game and I hope it continues to entertain 
 them. The game taken as-is can certainly provide others with many hours of fun so long as they 
 understand what they're going to experience. At this time, D&D Online is a mediocre game lightly 
 wrapped in a thin D&D wrapper and made available to online connectivity. Remove the familiar D&D 
 names and a d20 dice... and you've got a very disappointing, poorly crafted title. 
  
  I highly recommend taking advantage of the game's 7 day trial that was, not surprisingly, made 
 available to download for free only two months after release. If I had waited for the trial I would 
 have saved myself a very disappointing $50 purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCrapper
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 11, 2006 2:28 am PT
Review:  The customer support is terrible. On May 10th, they did an update. After that update, I was unable 
 to connect. I play at night. The gentleman on the other end trying to help me, who by the way was 
 doing a great job, was suddenly gone. Now I understand what "quitting time" is all about , but 
 you do not bail out on a customer when assisting them with a problem that is their fault to begin 
 with. I did not ask for that update and it should not have screwed up my settings. 
  This game is also riddled with bugs and inconsistencies and I find it deplorable that they would 
 release this game with this many problems to begin with. Another problem I find with this game 
 is the lack of information provided to play it. Their website is virtually worthless. I don't mind 
 buying a 3rd party manual for any game. The problem in this case is, the guide is inaccurate and 
 incomplete the day you buy it due to the screw ups they are constantly trying to fix. 
  I have met some very nice people that play this game, it's what really makes me consider staying 
 with it. I also like playing it when I am not plagued by the technical issues that are not of my 
 doing. But I really have to take a little more time and think about whether it's worth it or not. 
 My mindset right now is...
  TSR screwed Gary Gygax many years ago... do I want to let them continue to screw me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zulkir9
Rating: 4
Date: May 7, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Ill start this quick review of Dungeons & Dragons Online: Stormreach by saying that I LOVE D&D. 
 At the risk of dating myself somewhat, Ill admit that I have been playing pen & paper D&D since 
 the Red Box, playing each of its incarnations through the current 3.5 edition. I also really 
 enjoy the new D&D Eberron campaign setting, in which DDO is set. So, as you can imagine I am predisposed 
 to liking Dungeons & Dragons Online: Stormreach.
  
  All that being said, I was truly underwhelmed by the final execution of DDO by Turbine. They tried 
 very hard to stay true to the feel of pen & paper D&D 3.5, which is admirable. However, in their 
 effort to mirror the feeling of sitting around a table with your friends throwing dice, they have 
 completely alienated the solo/casual player. This really tainted my opinion since my play style 
 leans towards the soloist/explorer. This is definitely not the game for someone who wants to be 
 able to sit down with 30 minutes and play. It could probably take you that long to find a group.
 
  
  Now DDO is not all bad, Turbine did some good things. They did a solid job of porting the D&D 3.5 
 pen & paper rules over to an MMORPG, with some necessary changes. I actually like the enchantment 
 mechanic (a mini-level up between major levels) . It allows you to individualize your character 
 a bit and make it feel like you are progressing, even if it is to level 3.2.
  
  The graphics in DDO are top notch. I really enjoyed the spell effects and the dungeon textures. 
 Good graphicsnuff said!
  
  As you probably can guess from the title, DDO is set in the city of Stormreach in D&Ds Eberron 
 campaign setting. Everything outside of the city wards is instanced, much like the missions in 
 City of Heroes/Villains. In general the quests run like mini D&D modules complete with the Dungeon 
 Master (DM) voice over in key places. Overall I really liked the feel of the quests, however 
 
  
  Here is the real problem I have with the questing system in DDO; nearly all of the quests are repeatable 
 (in my opinion this is because they dont have enough content to get you to level 10 otherwise) . 
 So once youve retrieved the missing spell book for Wizard X, the damn fool goes and looses it 
 again. This has lead to a situation where the quests that offer the greatest rewards, be it phat 
 loot or XP, are repeated over and over and over again. I cant tell you how hard it was to find 
 a group that would do any quests other than the Water Works. This repeating of quests over and 
 over really destroys the suspension of disbelief that is needed in RPGs.
  
  The Final Verdict: DDO could be a good game if you can assemble your table top D&D buddies together 
 to play online, kind of like with Neverwinter Nights. However, if you are a casual player or really 
 like to solo, you best leave this one on the shelf. Good graphics and the general feel of pen 
 & paper D&D wont see Dungeons & Dragons Online: Stormreach through!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nadav1991
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 6, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  i know, i know in the start the game isnt really but after a while you start to see that there 
 is mach more to the game. the game did suffer from a lot of bugs in the start but now with the 
 new patch they fixed most of them. after you find yourself a nice guild the game become very fun 
 to play. there are plenty of quests in this game and a lot of monsters to kill. this game make 
 the players to coperate with each other to finsh the quests. i think that all D&D players or rpg 
 players would apriccait the game very mach. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: don001
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 27, 2006 5:32 am PT
Review:  I guess I expected the dnd book version multiclasses, 9 lvl's of spells housing to make your spells 
 /brew potions and this new class of character what the heck was that all about ? The biggest thing 
 for me was the mission, they were not ( 1 ) solo friendly ( 2 ) no respawning of monsters when 
 in dungeons , once u killed them in the area thats it your safe. ( 3 ) u can only rest in certain 
 areas , ( u should rest anywhere u please but take the chance of monsters spawning on u , oh thats 
 right u have no respawning. ) I know it cost money to do games but DnD should have had anything 
 the mind could imagine. But thank you for letting me play for 7 days free ( which I only played 
 for 4 ) I got bored with the same routine of once I made a character and going over the same training 
 tasks. Yes I tried different classes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danyjr
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 22, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  Well, before I start I have to say that I haven't bought D&D Online and my review is based on the 
 trial week they gave me.
  Well, it started great. As a soloer I managed to do the first few quests, and I quite enjoyed the 
 story. However, the game became more party-dependant and I actually couldn't do the next quests 
 on my own, so if you like soloing and leveling up rather than getting grouped, this game is not 
 for you at all. Getting group is not a problem in the game and the great thing Turbine guys have 
 done is putting an "LFG" button so that you click on it on your quest in your quest log and you 
 will see anyone who wants to do that quest when you walk in the town by a single "Quest Icon" above 
 their head. The bad thing is, though, there aren't too many people playing this game and finding 
 a good group which you can enjoy raiding with can be a pain sometimes. I believe on of the things 
 Turbine can do is to remove the monthly fee. The fee is a real problem and anyone who pays money 
 expects a great game, thus I won't personally buy this game and then pay monthly for it because 
 they are greater MMORPGs with monthly fees - World of Warcraft, and even the free ones (Guild Wars) 
 win the competition. When D&D Online was released it was 34.99 and now it is 15. Well, I tell 
 ya, until you don't remove the fee and make the game free-for-all, you're never going to succeed.
 
  
  Well, that was the bad, now let me explain the worse: Levelling up in this game requires spending 
 an awful amount of time on it, extremely time consuming and the progress is too slow. I can't believe 
 that I have spent 4 days and I got up to level 3 (luckily) , not just because my time was wasted 
 to find a group, but because of the turtle-slow leveling up progress.
  
  And finaly the ugly: This game ain't got PvP. I mean... what the ****?! An MMORPG witout PvP is 
 the funniest thing I've ever heard. I'd rather play a single player RPG like Elder Scrolls IV: 
 Oblivion rather than D*D Online. Shame! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 21, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  Dungeons and Dragons, in its raw Pencil and Paper form, is considered by many to be the granddaddy 
 of all RPGs. It has an estimated 20 million players worldwide and currently exists as a revised 
 third edition of heavily tweaked rules. 
  
  One of the main appealing factors behind the pencil and paper game is that it is a go-anywhere, 
 do-anything type of game where your actions are limited only by your and the Dungeon Master's imagination. 
 Thus, trying to translate the PnP D&D into computerized form (something done many many times) always 
 leaves something lacking. Even the latest of hot hardware and video cards are no match for a caffine-primed 
 imagination, and not even the slickest of coding talent can create as open-ended of a game.
  
  "Dungeons and Dragons Online" thus sets the players' expectations on an impossible goal: Putting 
 all the fun of Dungeons and Dragons PnP game into an online format. Ironically, Turbine (makers 
 of the failed Asheron's Call 2) were put in charge of this massive endeavor and (simultaniously) 
 Lords of the Ring Online (still in development as of the time of this writing) .
  
  So, with appropriate background assembled, lets actually talk about the game.
  
  Dungeons and 
 Dragons Online has been built upon a foundation of having their content divided into small replayable 
 modules. While this does mirror the individual modules sold for the PnP game, replaying them over 
 and over again serves little point. The traps do not randomize in location, the monsters are generally 
 the same, and there's a general lack of suspense that results. Ultimately, each mission is built 
 as though everybody should only go through once but, in reality, will end up going through dozens 
 of times. DDO is not quite Guild Wars in the way it divides the players, but it's close enough 
 to not feel worth the monthly subscription.
  
  The actual gameplay itself is good. The core rules of the PnP game have been translated reasonably 
 well, with allowances made here and there to make it a more exciting computer game. Combat is twitch 
 based, the round-by-round combat of the PnP eliminated for what is actually a fairly exciting exercise. 
 There's a bit of suspense the first time your party enters a dungeon, not knowing exactly where 
 the traps and ambushes are. Rogue players will be overjoyed to find their class neigh fully supported, 
 with a great stealth, trap finding/disarming, and door/chest unlocking component prominently the 
 part of nearly every adventure.
  
  Graphically, there's little lacking. Monsters move around realistically and typically possess excellent 
 animations. The environment itself is quite good, with only a few low polygon count area marring 
 what's otherwise a great looking game. Turbine always did know how to make a snappy looking engine. 
 The music was good, but the sound effects are mediocre.
  
  Socially, the game is rich with built-in support for voice communication. There's currently no 
 "Bazaar/auction-house" like system for exchanging gear between players, and the communication methods 
 are a little awkward with no "global" communication but "local" communication having a very long 
 range. Because the game is split into instances, it's uncommon to run into too many players in 
 the city and impossible to run into a player other than in your party in an actual adventure zone. 
 However, taverns are a powerful congregation area that players will frequent just because that's 
 the only place to get healed between a mission.
  
  Soloers need not apply. The vast majority of the missions (especially those beyond the initial 
 harbor area) are balanced for groups to conquer. Thus, it is only with extreme effort and maxxed 
 out builds that soloers have a chance, and the majority of the time they will be overwhelmed no 
 matter what. "Friends don't let friends play solo" is a Dungeons and Dragons Online motto, and 
 while this is a good thing from a socialization standpoint, it leads to excessive downtime when 
 nobody's around. DDO does it's best to get you into a group with a greatly enhanced looking-for-group 
 interface but, despite its best efforts, it's just not in the cards to find a group sometimes. 
 
  
  In the 60-80 hours I played it, I found myslef constantly starting over characters trying to find 
 one I'd have sufficient fun with to stick with until the end. It never happened. I blame the downtime 
 between missions and that the heavy balance in the PnP DDO mechanic somewhat inhibited me from 
 coming up with a truly original character: relatively few multiclass combinations truly work and 
 group leaders bear this in mind when recruiting. Starting over, combined with the lack of variety 
 in repeating missions I've already done, compounded terribly in a way as to drive me away from 
 this game.
  
  I hear that many of those who were able to stick around until level 10 found the game to be too 
 short, the entire range of missions exhaustable within a week for a dedicated player. Turbine has 
 promised that they'd add new content as their primary focus post-release, but it's too late for 
 many.
  
  I've come to the conclusion that DDO is the latest in the line of "short term fun, long term lacking" 
 MMORPGs whose ranks include Planetside, City of Heroes/Villains and Auto Assault. A great game 
 for about a week of fun, but not something you'd want to consistantly spend $15/mo on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paradox355
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 20, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  It has finally arrived: an adaptation of pen and paper D&D for the PC! But be forewarned... this 
 IS you father's role playing game; fans of the current crop of MMORPG'S may be let down.
  
  The first thing to keep in mind with DDO is that it is not a traditional MMORPG. It is an attempt 
 to recreate the pen and paper D&D experience on the PC. I'm talking about getting together each 
 weekend with a group of friends to take part in an actual "role-playing" adventure. And that's 
 mostly what you get with DDO... a game that firmly rooted in group play. This is not a game you 
 can solo, so you need to find other characters to complement your party to succeed. This will probably 
 turn off a lot of the people used to the traditional MMORPG mold. But players that enjoyed those 
 old school pen and paper sessions will find this a refreshing change from the power-leveling/grinding 
 monotony of current online games.
  
  Another way that DDO stands out from the crowd is the active combat system. This is a big change 
 from the "click on monster to attack and throw in whatever specials while the character does it's 
 robotic attack dance" combat found in other games. You have to actually combat your foes instead 
 of sitting there watching as your character goes through the motions. This means timing your attacks 
 and blocks correctly, moving about to keep your advantage, and using your abilities to complement 
 that particular situation... no more "canned" combat.
  
  The third way DDO distinguishes itself from other computer RPG's (and probably the biggest) is 
 the experience points system. In most PC RPG's experience is award on a per encounter (or monster) 
 basis with extra opportunities for experience via quests. In DDO experience is awarded only upon 
 the successful completion of a quest. While this may seem strange it is keeping right in line with 
 the pen and paper game it is based on. At the end of an adventure the DM would calculate the experience 
 values for all the monsters defeated plus any secrets or traps found, disasters avoided, and general 
 ingenuity. DDO presents the same system with an experience window that can be brought up any time 
 during an adventure outlining the breakdown of experience gained up to that point. When the quest 
 is successfully completed it adds up and awards these points along with any special achievements, 
 i. e. stealth bonuses for completing quests without being seen.
  
  Now, most of this you've probably heard before, but I think it needs to be restated. I think many 
 people are being overly critical of this game, basing their judgement on their own personal expectations 
 instead of what this game is intended to be. The criticism is generally coming from the extremes 
 at the opposite ends of the spectrum... the power-levelers/grinders and the hard-core D&D fans. 
 Gamers unfamiliar with the PnP game wishing for simply another world to grind in will be let down... this 
 is NOT an MMORPG and should not be judged as such. At the other end, hard-core D&D fans are feeling 
 let down because it's not true PnP D&D... of course it's not; true D&D cannot be precisely emulated 
 on the PC. It's like this, if you what another grinding experience wait for the next new one to 
 come to market; if you want true PnP D&D then use the core books and go grab the Eberron campaign 
 book. This game is not intended to fulfill either of those needs; it is an adaptation of D&D with 
 an attempt to bring the feel of the PnP game to online gaming, and a very good attempt I feel. 
 But not without it's problems...
  
  Now for my view of the game. Although I truly enjoy the active combat and emphasis on group play 
 these are also a couple of the games weaknesses.
  
  With the combat it suffers from the same fate as any online game... latency (or lag) which has much 
 more of an impact with an active combat system. Although they tried to alleviate this problem with 
 "instancing" it is still there. People that don't have the latest high end hardware will definitely 
 need to turn down the eye-candy as any extra lag makes a big impact during combat. Also the interface 
 feels a little clunky, not good for an active combat system. Simply adding more options for remapping 
 keys would greatly improve combat ease.
  
  As far as grouping, my problem lies more with the gamers then the game itself. My experience has 
 been that a great deal of the players in game are too accustomed to the MMORPG mold or too stubborn 
 to break from it. Now since forming parties is so crucial to the game this means you may have to 
 party with people of this sort which can be the Achilles heel of a good party. This of course can 
 be overcome by finding a good guild or group to party with regularly. It just seems a shame to 
 me that the dungeons are set up to create the absolute need for grouping and sometimes finding 
 the "right" group can be an annoyance. On the brighter side, the game's social options makes finding 
 the right character match for a group an easy task.
  
  One thing this game definitely has right is the in-game voice chat. I absolute love that this is 
 built in; sure third party solutions may produce less lag but they deserve props for building it 
 into the game. With the way dungeons are set up with the need for a good party and good party coordination, 
 voice chat is the only way to go. Plus it helps to add the feel of PnP gaming to the game, especial 
 if you organize a regularly meeting role-playing group.
  
  In conclusion, Dungeons and Dragons Online is a diamond in the rough in my mind. It may have it 
 problems, but it very skillful pulls off what was intended: an enjoyable online game based on the 
 D&D system that allows for immersive role-playing and group based dungeon romps without requiring 
 an all-day commitment. Fans of D&D or gamers simply wanting a change of pace from cookie cutter 
 MMORPG's should definitely get some enjoyment out of DDO... as long as they're expectations are 
 not for something it's not meant to be! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mendeal2
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 10, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  This game is incredible. If you remember playing D&D on a table with pens, dice and figure this 
 is it only better. No organizing everyone (herding cats) . No Big mac or Pizza stains to explain 
 to mom, wife or roomates. The graphics are good not the best but for an MMORPG incredbile. The 
 dungeons are awesome... Every bit the D&D experience traps, monsters, surprises this has it all. 
 Its already been a little while and I just don't see getting bored of this game. Also, the community 
 is great. Helpful, fun loving and willing to aid in that moment of need. It can get a little crowded 
 and there are very few dungeons/quests you can do yourself (this is my main dissapointment) but 
 overall Outstanding!!! Enjoy it for what it is. Buy a 2 litre of mountain do a slice or 5 of pizza 
 and hack and slash kobolds with your nearest and dearest friends! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amonra69
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 10, 2006 12:46 am PT
Review:  I have to start by saying seeing all these negative reviews hurts my eyes. This games graphics 
 are simply wonderful, if you can afford a geforce 6200 or equivalent or better i would recommend 
 running in on high or very high as the game goes from bland to beautiful in one option. The sound 
 is very good for a MMO, i have played my share of MMO's and this ones music is a cut above them. 
 The game play is flawless once you get use to line of site and how to handle it (as always the camera 
 could be better.) Now that i have laid down the technical side lets review it from a Player of 
 Dungeons and dragons since 1st gen rules. THEY FINALLY MADE A GOOD PC/CONSOLE GAME WITH THE LICENCE!!!!!!!!! 
 The game follows the rules a little to well at times but that is part of D&D. The addition of actual 
 voice over Dungeon masters is simply wonderful. If you a D&D fan and have waited for a good MMO 
 to come out that captures that spirit your wait is over. I suggest getting a good headset mic combo 
 and tell your family good-bye cause i have not stopped in a month and have not even bored once 
 with it. BRAVO Turbine for this job well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leeduncan
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 6, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  The game is fun if you have people to play with, I moved from WOW and this game just didn't have 
 the feel I was used to so it lost its luster. I was able to run through a couple of the begining 
 missions solo but after that you have to group. If you have a group of friends who are able to 
 get on at the same time and looking to work together and tackle dugeons I would say this game is 
 a good pick. You won't find any annoying players popping up in you dungeons and kill stealing. 
 If you like to solo and pick up a group maybe if you need to I would recommend WOW, also if you 
 like to get into other aspects like crafting you won't find any of that in D&D online. So all in 
 all it's not a bad game but it is not for some people and I would say not for the casual gamer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brendandick
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 5, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Well its been awhile since I've been on Gamespot, but I would like to start my comeback with this 
 review, Im going to try a new style, giving each category.
  
  Gameplay: Simply put, this is the truly great aspect of the game. This is where you get to explore, 
 vast dungeons, fight many monsters and cast a giant range of spells. Not only, do you get to do 
 all that you get to put many new feats to use, and increase your skills to jump higher, swim longer 
 and ect.
  
  Graphics: This is a somewhat, "tedious" matter?. For the first bit of the game I was slightly disappointed 
 by the graphics, but when i went to options and put it to "Very high" it was breath-taking. But 
 it slowed the game down to almost a hault, so unless you have a good computer I would recommend 
 keeping it on "Very low" - "Medium"
  
  Sound: Not really an important matter to the game, but it does build the atmosphere. I like the 
 choices of music and the sound effects of steel against steel, or the sound of traps clicking and 
 swimming.
  
  Value: Hmm, well it was well worth the purchase and the Monthly subscription and I do indeed think 
 this will be a game I will remember for a long time.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I'd give it a bit of an edge, because I enjoy it everytime I play.
  
  The 
 overall of this is great, but the Payment, is quite annoying. Well I'll write more soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: empress_turbo
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 3, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  I must say that overall this game was a disappointment, I could not be bothered to play more than 
 one or two days worth. The screen shots are much more exciting than the actual game play. The controls 
 and look of the game are so old school, why even bother being 3d. 
  
  I saw absolutely nothing new or innovative about this game. It feels like every other old mmo, 
 but lacking.
  
  The one good thing about spending time in this game was that it serves as encouragement to independent 
 game developers. If this is what a professional studio deems a triple AAA title then Indies do 
 indeed have a good chance to succeed. :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordvarmint
Rating: 1.3
Date: Apr 3, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  It's MMO's like this that give MMO's the bad name they're getting. It's exactly the same as everything 
 else out there. Uses same textures, same brown muddy crappy look. The click and pick your nose 
 combat with a small twist, you have to face your attacker manually. Thats not game play thats just 
 lame. WoW does something simular with being in range. If you are out of range, you just stand there 
 getting hit. Again thats not game play, thats bad game design with no excuse for a large production 
 house. It really begs the question, do the creators of these games actually play them?
  
  And why bother calling it D&D.. They don't follow the D&D rules or even AD&D rules, they threw 
 a few rules in, just so they could say they're D&D probably. The game lacks imagination, and looks 
 more like an early beta then a polished commercial release. I tried the 10 day free trial, I'm 
 glad I did as I definitely won't buy it. What a waste of money.
  
  In closing this game is priced way to high for it's content. It should be around the $25 with no 
 monthly fee, then it would be an OK game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vishisluv7
Rating: 2.1
Date: Apr 3, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  The game is really terrible. The graphics are ok, but hog system resources terribly. The gameplay 
 is sub-par, after the initial few dungeons it becomes a chore to play. Combat consists of a click-fest 
 with zero tactics or thought.
  
  I played for two weeks, couple hours a day, several hours on the weekends and finished the game 
 easily. There is not enough content to keep a casual gamer going for more than 3 weeks tops. 
 
  
  The game is riddled with bugs that Turbine likes to pretend don't exist. Such as mobs inside walls 
 (who can hit you, but you can't hit them) , zoneing into other people's instances, doors that won't 
 open, quest items and mobs that don't spawn, it goes on and on..
  
  On the subject of the half-finished code, the in game GMs can not help you in any way. No matter 
 what the issue is, their answer (in broken english) is always "sorry, nothing I can do, please re-start 
 the quest". This may be after you just spent hours getting to the last room of a quest. They have 
 zero power in the game to do anything but "elevate you to a higher GM" if you want to wait for 
 1.5 hours for the second GM (In broken english) to tell you to "restart the quest" . Pathetic.
 
  
  The Devs do not communicate with the player-base except to say "Sony-sms" such as "we're working 
 on it", "working as intended", and "Its a known issue". They don't seem to know them selves what 
 they are doing.
  
  The classes have great disparity between them. Who wants to play a ranger? Every quest, save a 
 few, are in the same cramped, identicle dungeon tileset. Every quest is the same everytime. Everyone 
 knows them by heart. Where the mobs, barrells, traps and chests are. So there is no adventure, 
 only grinding out the best xp quests over and over till your eyes bleed. A good team can zerg a 
 quest in 10-15 minutes because there is no reason to take it slow, we all know exactly where to 
 stop to buff, which rooms are a waste of time, and where to complete objectives. Its boring as 
 hell.
  
  The game is forced-grouping. There is 3 starter quests which can be solo'd by 2-3 classes, thats 
 it. And in a game with forced grouping, they have a broken guild/friends list. It will show all 
 your charactors online at the same time, or all off. I had myself and 3 alts online all at once! 
 Lol! Very amature work. The "fixes" they are promising are being withheld until the 1st module (convieniently 
 after people need to pay their first month) . They have fixed nothing since early beta, but expect 
 people to pay for this trash?
  
  One last thing that isn't about the game, but the community (which is shrinking everyday) .
  
 
  The forums are a waste-land of rabid fanbois who defend this garbage with personal insults, attacks, 
 and spamming filth in order to silence the vocal majority who are not blind to this train-wreck 
 of a game. I know its like that in any game forum, but i have been a part of many, and this is 
 the worst. The community likes to tell itself the DDO players are "older more mature" gamers. This 
 could not be further from the truth. These fanboys make WoW's boards seem mature. A partcular few 
 are the worst...
  
  In the end, the game is broken, boring, lacking of anything but grinding memorized quests over 
 and over. Its not even 1/2 complete, and the devs are holding off fixing bugs and adding content 
 untill after you pay. Very unethical.
  
  One last thing: The only work the incompetent devs are doing is closing down the few quests there 
 are to do in end game (where almost everyuone is already) for a week at atime to nerf it. They have 
 nerfed every good end-game quest already, and currently they have another "closed for balancing" (read: major 
 nerf) . 
  Sneaky nerfs to, like removing a shrine and replacing it with mobs. Cheap, and low-down. Par for 
 the couse for these devs.
  
  Avoid this like the plague. NWN from 2002 is far superior to this waste of a CD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paul_SB
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 28, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  i've tried most of the MMO RPG's and D&D on line rocks. The 2 reason for the low score are the 
 reason i like it. 
  
  PVP is a pain and any games that offers it, it soon becomes all everyone does. That's not the point 
 of an RPG. 
  
  The 2nd reason for the bad review is limited single player action. Do you play D&D by yourself. 
 no and that's the point. Grouping is easy and fun. there are different types of people. those that 
 like to fly thru the quests and groups that take their time. it's easy to find either and if you 
 end up in the wrong one, drop and find another group.
  
  The last reason is they are making improvements to the games based on user feedback. The game needs 
 this or this would be better. i've already seen several updates that had these changes in them. 
 
  
  For me it's worth the money and i'm sticking with it. Any if you don't like it, less load on the 
 server for me and my friends!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mavyn
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  I really wanted to love this game. Really bad. I played the beta. When I bought the retail release, 
 I was dissapointed that the buggy, clumsy interface had not changed at all and the game still felt 
 unfinished. The graphics are great. The sound is really great. The character creation is quite 
 well done. I had fun in the beginning. The problem? I have played many similar games before. I 
 have been playing RPGs and MMOs for years now. The more time I spent on DDO, the more it began 
 to suffer by comparison to other games and the more I wondered why DDO wasn't better. 
  
  PROS:
  - A great game for someone looking for a little role-playing, D&D style.
  - Short immersive 
 adventures with a sense of accomplishment and teamwork. Some of the dungeons after level 2 are 
 really cool.
  - Great graphics and sound
  
  CONS:
  - If you are unable to find a group of players, there is NOTHING to do. There is no reason to explore 
 the city at all, other than to have a look at some cool buildings. This gets old real quick.
  - The interface is so horrible, it distracts from gameplay. It just feels so amateurish. Did the 
 developers look to any other games for inspiration? So many other games got this right -- it seems 
 crazy that the UI could take away so much from the gameplay experience. So many people complained 
 about this during the beta, myself included.
  - The combat pace is twitchy and slightly too fast. I found it difficult to maintain target selection. 
 By the time I attacked a target, my teammates had already killed it. The enemy AI could use a little 
 fine tuning.
  - If you have played any other similar game, (i. e. Neverwinter Nights, World of Warcraft, City 
 of Heroes) Dungeons & Dragons Online does not compare favorably.
  - The fun does not last for long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HyperPhi
Rating: 2.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  all this garbage and a monthly fee! 
  
  stay away play Neverwinter nights or guild wars instead and its free! 
  be warned D&D online 
 is not a MMORPG . too bad that I have to type 100 words on these reviews!
  
  If this game is any indication of what Turbine will do with Lord Of the rings online , then Im 
 staying away from that also. No wonder they pulled the Plug on AC2. what is even more sad is that 
 they picked Eberron for this game instead of a familiar module that the target audience can relate 
 to.
  
  just save your money and if you fell like playing D&D just buy some Dice and join a club or something. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keldron
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 2:07 am PT
Review:  I was expecting DDO long time ago, and I was hoping that I would play something like NeverWinter-Lineage 
 II-Baldurs Gate (little from all) . I mean I was hoping that the game should have a huge map to run, 
 to be attacked from bandites while move from one city to another, to have waterfalls to rest, to 
 find caves that can explore and gain xp and loot, to pass through forestes that you wouldn't like 
 to leave. 
  In other words I wasn't expeting to be playing only in a single city !!! This is not an adventure 
 !! No matter how many dungeons you will face, the fact that you live and act in a single city, 
 won't make you an adventurer!
  The fact that there are only 10 levels, is also another painfull story. Sooner or later you loose 
 your interest for playing. Personaly I gain ranks and action points (between the levels) and I 
 find them totaly uselles because I can't spent them (I have to remove an old enchantment to place 
 a new one, in total only 4 enchantments) !!
  The bright side of the game is that you play a real DnD rules online game. I play with my friends 
 this game from our homes, just like we would be together playing an rpg quest with the real dices, 
 a character paper, and a pencil...
  I hope that soon there will be a patch that fixes these preferences, because DnD is the first real 
 rpg game, since there weren't even computers in the world, and it's a shame for it to take leasons 
 from other MMORPGs (WoW, Lineage II, etc) .
  If there will not be a patch that change dramatically DDO, lets hope that the company will not 
 make the same mistakes with Never Winter Nights II (in case that they will provide us the oportunity 
 to play Never Winter as a MMORPG) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: czaoth
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  I think DDO is a great game. Definitely worth the buy to play for a month, don't not much beyond 
 that unfortunately. 
  
  They have pushed the genre and succeeded... they have brought new concepts to the table and have 
 succeeded but they lack the holy grail of MMOs... content. Couple that with a 14.99 subscrition 
 cost and we have a problem.
  
  1 - Major Issue - It lacks content in a major way. Way too much repetition involved after level 
 6. This leads into subscription cost questions. 14.99 is a tad high for the amount of content available. 
 I just don't see myself paying 15$ to repeat content another month. (yes there is a content patch 
 but when in the month? and how many hours of high level gameplay will it contain? not enough for 
 14.99 is my guess)
  
  2 - Medium Issue- Gameplay is really fun but it does deviate a fair amount from D&D. This game 
 is based on D&D rules but it's certainly not D&D. I didn't mind it at first but i came to yearn 
 for a game that was closer to the real ruleset.
  
  3 - MInor Issue- Exploits ruin the diffculty of some fun instances (pulling the final boss in Stormcleave 
 to a ledge is a glaring example and groups always want the path of less resistance) . Web triviliazes 
 mobs, etc etc
  
  Those are my only complaints. I love the game but i don't see myself paying for another month. 
 Like any great game, once you have played it to your heart's content, you put it away. Other games 
 that will feel fresh again await (sadly)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: civilcorky74
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 27, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Well I will first say that I am fairly short lived in the game and while being an old school D&D 
 fan, and loving most rpg games and mmorpg franchises, I expected a lot more from a company like 
 Atari. The game is great looking, plays well, has a good interface which is a bit tricky at first 
 but really customizable around the screen, which is nice, but I dont believe there is a full screen 
 mode? The missions are fun and interesting, well written it seems, but there is no room for soloists 
 or true solo rogues, which gets to my next point and main idea. In a game which has multiple servers, 
 I never understand why a few servers could not be modified to be a true free world server, and 
 allow pickpocketing, PvP, gangs, needs for paladins, and everything that else goes with being a 
 true free world. Permanent death unless resurrection, with all the true D&D rules which make the 
 game a role playing world, not one where I sit in a tavern watching some jackass jump off the table 
 and against the wall fifteen times because he is amazed by the jump mode of the game. Or where 
 I can slap someone for swinging their sword inside my store. It was these small abilities that 
 would occur while playing a UO, or Everquest, or Baldurs Gate, or Neverwinter Nights that made 
 the online experience so much more rich. If your going to say "Dungeons and Dragons Online", make 
 it dungeons and dragons, the whole enghilada, not just the group combat aspect, we have more than 
 enough online shooter games, we want to drown our sorrows or enjoy our success in the tavern, as 
 the dwarven blacksmith, while making shields, and repairing armor for the good characters of the 
 city. Games like these need to offer choices to the player, and this one just really does not. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dashel
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 27, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  All of the 'negatives' he listed are positives and are in line with what the developer wanted. 
 I fail to see how you can critisize a game for doing what it SAID it would do. Now you may let 
 people know that this isn't EQ or one of the several other clone games that have come out since. 
 This game breaks the mold in that regard. That said this game is not without problems, but none 
 of the one's listed in the official review.
  
  Pros:
  
  +Action oriented (use terrain to your advantage etc)
  +Group-only, co-op play
  +Emphasis on 
 journey and not the destination
  +A large world to explore, just not in the conventional WoW sense of endless wandering from one 
 place to another
  +'The ugly duckling that could' - It has its issues but damn if it isn't a blast to play
  +No 
 crafting or other stupid timesinks
  +Gets better the longer you play as opposed to that feeling of 'sameness' with typical MMOs
  
 
  Cons:
  
  -UI not as polished/functional as it could be
  -Much more enjoyable with guild/friends than 'pugging'
  -Lack of engineered timesinks will limit 
 subscription time (not sure if that is a 'bad' thing) ;)
  
  Not a game for everyone, it isn't a sandbox game you can dick off for hours in like WoW. Its fast 
 and focused. As such it is a game that is perfect for people who game a few hours a week but don't 
 'live' on the server. Because of this it isnt' surprising that the majority of the player base 
 is older and more mature than you find in most MMO games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Origosis
Rating: 4.4
Date: Mar 27, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  First let me say, "Yeah a MMo that finally gets rid of grinding" Then let me counter my own comment 
 with. "Grrr grinding and I don't get any XP for it?" 
  
  The game is very intuitive as in you finally don't have to kill countless monsters for XP. All 
 you need to do is complete quests and the quests give you all the XP you need. Well that's the 
 Idea. After about 8 quests, 4 hours, and ALOT of killing I was still level 1! For one the quests 
 give very very little XP, so you have to do alot to get anywhere. aside from "sidequests" within 
 each quest you get no actual XP for anything you do in the quest.
  
  If you rush through a quest and just hurry to the objective, or complete each and every little 
 task and kill each and every monster there is not difference in XP gained. and in most of them 
 you HAVE to kill each and every monster to get anywhere. basically your grinding away on these 
 monsters and not getting any XP for them. you would think that by the end of the quest it would 
 give you ample XP for the amount of mobs in the quest, but it does not. I went through one quest 
 where I needed to get an item out of a chest and bring it back, very very simple. well the get 
 to the quest you have to defeat about 20+ mobs and 3 mini bosses, they were all very easy, but 
 after all of this I only recieved about 2% of my level in XP. in any other MMO 20+mobs and a few 
 mini bosses would be about level 3 to 5. 
  
  To make it worse each quest get's harder and harder. not by alot, but noticibly. and you stay the 
 same through it all. you would think you would nearly have to get more tactical about things, but 
 there are no real tactics in the game. it moves to quickly for that. if someone is going to defeat 
 you they are going to do it in 3-5 hits.
  
  As far as the gameplay goes, it compares to alot of the MMO's out there, but you don't get the 
 reward you would get in those MMO's. So to finish this review off... No! you do not have to grind 
 to get XP, but the stuff you have to do forces you to grind anyways?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bjarner
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  I played the beta of this game, and I really enjoyed it. The graphics are great, I did not have 
 any problems with lag, I liked the battle system and the controls were great. I also liked the 
 quests, and how easy it was to meet people. The classes seemed balanced enough and so on.
  Still, I'll only give this game 7.7.
  
  I played the beta for free, but didn't find the game 
 exciting enough to buy it. 
  The reasons why:
  1) I don't like the Eberron setting as well as the Faerun setting. I understand that they want 
 to invite new players to their new setting, but the Faerun setting is just more my style.
  2) In a mmorpg I want the freedom to walk around freely and visit places, not only stay in one 
 city. But since I'm not familiar with Eberron, I don't miss it. I don't know the world anyway.
 
  3) I hate the warforged. They kinda ruin it for me.
  
  For those who love mmorpg's, this is a great game. I had a lot of fun playing it, and if it weren't 
 for the fee I'd buy it. But it's just the wrong setting for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankSoul
Rating: 1.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  here is my advice, AVOID THIS GAME AT ALL COST! instead buy neverwinter night platinium, it will 
 give you a lot more content and NO monthly fee! also there are tons of download for it and a better 
 multiplayer system then DDO (and its a ''mmo'') . if you wish to waste your money then there it is 
 buy DDO. Its a shame that wizard of the coast approvec such a game , hopefully they will remove 
 the license from Turbine and maybe we will get a great game eventualy ( if only they would stick 
 with bioware) . Now when is Neverwinter night coming out? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khasym
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 25, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Okay, before the fanboys come out and lynch me, I gotta say it. Stay away from DDO right now. The 
 game just doesn't have enough content to make it worth the monthly fee. 
  
  I admit that Turbine should be commended for tossing out the conventional MMOG mold and working 
 from scratch. They really did a bang up job of removing virtually every known convention of MMOGs. 
 The problem is two-fold. 
  
  One, the concepts they came up with aren't really entertaining. To replace the leveling system 
 and bridge the gap between 1st and 2nd level, you earn Enhancements, which are different minor 
 boosts to your abilities. The problem is, these still feel like levels in the conventional sense, 
 just without the payoff of adding new spells and skills. 
  
  The other problem is that they managed to tear out grinding and put it back in at the same time. 
 In the conventional sense, you grind by killing the same monster over and over again to get equipment, 
 money or XP. But the game turns SOLELY on questing, as you earn XP after a quest is finished. As 
 GS said, "You've gone from repeatedly killing the same monster, to repeatedly doing the same quest. 
And unlike normal grinding, the quests lower their rewards the more you do them. 
  
  The graphics are nice, but they seem a little unfinished and dated. The sounds, apart from the 
 Gamemaster's voice is easily replaced by a good MP3 song. The Gamemater's voice is definetly a 
 big step in the right direction, as what could be boring dungeons and pathways, can be better defined 
 by his descriptive text and voiceovers.
  
  In the end, DDO does succeed in bringing that pen and paper, friends around a table feel of D&D 
 to the computer. You will feel like that first level mage warrior or cleric. But no one wants to 
 be stuck at 1st level for days or weeks on end. And that is what the game feels like right now. 
 It pushes your weaknesses far more than your strengths. Coupled with a repetitive game, somewhat 
 lanky graphics, and a general disconneciton from the genre it's trying to succeed in, and you have 
 a true longshot in a genre that's already got tough competition going on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdavidlove
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 24, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  What I found interesting about the reviews I browsed through is the number of really high and really 
 low scores. People who rate the game high, get it and are having a blast playing. People who rate 
 it low, don't get it - and probaly don't get a lot of things. :) Please enjoy the jab naysayers. 
 I've played the other games and got so tired of the whole genre I quit it totally. I wanted to 
 like it, but let's face it while before there wasn't a choice and therefore if you wanted to play, 
 you had to choose from what was out there WoW, EQ, EQ2 are time draining, boor-fests. That's all 
 changed now. DDO has made the genre fun again. While I would have enjoyed the immersion of crafting 
 systems and professions, i'm happy to cavalierly dismiss the need for them because the quests and 
 adventures are so much fun in DDO. It's active, not passive. It's intelligent design. It's a good 
 time. It takes skill to be good. Far more skill and strategy than WoW or EQ2 require. Fantasy gaming 
 is back and it's better than ever. Gamespot got it wrong with the 7.5 rating. I give it atleast 
 a 9.0. Sorry Gamespot, as discussed, some people get it, some don't. I don't hate you because you're 
 wrong, just disappointed because you can't change your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quess_77
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:07 am PT
Review:  this is a interesting game, and they have done some things that are wary special considering it 
 is a MMORPG. and they have stayed true to the D&D rule set.
  
  one of the few things that they have changes is that spell casters got mana, but after playing 
 it abit i have to agree with them that is was proberly a better choise. if you play a mage for 
 example you still have to select a few of youre spells and you can only cast the spells you have 
 selected like in the normal pen and paper game. but you well be able to cast the spells more times 
 becorse of the mana.
  
  one of the things that makes this game special is that you cant rest.
  unless you are at a inn 
 or you find a rest shrine. so alot of the game is about not just surviving a single fight but fight 
 well enof that you well survive all the way to the rest shrine or the mission is done
  
  combat is special too, you do have a auto attack button but you well properly not use it. sins 
 you well attack when clicking youre left mouse button. this makes fighting more fast pased and 
 you well never get that "now we just have to wait for the mob to died" feeling that you sometimes 
 find in other mmorpgs where it is only the first 30-45 sec that are critical and the rest is just 
 waiting for the mobs hp to drop to zero
  
  but it is not all good and danty.
  
  this game got alot of Zones. it is even worse then guild wars and that says alot
  
  on top 
 of that it is working with locked zones, meaning that you have to complite a spicifig mission to 
 be able to go into the next player zone.
  this setup works for guild wars because you can complit the mission solo, but in D&D you are dependen 
 on others to complit the missions, so you can end up getting stuck in a player zone becors you 
 cant get a group that wants to do the mission becors every one else all ready done the mission 
 or are not high enof lvl to do it.
  
  but as a final word: i like the game the first 30 houers i played it. and it is defently worth 
 a try. if for nothing else just to try out the combat system and see another way of doing mmorpg's 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief021
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 7, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - Is fast paced, but quests seem to be on the easy side, so play on hard or elite whenever 
 possible. Don't just fly through the missions either. There is alot of content in this game, I 
 don't care what other people say. It should take you quite awhile to reach lvl 10, if your a casual 
 gamer. 
  
  Graphics - Very well done. With graphic settings maxed this game is very sharp looking. 
  
 
  Sound - Is all over the place, wherever you go your hearing something. Music is nice, dungeon 
 sounds (creatures etc..) done very well. Narrator is a bit annoying at times. 
  
  Value - If your a powergamer, you might get sick of this one quick. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pszpunar
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  DDO is the first MMORPG I've played. As far as my review goes, this can be both a positive and 
 a negative. On the one hand, I'm not going into the game with expectations of what a MMORPG "should" 
 be like. On the other hand, I really have nothing to compare it to, so there may be things missing 
 or not implemented as well as other games in the genre and I simply won't be aware of this fact. 
 I should also state up front that I haven't played the paper version of D&D for over 15 years, 
 and that was with the 2nd edition rules (and my friends and I followed our own loose interpretations 
 of those rules) . Also, I've been playing the game for about two weeks, 3-4 hours a day or so. I've 
 completed all of the Harbor quests and I'm currently working through some of the Marketplace quests. 
 With all of that aside, on to the review.
  
  Being new to the genre I found the interface and basic gameplay easy to pick up. The manual provides 
 a good overview of the game's mechanics and content, although as you get farther into the game 
 you realize that the manual leaves out a lot of important information (more on this later) . Character 
 creation was a pleasant experience -- there were enough choices to truly customize your character 
 but I didn't feel overwhelmed by too many choices, if that makes sense. I'm playing as a dual class 
 ranger/rogue.
  
  I like the action-oriented real-time gameplay. I'm not a fan of turn based gameplay (in the computer 
 realm, that is) , where there is no skill on your part involved -- you're at the mercy of the roll 
 of the dice. I like the fact that you can block, dodge, run around to get better angles, etc. As 
 a result I feel like I'm truly in control of my character, rather than simply moving him from one 
 encounter to another with the computer determining the outcome of the encounter. Of course there 
 is still an element of luck involved as there are standard D&D conventions such as saving throws, 
 but all in all skilled players will fare better throughout the course of the game.
  
  Although the interface in general is good, the inventory system is a bit clunky. Most of the potions 
 are either blue or red, and there is no way to tell at a glance what kind of potion it is. You 
 have to select it and use the focus orb to get a description of what the potion is. Even worse, 
 when you inspect the item in the focus orb all it tells you is what it is, not necessarily what 
 it does. As I mentioned earlier, it's been quite awhile since I played paper D&D so I'm not familiar 
 with all of the terminology. What exactly does a Shield of Faith potion do? I have no idea and 
 the game doesn't want to tell you. There is an integrated help feature that should have this kind 
 of information in it, but it doesn't (and the manual doesn't, either) . This seems like a thinly 
 disguised ploy to get you to buy the gameguide, which is annoying.
  
  I also found the map feature to be virtually useless. It works ok in dungeons, but in the city 
 you are simply given a 2D, top down map of the area. The areas are fully 3D, though, and sometimes 
 you have to climb stairs/ramps to get to different sections of the area. The map does a very poor 
 job of representing this, so when I enter an area for the first time I find it very difficult to 
 navigate. The streets/paths of a city are also not represented well, if at all, so even though 
 you can place a marker on a map to facilitate navigation it can be difficult just by looking at 
 the map to figure out just how you are supposed to get to that marker. I don't know, maybe I'm 
 just stupid and can't read maps properly, but I can assure you I'm not the only one who finds the 
 map feature frustrating.
  
  When you first start the game you are equipped with various "starter" items -- basic weapons, armor, 
 healing/repair kits, etc. You can't sell these items even after you find better replacements and 
 you can't trade them to someone else. It would be nice to have the option of selling these items 
 (even for a pittance) because early in the game money can be hard to come by until you repeat more 
 complicated quests. At least you can destroy these items to make room for others.
  
  The chat system is a bit cumbersome. There are four tabs -- General, Guild, Party and Combat. You 
 can only communicate with your party in the Party window, but you can only see private messages 
 in the General window (although you receive party messages in the General window) . It's very easy 
 to find yourself in the General window and try to type a message to your party, only to have the 
 message broadcast to the general public. When you're in a dungeon the Combat window lists information 
 such as whether you hit or missed a target, how much damage you inflicted/received, spell effects 
 (both from party members and monsters) , etc. So you'd think you would want to keep this window 
 open during quests. But no, you can't send or receive any type of messages in this window, which 
 is problematic when you are trying to communicate to your party via text. 
  
  These problems are partially overcome via the in-game voice chat. For a few days after launch the 
 voice chat worked sporadically. One time I was in a party with some friends and when one of us 
 would say something the rest of us wouldn't hear it for up to a full minute afterwards. The text 
 chat system was broken at times as well. Fortunately, these problems have since been resolved. 
 The one issue with the voice chat is that people don't seem to calibrate their microphones very 
 well, so some people are way too loud and others are inaudible. This isn't really the fault of 
 the game -- there is an audio meter in the options where you setup your mic. You speak into it 
 and you can adjust the gain to find an optimal level. But evidently some people don't use this 
 feature or they don't know how to read an audio meter properly (ie, if they see any activity at 
 all on the meter they assume everything is ok) .
  
  I personally like the quest system. You get quests from NPCs throughout the game. They'll normally 
 give you some background story about what you are supposed to do, but you really don't need to 
 read this if you don't want to -- the quest objectives are clearly laid out once you enter the 
 quest. You get experience by completing quests, not by killing X number of monsters. I feel this 
 helps facilitate teamwork because not everyone is gunning to get more kills than everyone else. 
 Dying is fairly painless (ha!) -- if you die someone can take your "soul stone" to a healing shrine, 
 enabling you to revive. Clerics can also resurrect the dead. If all else fails you can warp back 
 to a tavern where your hit points slowly build back up. You do take an experience hit if you die, 
 but this is to be expected. The quests are fairly varied -- you'll do a number of different tasks 
 depending on the quests. It's not all "go into dungeon and kill all the monster". Sometimes you'll 
 have an objective of protecting an object from monster attacks, rescue prisoners, etc. There are 
 normally optional sidequests you can perform as well to gain extra XP.
  
  You can't really play solo in this game, unless you try quests that are several notches below your 
 level (in which case you don't get very much XP anyway) . I don't mind this because D&D was always 
 meant to be played in groups (and why would you bother playing a MMORPG if all you want to do is 
 play solo?) The game helps facilitate party formation. If my friends aren't online I just stand 
 in a tavern, indicate that I'm looking for a group (which places a yellow face symbol over my head) , 
 and I normally get invited into a party within minutes. 
  
  There's more I could get into, but this review is already pretty long. To sum up, I'm having a 
 lot of fun playing the game despite its flaws. I feel the game could have used a bit more polish, 
 particularly in the interface and in-game help feature. I'm not really too far into the game and 
 it is possible that once I start more quests they'll start to feel the same. Turbine has already 
 announced a free module addon that will be released in April so hopefully they'll do a good job 
 of keeping the content fresh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: me2u2
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 20, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  I cancelled my account for several reasons:
  
  Graphics: Some of the best graphics I've seen to date as long as I don't try to move or take action. 
 Lack of first person view is one thing, but the lack of camera angle control is absurd.
  
  Sound: The music and sound is pretty good, but for the life of me I want to know why people grouped 
 with Bards can't hear them when they are playing... some Bards have taken to 'singing' over their 
 headset mics... ok, that can be funny, but when it's not...
  
  Serious Issues that I encountered:
  
  Server 'stuttering' due to dense populations of players 
 not involved in quest instances. The lack of large non-instance areas is forcing people into bottlenecks 
 when they aren't questing. Nothing says 'fun' like a MMORPG server filled with people all jammed 
 into the same city to get their quests.
  
  A very linear quest chain to follow. No matter who or what I roll as a character, I get the exact 
 same quest lines to follow. At the moment, replay value is diminished.
  
  "Spoiler Players" are completely ruining any sense of adventure during the quests because many 
 PUGs are filled with players who've already completed said quest chains, and the whole feeling 
 of 'adventure' gets ruined by players who already know the end of the quest before I've even stepped 
 foot in it.
  
  The number of players reaching max levels this soon after launch is astounding and disturbing. 
 It's going to be very difficult to keep DDO's player base happy IMO. Not having enough new content 
 will force changes to be made by cutting back on the exsisting quests, which in turn will make 
 it even more necessary to repeat the quests to get the same experience... I hope Turbine is sitting 
 on tons of content, because the current player base is tearing it appart at a pace I don't believe 
 I've witnessed before.
  
  Perhaps DDO will be able to address the issues at a later point in time, but for right now, this 
 game seriously lacks the dimension to justify the monthly costs.
  
  Lastly, there is that clunky P. O. S. called a User Interface. I definitely need to wear my glasses 
 trying to use that thing. There are so many basic UI/Chat features missing, it would be easier 
 to tell you what they did include.
  
  In closing, I'm a bit surprised by Turbine's DDO release. Turbine is a seasoned verteran company 
 in the MMO market, and I'm disappointed that more of their experience was not used to develop this 
 game. IMO, DDO is not offering enough to justify a monthly cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alphasnail7
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 20, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  DDO is fun game, but its difficult for me to recommend it to anyone without a couple of caveats: 
 First, as described in the GameSpot review, its not a game for those looking to play solo quests. 
 I am lucky in that I am playing DDO with a longtime tabletop gaming group, immediately giving me 
 a group of people to play with. (In fact, we have a group of characters that we only play once-a-week 
 together.) I also strongly caution anyone who is looking for a robust, long-term gaming experience. 
 I havent played through to the end game yet, but I highly suspect that the end-game content cannot 
 possibly meet the voracious appetite of hard-core MMORPG players.
  
  The developers did brilliant job of capturing the Friday-night Fritos, nerd-fest, core dungeon-crawl 
 elements of the tabletop game. However, Im greatly disappointed that they didnt set the game 
 in a classic D&D setting like Greyhawk or Mystara (Hell, even Forgotten Realms could be considered 
 classic D&D for these purposes.) I understand that WotC is trying to push their new Ebberron 
 setting and tie it in with their tabletop products, but the new-fangled Ebberron setting badly 
 dilutes the effectiveness of the classic D&D themes. On the other hand, as a 30 year-old gamer 
 I understand that I may not be their core audience, but that doesnt change the fact that Ebberron 
 isnt the D&D Ive played.
  
  I very much like the mechanism of giving out XP at the end of an instance rather than for each 
 monster. It diminishes the feeling that you are in a dungeon to massacre every living thing with 
 no other purpose. I also like the combat mechanism, and the fact that you can manually control 
 your weapon swings for precision, or use the auto-target for ease of play. 
  
  The graphics look great, and give everything a photorealistic, but out-of-this-world feel to the 
 game. I do have some issues with the performance though. This may not be an issue for others, but 
 even at low graphics settings the game stutters and chokes for a several seconds anytime I enter 
 a new area. In outdoor areas this continues occasionally as I move around, but in dungeon areas 
 it runs perfectly smoothly. (Thats OK with me I suppose, as most of the game takes place in dungeons.)
 
  
  Even though this is clearly a different type of game than other MMORPGs, I cant help but compare 
 it in some ways. For example, the sense of wonder as I move around is insignificant compared to 
 WoW. At no point in DDO have I found myself wanting to explore an area just to see the sights, 
 as I have numerous times in WoW. 
  
  Another comparison I must immediately make between DDO and WoW is in the variety of the early game 
 experience. In DDO the early game is always the same. Yes, it plays out slightly differently for 
 you depending on your class, but the quests and areas are the same. In WoW, you can play essentially 
 six completely different early games depending on which race you choose. For replayability by gamers 
 with a low-attention span like myself, this is a significant weakness of DDO.
  
  This brings me to my most substantial complaint of all. One that is complex and difficult to describe, 
 but Ill try: The game doesnt really need to be a MMO at all. The game is so group-oriented, and 
 the quests so few and linear, that the benefits of having thousands of players in a persistent 
 world is negligible. In playing the game for several weeks in beta and since its release, I have 
 not once typed a general chat to anyone I didnt already know. That might just be my own issue, 
 but I the biggest benefit of DDO (thus far) is that it has gotten me excited about playing Neverwinter 
 Nights again!
  
  Thats lots of complaints, but I am still having lots of fun playing, and expect to for at least 
 another month or two! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarvis100
Rating: 1.9
Date: Mar 19, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  This game has to be the worst MMORPG that I have played to date. The commericals are so misleading, 
 it makes me want to puke all over the people who made them, and the reviewrs that said this game 
 was good.
  Lets start with the graphics shall we. What a worthless pile of crap for the graphics. I hated 
 the graphics entirely. There was nothing good about them. Everything in the game seemed plastered 
 onto a sheet of paper and stuck into this game. 
  The gameplay is horrible. I hate it so much, because there are so many buttons you have to take 
 track of, and you have to press a certain button to hit harder, a certain button to hit faster. 
 I hated it!
  I'm sorry, but this game is so horrible, I can't talk about it anymore. Do you a favor and buy 
 the best MMORPG to date called World of Warcraft! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r3def1ne
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  I started playing DDO in Beta. I never played PnP and was simply looking to pass some time I had 
 with a new game. I went into the experience not expecting to stick around and play much more. At 
 first, I didn't like the game. I didn't expect to. But over time, it has grown on me. It's now 
 the main game I play. It still has to prove itself overtime... I am still waiting to see how the 
 modules are delivered... so it's not a safe bet to recomend quite yet. But it has a lot of potential. 
 If you're looking for a new experience, I'd say to you: give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragon
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 18, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  My favorite RPGs are: Baldur's Gate 2, Neverwinter Nights and Ultima IV. I am currently playing 
 Guild Wars (although I'm bored with it and no other RPGs interest me at the moment) .
  
  First, I found logging into the game slow and buggy. It would often take a few minutes for the 
 game to contact the server, do the numerous things listed on the "start up to-do list" while I 
 wait for the game to update itself. Once in the game, going through the Turbine advertisement and 
 the long wait on the Dungeon & Dragons Online: Stormreach ("DDO") splash page annoying as well. 
 (I don't have to wait THAT long just to start playing Guild Wars...)
  
  I hoped for some solo capablities in DDO, but no luck there. As the reviewer for Gamespot stated, 
 it's strictly for party-minded people. Personally, I thought finding a party was difficult as no 
 one was doing the missions I needed a party for. You also cannot cycle to new missions unless you 
 finish the one currently assigned. At least, that is what I discovered after finishing the introductory 
 solo missions. Once I picked up one mission, I could not pick up a different one unless I completed 
 the first one. (I also did not stick around playing the game to find out otherwise... I got tired 
 of this game fairly quickly.)
  
  The user interface is awkward. Targeting the enemy is a pain-in-the-rear, since I'm used to the 
  You have to hit the "always attack" 
 icon and make sure your character is always facing the enemy that moves around faster than a slippery 
 snake. (I am not a first-person-shooter gamer.) Since I don't enjoy button-mashing games, this 
 combat system was the final reason why I stopped my subscription.
  
  My other issues are: there is no compelling story behind the game other than being sent out to 
 complete missions. Actually, there is NO STORY other than the fact that you exist in this world 
 to fight, gain XP/loot, fight more, and so on. Wow, what a compelling reason for me to keep paying 
 a monthly fee for this game!
  
  I'll stick with Guild Wars and it's disjointed storyline. At least NCsoft made an attempt to create 
 a story for the MMORPG *without charging a monthly fee*, and I'm still playing it. (You think Turbine 
 would do a better job with this as they are charging me money to obtain the game, then to play 
 it.)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtl68170
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 18, 2006 2:36 am PT
Review:  The city is gorgeous, the variations of armor and weapons is astounding, and the dungeons drip 
 atmosphere. There is so much Turbine can do to expand this game, that I just cant wait. I'm a group 
 instance proponent, so Im in heaven. Dont believe one word of the naysayers, a game like this is 
 long awaited and Turbine nailed it.
  
  OK, if your into large, complex MMO's, this isnt for you. If you are into adventure, youve just 
 struck gold. Im really looking forward to Middle Earth online now after seeing what Turbine can 
 do. They really have a great sense of high fantasy and adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 21_Blessings
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 17, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  DDO was full of pontential. Too bad Turbine has their heads in a collective **** They butcher key 
 concepts of the D&D universe like classic feats (i. e. Cleave) and abilities. I don't see how one 
 could justify paying X dollars a month for this game, when vannila Morrowind has more content. 
 If you're powergamer, expect to hit the level 10 cap within a few days or so. Casual gamers may 
 take a bit longer, but not by much. 
  
  DDO goes for the gutso by eliminating expereince by killing actual monsters and cropping any sense 
 of immersion by having no explorable constant world. Instead, the entire game takes place in one, 
 bland looking city filled with different instance dungeons. No grind, this good you say? Wrong. 
 Once you hit level 7 you will running the same instances over and over and over, oh and over again 
 to level up. Whats even worse, say you are one hour into a certain dungeon and something comes 
 and you can't continue playing. All that work you did will be for nada, if you dont' finish the 
 entire instance, you get no experience. 
  
  No pvp, no tradeskilling, nothing else but grinding instances. No variety. Why are they charging 
 a monthly fee for this again?
  
  Combat. Let me put it this way: Diablo with less abilities. Yup, basically sums up the combat system. 
 Oh Diablo with less phat lewtz, I'm sorry. Combat is mindnumbing and carpal tunnel causing as a 
 melee it is scary. It is so bad that there is no reason to use your feats or abilities. Doing so 
 would mean you have to stop clicking manically and stop circle strafing. Which means the mobs will 
 be able to hit you easier and that is a bad thing. Right? Jesus, this game is horrid.
  
  Maybe in two years when the cap is raised to 20 or 40 and prestige classes are added this game 
 may be worth the money. But right now, it is not. Save your money and do something productive instead. 
 Or wait for Warhammer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Servinius
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 17, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon crawls at their best! If you want to get into the action quick then DDO is for you. If 
 you want to play shop keeper because real life isn't real enough for you then you may want to pass 
 on this game.
  
  Game is easy to pickup. Parties are easy to join. Quests are easy to find. Action is easy to get 
 into and fast paced. After you complete a dungeon there's a nice option to be able to repeat it 
 at a higher level for higher rewards. There is also a nice balance of short, medium, and long adventures. 
 
  
  This game is not for you if all you want to do is solo. Well rounded parties are a must for running 
 through most dungeons. You'll want to run with 4 or more people in your party. There are larger 
 raid quests where 2 parties can group up for larger challenges.
  
  I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rigadoon
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 17, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  A lot of times I feel at odds with how GS reviews their games, but this time they got it dead on.
 
  
  Basically, take Guild Wars, add a monthly fee, make the graphics substandard, and remove any need 
 to socialize due to rapid grouping functions, and you have D&D Online.
  
  If you come from an Everquest or Ultime Online background like myself, you might have been hoping 
 to explore broad landscapes, meet the occasional new person, and even some of the petty stuff you 
 had to deal with like trains, PKing (UO) , and camping. I personally believe even these negative 
 by adding to the social nature of the game. They prompt message boards for servers to come into 
 existence and create unique personalities. In DDO, you're never going to be running to kill a dragon 
 and meet up with another guild after the same kill. Instead, every adventure you are going to embark 
 on is instanced, just like Guild Wars. At least where I have been thus far, there isn't even the 
 rampant auctioning that you might expect in other games. 
  
  There is also no crafting, no player owned houses, and no bank available until you manage to make 
 it to the marketplace later on. You may think you don't need these features. But in the event that 
 you can't find a group, since you will simply not be able to solo, they would have given you something 
 else to spend your time on.
  
  I agree with GS on disliking the voice chat aspect as well. It breaks the illusion to hear my fellow 
 nerds speak. But beyond what GS said, you aren't required by the game to use push to talk. The 
 result is you may be stuck listening to almost an echo effect in mono of the music, sound effects, 
 etc.
  
  Forget about soloing. Its not going to happen unless you play a Warforged Barbarian, and then you 
 will only be able to solo early on. And forget about unique group structures. Going without a rogue 
 is like denying yourself half of the loot from each dungeon. I think it's worth noting, in my Pen 
 and Paper days as a kid, I don't think we ever had to have a cleric along. After an encounter, 
 we could always rest. In DDO, there are specific spots in dungeons called rest shrines you can 
 use, but you can only use them once per adventure. You can also exit the dungeon, but you then 
 take a hit on total experience.
  
  The barrel breaking ,traps, and other activities besides killing monsters in dungeons feel simply 
 like diversions between frenetic monster killing. 
  
  Now after all of this, there are two really killer cool features worth noting. First, because experience 
 is only awarded upon completion of a quest (a complete dungeon crawl) , everyone is committed to 
 seeing it to the end. The only reason someone is going to bail is if they really have to bail. 
 Second, the idea of narrating and scripting the dungeon experience with the DM voice is unprecendented 
 and hopefully will get a nod from future MMORPGs. This does add to the feel.
  
  If you are going to buy it, I would recommend under no circumstances buying the $79 version for 
 the boots of running as I did. Their total runspeed bonus is 5% - and I personally found boots 
 of striding within 10 minutes of playing the game with an identical bonus. This may have just been 
 luck, but really I have seen no benefit to this item.
  
  I am still playing the game, at least for the moment, because I am curious what the upper reaches 
 of it look like, but I seriously doubt I'll be playing it in three months. With so many great RPG 
 experiences on the horizon (Oblivion, NWN 2, Vanguard) , it's hard to argue for paying a monthly 
 fee for this game.
  
  Would I recommend checking it out? Sure if you have some extra cash on hand. It could turn out 
 that a year or two into it, Turbine makes DDO the game it should be. MMORPGs have the ability to 
 take subscriber dollars and evolve for good or ill over time. Just look what EQ managed to do. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: listlurker
Rating: 4.2
Date: Mar 17, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  I want to warn fellow gamers that, as of this writing, DDO does not work for dial-up users, no 
 matter what it says on the game box.
  
  Turbine is aware of the issue, and has offered a partial-fix patch this past week, but if (like 
 me) you live in a rural area and are forced to play over dial-up, you need to know that teaming 
 and questing with others in DDO can regularly lock your character to a standstill when more than 
 a couple of enemies appear on-screen.
  
  Check out the DDO Tech Forums -- the problem is discussed there, and Turbine (again, as of this 
 writing) is advising dial-up users to avoid "heavily-populated" quests.
  
  In my experience, even out of questing mode, the game lag routinely brought my dial-up to a standstill.
 
  
  I'm not saying don't buy the game; I'm saying, do your research on the DDO forums before you buy. 
 make sure that the problem is fixed by the time you buy if you're a dial-up user!
  
  For non-dialup users, I have to say that the Ofiicial Review here pretty much sums up the game 
 accurately. It has a very specific style of play -- if you like that style, you'll love the game. 
 If not, you won't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spenta
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 12:35 am PT
Review:  There is no way I can justify paying a monthly fee for this game when Guild Wars offers a better, 
 more enjoyable experience for free.
  
  My biggest gripe has to be the almost total lack of single player action. Very shortly after starting 
 the game the missions become to hard for a single person to accomplish. Same thing happens in Guild 
 Wars but they offer henchman that can and usually do help you complete the mission. No such thing 
 is offered in DDO so not only do you have to spend time trying to find a group you have to pay 
 for the idle time as well.
  
  And frankly the game gets faily tedious within a couple weeks of playing. The repetitive dungeons 
 make it tiresome even more when you try and make new characters and have to run them through the 
 same regiment as before.
  
  Real bottom line here is that I would still be playing the game if I didn't have to pay a monthly 
 fee. I'll keep waiting for GW Factions which will be better and wont charge a monthly fee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaunie1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 16, 2006 11:14 pm PT
Review:  I like the look of this game it may have a touch of world of warcraft similarity but i think it 
 will be a gd game when it comes out. I play the game with my m8s and its pretty good so i hope that 
 this game doesnt put the game to shame if it isnt a sucess. The game will have a lot of expectation 
 from me as i love playin the game so i hope Atari make a good job of this as it as a high level 
 of expectancy from the d+d fans out there. This game must have an impact to do any good at all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gspasuuna
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 16, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  This slap-dash abomination bears no relation to traditional D&D. Even "hack-and-slash" (where players 
 run around killing creatures solely for their loot) adventures contained SOME sort of role-playing, 
 SOME sort of interaction with the world. But here, in this game, innkeepers are virtually mute. 
 Shopkeepers don't haggle. There are no NPCs who wander the streets- everyone stands stock still, 
 shackled in place. No children run around playing. Even the drunk in one of the inns stays in his 
 seat. Since alpha (I was a tester) players have pointed out how utterly dry and sterile the world 
 is. Stormreach is a place that I'd hate to live in... I'd be bored senseless.
  
  And the quests... if my D&D group in real life ever had to repeat quests three or four times just 
 to level up (because there are not enough unique quests to level even one character up to the level 
 cap) , we would abandon role-playing entirely. But that's what's required in DDO. Mindless repetition. 
 The quests never change. There's no random encounters. The traps are always in the same places 
 and require the same tactics to defeat, as do the monsters. Imagine then getting to the level cap 
 and starting over, only to discover that you must do ALL of the quests ANOTHER three or four times 
 each.
  
  If you want to give this game the benefit of the doubt, wait a year. Don't buy in this month, or 
 even next. Give it a full year. By then, perhaps there'll be some improvement in the game world. 
 Maybe there'll be enough quests to go around by then. But probably not... the developers made it 
 clear to all of us in alpha and beta that the quests in the game were essentially all there were 
 going to be- until additional "modules" were released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrogosIronfistcg
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 16, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Strengths: Good sound track. Not Buggy. 
  
  Weaknesses: What the heck does this game have to do with D&D?? Can be laggy. Not very social at 
 all.
  
  I've been an avid D&D player since 1980, probably longer than most posters on Gamespot have been 
 alive. With a lot of fondness do I remember the Gold Box D&D games from the early 1990s that put 
 D&D on the computing map as far as I concerned. I can actually brag that I'm one of the first people 
 who hacked those series of games by simply figuring out how to multiply items by swapping save 
 files. Ahh, those were fun days!
  
  For many yuears I've imagined D&D becoming a MMOG. Quite frankly, I believe D&D must go this way 
 in order to survive. The table top experience that I so loved in the 1980's is rapidly disappearing 
 with the onslaught of gaming possibilities coming from numerous electronic platforms. Say La Vie 
 cause time marches on and the geeks of pen and paper are moving to the online experience.
  
  I bought the limited edition box set that gives your account a set of boots of haste, has a 
 map of the skill charts, and a limited edition poster. It cost $50 US, but wasn't very impressive 
 compare to collectors boxsets like Morrowind or Everquest 2. The production value is average at 
 best.
  
  Installing the game was very easy. I'm playing on an Alienware AMD FX-53 system, a little dated 
 now, but still a solid rig. I've found no stability issues so far, but I do experience graphics 
 lags. I'm using a GeoForce 6800 256 megs video card so the the initial entering of any tavern can 
 be very choppy until the card gets all the data it needs. I have a 5 mbps DSL connection so I expected 
 far better performance than I am getting in data delivery. I'm almost convinced a T1 line is needed 
 for a completely lag free delivery experience.
  
  I have my graphics pegged to the max and when I go into a dungeon solo my system performs without 
 hiccups. This is a positive for the game, but the negative is the game is not solo player friendly. 
 You need to group to get anywhere after the first initial quests. This disappoints me since the 
 game instances dungeons, why not allow solo play on a big scale??
  
  Also, there is limited social contact. I know many EQ players hate zone chatting, but to me the 
 Out Of Character chatting that occurs in EQ1 zones is actually one the greastest social feature 
 of any MMOG made to date. I missed have zone chat in Asheron's Call, Dark Age of Camelot, and now 
 D&D online. I see multiple p [layers zip by but I have no cause to talk to them. Players are always 
 on the move and do not stop to chat. Perhaps this is the Achille's heal of any truly quest driven 
 game. If you have something to do, why stop to interact???
  
  One of the things I really like about the game is the sound track. The background is slightly Celtic 
 but also kinda Classical, so for me, a big fan of Celtic music, I love hearing every new background 
 tune where ever I go.
  
  One of the things I dislike about the game is the experience system. You do not gain experience 
 by kills, but instead by making quest goals. Each quest undertaken may have multiple goals, so 
 with each goal completed you get some experience. However, you can face multiple enemies towards 
 each goal post, but the fights give no experience. All of this means that the game does have a 
 grind factor to it. 
  
  Currently the max level is only 10, and to knowledgeable D&D afficianodos, this is kinda low. Personally, 
 I was hoping D&D would come to the internet in the form of AD&D's Planescape campaign setting. 
 Stormreach is hackneyed and quaint compared to what P {lanescape could offer as a potential MMOG 
 based on D&D rules. Because 10 is the max level, players will grind away many hours with limited 
 skills and abilities simply because of the limitations of low level D&D rules. This is depressing. 
 Everquest 1 had much more character growth potential at its initial relese. EQ1 had 50 levels, 
 more classes, more races, and more opening content..
  
  As far as the character interface goes, I can only speak for the rogue class since this the only 
 class I have played so far. The interface is solid. Anyone with any MMOG experience will quicjkly 
 learn how to set up hotkeys and navigate the various skill bars. The combat controls can be a little 
 akward tho and a little misleading.
  
  When in combat, one must target the enemy, simple enough. Simply left click mouse on target and 
 a circle should appear floating beneath the new found enemy. Attacking is another matter. There 
 is an icon that states automatic attack, but simply clicking it does not mean you will automatically 
 attack. One must always directly face the enemy or your character will stop attacking. This creates 
 some level of higher involvement compared to some MMOGs that allow your character to automatically 
 track enemies movements in combat. In D&D online you must pay attention at the keyboard and track 
 the opponents movements. The automatic attack button is a false nomer.
  
  Looting in the game is also different. You may find minor loot on kills, but this is rare. The 
 main loot comes when yo achieve quest goal markers, and the loot ain't good. Even when you finish 
 a quest completely you may well be disappointed at your spoils. Luckily, you can usually do a single 
 quest 3 times as there 3 levels of difficulty to each quest: Normal, hard, and Elite. You had better 
 be in a group to do the hard or elite levels. The loot can be better in hard or Elite, but remember 
 you have to split the loot in groups.
  
  My overall opinion of this game is that even though it is relatively stable, it was still released 
 too soon. I lacks content and is a game unto itself. I don't get a strong feeling of a connection 
 to D&D from this game. The MMOG is the MMOG, and D&D table top is what it is. Don't expect a feeling 
 of unity.
  
  I'm not giving up on this game, but expansions are going to have to do somew hard work to fill 
 this game and game world out to feel like any kind of D&D experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordraven224
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 16, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  What I want to know is why Gamespot is taking so long to review this game. Personally I believe 
 the game lacks in the vital strategy that is pen and paper DnD that made it so much fun. The quests 
 and whatnot are nothing over unique. The only thing going for this game is the environment and 
 ruleset. So what is taking Gamespot so long? I'm guessing they want to say something good but really 
 can't and are just dragging their feet until everyone forgets that this game ever existed. Mostly, 
 what gets me is blocking. It's just silly. Not to mention the whole concept of Armor Class seems 
 to be thrown out the window. Anyone with 18 AC early on is in pretty good shape. In this game the 
 monsters still hit you with impunity since they totally swarm you. I think this force people to 
 party too early in the game. This game is also very unconducive to solo gaming. If you're not the 
 type of person that likes party, then this game is definitely not for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewG123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Anyone looking for a new, fresh game is in luck, because Dungeons and Dragons Online is just that 
 game. It is so different from any other MMO game I've played, and I'm still trying to think of 
 something to compare it to. I'm gonna split this review into parts. We'll start with questing.
 
  
  Questing: First off, if you like soloing, just leave now, because after maybe 30 minutes, you're 
 not going to be able to do so. Now that we've got that out of the way, I hope you're ready for 
 some fun, because you're going to find it here. hundreds and hundreds of quests you encounter are 
 so amazing, so creepy, so well designed, I replay them all the time. They just don't seem to get 
 old. I do wish that they made the traps randomize, and maybe on harder difficulties have more men 
 coming at you, not just better ones.
  
  Graphics: To people who have said this game has bad graphics, don't believe a word they've said. 
 The graphics in this game are amazing, down to the smallest engravings in walls, to the creepy 
 lighting down in the kobold dungeons. And don't even get me started on the underwater graphics. 
 These might be the best graphics I've ever seen in and MMO, truly.
  
  Finding a group: Finding a group is unbelievably easy. They have a tab called Party , oddly enough, 
 that you click lfg on and say what you want to do, or just ask to join someone's group. Within 
 5 minutes, you'll be in a group. It's that easy.
  
  Community: I have never met a nicer group of people in an MMO. No gold-farmers or jerks. Never 
 have I once in this game talk l33t , or moan and swear about some unfair thing. Maybe this is because 
 in the chests, everyone gets the same amount of loot. 3 or 4 things each, and usually, they help 
 your class. Class: Speaking of which, they're are 8: The fighter, paladin, barbarian, wizard, sorcerer, 
 ranger, cleric, and bard, all of which are extremely fun in their own different ways. Leveling: 
 Did I mention only 10 levels? Don't be worried, each level is split up into ranks, and to get from 
 level 1 to level 2, it will take you around 18 hours of playing time, and that's if you're lucky. 
 They're are some who have hit 10, but I put them on my friends list, and have never seen them get 
 off. So 2 weeks of playing time, times 8 classes, thats a pretty good amount of just leveling, 
 not to mention the amount of role playing and updates their are. Check DDO. com to see their latest 
 update, coming in April.
  
  Problems with the Game: One problem I have with the game is the sound. At some points, such as 
 in scary, dank dungeons, it's pretty good, but overall, the sound is just ordinary. This is no 
 Call of Duty 2 sound here, folks. Another problem I've got is how you can only regenerate mana 
 and health in inns. Sure, I love the fact you can't regenerate them while inside an instance, or 
 dungeon, (some of you will absolutely hate it: remember, this is no WoW) I wish while roaming the 
 city you might regenerate, but I can see why not, and there are inns everywhere, so it's only a 
 minor beef. Also, crafting would have been a welcome addition. Maybe in an update. :)
  
  Anyways, I recommend any fan of the MMO genre, or any rpg fan, for that matter, pick this game 
 up if they're interested in a whole new way to play an MMO. Even if you only enjoy this game for 
 the free month, I still think it's worth that, because you can't say that for a lot of games out 
 there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chsmi
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 15, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  I've played nearly every RPG that has been published for PC since the dawn of video games. I have 
 played DnD on and off for more than 20 years. My favorite RPG's so far have been Ultima IV, many 
 of the Might and Magic series, Neverwinter Nights, Guild Wars, City of Heroes. If you like the 
 style of these games, then you might be someone who will agree with my review.
  
  However, if Diablo, WoW, EQ, EQ2 and the like are more your style, you will probably disagree.
 
  
  I won't debate that nearly every one of those games has had some bugs upon release. DDO has what 
 I consider a bit more than what I've experienced with brand new games, but that's not really what 
 I dislike about it.
  
  The best games have a strong sense of immersion -- I believe that people primarily choose these types 
 of games to escape their stressful, busy lives for a short time, and I freely admit that this is 
 why I like them as well. 
  
  Simply put, there's really nothing exciting about this game. I was not at all immersed in the world. 
 The controls were clunky and hard to use. For some reason they defied many industry conventions, 
 such as assigning "attack" to the right-mouse button. For some reason, they post a splash screen 
 with the controls on it that you are forced to look at every time you login. To say the controls 
 are awkward and clunky is putting it lightly.
  
  Upon Login: When I zoned in, I stood stock still for a good 20-30 seconds... not because I wasn't 
 trying to move or interact with the world, but because of the horrendous lag. Worse, as I stood 
 there waiting other players were zoning in --- RIGHT ON TOP OF ME? 
  
  15 minutes: I tolerated the extremely uninteresting newbie area, and quickly exited to the next 
 area, anticipating that I might finally be able explore the world.
  
  To say I was dissappointed would be an understatement.
  
  30 minute: At the start of the game 
 after leaving the newbie area, there are a relatively small number of quests that can be chosen. 
 I was immediately put off that I had a grand total of three choices for quests at the outset, and 
 I felt hopelessly confined to a tiny quadrant of a large city -- a tiny harbor zone with hundreds 
 of other, similiarly confined PC's. 
  
  45 minutes: My rogue took the first quest he was offered (after the extremely easy and unimpressive 
 tavern quest) , and entered the dungeon only to open a door -- and a poorly-drawn creature that I 
 could only guess was a zombie walked up and killed my rogue in one hit! Am I having fun yet?
  
  The answer is a resounding "NO"! 
  
  Two hours+: While you can subsequently unlock different 
 areas of the city by doing rather lengthy quests (which, by the way, you will have to repeat every 
 time you make a new character ---and NOTHING about the quest changes whatsoever) , even when you 
 have the whole city unlocked there's still little else to do but get a quest, find a group, and 
 delve into a dungeon that looks almost exactly like the last dungeon you did. None of the shops 
 sell anything that is better than what you can get as a reward for dungeon-romping, and the taverns 
 are crammed to the gills with content-hungry players.
  
  This game is nothing like the DnD game I have played for 20 years. I can scarcely mention this 
 game and the Pen and Paper version in the same breath without wincing. In fact, I would even submit 
 they are near-opposites in intent -- PnP DnD's biggest asset is that is can be as unlimited and free 
 as you want it to be, while DDO is among the most confining and linear game I've ever played.
 
  
  The combat was perhaps the biggest dissappointment of the game. Swinging your sword is often futile, 
 since many creatures are either 1) Impossible/difficult to see (oozes) or, 2) Jump around so fast 
 they are annoying to fight. This isn't fun to me, it's more like work. Mages often waste their 
 precious spell points because the death animations for monsters are so long it's hard to tell that 
 they are dead! 
  
  I will briefly broach the subject of how this game (somehow?) got the DnD seal of approval while 
 using a spell point system. My first reaction was -- "man, that's pretty lame". After playing a cleric 
 for awhile, my reaction was reinforced that spell points have no place in anything that bears the 
 DnD logo.
  
  I'll give credit where it is due -- integrated voice chat is awesome. If this was implemented into 
 a game that was actually fun, we'd be in business!
  
  I tried to like this game.. I really did. I started two characters and got them both to 4 before 
 finally realizing that there was little hope for this game in my collection. I just hope I can 
 recoup some of my money when I sell my copy on Ebay.
  
  This game is simply awful. It is lackluster in nearly every way. I can't really understand why 
 anyone would like this better than the multitude of far superior RGP's that are out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phenyks
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  DDO from the beginning has a daunting legacy to uphold. 
  
  Many die-hard pen-and-paper RPG fans expect a very close translation to the tabletop game they 
 know and love, while computer game fans may expect an experience more like Neverwinter Nights on 
 the D&D side or WoW from the MMORPG side. Fans of both (like yours truly) likely will find themselves 
 smack in the middle of being exhilarated and disappointed.
  
  I am very excited that DDO has been released. But, from the headstart event my hackles were up 
 due to a phenomenon quickly identified as "rushing" on the DDO forums. It refers to the practice 
 of those players who speed through an instance for XP, loot or both.
  
  This practice quickly frustrated the tabletop RPG'er in me. "PCs do not just walk into a dungeon 
 and run through the rooms like maniacs," I thought to myself. "That is *not* D&D!" To rectify the 
 situation, my warforged bard, Minstrel, packed it in to the nearest tavern and literally told stories 
 for the rest of my game session. Much to my amazement, other players actually paid me for my tales!
 
  
  And here is why DDO only gets an 8.0 from me. They lose 1 point for not rewarding players who truly 
 embrace what the Dungeons and Dragons game is all about. For instance, I got no officially recognized 
 experience reward for practicing my craft as a bard.
  
  The second review point lost is due to the fact that I just can't fathom how it appears that DDO's 
 developers ignored the successful MMORPG user interfaces and community features in the current 
 hits like COH/V and WoW.
  
  I played WoW for 6 months, and have been playing CoH since release/CoV since beta. And while my 
 MMORPG pedigree is not extensive, I feel like I do have a good sense for at least the evolution 
 of CoH. Namely, how that game's enhancements has improved gameplay so much since the original release. 
 I hope Turbine's taking notes now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fragman577
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 15, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  I've never written a review, but have to say in response to a number of the really negative posts 
 that I'm glad they've decided not to continue... these are the type of people you wouldn't want 
 in your quest party so who needs them?
  
  Gameplay is very unique where you actually have to move your character around to hit the bad guy... there 
 is no auto attack, so when your in a battle you have to pay more attention to what's going on other 
 than your health bar. Different, and I like that... may not be for everyone.
  
  The only negative right now to gameplay is that some people are having problems with game stability... not 
 sure why, mine is ok (not great but ok) . The update they put on yesterday seems to have improved 
 things a bit. Bottom line, I'd suggest checking to make sure your rig can handle this game. Note, 
 that this game runs 100x better then Everquest 2 ever did for me, but not as smooth as Guild Wars... just 
 a bit too much lag and slow load times.
  
  If you have a good graphics card, you'll get the most out of the graphics, they are as good as 
 Guild Wars.
  
  The sound is great... the DM voice and music add to the atmosphere.
  
  The game is pricey... to drop $50 on any game hurts the wallet, but then to tack on a subscription 
 means that Turbine better do a good job of putting out quality updates... the jury is still out 
 on this one, but it looks like April may be a good indication of things to come.
  
  I'd say that if you have a history with D&D, liked it, and like good RPG style adventure games, 
 then you'd most likely would enjoy this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unigoono
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 15, 2006 1:37 am PT
Review:  As the titles says, this game is old school. Remember the days sitting around the table? Drinking 
 moutian dew and casting magic missles on the darkness? Well now you can embrace the same feeling 
 but in MMORPG world. 
  
  For those who love to role play, or those true DnD fanboi's this game will be for you. Group game 
 play being the key for this game. Geting xp only off quest and not mobs. This means you are always 
 working on more quest, this limints down the grinding that you get from most mmorpg's. Since you 
 are on the moves with newer quest to level up you are always facing new mobs and new traps and 
 test you must pass to become a powerful.... well what ever you class is you are playing.
  
  This gives us a nice change from those games such as wow. Spending 9 hours killing one mob to get 
 to 60 and then do the same all over again. The player base is also a plus. Groups are easy to find 
 and players tend to be verry nice and helpful.
  
  This is a big change for tired of those "1337 roxor kids" So all in all. Graphics, gameplay, and 
 all that good stuff I give this game a 8.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moua_nazarite
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 14, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  It's new concept is great, I love it. Ive been an AD&D fan for so long and this is great. Just 
 wait for the next updates and expansions, if you have friends that like playing in groups this 
 is the game! It does need a few tweaks like character creation more add ons, evil alignment, classes, 
 and I want to see real heroes and villains from the stories. It is hard to find where your allies 
 are and what quest they are doing, basically if you don't know the map/stormreach well enough you'll 
 have a hard time finding where to go and meet people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silverblade-GR
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 14, 2006 4:23 am PT
Review:  It is said that reviewing MMORPGs is a very tricky thing. While I generally agree with this opinion 
 there are some things that are not easily mended with patches and updates. And that is the vibe 
 and feel of a game. Mechanics might improve, content added, glitches and bugs may be fixed but 
 the overall feeling of the game remains the same.
  And the feel of Dungeons&Dragons Online: Stormreach is clearly split in two very distinct halves. 
 That in itself is a distressing thing in a genre based on immersion. Yet DDO is split between instanced 
 dungeons and its gameworld, based on a piece of the Eberron campaign setting, which was developed 
 by Wizards of the Coast specifically as the official electronic playground of the 
 venerable game system.
  It is precisely this system which forms the core of DDO, something that gives it an edge over most 
 of its competition. Many veteran pen and paper players denounce version 3.5 of the D&D rules swearing 
 it makes their (our) favourite pen and paper game feel like a videogame adaptation. But when all 
 is said and done it still constitutes a much more elaborate and interesting ruleset on which to 
 base an MMO or traditional CRPG than many original game systems out there.
  But it also led Turbine to fall into many pits full of rusty spikes while making their latest MMO. 
 Firstly, pen and paper D&D was not designed with player versus player combat in mind. That however 
 does not mean that it is forbidden in any way and it does not stop PvP duel tournaments being held 
 in most major gaming conventions out there. However, Turbine for some reason felt that allowing 
 even duels between players would harm their game and so there is no kind of PvP in DDO at all. 
 Secondly, since D&D is of course party-based, DDO was developed with parties of heroes in mind, 
 so that soloing is hard to do, especially after the initial helping of dungeons. D&D was indeed 
 built around parties of characters and that is where it works best, but there are also solo adventures 
 out there (for a Dungeon Master and one player) meaning that yet again the developers interpreted 
 the rules rather inflexibly.
  
  Hardcore PvP players will have a field day over this: DDO is what they call a carebear 
 game par excellence. If you are this sort of player then stay well away from this game. The real 
 problem is that it will also fail to satisfy hardcore RP players. While the dungeons are suitably 
 dark and atmospheric, with the voice of the unseen narrator describing important features in the 
 same way a DM does in a pen and paper session, the world of Eberron as a whole lacks the same high 
 level of immersion. In a dungeon one can climb ladders, trigger or disarm traps, discover chests, 
 complete optional quests, scale over obstacles and smash breakables in search of loot. In the outside 
 world, endlessly fragmented in countless smaller instances, separated by long and disruptive loading 
 screens and riddled by invisible walls and limited surroundings the feeling of immersion is shattered 
 like so many empty barrels.
  The lack of atmosphere is present from the very fist seconds of gameplay, while during the tutorial 
 stages of the game NPCs unabashedly spew meta-gaming terms such as experience, quests 
 and levels among others. While this sounds normal to the uninitiated player, anyone 
 who has played World of Warcraft knows that the tutorial can be seamlessly infused into the worlds 
 reality and actually serve as the players initiation into the world, rather than just the 
 gameplay mechanics. It would seem like nitpicking if it were not for the fact that this tendency 
 remains throughout the game in many forms. The end result is that even experienced D&D players 
 end up with a good knowledge of how the game works, but knowing nothing  and I mean about 
 the gameworld. Information about Eberron and the city of Stormreach can only be found in the games 
 website and of course the fairly recent campaign setting books. What the player finds out about 
 the world in the first decisive hours of gameplay can be summarized in one sentence. Eberron is 
 a medieval fantasy world in which the city of Stormreach, apparently ruled by the Coin Lords is 
 a place where adventurers seek their fortune. We never even know what the world looks like or what 
 place Stormreach has in it from any in-game source.
  What is more, Stormreach is made up of instances which auto-spawn when a maximum number of players 
 is reached, a process which can be repeated several times. Conceivably, five characters which might 
 form a regular party could end up logging in separate instances of the city and would have to manually 
 seek their friends to meet in a particular one.
  
  The combat system is flexible though easily abused, monster A. I. is mediocre, there is no crafting 
 system and PvP yet and the game is full of loading screens and lag. Nevertheless the dungeons are 
 great fun, combat is exciting, character creation and development is sound and interesting and 
 the quest XP system is original (though it too might present some exploitable faults) . DDO does 
 have redeeming qualities and some of its faults can and will be addressed but does it have lasting 
 appeal? In its current state it would appear not too much and the reasons for that are found in 
 basic design flaws which are not easily remedied with updates. DDO right now seems fine as a change 
 of pace from another MMO, but it does not seem strong enough to seriously threaten its competitors.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Judicator75
Rating: 3.6
Date: Mar 13, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Here's the bottom line: fast paced action gamers only who happen to like D&D a little.
  
  Here are my complaints:
  1) very limited selection of race and classes 
  2) many skills that 
 are usually automatic must be activated by the player 
  3) you can run around and avoid the enemy, waiting for him to make a bad move before pouncing... 
 this should all be wrapped up in character skills and not the player - roleplaying does not equal 
 3rd person action combat.
  4) Limited level advancement (only to 10)
  5) The sense that there are few adventurers in the world (which has always been the case in D&D) 
 is completely ruined once you get in the game and see 20+ players in the inn running around like 
 idiots.
  6) awkward controls... sometimes frustrating
  
  Baldur's Gate (and spin-offs) and Neverwinter Nights were the closest games to ever mimic the true 
 D&D universe. DDO just plain ruins it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jokoo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 13, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  The whole game you are stuck in Stormreach. Yeah there are a few levels that take you to some instances 
 outside of Stormreach, but everything revolves around this one city. 
  
  Theres only 10 levels in this game. I dont care what the developers plan to do later on. Right 
 now there's 10 levels. It takes forever to level and when you do its not that rewarding. Theres 
 4 "ranks" they have in between levels you get these action points to spend on things. That seemed 
 neat at first, but you can only have 4 of these enhancements at a time so eventually you just literally 
 throw your action points away, seeing how useless some of the skills are. Do you care if your stuff 
 degrades 25% slower? 
  
  I really liked the combat system because it seems to take realtime combat and turn based combat 
 and make it something neat. I like how when i throw a dagger i actually have to hit something with 
 it to register as a hit. You can aim manually or target objects to aim automatically, if you target 
 things and they are still moving you can still miss though, the graphic has to collide for it to 
 even register as a possible hit. If there was pvp in this game it would be pretty neat to actually 
 dodge thigns like that.
  
  No pvp. I dont even like pvp that much, but it breaks up the monotany of things. I think the best 
 pvp in any mmo is dark age of camelot, so i always compare online pvp to it. It doesn't even exist 
 here though. Again, i dont care if they plan on implementing it, its not there.
  
  The game never ran stable for me. I had to hit alt-enter to go to windowed mode and then go back 
 every 3 loading screens or my system would lag and then eventually crash. I have a radeon 9700 
 pro which i uninstalled and removed the drivers an reinstalled and got new versions of directx 
 and lots of other crap to see why the game was always crashing and giving me video errors. I thought 
 about it though and this is the only game i have trouble with, so its not my machine its turbines 
 programming.
  
  You can't solo in this game. You just can't. You can for like 2 hours during the first few missions 
 then it just gets ridiculous to even try. I hate having to group with everyone, then wathing as 
 half my group uses voice chat and tells everyone else to use it "dude, go to options audio then 
 enable voice chat". For some reason its off by default, so you can't hear anyone talking and i 
 had to reenable it everytime i logged back on. Of course then people would tell me to use my voice 
 chat when i DONT WANT TO USE MY MICROPHONE, so stop asking me. I just have it on so i can hear 
 you because apparently you can't type. 
  
  Also, they have it by default if you are on the party chat you can't see the /tell messages so 
 you ask people in groups if they want to group and they can't even see it so they dont respond 
 to you.
  
  I really dug this game at first. but now, i log in. I set a "lfg" tag and try to get a group, then 
 i have to wait for everyone to get the same quest as me and find where we are going then the other 
 half of the group is so impatient, not only do they go into the dungeon early, but they tell you 
 everything that happens before it happens. So even if you are experiencing something for the first 
 time its always spoiled. "guys there's gonna be a trap up here and then you gotta go down this 
 ladder and then kobolds come out".
  
  So many people are so obessed with who opens the treasure chests. They'll yell and say "Highest 
 level opens the chest followed by the person with the highest diplomacy, that why we get better 
 loot". I dont even know if either of those are true, i just want to open the chest and not make 
 a huge production over it.
  
  Thers only a handful of races and classes. They have monk weapons but they dont have monks. I kept 
 starting over for awhile and making a new class and race thinking i'd like the game better, but 
 I think i just don't like this game. And when you get to level 10 what do you do?
  
  I've been playing this game nonstop since it came out and I really wanted this game to be good 
 but i just can't get into it, plus my machine seems to hate running the game too. I might try it 
 again in a year.
  
  And if you read what I put for difficulty. Its way too hard to solo, its way easy with a full group 
 and if you put the quests on hard or elite, its practically impossible. if you are under level 
 5 you get cursed which you need an expensive potion or to find a lvl 5 cleric to rid of it. but 
 all the level 5 clerics will be past a gate you can't get past yet.
  
  Also theres some good bugs where you get permanant spell effects like hypnosis or blindness. You 
 need to get a cleric to cast dispell magic on you, or relog to get rid of it. Although they said 
 they'd fix that this week. And blah, im gonna stop typing.
  
  Just thought i'd write some of my thoughts down for people to read. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D4rkw4y
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 13, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  Dungeons and Dragons Online comes to us by way of Turbine, the makers of the Asheron's Call series, 
 which while AC2 fell far short of its predecessor are some of the funnest MMO's that are out there. 
 Turbine has succeeded again with the release of DDO. It's predecessors in the mission focused MMO 
 genre could have benefited greatly if DDO had been released earlier. Where Guild Wars failed in 
 character customization and plot, DDO steps in effortlessly. Where City of Heroes fell short in 
 plot line and gameplay DDO remains faithful to the tried and true D&D 3.5 ruleset, which translates 
 well to online gameplay. DDO is already an incredibly balanced game, which is especially notable 
 for an MMO this early in its release. All classes have their place and are needed for a group. 
 Never have I played an MMO where a group said, "we need a rogue before we can do this mission." 
 Not only are classes well balanced, but each has a very distinct feel and play style that will 
 appeal to different types of gamers. While the cleric class will appeal to those that love to be 
 support, it also gives this class an opportunity to join the fray and be a productive damage dealer. 
 Wizards/Sorcerers still have the glass cannon effect that you have in other MMO's, but that's because 
 this class style works. Teamwork proves crucial in DDO on even the most simple of missions. Deadly 
 traps must be disarmed by rogues, fighters must provide a frontline of defense to keep the softer 
 members of the party safe, clerics must pop out the heals, and rangers and mages deal out the damage. 
 Every encounter in DDO can be potentially deadly, especially with the lack of regeneration between 
 fights. Every hitpoint and spellpoint is crucial and must be conserved. You don't have to play 
 long to find yourself in a situation where your whole party is at half health and your clerics 
 are out of mana, desperately fighting your way to that next rest shrine, which will provide a much 
 needed health and mana boost. Additionally, combat in this game feels great, and offers a style 
 similar to the Diablo series. You will never find yourself targetting a mob and just clicking auto 
 attack. Combat is real time, and it takes effort to follow your target around as it runs from person 
 to person, and you actually swing your weapon with a click of your mouse. I've already rambled 
 long enough so I will wrap it up. DDO offers immersive combat, beautiful environments, great character 
 customization, great levelling system, varied enemies, unique play style, and an overall great 
 feel to the game. I could say so much more about this game, but will let the numbers speak for 
 itself. The only problems I have with DDO is the $50 dollar price tag, and monthly subscription 
 fee, that is a necessary evil associated with all MMO's. I can see the lvl 10 cap in this game 
 being a problem for the more hardcore gamers. If Turbine lives up to its reputation for excellent 
 content updates, I pay this price gladly, and do not think longevity will long prove a problem 
 for you hardcore gamers. This game is a must buy for veteran MMO players and newcomers. The only 
 obstacle I see for newcomers is the daunting task of customizing your character instead of using 
 an already built template. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erikthemad
Rating: 3.8
Date: Mar 13, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  Most of the glowing reviews here seem to be from folks that haven't played the game long at all. 
 That, or they're employees of Turbine. After about a month of playing, DDO is BORING. 
  
  There is not nearly enough content to support their gaming model, and what is there is very repetitive 
 and tedious. You have to go on quests several times to gain levels, and you get less exp each time 
 you do. Wheeee. Even considering this, you can easily hit the game's max level of ten in about 
 two months.
  
  Combat is a twitchy mess. It's still the old 'autoattack and wait' grind, but you now have to chase 
 the mobs around in circles. I'm not sure how they think this is more fun, but it seems some like 
 it. Most do not. Forget about trying to use special feats or skills. No time.
  
  There's no first-person view at all. Some prefer this, but it totally kills immersion for me. I 
 just couldn't get used to looking over my own character's shoulder. There should at least have 
 been an option to choose between views.
  
  All dungeons are instanced, which some prefer. I don't. I prefer a mix. For those who play EQ, 
 this is like doing nothing but LDoN's forever... but for less exp and loot each time you do it.
 
  
  There is only one city, not a huge world to explore. All dungeons are quickly accessed from said 
 city. Some folks like this instant access to the action, but for me the whole game seems claustrophobic 
 and unfinished.
  
  There is no bazaar, there are no tradeskills, there is no zonewide chat, there is no PvP, and several 
 races and classes from DnD are missing, though they will probably be added in expansions later. 
 Take these facts as you will.
  
  Dungeons are rushed through. There is no real strategy or communication in the group. Everyone 
 just bullrushes through dungeons to finish as quickly as possible. This leads to serious problems 
 when some folks don't know the particular dungeon. When finished, everyone turns around and does 
 it again. Other MMOs have 'the grind'. DDO has 'the rush'.
  
  The interface is bulky and clunky. The inventory window is difficult to use and small.
  
  The 
 game is set in Eberron, which is almost universally despised by DnD players. Sorry, but I'm just 
 not impressed with a DnD world that has super-powered androids as a playable race and driders with 
 scorpion bodies instead of spider. There were already too many, better-written and developed worlds 
 to choose from, from Greyhawk to Forgotten Realms, to Dragonlance, to Ravenloft. Why add a new 
 one?
  
  A few folks will like this game I'm sure, but as a long-time player of both MMO's and DnD, I am 
 not at all impressed. Feel free to try the game, but if you play for more than a month, I'm afraid 
 you'll wind up agreeing with me. Skip this one and wait for Vanguard: Saga of Heroes or Conan: 
 Age of Hyboria. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lamb_Jalfrezi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 12, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  I am coming to this review from the position of playing a good deal of World of Warcraft and a 
 moderate amount of Guild Wars. Perforce, my opinions of this game are shaped by the experiences 
 in the other two. Much has already been written about the instancing design of the game, so I shall 
 instead concentrate on the quality of the design and gameplay.
  
  Character creation is par for the RPG course, with the usual options of race-selection and appearance 
 customisation, plus a further optional levels of stats customisation that will appeal to those 
 knowledgeable about the DnD ruleset, but can be by-passed by those new to the system.
  
  Initially, this game feels rather disappointing, it is particularly let down by an ugly GUI (worse 
 even that Morrowind) , and a slightly awkward control system. The early public environments are 
 not very impressive either, and lack the visual charm of WoW and GW, but persistance will be greatly 
 rewarded.
  
  The most important objective for a new player is to find a party, only the first Stormreach quest 
 can be solo'd by all classes, subsequent quests require more muscle. Fortunately, Turbine have 
 added an excellent Party match-up tool, in which you can advertise for players, or request to join 
 an already formed party. Don't be shy! Look for a party with a description matching your requirements 
 and select the Join button, 9 time out of 10 you will be permitted to join, if you cannot see one 
 then make your own, rarely will you have to wait long for join requests, and then this game really 
 starts sparkling!
  
  The instanced dungeons are superb, gone are the wide open spaces of GW, farewell to the brightly 
 lit caves of WoW. In DDO, you can almost smell the rank stench of decay and death as you cautiously 
 advance through the claustrophic environments. This is not a game of cartoon heroes or fey anime 
 warriors, this is a dark and gritty depiction of the rank underbelly of a city riven with corruption. 
 The mood is ably set by the voice-over 'Dungeon Master' as he describes the details of the area, 
 and the graphics and lighting effects are detailed and effective.
  
  A good party is a joy to play with, Rogues scout ahead wary for traps and hidden doorways. Warriors 
 charge into battle, weapons arcing and mages cast spells with some of the most excellent effects 
 I have seen in a game. Watching Kobolds being consumed by The Burning Hands spell alone is worth 
 the price of admission. The battle system is an interesting mix of real-time and stats based combat. 
 Positioning matters, warriors can block the paths to the spell-casters, protecting them, rogues 
 can sneak round foes and gain attack bonuses from the flanks or rear, rangers stand off and cut 
 down enemies with ranged weapons. Combat is fast paced and deadly and an on-screen D20 shows the 
 results of your to-hit rolls. There is no health regeneration except by potions (rare) , holy spells 
 and the shrines found occasionaly in the dungeons. If you are badly injured then you must hang 
 back and let your comrades take the brunt of the battle. Should you be cut down then DnD bleeding 
 rules are used, you gradually bleed to death unless a comrade succesfully heals you back to 1HP. 
 If you die, then your spirit is bound to soul stone from which you cannot stray far, a party member 
 must pick it up so that you can stay with the party and, hopefully, be taken to a resurrection 
 shrine. This is not a game for the faint of heart, mistakes are serious, an activated trap or ambush 
 can do serious damage to your party. A good party leader will keep a tight rein on his men using 
 the easy-to-use integrated voice system.
  
  If you want a MMORPG that dispenses with the niceties of more easily digested games, and provides 
 a challenging and beautifully realised world then DDO is for you. It is not as instantly rewarding 
 as some other games on the market, but your persistance will be greatly rewarded with one of the 
 best dungeon-crawl games available today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gregorian98
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 12, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  I have played D&D online since its release and i am really enjoying it. The creators have obviously 
 listened to gamers and added features that enhance the game play for people who do not actually 
 want to live in their fantasy online game.
  
  Gone are PVP areas which reward hours logged and ability to click a mouse!
  Gone are PVE area 
 with mob pops surrounded by bored gamers clicking on the spider that gives them max xp for an hour...
 
  Gone is crafting - i work at work and clicking on a rock 100 times to make it into a shield is 
 pathetic
  Gone is level grind - D&D online is actually fun at all levels.
  Gone is loot stealing and rogues who can only backstab.
  
  If you want to create a classic 
 fantasy character, go on quests and adventures that are different, compeling, require actual teamwork 
 and communication (the online chat is great) , be treated fairly at reward time (and generously 
 by your party) , and explore a world that is managable for people who have day jobs - this is the 
 game for you. 
  
  Take the time to read the professional reviews on the web - the description of the game is there 
 and the features that make it a great game are fully explained.
  
  If you can wait to log your next 1000 hours and pwn some nubes in PVP - this is not your game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madnutty
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 11:49 pm PT
Review:  The game has a feel to it like CoV (the quest/mission instance's) but with out the quickness and 
 fun. What I really didnt like about it was that the quests (the large ones) don't end with one 
 dungeon. Allot of them have continuation's and a peep feels obligated to finish the whole series 
 of quests in one go, with the rest of his group (what i mean by that is not letting your friends 
 down by dropping out befour its done) . Even if it means being up till 6:00 when u halfta work the 
 next morning at 8:00 or 9:00: (
  The game also takes a real long time to lvl in compareason with other morgs with a really low cap 
 (I could get a char to lvl 15-20 or so in WOW in the time it would take me to get to lvl 2-4 in 
 DDO. But I imagine i could get a couple of chars to lvl 10 in DDO in the time it would get a char 
 in WOW to lvl 60) So it takes a while to get going in DDO where other MMORGS let u get some early 
 lvls fairly easy to get u hooked (interested) Where as DDO u are a wimp for a long time whitch isnt 
 fun. I think DDO will go the way of all turbine's other MMORG AC2 but allot quicker than AC2 did 
 as AC2 was fun to play at least for a bit. 
  
  Looks great, to many bugs and to reliant on grouping (weak chars) only a couple chars can solo. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smileyspoon
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2006 10:38 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, but since I am trying to do a review I will try not to be biased as possible. 
 I will say a pro then a con. The graphics in this game is very good for a mmo game. I am not saying 
 that it is the best in the word but it is very good. You can customize the look of your character 
 and the game loads fast. However the server has been crashing alot especially during top playing 
 hours such as weekends. This is understandable, since there are a lot more people playing during 
 these hours, and also because DDO is a new mmo. Another good quality of this game is gameplay. 
 You actually NEED SKILLS to play this game rather than just charging in with your high level equipment 
 and hack your way though. You will need team work and will need to know how to use your surroundings 
 for cover. Team work is key, because partying with my guild and partying with a random group is 
 trying to compare Himalayas with a hill. Even if you had ok equipment, but great team work, you 
 can do do way better than a group with low quality team work but awsome equip. The bad thing is 
 that you need at least 2 hours to play this game. The reason is, because you need to find a party, 
 meet up (which might take 10-15 min) , misc pauses for whatever reason, someone drops out, and etc 
 BEFORE you even start your quest. If you have a guild you can get into parties faster, and start 
 playing faster, but sometimes none of your guildmembers have room for you. You can mix and match 
 the 9 or so class available to whatever you want. Right now the level cap is 10, so you it is to 
 have a pure class, but once the patch comes and cap is 20, it will be a very different story. One 
 other bad thing is that you need to party or you can't really play the game. Unless you have a 
 very unusual build, that can heal, tank, disable traps/monster, and dmg it is hard/impossible to 
 solo the quests at YOUR LEVEL (example, doing a levl 10 quest when you are level 8-10) . Unless 
 it is a quest where you can exploit the errors made by the dev team. One of the good thing is the 
 community of DDO. Unlike WoW and other MMO games, it is way better to party rather than try something 
 solo. There are two reasons for this. The first reason is that you get the same exp soloing or 
 partying, and if you party you will die less, more fun, and FASTER, which result in better exp. 
 The second reason is because people don't have to compete for the item drops. You get your assigned 
 loot in the chest or you get your own loot at the end of the quest. Usually, if people share what 
 they get, because they might get what you want later. Our guild give out stuff to newbies all the 
 time, because we don't need it, and if we sell it we only get money for it, and money in ddo is 
 not that useful. So people would rather share things that they don't need for future benefit, or 
 just because they don't need and the other person does. The whole loot system in 
  DDO promotes civility in the community, and makes the game more fun. However a bad thing is that 
 there is no auction system. You will only get medium grade things in the pawn shop, but this is 
 not a horrible thing, because you will probably get what you want though doing quests or from one 
 of your party member's loot.
  
  One of the things that many people will not like about is that there is no pvp system. I guess 
 this would kill the time when I am looking for a group though the social panel, but to me its not 
 a huge deal. I don't think there can ever be a one on one pvp for this game, because some characters 
 would just own in pvp such as a sorcerer or a mage. They have one hit kill spells and with their 
 meta feat abilities they can kill any character in one hit withouta question. However, if the pvp 
 system was based on grouping or by team competition, such as seeing which team can kill the most 
 monsters, going head to head with several teams against each other and etc. 
  
  Overall it would be nice if there were some short quests that we can solo, while we are trying 
 to find a group, and a modified pvp system that can fit to this game. 
  
  I would say that this is probably not for everyone, but it is a very good game so it won't kill 
 you to try it :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redmg
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 10, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  These is one of the best mmorpgs ever! Great combat style, nice quests, awesome perfect really 
 good graphics!!! (make sure you have a good graphic card) , great character apperance selection, main 
 city is big and has many things, basiclly, everything is perfect! But, before buying it, go to 
 the site (www. ddo. com) and check it out or buy the 3.5 Player's Handbook to see if you like the 
 way the game goes. In my opinion, this is totally different and totally better then guild wars.
 
  
  PS: Im also going to check out the new Guild Wars Faction thing and see if its kinda cool too.
 
  
  Dungeons & Dragons Online: Stormreach ROX!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinMichael
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 10, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  Okay, so I played WoW for like... a year, on and off. I enjoyed it most of the time, it is a good 
 game. So, after my THIRD renewal, I was like, "Do I REALLY want to play this anymore?". I was tired, 
 so I started trying other MMOs. Among them were Gunz, Guild Wars, Rakion, and others. After about 
 4 months, I almost decided to stop playing MMOs altogether. Then I saw that the Stormreach release 
 was in about 3 days. I said, "Hey, why not? It looks pretty good.". So I bought it, I installed 
 it, and I played it.
  
  HOLY ****
  
  After about an hour of playtime, I nearly cried that I hadn't had this game before. Don't get me 
 wrong, WoW is good, but (in my opinion) this is much, MUCH, better. Let's begin with the graphics, 
 WoW has more style, but in terms of actual graphical quality, Stormreach is WAAAAAAY better. Now 
 I shall explain the gameplay. Sadly, the rumors you have heard that there is no PvP are true. I 
 really hope they'll reconsider putting it in, but for the moment, there is none. Now onto the good 
 part, every place with enemies is like an instance in WoW (this means an area that is customized 
 to you, no one else [unless they're in your party] may enter WITH you) . Finding a party is easy, 
 taverns are always filled to the brim with people willing to join up for a good quest. Moving on, 
 the learning curve is fast. It has similar controls to other MMOs. And, much to my great surprise, 
 it is an ACTION MMO. This means no clicking on monsters and going "LOLZ, I IZ HITTINGZ YOU! HAHAHA! 
 MONSTERZ ARE TEH LOZE!!!". Now it's more like *dodge* "Wewt" *hit* "I WIN!". Much more fun. Okay, 
 now we come to difficulty, I will admit, if you like easy games don't play this. You will die, 
 more than once. You will HAVE to get parties for some dungeons, and you WILL have more than one 
 instance of thinking you can beat an easy (and old) quest on your own, and somehow missing every 
 hit and getting owned by a freaking bunny rabbit (no not literally a bunny rabbit, this is not 
 FFXI) . Of course, for those of us who like a little challenge to our games, this is a perfect difficulty. 
 Now we come to sound, in my opinion, the music is great. I love all the tavern music, and the battle 
 music is haunting and good. Some might not like it though, it's a little classical. Lastly, let's 
 look towards value. It is a pay-per play. So, that's like, $50 for the game, and then $15 per month. 
 In the end though, it's worth it. It's a great MMO, and in this author's opinion, the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrangeWay
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  I've played most MMO's (EQ, DAoC, WoW, GW & even Mud's) and they all come down to one thing. Spending 
 as much time grinding levels, farming gold and eq as a person spends at a low-end job. So basically 
 as your career & family life advances people have very little time for the games, and you're play 
 suffers as everyone puts 40hrs a week in their character and you put 6-10. DDO's solves this. It's 
 a no grind game, that is more akin to a Never Nights on steroids than any of the other MMO's out 
 there. If you like NWN, the Baldur's Gate series this is a game for you. 
  
  Log on. Find a group (10 minutes is normally enough time) , hit up a quest and an hour later tops, 
 you have you're exp, you're rewards and you log off to resume usual life. (2hrs for long quests) . 
 This game is really customized to make it so the 6-8 hour player can always stay competitive in 
 the game indefinitely.
  
  The graphics are gorgeous. The combat is alot of fun with it's Mortal Kombat meets NWN system. 
 The ingame voice chat is perhaps the greatest invention ever. Grouping is a MUST, solo'ing isn't 
 impossible but incredibly difficult. The economy I think was done right in being static, as every 
 dynamic economy in every MMO is so screwed up by farming that it makes it invalid.
  
  If you're a power gamer (or probably under 20 or so) you're probably not going to like this game, 
 as you won't have any rewards/benefits from putting 40-60 hrs a week in, outside of leveling faster. 
 If you're alittle more balanced a person and 6-10 hours is all you have, this is the MMO that will 
 keep you entertained for a good deal of time to come.
  
  Final Note: If they come through with their content updates and additions the score can move up 
 to 9.0 from the 8.0 I gave it, if they don't might want to bounce it to a 7.0.
  
  PW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macrofinite
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 9, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  i just didnt feel it added anything to the genre worth trying. granted i really dont like DnD, 
 but from a pure gameplay standpoint i loathed the idea that you had to go into bad looking dungeons 
 to do much of anything, and after youve seen 10 of them... youve seem em all. the graphics reminded 
 me of AO.. half a decade late. i also think the d20 system is horribly inplausible for an mmo, 
 particularly in pvp, although there is little of that. this game is small, bad looking, and boring. 
 dare i say it was like AO before the shadowlands... oh noes. dont play this game unless you like 
 DnD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azaiel
Rating: 5.3
Date: Sep 8, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Dungeons & Dragons Online is truely unlike other MMORPG's on the market right now, this game is 
 not the typical routine of hack and slash hundreds of enemies to gain levels. There are plenty 
 of really good ideas in this game and most are done to a very good standard some others however 
 could be potential pitfalls for the game in the long run.
  
  One of the major things about this game that makes it different from others is the XP system which 
 is organised into instance raids, instead of getting small ammounts of XP for killing individual 
 monsters in DDO you get XP for completing dungeon raids and depending on what takes place within 
 the dungeon determines how much XP you claim when your done. Therefore it is important to take 
 your time in this game and not charge headlong into any quest, take the time to find traps and 
 disarm them or break barrels / crates as in the long run this will increase the completion XP count 
 and make the quest more worthwhile, I can see many liking this system but also others may have 
 real issues with it.
  
  One of the potential downfalls for this game however is the dungeons themselves, when you pass 
 through them for the first time and everything is new it is a great experience, however if you 
 start another character later on all the quests are exactly the same, the dungeons are the same 
 setup following the exact chain of events and there is no randomness what so ever so replay value 
 at later dates could be quite limited.
  
  The look of the game is nothing special the graphics are good enough to do the job but they are 
 not ground breaking by any means, the sound is of a good quality the Dungeon Master voice acting 
 while your inside dungeons is a good idea and is done rather well but if you need to repeat the 
 same dungeon a few times it can become tedious hearing the same thing over and cver.
  
  Overall this is a game aimed towards the older PnP D&D players who dont mind the D20 and 3.5 rulesets 
 and is definutely not aimed at the easy going laid back gamer. Before considering getting this 
 game try to get to see it before hand and maybe try it for yourself as this game is aiming for 
 a smaller portion of the MMORPG community and for the ones that do enjoy this games rather unique 
 playstyle they will find it rewarding and a good challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BBBeerad
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 8, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  So for my first impressions of this game, I'm pretty satisfied.
  Being a former SWG, EQII, COH, and yes even Matrix Online player and trying despartely to keep 
 away from WOW (even though I have played some on a freind's system and think it is cool) , I think 
 I've seen just about all the different types of MMO's out there. However, I've originally come 
 from the days (and still play) of the Pen and Paper genre. So this is probably the game I've been 
 most skeptical about playing. 
  
  What I expected: 
  Another Neverwinter Nights, Baldar's Gate, D&D themed game using the 3.5 D&D rules.
  Decent graphics 
 but little on the gameplay side and definately no storylines to feel like I've actually completed 
 something, or only one storyline that everybody has done in beta and so there's no one to play 
 with.
  
  What I've seen so far:
  A well put together MMO, where questing is important and actually leads to longer story arcs (much 
 like WOW) . 
  Well done graphics and excellent sound.
  An interface that is common to what is seen in a lot of MMORPG's where specials are done from the 
 "shortcut keys".
  A unique fighting system that isn't boring, takes into account facing and really brings out the 
 3.5 combat rules. 
  Grouping is where this game excels and could be the sucessor to those P&P folks looking for a way 
 to play D&D from home with thier buddies that moved away.
  
  Things I like:
  The combat is done well. Its feels like you have control over winnig or losing. Group tactics will 
 work out well in this system as well. 
  Sound is especially good. Dripping water, traps, and snoring kobolds sound like they should.
 
  Quest and mapping system is pretty well put together.
  Headset support in game!
  
  Things I don't like:
  Targeting with the mouse is kinda pain until you figure out its easier 
 to use TAB.
  Setting is a little clausterphobic... I know its a city besiged, but some more open spaces would 
 be nice to see. Maybe I just haven't seen the yet.
  And along that line, some quests not in a dungeon or like area would be nice.. The woods are somewhere 
 around there right?
  Character customization needs a lot of improvement. I'm sure there will be more, but just after 
 launch I guess they haven't added that much.
  Chat window needs a lot of improvement. Especially if they want people comunicate in taverns. Could 
 use some customization ability too.
  Price of the game at Best Buy was the same as a regular game... not what I expected for an MMO 
 and a little pricey.
  
  So far my Paladin is doing pretty good and I'm having fun even though I'm not even level 2. Out 
 of the box and right after launch I'm giving this a 7.7 score!
  -The Big Bad Beerad
  (yeah I know I suck at spelling) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_Ross_Key
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 9, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  Whatever happened to playing a game just because its fun? It seems that nowadays everyone goes 
 into a game with some kind of agendaearning whatever accolades one can garner from killing the 
 most enemies or getting the most headshots, being the first to reach level 60, gathering the most 
 loot or even selling characters and loot online. Its a different gaming world out there these 
 days, and thats why I look on many of the recent comments on and reviews of Dungeons & Dragons 
 Online: Stormreach with a certain level of bewilderment and skepticism. Most people seem to want 
 to judge this game based on what it isnt rather than what it is. DDO is no different from any 
 other game in that if you go into it with a specific set of self-defined expectations, then youre 
 likely to be disappointed. DDO is a very different experience in the MMO realm and obviously not 
 for everybodys tastes. But it works for one reasonand in my opinion the only one that really 
 countsbecause its simply fun to play.
  Many reviewers and players are quick to criticize DDO because it takes so long to gain levels and 
 because the level cap in the game is 10, which leaves me wondering, just when was a universal law 
 of gaming passed that dictated quick leveling and many levels as a requirement for a game to be 
 enjoyable and successful? Ive been playing the PnP version of D&D for decades (thats right folksdecades, 
 which is probably longer than some of you have been alive) and never once did I ever complain that 
 I was still a lowly 5th-level cleric after investing several hours of playing time in the game. 
 There was this whole idea about playing the character and enjoying the adventure itself. Every 
 chest I opened didnt contain magic full plate or a bag of holding, but that didnt keep me from 
 playing or from liking the game.
  And its not like DDOs devoid of rewards while youre crawling toward that next level. The ranks 
 between levels offer action points to be spent on various enhancements that can be quite useful. 
 In fact, when I hit those ranks I often find myself facing a difficult dilemma choosing among the 
 available options. If your goal is to grind your way to highest level available as fast as possible, 
 then youre likely to be disappointed in the game. Players like me who are able to enjoy the journey 
 itself will find a lot to like.
  The lack of PvP content is yet another complaint Ive seen raised. Again, this is not a big surprise, 
 considering the games roots. If you want PvP content, then D&D probably isnt for you. Its a 
 game that has always placed emphasis on cooperative play. Thats not to say that PvP isnt possible 
 in D&D, as it most certainly is, but its far from being a requirement. And I defy anyone to prove 
 that PvP is necessary in any game. Many of the best games ever created had no PvP content. And 
 heres the bottom line, and Im only going to write it once: PvP is not necessary for MMOs or any 
 other genre for the games to be fun. See, I used that word again. Games have only one real requirement 
 to be good, to be successful: Its got to be fun. I keep saying that over and over again, but I 
 think some people just dont get it.
  Another criticism of DDO is that theres very little solo content. It has to be the most paradoxical 
 aspect of MMO gaming that people want to play online in a virtual world populated by thousands 
 of other gamers, but they want to play alone. I can understand this to some degree, but one of 
 the very reasons Ive quit playing some MMOs is because I realized I was doing nothing but solo 
 play. If Im going to play alone, why pay $14.99 a month for it? Its not like Turbine pulled a 
 bait-and-switch on its customers. Everyone knew from the get-go that DDO would follow the PnP principle 
 of party-based gaming. And, yes, when it comes to pick-up groups players will find its a decidedly 
 mixed bagas it is with every single other MMO out there. I have the luxury of being able to play 
 with a solid core of friends, and we coordinate our playtime so we can be online together to group 
 up for quests. The only time Ive done any solo play in DDO is during the tutorial and beginning-level 
 quests. Since then, its been one party-based dungeon romp after another.
  And thats one thing youll find in ample supply in this game: quests. Everywhere you go in Stormreach 
 youll find someone who needs help with a little problem. Much of the early questing involves descending 
 into kobold-infested sewers, but other quests will put you up against zombies, skeletons, trolls 
 and even ogres. Some quests can be quite short, taking only a few minutes to complete; others are 
 multiple-chapter monster epics that will require a solid party and some determination to get through. 
 This is certainly part of the game that really shines. DDOs quests have an epic feel to them, 
 and theres a real sense of accomplishment when you complete them. The rewards you find in the 
 chests might not always be to your liking, but I often find that I really dont care about material 
 rewards because the quest itself was so enjoyable.
  Another strong aspect of the DDO experience is the atmosphere of the dungeons. From the graphics 
 to the sound effects to the layouts of the areas, DDO boasts some of the most immersive environments 
 Ive seen in MMO gaming. One quest took me into mist-filled caverns where I had to wade through 
 knee-deep pools to get where I was going. Dripping water and other sounds made the place seem very 
 real, and I gripped the mouse as I prepared for the inevitable encounter. Its at moments like 
 these that I realize how very irrelevant such things as loot and leveling are. Its not about the 
 stuff; its about the experience. Youre there in the dungeon with your friends facing difficult 
 odds, solving puzzles and battling your way through. Thats what this game is all about.
  Some people may be put off by the action-oriented combat, but I must say, its really a breath 
 of fresh air for me after having played other games that come down to clicking a button and waiting 
 for a power to recharge. The enemies in DDO are also more active than in many other MMOs. They 
 dodge your attacks; they circle around to flank you; they retreat and return. This is very much 
 unlike other games in which the enemies stand in front of you, executing the same attacks over 
 and over again. And your character stands there in similar fashion as you either wait for a certain 
 power to recharge or wait to see the result of the attacks against you. In DDO you have to be on 
 your toes, and it pays to fight tactically. The quick pace of the combat can be frustrating at 
 times, especially if youre trying to tackle a quest a lone and find yourself surrounded by bad 
 guys. In groups, it's easier to manage and you can work together to succeed in battle. Theres 
 this little thing called a flanking bonus with which veterans of D&D are very familiar. You can 
 use in DDO to your advantage as well, so just running up with your compadres to whack away on some 
 baddie isnt always the best way to take it down. Balanced parties and teamwork certainly pay off 
 in DDO, but thats not to say you can go rampaging through a dungeon hurling caution to the stale 
 drafts and not find success. Youre probably going to stumble more than few times playing this 
 way, but if it works for you, well, you just go for it.
  DDO is not without its faults. Certainly, its suffered its share of technical issues at launch, 
 but nothing I havent seen in other MMOs at launch. The odd lag in taverns is still present, and 
 the voice chat system isnt perfect. 
  All in all, I look at DDO as a successful launch. Ive played through some rough spots and seen 
 my share of lag and other technical issues, but none so far have detracted from the overall game 
 experience. The bottom line is this, if you accept DDO for what it is rather than try to fit it 
 in to what you think it ought to be, then youre much more likely to enjoy the experience. The 
 quests are numerous and interesting, the dungeons are immersive and include a wide array of traps 
 and puzzles to confound adventurers and the gameplay is certainly enjoyable. What kind of longevity 
 does it have? Well, its way too early to tell, but DDO has brought some out-the-box thinking to 
 the genre that may help change what was in peril of becoming a tired formula.
  
  Pros:
  Lots of quests
  Immersive, atmospheric dungeons
  Interesting puzzles
  Ingenious and lethal 
 traps
  Fast-paced combat
  
  Cons:
  Some lag, especially in taverns
  Mixed results with voice chat
  Combat system may not be for everyone
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zandartheweeble
Rating: 5.6
Date: Mar 8, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  It's hard to judge DDO. On one hand, the game's completel dependence on instanced content and group 
 play is what those of us who own their own dice bag (s) play D&D for. It's seeing a team of you 
 and your friends overcome some pretty long odds together to triumph on a weekend afternoon, tackling 
 a dungeon crawl and outwitting traps, slaying monsters and saving the world.
  
  On the other hand, and D&D player will tell you the adventure you play is as only as good as the 
 DM running it, and the computer is a lousy, lousy DM. It makes up for a total lack of imagination 
 and flexibility by offering loot galore, the old "Monty Haul" style of play. Repetition of the 
 same quests over and over again only makes the computer's faults even more glaring. It's like finally 
 finding the perfect group of people to game with, only to find your DM is an intractible jerk... and 
 you're stuck with him.
  
  To make the problem even WORSE, there are plenty of bugs and quest balance issues (as of this writing, 
 two popular quests had already been pulled for "readjustment" as players were finding exploits) . 
 Since the only way to gain experience is to complete quests, bugs that prevent you from doing that 
 mean you're just wasting your time while inside. Nothing's more frustrating than to have to repeat 
 a tough multi-part quest because A) You didn't get credit for one part due to a bug, B) You don't 
 get credit for the entire quest meaning no reward at the end and C) You're out experience and time 
 wasted.
  
  I don't think DDO is going to make it. There's no PvP, no crafting, no explorable world, no quick 
 farming for a few hundred XP to make a level. Yes, what DDO does have can be a lot of fun, but 
 in the future I forsee FFXI's brutal "two hours waiting for a party" disease. SWG's ongoing slow 
 and painful death is pretty bad to watch, but not only do I believe DDO is going to fold, I think 
 it will do so almost frighteningly quickly. There's already plenty of folks who are level 10 rank 
 4 (the level cap) and right now the only thing to do for them is to start a new character.
  
  As somebody who's been on both sides of the DM screen, I can tell you that a good DM is just 
 as important to a campaign as the players are, maybe even a bit more so. The DM's job is to make 
 it work. Look at how successful the Neverwinter Nights series has been, especially with the multiplayer 
 DM experience. DDO on the other hand is without the usual MMORPG time sinks like crafting or even 
 the ability to solo, the quest is the thing. Since there's nothing there to hold the usual MMOkids 
 attention and the narrow niche audience of the game isn't going to tolerate going through the same 
 quests with yet another character.
  
  Turbine has promised more content and has promised it quickly. But from what I've seen of DDO, 
 I don't think they'll be able to deliver it as quickly as is going to be required without the game 
 turning into one huge beta test. Combined with the decidedly niche appeal of the audience, we're 
 going to see mass defections by this summer.
  
  Don't get me wrong, there's a lot of potential here. But this game needed another year in the shop 
 and another 10 levels of content before being released to the public. The bottom line: unless Turbine 
 delivers a *bunch* of new content quickly, puts in player crafting, and seriously considers some 
 sort of PvP activity (even if it's a group player activity like FF XI's Ballista sport) the next 
 time you see mention of this game from Gamespot will be on the list of "Biggest Disappointments 
 of 2006" voting list or the inevitable "The Five Biggest MMORPG Flops: What Went Wrong?" article. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RexTTer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 8, 2006 1:38 am PT
Review:  DDO is not my first online game. Before it were Asheron's Call, Star Wars Galaxies, Eve Online 
 and World of Warcraft. The gameplay in DDO is stuctured in a very differnt way to these other games. 
 There is no solo grinding or endless repetition e. g. camping a monster spawn point in an AC dungeon; 
 grinding to jedi in SWG or master BioEngineer; endless mining or pirate farming in Eve; gaining 
 furblog reputation in WoW. Here it's like the pen and paper version of D&D. You log in, find a 
 group of up to 6 people, go on an adventure.
  
  There's none of the 'filler' where before you can do what you want you have to do lots of other 
 things first such as a 10 minute gryphon flight, or a long crafting session. Here the dungeons 
 are very close and all you have to do is to step in. 
  
  Some might argue the 'filler' tasks are in fact content and reflect a more realistic gaming experience. 
 E. g. in WoW you'd pick up a quest in one place then have to go to another part of the map to do 
 it. Whilst this might be realistic it's not very interesting game play and DDO dispenses with it 
 all together, getting straight into the adventure you actually want to play.
  
  The dungeons themselves are visually attractive in a stinking monster infested dungeon kind of 
 way. Many surprises await in the form of acid spraying traps, spikes suddenly poking up from the 
 floor or even in one dungeon, the whole floor disappearing beneath our feet plunging us into the 
 room below. Many locked doors and gates bar the way as well as puzzles to solve to open a passage 
 to progress through. You'll be exercising your brain as much as your sword arm. And this is really 
 refreshing too - having to think your way around problems.
  
  One of the major upsets in games like SWG and WoW have been when the developers allow you to grind 
 a character to a high level then suddenly change the abilities of that character. These other games 
 have balanced the different classes as the game itself has developed. D&D has been playtested with 
 pen and paper for the last 30-plus years so the character abilities are now set giving the game 
 a solid foundation to build from. 
  
  There are currently 10 levels. In between each level there are 5 ranks and each of these gives 
 the ability to chose new skills for your character. So there are 10 levels at the moment each with 
 5 ranks, gives about 50 chances to change the way your character is. This means that no two are 
 the same. There are no cookie cutter templates healerpriest/shadowpriest, frostmage/firemage etc. 
 Evey one is very individual.
  
  The music and the sound is really good. It sounds as if they've used real musicians to make the 
 background tunes too - some of them I find myself playing in my head. There is also the voice of 
 the Dungeon Master setting the scene, which is a nice touch. Also, like with many online games 
 at the moment, you get a free Voice over the Internet program so your party can talk to one another 
 helping with party functioning.
  
  DDO does have some drawbacks. Sometimes you gain a rank and have a point to spend and there's nothing 
 you want to spend it on. So the point is wasted. Finding a group can be a little tricky - there's 
 no Looking for Group channel. You do get a LFG marker above your head and there is a general chat 
 channel to find people. And there could be more quests. However, this is only the first week after 
 release and these drawbacks do not detract from the gameplay itself. Once you're in a group and 
 fighting through a quest they're forgotten.
  
  DDO is a mature thinking game. No grinding, no hack'n'slash. It certainly won't appeal to everyone. 
 Those of us who want more challenge and less grind love it. I played WoW for a year and got DDO 
 last Friday. After loading it up I've not even thought about going back to WoW to play. This game 
 has grasped my by both hands and won't let go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felenor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  As far as I remember, I've been excited about online games... Beginning with Everquest in 1999 
 and now to Dungeon and Dragons Online: Stormreach. I've had my fair share of MMOs in between but 
 nothing compared to the first (EQ) and now (DDO) as far as gameplay experience and the feeling your 
 in a highly detailed, dungeon crawler.
  
  One thing stands out dramatically about DDO that only a few other MMOs have done... And that is 
 the fact that every quest is presented in your very own private instance. It is done very well 
 and it can be seen that the instances are all unique and very full of exciting surprises around 
 every corner... From elaborate traps to hidden secret doors, each instance has its own unique feature 
 to keep the players interested. I personally found it exciting to see a hidden door appear or a 
 trap spring to make me jump literally out of my chair!!
  
  On a gameplay perspective I found DDO to be very engaging, yet even more difficult to get a grasp 
 of. You as a player would click the mouse to attack or simply use autoattack. And in turn you would 
 see the dice roll a number to see if you hit or not. But as you attack, the enemy may block or 
 jump out of the way... That can be very difficult and frustrating at times trying to strike a blow 
 on a monster and it takes a lot of practice to get used to this new battle system. 
  
  Overall, I rate this game an 8.8 for the unique, highly detailed dungeons that do a great job of 
 making you a part of the role playing element of the game. This is a gem that should go on as greatest 
 hits shelf in no time... Not to mention the fact that it is an MMO, so there will be updates and 
 the game will get bigger and more content added... And improved because the geniuses who worked 
 on Asheron's Call are working on this and they know what they are doing! Buy this game now if you 
 love D&D and MMORPGs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shava23
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  I have seen a lot of people who don't seem to like this game because they want it to be everquest, 
 or diablo, or WOW. But y'know, it's not. It's something that most folks don't seem to have wrapped 
 their brains around yet.
  
  This game is a great framework for folks who like PnP D&D, but can't get to a gaming group on any 
 regular basis, or just want more time playing. With in-game voice chat, it's possible to do all 
 the roleplaying you want, crack jokes, yell "Hey, that was *my* chunk o' change you just picked 
 up off the dungeon floor knave!" or act as geeky as you want.
  
  Me, I am so not a power gamer. I'm a grrl geek of 40+ and I've been playing PnP since I was a teenager. 
 Play this game with a group of friends and a cold beverage at hand, watch the D20 on the screen 
 display your to-hit, and try not to get the pizza on your keyboard while you hack on kobolds, and 
 harass your friends.
  
  Probably not a game for people who just like to tear through stuff -- I suspect you'd end up at 
 level 10 in a few weeks and then feel cheated. But for folks like me? RP Heaven. First MMO that's 
 ever really done it for me that way.
  
  If you don't like this game I only have one thing to say: You get out of it what you put into it. 
 
  
  It's all about what's between the keyboard and the chair. It's a playground, not a game. Don't 
 blame Turbine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordOfMorning
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  What amazes me is the way they marketed this game. Like it was something different. "Create your 
 own human character, to blah blah blah". Wow, you don't say. We can actually create our own players 
 and fight along our friends online? You don's say. Good god, how long do these games have to be 
 out or how big does WOW have to get before they/marketers/game makers understand that just by bringing 
 out an MMO is not something new. There's nothing new in this game, besides trying to appeal to 
 D&D crowd. You know the cons.
  1. Grouping required for almost all the game (Does anyone like to be dependant on other people 
 ALL the time? I think it's agreed that they need to have both. You could even have grouping being 
 a bigger part then soloing, but not the only way) .
  2. No crafting or exploring a world (Which might give players something to do besides soloing, 
 since there is none) .
  3. No PVP. (Here again, they need to have it in some form. The main game does not have to be about 
 it, but it needs to be there somewhere) .
  4. Some other posters have said, "It left room for improvement." Like thats a good thing. That 
 almost makes it sound like they threw in two empty discs with the game with no data on it. so you 
 could send them back for some more stuff, lol. What that actually means is that barely put enough 
 into this game to make it playable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottishhaig
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 7, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of MMO's since the birth of UO, I was looking forward to DDO from being a PnP fan of D&D 
 waaayyyy back in the 1970s (yes, old man talking) . 
  
  I'm honestly torn by this offer from Turbine. On the one hand it's rather mediocre in most aspects, 
 but then shines through with the DM narrative voice in the dungeons and a tidbit here and there. 
 
  
  So let's look at the pros and cons (and some inbetween) :
  
  Pro: D&D Flavor (this is a pro for a long time PnP player) . It's their from the 20 sided dice you 
 see rolling for your 'To Hit' to the DM voice telling you the you feel a breeze coming from a crack 
 in this hallway.
  
  Pro: Gameplay - Combat is fast. And sometimes frustrating, but probably the most truest form of 
 combat I've encountered in MMO's thus far. You control your blocking, tumbling, etc. The mobs don't 
 just stand there and allow you to hit them - they also move around and try and flank you.
  
  Pro: Someone finally figured out how to use the Rogue class!! The D&D Rogue is a truly versatile 
 template. You can make a true 'Rogue' in the Open Locks and Disarm Traps sense or go the Sneaky 
 - Back Stabbing damage route for a melee type template.
  
  Inbetween: Graphics - Nothing special here. They aren't bad, but they aren't the bright, cartoony 
 graphics of WoW or the sharp, gritty graphics of CoH/CoV
  
  Con: Forced Grouping. PLEASE put aside the agruement that soloers shouldn't be playing MMOs if 
 they don't want to group. I am a soloer that likes to play with a character in an open-ended persistent 
 online world. A single offline RPG CANNOT OFFER ME THAT! And besides I DO like to group on ocassion, 
 just not ALL THE TIME. DDO fails miserably in that regard. Yes, you can muddle through some of 
 the early quests with a melee type character, but a group is almost a requirement for some quests.
 
  
  Con: There's nothing here that really puts DDO above the other MMOs currently on the market and 
 I think that will cause it some problems in the long run. 
  
  It's not bad, it's not great (overall) . I'll continue to play until my 30 days is up and then we'll 
 see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Technekt
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 7, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  To start I have played many different roleplaying games during my existance. I started with Pen 
 and Paper playing many differnt systems (I. C. E. is one of the best if you ask me) . Currently, in 
 terms of MMORPG's I have played Everquest, COH, AC, AC2, WOW, Guild Wars, Galaxies and Anarchy 
 Online
  
  I have leveled a rogue up to 3 now so my experience with DDO is just that.
  
  I think the game is great, with some reservations. The game really provides a different experience 
 than most of the persistent on-line games I have played. This games feels more like a standard 
 role-playing game, such as Neverwinter Nights, with the story progression. The linear feel although 
 not ideal I know, does provide more context for the stories. What makes it really cool, is that 
 now you don't go on the missions (as in Neverwinter Nights) with hired hands. You get to group 
 with other people.
  
  It should go without mentioning that just by adding the D&D ruleset you get an incredibly logical 
 and well thought out system that can only add to the game. The character generation is complicated 
 primarily because of the options you are provided, but these options can make a big differnce in 
 how the character plays, which is great, and adds to individualizing your character.
  
  This game really is about getting in a group and completing quests. The battles are fast, in that 
 the mobs do not stay stationary for long. They attempt to jump back away from you to avoid taking 
 a beating so reflexes and thinking fast do play a role here.
  
  I just find it difficult to understand the idea to make this a persistent game, with a monthly 
 charge. I don't see this as a game I would play for a long time.. but honestly I don't like playing 
 any game for a long time. This game should be viewed as "spend $50 bucks" enjoy the one month free 
 time available.. and you will enjoy it, then let it go.. like most other games we know and love. 
 At 50 bucks you really have to only spend 5 good nights playing to make it worth it in my books.
 
  
  I would like to encourage this type of game even though the idea of people paying for it in its 
 current form for months on end is a bit daft in my opinion.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gharak
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  I have to say, I'm disappointed. Stormreach feels lonely compared to the true MMORPG's out there 
 that actually put everyone on a server in the same instance. Stormreach is far more like Guild 
 Wars than WoW, EQ, DAoC or the other truly massive games. Even outside of the combat instances, 
 the player is still in a small instance. What's worse, even though there is never more than fifty 
 or so people on the screen at once, the network lag is intolerable.
  
  Calling themselves the first Dungeon's & Dragon's MMORPG is ludicrous. The fine folks who created 
 Dark Sun Online and the original SSI/AOL gold box Neverwinter Nights have that honor.... and even 
 though the player base for both was small, both had more of a sense of community than I believe 
 Stormreach will ever develop... due to the nature of it's instances. 
  
  The quests remind me a lot of Anarchy Online. Lonely... easy and uninteresting. What's more, there 
 are only a couple of hundred of them... compared to the literally thousands in EQ/2/DAoC and WoW.
 
  
  As you can see, I don't have much good to say about this game. I won't be there past my thirty 
 days. If this is the kind of game you like, get Guild Wars... same idea... no monthly fees.
  
  A plea to developers: When you decide you want to do a new game, ask yourselves "What is it 
 about our game that makes it better than every other game on the market?". Until you can come up 
 with an answer to that question... don't release it to the public. It doesn't matter if you can 
 afford to license the original RPG's name if the game isn't any good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chickenesta
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  I'm not a DDO fan, I've never understood what the hell 1d10 meant, nor did I ever care, so when 
 I heard about DDO I thought "great game for the pnp geeks but not for me thanks".
  
  How wrong was I? After a good friend of mine got the game I decided after reading that small groups 
 rather than stupidly large raid groups (wow) was how most quests would be done.
  
  My first impression is "wow these graphics are brilliant!" my geforce 6800 ultra runs the game 
 perfectly and the world, characters, armour, weapons look aboslutely brilliant.
  
  After quickly passing through the tutorial and picking up the basics I moved into the town, I found 
 it really easy to make and find groups, and because everyone gets better XP for working together 
 and loot isnt rolled on everyone gets an equal amount the groups tend to have a much nicer atmosphere 
 to them compared to games like WoW where everyones there for a set item and dont care about the 
 others in the group.
  
  Social interaction wasnt brilliant though outside of groups, there was me thinking everyone in 
 the tavern would talk to each other, instead its full of idiots on the bars dancing and everyone 
 ignoring each other, oh well...
  
  Im level 4 now and still finding it very enjoyable, it would be nice to have areas to explore, 
 differant towns etc, but I imagine thats all to come.
  
  And the best thing, I still dont know what a 1d10 means or does, but DDO was made in a way so you 
 dont have to be a pen n paper gamer of 500 years experiance to play well.
  
  So if your like me and find the concept and ideas behind DDO and its gameplay interesting, this 
 one is worth picking up!
  
  And for the record, some of the other reviews im reading here, mainly the negative ones, have these 
 guys even played this game!?!? Don't pay to much heed to them, Im glad I didnt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kimahriii
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 3:21 am PT
Review:  I have played many MMOs and I always found myself drawn to the ones that urge you to play as a 
 group insted of soloing your way to the top and DDO is just like that. To accomplish anything well 
 a group is required, but thankfully not a standard group with a tank, cleric, mage and rogue but 
 one of any makeup. 
  
  The leveling system is probably the best in the market, every character can truly become unique 
 thanks to skill points and abilities. So many options that your character alone might never see 
 them all in its lifetime. The sad thing is that while the characters may preform differently, they 
 saddly don't look much different. Customization in the game for the look of the characters is seriously 
 lacking even when compared to older titles like EQ1. Thankfully there are many armor and weapon 
 looks to make you look somewhat different, not everyone will be running around at lvl 2 with the 
 same exact armor (coughEQ2cough) .
  
  The quests in the game are great aswell, they all seem different and their difficulty has a great 
 range. Some are very short while others can last hours. It truly is a game for people with all 
 different play styles. The combat system is great aswell thanks to its amazing interactivity, sure 
 you can be lazy and press auto attack but be prepared to see your effectivness drop severly. 
 
  
  The main negative aspects of the game are really that it isn't built for grinders in mind. If all 
 you aim for is being the top dog on the server then you will accomplish this fairly quickly. The 
 games main attraction is its great stories for the adventures and just having a great time with 
 your friends. 
  
  The game did not launch as smoothly as it could have been, while everything has been stable there 
 are more then a handful of ingame bugs regarding quests and NPCs. Im sure this will get ironed 
 out shortly but it is annoying. The UI could use some work aswell, unlike recent MMOs it isn't 
 very customizable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kb80000
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 6, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to like this game, but no. The playing area is way too small, if you're looking 
 for a whole D&D world to explore forget it, because the whole game being set in one cramped city.
 
  It's remedial too. You get to the city and all you see are people standing around in a dock or 
 courtyard with quest symbols above them. You ask them for a quest and it's always trouble in the 
 sewers/pub cellar etc. Expect to see cellars and sewers a mega lot here. This is tedious territory 
 done to death in mmorpg's! The game is a more like a spoof of rpg's!
  Wizards with cloaks, dwarfs with beards, lost necklaces and plebty of Koblold trouble.. where? IN 
 THE SEWERS! Basically you've seen it all before.
  Also, the controls are too fiddly and the combat (in parties) is a mess.
  The scenery (back streets 
 and sewers/cellers/dungeons etc is at best lack lustre. They dropped the ball big time with this... and 
 I'm off back to Guild Wars pronto.
  Nearly forgot, they don't want soloing either, so expect to be hurried through a dungeon with a 
 bunch of strangers you are forced to play with.
  In a bag? Turd.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaDoctah
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 6, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  The market of massively multiplayer online role-playing games has just received the next addition 
 to its ever-growing family; and it is definitely a beautiful addtion at that. Dungeons & Dragons 
 Online: Stormreach takes place in, as its title implies, the bustling port city of Stormreach. 
 Despite the marvelous stone carved aqueducts and plethora of merchants lining the streets the city 
 holds a darker, more sinister undertone that only the strong-willed adventurer would dare to uncover.
 
  
  Logging into DDO for the first time is a treat unto itself. Why you might ask? Two words, Character 
 Generation. This game offers up all the standard D&D 3.5 ruleset classes, save two, and five races 
 including one unique to the Eberron world setting the game is based on. All told, you have a possible 
 forty five different race/class combinations to choose from, each unique unto themselves. 
  
  Once character generation is complete you are placed on a training island to bring your character 
 up to speed with tool-tips teaching you the basics. Your first quest is quick and to the point 
 and while you could spend some time looking at the lush foliage or playing through some of the 
 other optional starter quests the real fun begins when you barter passage to Stormreach.
  
  Stormreach is a city bristling with magic with everburning street lamps, floating taverns, and 
 rune-marked pillars abound. The graphics in DDO are spectacular. Your expensive rig will benefit 
 from the advanced graphical effects while some more modestly built systems are guaranteed not to 
 be left out wih lower settings available. Weather effects, lens flares, even visible underwater 
 currents immerse the player in the world around them.
  
  The control system is a bit cumbersome to start with, but eventually grows on the user. Hotkeys 
 and a great customizable UI let you put what you need where you want it within mouse reach. Combat 
 isn't the standard turn-based system that D&D Pen and Paper veterans are used to. The battlefield 
 is ongoing and fluidic with spells being cast, nimble thieves tumbling about, and steel weapons 
 clanging off the armour of beefy fighters.
  
  As with the Pen and Paper version of the game, your challenges arise not in the form of that high-level 
 mob that you need a full party of a powerful character class to take down but in the form of quests. 
 Incidentally the majority of any meaningful level advancement is through questing. It's the nature 
 of Dungeons & Dragons to emphasize group teamwork and DDO carries the torch. A built in Voice Chat 
 system allows teammates to communicate effectively on a real-time basis.
  
  As the game goes retail, level caps are in place barring training above level 10. Despite sounding 
 too low to sound worthwhile, there is plans to increase the cap as the game evolves both in age 
 and in complexity. While reaching that cap at this point would require a very large commitment 
 of time and munchies. Personally, I find my time is better spent enjoying the game with friends 
 rather than watching the leveling bar at the end of every quest.
  
  All compliments aside there are drawbacks with the game as there are with any game. The learning 
 curve is a bit steep to be able to play effectively. Knowing the D&D Pen and Paper game beforehand 
 is the best way to enter DDO but not everyone is so lucky. Being a team-based affair, you will 
 run into egos and poor co-ordination which will detract from the real beauty of the game. Try to 
 stay clear of those responsible and you'll have a great time.
  
  Having played Dungeons & Dragons Online: Stormreach through Stress Tests, a Pre-order Beta Account, 
 and the Pre-Order Headstart Event I feel I'm qualified to give you a taste of what DDO is and has 
 to offer. A MMORPG outside of the normal level grinding with emphasis on team co-operation and 
 enough varying quest types to keep you occupied and craving more. The graphics are stellar, controls 
 are yielding, and sounds are enthralling. A Challenger has appeared! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaellogan123
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  I gotta tell ya there are a number of reviews here that just don't add up. You have people telling 
 you that the game is to slow or that there is no action. This game is all about the action. It's 
 realtime and your weapon doesn't score a hit if it doesn't collide with the enemy graphics.
  
  You have someone saying that Voice Chat doesn't work. I can tell you it's worked since beta 
 and I haven't had a single instance since Feb 23rd where the voice chat wasn't working. So that 
 poster is just a flat out liar.
  
  The game is definitely not for everyone and anyone coming in here and telling you this is a really 
 hard game to solo is right. But then they can't tell you that it's not a DnD game either. Who the 
 heck played DnD by themselves or with one other person. LAME. And I would dare say shill for Blizzard.
 
  
  The game is meant to be played with others in an adventure party. Think Lord of the Rings. Ranger, 
 Wizard, Thief, Fighter, Cleric all in the same group. 
  
  I saw another post were the guy says the grouping system sucked... Liar. I play with one other 
 person and I haven't gone into a dungeon alone unless I really wanted to. And honestly I don't 
 it's more fun with 5 other adventurers using their skills to keep you alive or accomplish a mission. 
 
  
  The Grouping systems is simple and works like a charm. You have two different ways to find a party. 
 1. You can tag yourself as looking for group LFG and put in a small text that other Groups can 
 read to see what your interest is. 2. You can also start a party by creating a Looking for Member 
 LFM post and put in some small text that says what missions you're looking to do. 
  
  Graphics are a matter of taste but I have to say when the game is burning up the hottest Graphics 
 cards on the market it's got hardcore textures and models. Those who say its clunky are probably 
 running on slower systems. If you have a low end system. This probably isn't for you. Also the 
 graphics aren't cartoony so if you like WoW bright colors and pirate boots this game isn't for 
 you. Eberron takes place after a world war that lasted over 100 years. This is place is supposed 
 to be bleak. No Purple and Pink unique items here. 
  
  Also, this is not another Guild Wars, I've played Guild Wars and loved the game but it doesn't 
 belong in the same ball park let alone the same review other than to say it's got instanced dungeons. 
 The instance dungeons allow the adventuring party to enjoy the quest at their own pace and hot 
 have to deal with rambo goofballs racing ahead with their level 2,000 characters and looting the 
 chests before you get there.
  
  Really this game isn't for everybody. It is abour the grouping, it is about DnD, the rogues pick 
 locks, disarm traps, the rangers spot secret doors and hear danger around the corner on and on 
 and on.... But if you're a social misfit or you don't work well in groups I highly recommend you 
 give the DDO community a break and continue to play WoW. It's for the more solo minded powerlevelers. 
 This games largest guild is the Old Timers Guild, and the average age is over 30 so that should 
 tell you something.
  
  Oh and I played DnD for 15 years as a DM. It doesn't qualify me for anything other than to say 
 I do enjoy the game but again it ain't for everyone.
  
  Peace!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ric360
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 6, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  The game is easy to get into BUT the party system is not at all user friendly and many of the quests 
 seem to be designed specifically for a party. I played in Beta and had hoped for better. Now with 
 the actual release I have not been the least bit impressed. First of all I enjoy the "Old School" 
 D&D so the world setting is hard to adapt to. Second I'm not impressed with the translation of 
 the system into a MMO. Third the party system is a joke. You can group with people all over the 
 city but the "Map" system is a joke for finding party members in the city. 
  
  The graphics are nice and the sounds are top notch but after you get through the eye and ear candy 
 the game itself seems flat with very little to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mantra6
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  The creators of Stormreach did some things very right. The gameplay gives you the geek stat and 
 item fix in a basic way, without the onerous crafting and item comparisons and manipulation that 
 eats up valuable hours in other MMO's. The graphics look strong where they count. The social system 
 is simple, straightforward, and just elegantly works. I never find myself at a loss for a good 
 group, because that is what people are doing, grouping. Not running across town to sell or buy, 
 not camping or resting or doing this or that, but playing. The focus is on quality dungeon experiences, 
 not on dizzying amounts of things to do. Innovative options like choosing your own dungeon difficulty 
 at the outset. The ability to jump in and have a half-hour adventure, or a four-hour adventure. 
 Attention to detail and quality dungeon experiences, and themes. A central storyline that really 
 does hold things together. Rogues actually have some importance, as traps abound, and devices are 
 implemented well. Interesting architecture above ground and below. Treasure is pre-marked for each 
 member, no rolling for this or that (unless you want I guess) . No need to sell or auction anything.
 
  
  THE BAD:
  Soloing just isn't a real option. Most players, stuck in the leveling state of mind, run through 
 dungeons without stopping to smell the flowers. Inevitably you will have someone in the group who 
 has been in the dungeon before, and just wants to get the XP. I am sure this will leave alot of 
 level 10 characters wondering where all the good stuff is, like rushing through a meal -- I want 
 to start the "Slow Dungeon" movement (like the slow food thing) . Many of the feats, abilities, 
 and character options really don't amount to alot, because once you are in the thick of things, 
 who has time to strategize spell order? The battles often turn into a giant click fest ala Diablo, 
 although this does lend a certain frenetic real-life feel to the game. I find myself wishing for 
 a pause button so I can stack attacks. No need to sell or auction anything (I do miss making the 
 big platinum on that special item) although you certainly could. No PvP, and boy, there are alot 
 of butts that would be fun to kick.
  
  THE DEAL:
  It is fun, and thankfully missing alot of the pain in the butt grind! I would love to have a group 
 of close friends who would wait to play each dungeon together, so we could all experience the sights 
 and sounds together for the first time. That would leave everyone time to appreciate the craft 
 that went into each experience and revel in the wins and loses -- sadly, I don't think that will 
 happen in it's current implementation. Even if it were the first time in for everyone, you would 
 still have the gung-ho run and chop players ruin the experience. If I were to take my time and 
 enjoy each dungeon, there would be enough content for quite some time. As it is, I can imagine 
 it getting old after a few months... Guild Wars is alot cheaper, and feels much the same.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottwilkins
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 6, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  When I found that the pre-order for this game was available, I got on-line and ordered it ASAP. 
 Being one of the pre-orders, I was allowed to enter the final Beta test for the game before it's 
 release. That's when I found I'd made a mistake.
  
  DDO: Stormreach is very much UNLIKE most MMORPGs. In that there are some good points, but also some 
 very very bad points. The controls are difficult to use, and work with. The game play is disrupted 
 by these controls so much that it was not an enjoyable experience at all. And the story line is 
 EXTREMELY linear. They say it's not, but it is. While there are side quests, almost too many of 
 them, they take away from the game rather than add to it.
  
  I guess the game needed to be played so deep that you had to immerse yourself to the point of forgetting 
 where the sun was located at any given moment in time. Not what I was looking for, or needing. 
 There was no way to move away from the story line in order to gain any foothold in the game. And, 
 it seemed that very few other players wanted to talk or work together. This might have been a better 
 off-line game than on-line.
  
  I also expected better graphics and speed, but was sorely disappointed there too. I have an AMD 
 4600+ based machine with an ATI X1900XTX card. Yep, just a step under the best machine you can 
 buy these days. But this game didn't even tax this machine, or so it seemed, as it did slow down 
 from time to time, but there was not much to see in return for that sluggish play. The graphics 
 were just bland and boring. Made this game look about 10 years old rather than brand spanking new.
 
  
  I guess I expected more, but instead I contacted the shop where I pre-ordered and cancelled the 
 order only about 48 hours after placing the order. I really thank them for allowing me to play 
 the game before delivery and allowing me to realize the mistake buying this title would have been.
 
  
  While not a completely flop, it's definately not worth the price, or the monthly cost to play. 
 Especially with titles like Guild Wars do it so much better. Of course nothing has matched WoW 
 yet. I keep waiting for the WoW killer, but it's obviously not here yet.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chernnunos
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 6, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  Ok, the graphics are not great. They're about on par with the rest of the MMORPG genre out there. 
 The gameplay? clunky, convoluted, and ultimately too much reading with not enough action. The motion? 
 clunky... The character customization? not so hot. I agree with the other users, if this game didn't 
 have DnD in its title, it would probably not even get any attention. I've played better, and spent 
 less on similar games... Hell, EVERQUEST II is better than this thing... I don't see how they can 
 justify the price and fee. "Hey let's make a mediocre game and slap the word DND on it and KINDA 
 Make it play like a DND game, but charge alot for it and assume people would play it"...... I played 
 this type of crap before when it was called Star Wars: Galaxies 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hosea1179
Rating: 4.9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  I have to say that I'm really torn on how to review this game. I really want to love it. I've been 
 a hard core D&D'er for over a decade now and after getting my first MMORPG experience with WoW, 
 I was all geared up to play this game. Sadly, I am very disappointed so far.
  
  The biggest problem for me with this game is the combat interface. It is SUPER clunky! I find it 
 very difficult to control where I'm positioned and attack at the same time. I'm playing a rogue 
 right now which is all about getting behind an enemy and getting a sneak attack. This is really 
 difficult to do because of the clunkiness. Now granted, in pen & paper D&D, it's also difficult 
 to do that, but there's a happy medium between keeping the game true to pen & paper and still making 
 the combat fun to play. I don't think Turbine has found that medium yet.
  
  With combat being the biggest issue with the game, there are also some really good things about 
 the game that unfortunately are followed up with a negative effect:
  
  Pro: You don't have to spend mindless hours traveling from quest to quest. Once you finish a quest, 
 you can recall back instantly (minus loading times) to the person who gave you the quest.
  
  Con: This also means that the world is VERY VERY small. Mostly, I don't mind this, but my big 
 issue is when in a common area like the town or taverns. Because the world is so small, you will 
 have LOTS of players in a common area at one time. This makes your frame rate really bad. To counteract 
 this, Turbine created multiple layers of each common area. The more players in that area, the more 
 layers are created. So, if your area is really crowded and your frame rate is really choppy, just 
 go to another layer. No problem right..... WRONG! This game is very group dependant. So, you have 
 to communicate with your group and make sure you're all on the same layer. And to make it worse, 
 the game doesn't remember the layer you were on when you leave a dungeon so you have to keep changing 
 back. Very poorly executed!!!
  
  Pro: The treasure chest system in the game is setup so that everyone gets an equal amount of gold/items. 
 If you have 6 people in your party, then each one of them gets items from that chest. No more rolling 
 to see who gets everything and no more ninja looting.
  
  Con: The other looting consists of breaking barrels and boxes that are placed all over the dungeons. 
 This, for some reason, is fixed on a "free for all" setting. Whoever gets there first, gets the 
 loot. Now, while the loot from these barrels/boxes is usually very small, it still makes sense 
 to at least have the option of having a group loot setting where all the coin is shared. I found 
 it very frustrating to be spotting and disabling traps while others went and got money and items.
 
  
  Pro: The game comes with built in voice chat. This is excellent for a game that is so heavily dependant 
 on working with a party.
  
  Con: IT DOESN'T WORK YET!!!!!!!!!!!!! Whoops. Might want to think about patching that soon.
  
 
  Pro: The skills and feats in the game are mostly straight out of the pen & paper version and they 
 work extremely well in the game. Rogues and Clerics are crucial to a party just like in the pen 
 & paper. 
  
  Con: The max level right now is 10. This means no high level spells for magic users, not a lot 
 of hit points, very few feats (unless you're a fighter) , no epic characters, limitations for multiclassing, 
 and probably not a lot of great magic items in the game yet. There's also no Prestige Classes either. 
 I've heard that Turbine will be adding many of these features in future updates, but seeing as 
 they had over 3 years to develop this game, I'm a little peaved that I'll have to pay extra to 
 get my character past level 10. 
  
  Overall, the game looks and sounds great. There's even a DM voice over while in dungeons describing 
 the surroundings just as if you were playing the pen & paper version. I found it to be a nice touch. 
 A little cheesy in the performance, but still a nice touch. Dying in this game can be kind of a 
 pain, but it's not too bad. You have the option of rezzing at a shrine in the dungeon (if you're 
 close enough) or having your party help you rez. There will be times where you'll have to rez outside 
 the dungeon in town which means you'll have to start the quest all over. Still not sure how I feel 
 about that one yet. In general, the game just lacks a certain polish. Maybe it's not fair to compare 
 it to WoW, but it's the only other MMORPG I've played.
  
  As I stated in the beginning, I'm really torn on this game. Part of me wants to just throw it away 
 and wash my hands of it, but there's still a loyal D&D fan in me that's wanting to give it more 
 time. There are some good things about this game that sadly get masked by lots of poor execution. 
 If I can get used to the combat system, and they fix the voice chat REALLY soon, then maybe I can 
 have some fun with this one.
  
  If you're looking to get this game, I would hold off for a few months and let Turbine work out 
 some of the kinks. After that, it might just turn out to be a fun gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AviticusDSS
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  I have played MMO's for a decade. I started playing with Meridian 59 then to Ultima Online, to 
 Everquest, to Asheron's Call, and beyond. You want an honest review, here it is:
  
  The gameplay is amazing but it is also different. Most people will say that the gameplay is rather 
 sluggish; that the combat is slow-paced, but I say otherwise. You have to remember that this game 
 is D&D. Combat may feel slow paced at first, but believe me after the first couple of quests, there's 
 nothing slow paced about it. This is not just another MMO that makes up its own combat and gameplay. 
 This game is based off of D&D, so most things in this game are in regards to that. I have never 
 played a game where I could roll around as a rogue and dodge attacks based on skill rather than 
 mere rolls, increase my jump skill and climb a house and then jump off a cliff. Increase my swim 
 skill so that I could be the one to figure out underwater traps, where other characters would drown. 
 Every skill is useful, if you know how to use it.
  
  Soloing the game is possible, but you will not be able to do some of the better quests in the game. 
 The best dungeons take multiple people with multiple set of skills. You may need a rogue to get 
 through a high locked door, a swimmer to swim through a long tunnel with traps, a wizard to unlock 
 runes, a fighter to take on the ugliest beasts youve ever seen. This game takes thinking, and skill. 
 Do you jump across 3 ledges to get a treasure chest knowing that if you fall you will plunge to 
 your death? There are OPTIONS here. LOTS of OPTIONS. Choose what you want to do. Tons of quests 
 to do that varies. Fight an onslaught of 200+ kobolds and see if you can win. 
  
  The game has the best swimming animations and graphics I've ever seen in a game. The overall animations 
 are great. The game feels like D&D and is true to the ruleset. If you are not familiar with D&D, 
 you may or may not like the game. Oh yeah, did I mention that you get to CHOOSE what item you want 
 after certain quests? I love the variety. Not only do I get to pick which quests, but certain quests 
 let you choose which item you can get.
  
  The traps in the game are also amazing. If you dont sit back and think about how to get through 
 the traps and just run through them, you will seriously have to rethink your plan. There's nothing 
 like watching your fighter teammate run through a trap thinking he's big and strong. Yeah he got 
 through the fire trap taking little damage, but he stepped on a plate that activated spikes that 
 came out of the ground. Yeah he didn't last long. Now since he died, one of us had to go through 
 the traps to get his sphere and take it all the way back to a shrine to get him ressurected. So 
 now you have one guy down, and another trying to get his sphere so he can be rescued. If the rescuer 
 dies, then another person has to try and get two spheres now. So you can see how teamwork helps. 
 Rogues are useful. Very useful, since you can't get treasure chests that are behind high locked 
 doors without them.
  
  The sounds are great in the game and give it that D&D feel. Although the music could be a little 
 better, it still hits home. Also, there is no PVP in the game. So anyone that wants PvP, your out 
 of luck. This is not that type of game.
  
  In closing I would just like to say this:
  
  I am a PvPer. Thats what I play MMO's for. PVP period. I don't play them for any other reason other 
 than to compete with other players. Let me tell you, this is the first MMO that I have played where 
 I actually dont mind just playing with other players and getting through dungeons. The dungeon's 
 and monsters themselves are just as hard. Believe me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pneumoniaprone
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  All MMOs better pay attention and look closely at the creatiev fixes implemented in DDO. I for 
 one will never play another game where grinding is a main part of the gamepley. 
  
  Once I was past the waterworks (wich is kind of the first real quest area the others are training) and 
 the market opened up I was so addicted. 
  
  All I can say is this game is so much fun try it for yourself. I hope the content comes pouring 
 in so that we can go up to level 40. There are tons of repeatable quests and would like to have 
 one of each class leveled up all the way. 
  
  Have fun and see you at Delera's tomb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarzyz
Rating: 4.3
Date: Mar 6, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  This game have absolute nothing new to bring to the mmorpg table, in fact it removes many things 
 we allready know like good Player vs. Player combat, big dynamic worlds, good options for solo 
 play and the casual player.
  
  What we get is enourmus grind fest with very slow leveling and hard time soloing. Everything is 
 instanced so you can basiclly say this is Guild Wars without the PvP. GW was free, but D&D isnt, 
 they rising the bar again charging almost 17 dollars a month, more than any other mmorpg game out. 
 Sure if it was amazingly good it would be allright, but it simply isnt.
  
  This game is gonna flop like Asherons Call 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokojambo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 6, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  Dungeons and Dragons Online: Stormreach is an awesome game, and I give props to Turbine and Atari 
 for making this game. I've played other MMOs such as Guild Wars and World of Warcraft, and even 
 though they are good games, they cannot compare to DDO. DDO offers astounding graphics and great 
 sound effects. While WoW and GW include ear-piercing combat sounds, DDO makes it sound realistic. 
 I would say DDO is a little complicated at first (coming from someone who didn't play the P&P game) , 
 but after getting used to it, it is worth every penny you pay. I know a lot of people complain 
 about the fact that the maximum level is 10. But think of it: is an MMO really about getting to 
 really high levels by killing the same, identical, boring monsters everyday? Since you can't get 
 any experience points from killing monsters and only quests, your main goal is to DO QUESTS, PARTY 
 UP, AND HAVE FUN!!! Seriously, in WoW, people are like: "Oh, I need to get to level 60 by next 
 week!" DDO changes the name of MMORPG from games like Guild Wars and World of Warcraft to what 
 an MMO is supposed to be. DDO is perfect for beginners to MMOs as well as for professionals. Try 
 Dungeons and Dragons Online: Stormreach; it's the only answer when MMOs call. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chancellor28
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 6, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  I played this game for a few days now. Its got some neat trap ideas and the instances are interesting 
 but there are far too few of them. Character Growth is at snails pace To say the least. 0% chance 
 to solo after a few lvls. On top of all that the game released with soo many bugs   want my advice 
 buy WOW if ya want a decent mmorpg for $15 a month, if its not your thing try Guild wars which 
 is free . I was hopeing for alot more, and they dropped the ball bigtime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diderot
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  Hi all, 
  
  After flipping through the reviews I thought it best to post something regarding the vocal minority 
 of people that seem to be displeased with the game. Let me start by saying that this game is for 
 'mature' players. No bunny-hoppers, no l33t d00d5, no characters named Prophalactic or Nutlickerz. 
 It's a game for people that enjoy playing games, not for little children that were previously seen 
 running the barrens in WoW spouting Chuck Norris jokes. That being said, my guess would be that 
 the people posting negative reviews are the kind of players that fill the 'l33t' niche in other 
 MMORPGs, the goons that run around trying to kill a slime or jelly with a giant 2h sword... in 
 other words, people that really don't understand how to play the game. Most of their comments are 
 outright wrong / misleading, or ill-founded an mis-articulated. 
  
  I'm an MMO veteran and I can say with a great deal of honesty that this game is excellent if you're 
 looking for a mature crowd with quests that involve more thinking than any MMO I have ever played. 
 Many dungeons involve puzzles that get steadily harder as the quest lvl increases. Many mobs can 
 only be damaged with certain weapons, etc. It has a depth that few other MMOs have in this respect. 
 
  
  The following is a short-list of the pro's and con's of the game that I have encountered after 
 getting two characters to the half-way point (lvl 5.. which takes about as long as leveling a WoW 
 character to 30) .
  
  Pros:
  
  -Mature crowd
  -Requires some sort of real-world smarts, traps abound, puzzles, greed snares (open a chest hastily 
 and enjoy while the door slams down cutting off your party while you get torn to pieces!) Count 
 this as a con if you're stupid. 
  -Stunning graphics, excellent use of multi-pass lighting and shaders. 
  -Pre-divided gear, no 
 ninjas!!!
  -Pawn broker system that works similar to WoW AH (mucho simplified however) .
  -Hundreds of quests, all of which can be replayed at various difficulty levels. 
  -Large variation 
 of quest types (no milkruns or kill 'x' number of mobs missions)
  -Large variation of quest environments. People who say this game is small haven't played the game. 
 Many instances will be entire islands (that have more instances within the island) , etc. 
  -Promises of frequent updates, including an increase to the level cap and new races within the 
 first few months of play. 
  
  Cons:
  
  -Unstable launch. 
  -Somewhat frequent crashes and bugs. 
  -No mounts (but honestly not needed, transportation in 
 the game is assumed) . 
  -No PvP as of yet. Personally I haven't noticed this to be a major Con... the single player is 
 so engaging that I really haven't missed 'ganking' lowbies. 
  -Some areas lack detail. I. e. parts of the marketplace have stalls everywhere that are unpopulated, 
 perhaps for content that is still to come.
  
  Well that's it. I seriously hope that anyone who loves D&D or played it as a child / adult-child 
 picks this up. I personally have found that it really captures the fun of a dungeon crawl quite 
 well. Now the problem comes out... how do I ween myself off this game slowly so it doesn't take 
 over my life like Diablo II did :D. 
  
  Cheers!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Veritys
Rating: 3.2
Date: Mar 6, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  I had very high hopes for this game, got into beta early and played as much as I had time for. 
 I really tried to like this game, but the endless pittfalls became to much to even log in. The 
 entire game takes place in one town, you talk with an NPC then hunt down the entry door, go in, 
 do a short and simple quest then wash and repeat. Thats it... there is nothing else to do, no world 
 to explore, no PVP nothing. I also dont care for the more real-time combat. This is a mmorpg, or 
 atleast advertises as one, real time combat in RPG's is silly. If the combat felt better it might 
 of worked out, but its very clunky. I never was a huge fan of D&D's, but im hearing negative things 
 even from the hardcore players. I would go play EQ2, WOW, DAOC or wait for Vanguard, Hero's journey 
 or even Pirates of the burning sea before wasting money on this! Oh and, just wait till you hear 
 the daytime soap actor voice... thats gotta be the funniest part.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: larryismyname
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 5, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  its just not my style. ive been looking for a new game to play because im finally gettin bored 
 of WoW, but this just didnt do it for me. i guess it has its moments, but its not too appealing 
 to me that everyone has a secret dungeon in their basement or everyone in this town has some epic 
 treasure and it so happens to get stolen. its just not enough to make me want to play for more 
 than just 6 hrs. if you want to find me ill be back on wow waiting for that game to finally take 
 me in 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paganstar
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 5, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  Straight off the bat let me say this... DDO is not just another EQ2 or WoW... and thank the gods 
 for that. Dungeons and Dragons Online does it's best attempt to recapture the pen and paper experience 
 that many of us remember growing up. In my opinion they did a pretty good job of it. The game launched 
 with hardly a hitch (something that many other MMO games cannot say) . This includes the pre-order 
 event that started four days earlier, deflecting some of the mass sign-up lag that other games 
 have felt on their first day. 
  
  The one thing that stands out in my mind that makes DDO different is pretty much required grouping. 
 This is how the P&P game was played and they took a big chance on it in computer format. Yes I 
 relize that there are many people who just want to solo their way through a game and not talk with 
 anyone else... well there are other games for that. 
  
  This game is about the dungeon dive. The taking of quests, going through a dungeon, finishing it 
 and receiving your reward. Which is quite different IMO from the go out and kill mobs for no reason 
 until you level treadmill. 
  
  As it is the game is a fun game. They have also left a lot of room for growth in the game so it 
 will not stagnate right away. There is no crafting and no PvP for now... but who knows where the 
 future might take this game. 
  
  Take this game for what it has and you will enjoy it. Don't try to fit it into the mold of any 
 of the other game becuase it just won't fit and the trying will take away from your fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hanno555
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2006 4:45 am PT
Review:  I originally gabe this game an 8.0 but after three days of retail play I feel I have no choice 
 but to downgrade to a 7.5. I was hoping for a lot more from this game. Instead what I got was a 
 so-so MMORPG. Its all been done before. I was hoping for Dungeons and Dragons Online, not a re-hash 
 of old Asheron's Call ideas. Also, for me, the lag is totally unacceptable. Its ok in the dungeons, 
 but in town and in the taverns I am constantly stutter-stepping. 
  
  Speaking of Dungeons, they got these right! I really do like the way the dungeons were done and 
 I hope that with time the rest of the game can become intersting. 
  
  I feel I have to qualify the above by stating I have never really liked this new world of Eberron 
 (or whatever its called) . I played the original PnP Greyhawk then Forgotten Realms and I'm having 
 a hard time liking this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squids-Ahoy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Though the myriad of Dungeons and Dragons entrys over the years have produced mixed results, 
 the massively multiplayer implementation offers a great deal of content for mmo players in general, 
 though the package favors Dungeons and Dragons aficionados with curious exceptions. 
  DDO includes most of what you would expect from both a fantasy rpg and a Dungeons and Dragons game. 
 Elves, Dwarves, and Humans are all present, with a new Ironforged race. Most of the classes are 
 there, such as ranger, fighter, cleric, but the monk is absent, though certainly to be added in 
 later content upgrades.
  Spending some time with most of time with most of the classes, my fears of unbalanced play favoring 
 a particular class over another were allayed, as all classes are equally as useful. For the first 
 time in Dungeons and Dragons history, the Bard is worth playing.
  The gameplay adds some excellent surprises to create a unique atmosphere for the game, most notably 
 the live action fighting. Push a button, swing a sword, block a hit, it all happens real time. 
 This is a refreshing change from the hands off approach that the majority of mmos take in regards 
 to combat. Does this mean that a skilled wizard can melee? Absolutely not, but it does make the 
 game that much more interesting.
  Furthermore, quests are the staple of the games content, as one could expect. Some notable additions 
 make the process much more enjoyable, such as a narrator taking the place of the dm and describing 
 events as they happen, or xp bonuses for completing optional objectives. To make these objectives 
 more challenging, your party can only heal in a rest shrine to recharge spells and life, but you 
 can only use a unique rest shrine once. This adds an element of resource management to deal with 
 in gameplay, which makes dungeons exciting even after the first time.
  The graphics and sound are fantastic if you have a machine good enough to run the game. The animations, 
 spell graphics, and bleeps and bloops are all above quality.
  Whether youre a D and D fan or just looking for a good MMO, DDO is your ticket to high fantasy 
 fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crzycespy
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 4, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Maybe I'm a bit picky, and if Stormreach was not called a DnD game I might not be so critical. 
 No, I probably would be. The graphics are fantastic, and, in my opinion, are the high point of 
 the game.
  
  As a long time pnp and crpg'er, this game fell far short of what I expected. I expected great, 
 and it is slightly better than average. Difficult combat controls, along with a struggle to get 
 into character because of the odd pace set, swimming with armor, and whelp, a few other things 
 left me a bit buggered; Not to mention lack of gnomes and half orcs.
  
  I didn't hate the title, but I didn't love it either. My advice? If you expect a real DnD feel, 
 try a different game. If you expect the action of a WoW, try a different game. If you are incredibly 
 patient, and believe Turbine and their developers can work out the things that are just inherently 
 *off* in the game, hamstringing what *should* be a great title, give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcanefelix
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Hello everyone,
  
  This is my first time writing a review for a MMO, and i normally don't write for MMO's, and don't 
 get me wrong. I write reviews around all the time so don't think im unexperienced. Now lets get 
 down to some reading.
  
  Gameplay: For me, the gameplay here is great, like GOOD. It all depends on the player if he likes 
 it, but the average player should enjoy it. Firstly think of this as a cross of diablo and guild 
 wars. This game isnt like those slow paced MMO's out der lk WoW, FFXI, Everquest, etc. This is 
 big. Theres quest where you gotta kill more den 100+ guyz, and datz a quest for level 3. Yes i 
 am aware that this game has a low level cap. (lvl.10) But then actually each level has 5 ranks 
 under it, equaling out to 40 levels. Mainly this would amuse a average player, but for hardcore 
 players i feel this is not their world. D&D is about story, experience and the dungeon crawling, 
 not about who levels the fastest. Its all about friends and community too, Theres a great community 
 in D&D and i can tell you, you cannot go on quest without a party. But you can get a party just 
 like that. And with the intergrated voice chat, partying is just hilarious and absouloutely fun. 
 Downside is about that there's no pvp, n lvl 10 cap, (they'll update to lvl 20 eventually) and many 
 things that other MMO's have. But think on the other side, D&D is about experience and partying. 
 For me, the gameplay is just amazing, period.
  
  Graphics: The graphics here could be a downer, or a upper depending on your machine. I have a 3.0 
 Ghz with X800 256mb video card wif 2 Gb memory. Obviously, my machine runs fast with high settings, 
 but i heard from other players they are expriencing lag when they are playing. So for people with 
 low specs, you'll just havta wait for a update or live with it for now.
  
  Sound: I would say its balanced, as i dont really know how to talk about the sound. I would say 
 itz just the same with normal MMO's, but i did enjoy it more then Everquest. With the voice intergration 
 as well its fun, its like LIVE. 
  
  Value: N/A Also for people that want to know the price, its $14.99 per month and there are different 
 plans, each plan is cheaper, go check it out yourself if you're interested/
  
  Conclusions: In my opinion, this game was the best MMO i played ever so far. I've been playing 
 through 3 nights without eating dinner, resulting to microwaving and ordering. But it was just 
 plain fun. It takes a long long time to level, but then for hardcore players they can level really 
 fast. For everyone out there who's looking for a WHOLE mmo exprience, i feel this is not right 
 for you, but if you're look for a very good exprience, come join us! obviously there arent any 
 MMO's that are perfect, but for example WoW fills up lots of categories, but doesnt beat D&D in 
 questing, story, and partying. Thank you for reading such a long review, got any questions just 
 message me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strayham2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  We all remember the magical days of EQ, opening that box and jumping into a never before seen magical 
 online world... Those days were over, until DDO. Other online RPGs offer the same format, grind, 
 reach level cap, wait for expansion; DDO takes it in an entirely different direction. Unlike other 
 games in the genre, DDO offers actual character creation, where the stats and abilities actually 
 matter. Chose your stats to match the type of character you want to be, rogue/ranger, fighter/cleric; 
 anything is possible. While earning experience and gear is still the main draw for a game of this 
 type, DDO takes it to a much more immersive level. Experience is earned by completing missions 
 that take place in... dungeons! I'm talking about the dark, creepy, trap-ridden qauntlet's that 
 one might expect. Loot is aquired via chests, some locked and some hidden, and also through quest 
 rewards given by NPC's. Traps and secret doors can be found by some of the stealthy classes, (rogues 
 and rangers) , levers sometimes need to be activated by adventurers with high strength, and runes 
 by those with high intelligence. As you can see, all types of classes are needed to advance safely 
 through a dungeon, and to reap all of its hidden benefits. Rest and ressurection shrines are located 
 in sensible spots throughout these crawls. Quest difficulty is chosen at the onset of each instance, 
 as a particular quest is completed on a ower difficulty, harder difficulties become available. 
 The varieties of quests that can be undertaken is amazing! Some have you battle powerful creatures, 
 while others may have you escort a warder, or guard valuable commodities. I've mentioned traps 
 and secrets, but also to behold are puzzles. Just enough to be fun and not too frustrating. Though 
 you will find the standard, get the key, or light the two gems to open the door... there is a nice 
 variety overall. The dungeon siege/diablo free-form style also helps differentiate DDO from others... its 
 hack and slash, the way you like it! Targeting is made easy by use of the TAB key; for both friend 
 and foe. Healing and magic is done D&D stye, by resting, and can only be done at a tavern or a 
 shrine, adding to the strategy. Death of an ally is also interesting. When a comrade falls in battle, 
 an ally can pick up the dead party members spirit essence, bring it to a shrine and be reborn. 
 If the entire party perishes, or you choose to, you can revive to a spot in Stormreach outside 
 the instance, and even rejoin the same instance with that party. Quests can be done multiple times, 
 though an experience penalty is incurred if an adventure is repeated too many times.
  These adventures however, are not designed for the soloist... grouping in DDO is a must. Fortunately, 
 groups can be created and found easily through the games easy to use socials interface. You can 
 apply to join a group, or start your own and easily locate those looking for a group.
  How has this formidable world translated from pen and paper to PC? Quite nicely i would say. The 
 character models are detailed overall, and while in your instance, your avatar moves fluidly. Creatures 
 are well detailed, and the AI is top-notch. Ranged npc creatures fan out and attack your healers 
 and mages while their fighters move in for the kill. This game will run quite well with a good 
 portion of details enabled on a mid-range pc. I did experience a ton of slowdown in the more populated 
 areas of Stormreach, though I am still running the headstart client. The sounds of DDO are atmospheric, 
 and really lend to the creepy feel of the dungeons. A well-written narrative by the "dungeon master" 
 adds to the ambiance of the adventure. 
  If you are tired of the same old grind, and are looking for a new, more immersive... and fun way 
 to earn experience, give this one a try... you won't be disappointed!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ogreslayer
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  The game while with good points fails to capture DnD's vast lore. The combat concept is perfect 
 for DnD giving the user and the party a more immersive experience. The Quest setup is also perfect 
 for DnD, giving it more of a close knit party experience. The World however is tiny has no real 
 depth to it... you are in a city and you go on quest there is nothing outside that no trips to 
 nearby towns no ambushes on carvans, no alignment toward good or evild, no pvp, no levels 11+, 
 no prestiege classes, etc.... I could go on but Turbine basically missed the opportunity to create 
 the WoW killer and we will have to wait. If they included up to level 20 and had used Forgotten 
 Realms and If i hadn't got half way to max in under 20 hours playtime I might be inclined to buy 
 it but i might as well just continue with other games this isn't worth $50 and a monthly fee to 
 even the most hardcore DnD fan, it might be a nice change from normal MMOs but not something that 
 will last anyone who is looking for another EQ or WoW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slammo22
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 4, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  BEING AN AVID PENCIL AND PAPER GAMER, AND A QUALIFIED NERD I AM SORELY DISGUSTED WITH THIS GAME. 
 THE WHOLE PREMISE ABOUT THIS GAME IS BEING JUST LIKE THE DICE GAME. AND IT FALLS WAY SHORT. BEING 
 LIMITED TO SPECIFIC AREAS AND SUCH A CRAPPY LIMIT OF PLAYER RACES IS PATHETIC,"WHAT WERE YOU GUYS 
 THINKING." SO WHAT IF IT VARIES A LITTLE BIT FROM GAMES SUCH AS 'WOW'. BUT IF I WANTED TO PLAY 
 A GAME LIKE WORLD OF WARCRAFT I'D BE PLAYING THAT GAME, BUT FOR WHAT I'AM LOOKING FOR OUT OF A 
 GAME, IT MISSES THE MARK. NOW I'AM SURE THEY'LL BE COMING OUT WITH PATCHES AND EXTRAS SUCH AS 'WOW' 
 HAS BUT WHO CARES.
  
  ALL I CAN SAY IS WEAK GUYS, REALLY WEAK
  SINCERELY, JOHN THE NERD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danjohnson3141
Rating: 2.6
Date: Mar 4, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Nothing to do but kill
  No Crafting --
  What do you do when you can't find a group in a system that has mandatory grouping?
  Strange 
 leveling system --
  -- what's with "ranks" ?
  -- Only 10 "levels" in the game
  Missions do not scale to party size
  Cannot solo almost all missions
  The LFG icon above your 
 toon's head is totally dorky
  Always zone into the busiest sub-zone automatically
  There is no option to pick what sub-zone to enter when zoning
  Not enough healing available; 
 CLW potions WAY too overpriced
  Cannot recover hp's/mana outside the excessively laggy inns
  No social aspect to the game
  
 Friends list shows friends online that are offline
  Extensive lag issues, especially in Inns (did nobody plan for capacity?)
  Entering chat rooms 
 continually fails
  Voice chat system is sometimes not accessible
  You have to do certain missions in order to get access to other zones
  Random useless awards 
 for loot
  Useless rewards when trading in to Collectors
  No tree that shows what feats lead to later ones --
  -- no character planning ability
  Not 
 enough game documentation at all (one game manual pdf?!)
  No way to respec your character if you choose a wrong skill/feat etc.
  You have to tediously 
 reset all your chat tabs for each new character
  No sidekicking/exemplaring functionality in the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolf-5
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 4, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  It is hard to just out and open say that this game sucks or rocks. Why... because it does both. 
 So, I will make this simple and short. 
  
  The suck: 
  This game has nothing great for graphics other then they try so hard to fill this game with all 
 kinds of lighting and textures but it sure is nothing new. Killing some othe rediculous effects 
 makes almost no diffrence and makes your game run a million times better. Makes me wish they spent 
 less on shading and lighting and more on design. As for gameplay... I hate how it unfolds. You 
 talk to this guy... he has a few quests for you you go do it, come back your done. Sure sounds 
 like most RPGs but... this is much more boring layout.
  
  The Rock:
  I will start with the way you gain EXP. I kind of dislike how you kill a group of monsters to gain 
 EXP instead of individually. monsters are a random bunch and you know exactly how many are there 
 to kill. However.. when you complete a quest.... it tallies everything you did and gives you EXP 
 according... so the more you, do the more you get. This encourages exploration. As for the best 
 part of this game.... Dungeons!! Yes... this is coming from someone whom hates leveling. This game 
 sure makes use of indevidiul tallents and allows you more then just walking and fighting. Jumping 
 grabing ledges climbing and so on. When you have friends in the PT going through a dungeon is awesome. 
 But thats it. 
  
  As this is just an opion this game has great dungeon gameplay but crappy overall play. For the 
 first time ever spending time in the dungeons is the best part. I give credit for the people who 
 made this RPG none turn based, use of jumping and climbing, and easier leveling... I do shun this 
 extremely goofy way of quest areas. very poorly thought out. I think I will stick to Final Fantasy 
 and World of Warcraft and hope that same day a multiplayer Oblivion will bless this world. :-) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trjc
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  Only average graphics by today's standards and with substandard gameplay, while it appears to be 
 fairly and reasonably true to the D&D ruleset, the game is simply "missing something". Gameplay 
 is not engrossing, is not stimulating, and fails to really come across as "fun".
  
  Features such as hire-able NPC's to join players who do not want to group or who can't find people 
 to group with -- advertised and touted in the original game design discussions -- are simply missing. 
 Interactions with NPC's are minimal; the feeling that the virtual world is alive simply isn't there. 
 Because of this, there is no real sense of a back-story or meaning to what is going on "in the 
 rest of the world". Instead, the player is left with a feeling of claustrophobia, redundancy, repetitiveness, 
 duplicity ... that is, doing the same thing over and over again in a small little nook of the world 
 that realistically couldn't have that many problems with all the adventurers and heroes running 
 around. It ends up feeling contrived instead of immersive.
  
  All game play is instanced. All of it. Even the "non-instanced" world is instanced, meaning that 
 people ostensibly on the same server may be in different instances. Perhaps this saves on netcode 
 sophistication; given observed performance, however, it doesn't appear as if the servicing rate 
 on connections is anywhere near as high as it should be (based on responsiveness to control inputs 
 on a high speed connection) , so it seems to just be a poor design implementation.
  
  There are issues with the UI; repeatedly, I've found that I'm unable to select an opponent with 
 either the mouse or the keyboard. Repeatedly, selection of shortcut icons on the quickbar are unresponsive 
 -- this on a farily powerful machine.
  
  There are issues with the camera; when against walls, for instance, the camera jams against the 
 player's head... and there is no transparency, so fighting an opponent while moving around an area 
 can lead to sudden and unexpected loss of visibility on who or what is being fought. Opponents 
 at different elevations; whether due to height of the opponent or your own placement on a crate 
 or other higher elevation; leave you scrambling to adjust the camera. It doesn't follow the fight. 
 Since facing is critical to being able to hit an opponent during a fight; and the angular range 
 of allowable facing is very narrow; losing sight of an opponent for any period of time guarantees 
 losing out on rounds of combat.
  
  The technical issues detract from game play, but would be acceptable if the game was just ... fun. 
 Unfortunately, it isn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ras223
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 3, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Unless your PC system would make Gamespot executives drool in envy, avoid this game like the plague. 
 
  
  Character Building: Really hyped up, but ultimately unsatisfying. You are limited to 5 character 
 races. That is fine, in theory. However, each race has 1 body type for each gender. The massive 
 customizability in facial features was somewhat unsatisfying, with limited choice dependant on 
 race. Essentially, everyone looks the same, but visits a different barber. 
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay was stunted. Instead of staying to the tried and true D&D farmework, they modified 
 elements to satisfy the program needs. That is fine, it happens. However, the changes have the 
 most impact ont he various caster classes. Insead of having a certan number of prepared spells 
 and more rest shrines, casters are given a Spell Point pool. The idea is that the caster will budget 
 thier spell points in adventures, resulting in a pattern similar to the D&D game. However, what 
 1st level wizard can spam out 18 Magic Missiles without resting? This is an issue that ultimately 
 detracts from the D&D feel. Casters should have universe-shattering power, but they need to earn 
 it first.
  
  Questing: Ultimately frustrating. I am a player who typically avoids PvP, prefering questing for 
 my treasure in any game I am in. However, the system in this game stifles even me. No experience 
 from fighting individual monsters. You must complete quests to earn your experience. Fine. But 
 it is harder than hell to find a party for most quests. I don't know why. Nobody advertises. The 
 Find Party button, while a nice touch, amounted to jack squat every time I used it. And you cannot 
 solo a quest, even at low levels. You give the beat-down on some kobolds solo, then it is party 
 time. Despite the massive numbers of other lowbies awkwardly runnign around, it seems impossible 
 to find a quest party. 
  
  System Requirements: To run the game, you need a system that is REcomended for most other MMO's 
 on the market. To play the game well, you better be buying your computer from NASA. Ridiculously 
 high system requirements drove down game performance. With 512Mb RAM, a 256Mb ATI video card, and 
 a rather fast Atahlon Processor, the following results occured. 1) Gameplay would not approach 
 'smoothness' until graphics were set to Very Low. 2) Movement was choppy and had a paper-doll look 
 to it. The legs moved, but the models moved far faster. 3) As great as your character and the environement 
 had the potential to look, not having a STELLAR PC leaves Baldurs GAte or Neverwinter Nights out-performing 
 this game. This is the final deathblow to this game. The number of systems that could run it at 
 the performance level displayed in the screen-shots could be counted on one hand. If you are even 
 considering this game, you better exceed the recomendations. All of them.
  
  Conclusions: I love D&D. I have played virtually every PC game remotely hinting at D&D since I 
 first had acess to a computer better than a Caleco. I loved Baldurs Gate, I loved Icewind Dale. 
 I considered marrying my copy of Neverwinter Nights. The thought of a D&D MMORPG drove me nuts 
 until its release. It is a shame that game had to chase me off in the matter of a couple hours. 
 Atari, Turbine, Hang your heads in shame. Here passes the greatest opportunity of your respective 
 companies lives. You haven't killed a giant. You just made it more unimaginative and out-of-reach 
 than anyone could have anticipated. D&D will live on, hopefully forever. It is a shame that this 
 incarnation will be abandoned due to its numerous flaws. Avoid it, as much as it pains me to say 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zivide89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 4:53 am PT
Review:  I have played this game from beta and even though it is a very fun game and seems to be getting 
 better all the time, there seems to be a few things that I am not too fond of. Graphics are pretty 
 good, sounds amazing, controls are real easy to get to know and the fact that it isn't just a click 
 and wait game makes it a little easier to get into for long periods of time. I am a D&D player 
 and have been for a few years, but I was a little dissapointed in the classes available. Granted 
 most of the classes are good, but I wanted to play a Druid or 
  even a ranger with a darn animal companion, or at least some better spells. No prestige classes 
 is another downfall, but all that aside. The game play is great and smooth, getting parties isn't 
 too hard at times. I think with a little more time and maybe an extension or two this game can 
 be amazing! If they fix the lag issue. The spell points is a lot better then a limited amount of 
 certain spells per day and the cross class ability is sweet as well as the action point system. 
 All in all if you want a change of pace from your basic click and wait RPG or want to get the feel 
 of having control over your character then this is a good game to try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masaville
Rating: 5.1
Date: Mar 3, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  Stormreach is another example of an MMO that tried to hit the mark, but failed. The boys over at 
 Blizzard are probably having a chuckle about this one.
  
  It's Guildwars thrust into a D&D model. The characters and game world resemble Guildwars very closely, 
 representing the typical anime stylings. The gameplay is also very similar offering an 'instanced' 
 approach.
  
  The interface is well done and easy to use, and quite possibly the best part of the game. Sound 
 effects are excellent, particularly in the dungeons, but the music score becomes downright irritating 
 quickly.
  
  The problem however lies in the gameplay, which is dry and repetitive and does not feel like D&D. 
 It's quest after quest of the same old, same old and the highlights of the quests are typically 
 the spell effects or some other unimportant aspect of the game. There is no gratification and at 
 the end of the quests you'll find yourself standing around with your friends saying 'now what?'. 
 After 10 to 20 hours of gameplay you'll be spiraling into boredomsville.
  
  If you're a hardcore Guildwars fan, you'll probably love this title. If not, save your money for 
 a rainy day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: High-Res
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 3, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  The only weakness in this game is on the social side of things, For those looking to "Role-Play", 
 It dosen't really provide you with the tools to do so, example, There are no Chat Bubbles , emotes 
 (2 or 3) . I have formed a guild and have about 12-14 members and have never spoken to any of them 
 and when I use guild chat , it is as though the others don't even see it or know how to respond. 
 In a Tavern or other social enviroment you can't even tell who your talking to and so on because 
 of the lack of emotes, and chat bubbles, etc. As far as game play, action, groups , teamwork, everything 
 is 100% spot on. So if you are looking to log in just to RP and be a social butterfly, This WIL 
 NOT be your cup of tea. If you enjoy the Action of D&D, and the grouping with friends, there is 
 no better gameplay available in any MMORPG. The "Group" function for forming like minded parties 
 is unsurpassed, It is the quickest, friendliet, easiest , most productive functioning interface 
 of any MMORPG ever made. I have always been anti Instance - The entire concept just dosen't work 
 for me. But what they did here and how they handled it has changed my mind. Also I want to make 
 a point, Although many of the social aspects seem to be lacky, they have done this to remove all 
 and every annoying players, example: In many games other players can effect and ruin your gameplay 
 experience. In D&D all those little things like Spammers and just down right jerk players have 
 no way of interferring with you or your parties experience. You really have to try this game to 
 see what I am talking about.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vokail
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 2, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing MMOs for a while, dating back to Everquest when it first came out. One of the 
 things that had always bothered me was the types of quests available and the style of gameplay. 
 Dungeons and Dragons Online: Stormreach truly addresses these old style of gameplay along with 
 bringing the world of Dungeons and Dragons to life for all to enjoy.
  
  The first things you experience when playing Dungeons and Dragons are the quality of sound and 
 graphics. The sound in Dungeons and dragons is actually quite good. It has sound affects that other 
 MMOs do not, for instance, when the clang of metal is heard, it can also produce a resonance sound 
 from the vibration of metal. The sound in the game is also rich and well done. The graphics of 
 the game are not as good as Everquest 2's, but does have much more color than the game and has 
 a different style; It is graphically superior to WoW with it's outdated Warcraft 3 graphics engine 
 and sounds much better as well with better sound overall.
  
  If you have ever played any MMO, such as Everquest or WoW, you will know that many of the quests 
 are collection of a certain amount of items or kill a certain amount of monsters to complete the 
 quest, well DnD online brings more imaginative and interesting quests to the table that the big 
 MMOs do not. One such quest is to rescue a woman who was kidnapped by a group of Kobolds and brought 
 deep within a sewer system like setting. Along the way there are smaller optional quests that allow 
 you to gain more experience by killing certain important figures or doing some other sort of task 
 that's within the instance. These quests really keep a person going if they don't like to sit in 
 one spot killing one group of monsters in an area all day.
  
  Dungeons and Dragons introduces a very nice combat system that most MMOs have never touched. You 
 are able to attack, dodge, and block in real time. They also bring in tactics to play with flanking 
 and interaction with objects, such as ledges, blocks, etc. that other games would not allow. With 
 this said, combat can be very interesting with the tanks trying to keep the enemy away from the 
 people lobbing spells and arrows at the enemy an at the same time trying to kill key characters 
 such as Shamans. This really brings a unique style of combat that the big name MMOs, such as Everquest 
 2 and WoW don't have.
  
  One of the drawbacks of playing DnD online is that it is purely instance based, meaning there is 
 no actual world that you can run around and explore like in many other MMOs. Now this is a smaller 
 drawback because of how many quests and the size of the city you can explore, but this is truly 
 based on how people's preference.
  
  I hav ejust touched based on some of the many good things about Dungeons and Dragons Online: Stormreach, 
 such as multiclass characters, skills, feats, etc. But one thing is for certain, to quote GameSpy, 
 it "feels like a breath of fresh air for the MMO genre". It introduces a very unique style of gameplay 
 to the MMO world and is meant to be played by anyone who has as little time as an hour every once 
 and a while to people who have no lives. This is truly a great and unique game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: naomha1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  You know, with all the whining I've read from supposed "core" D&D fans about this game, I haven't 
 seen one person really relate to what the devs were trying to bring you in this game. At its core, 
 it is true D&D. I've read complaints about the grinding, and the waiting for groups, and the long 
 trek of each quest. Man..... have any of you ever played pen and paper? Did you play it by yourself?... ummm.... prolly 
 not, huh? If any of you ever played p&p, then you prolly sat around a table with a bunch of your 
 friends for hours... hell, maybe even days... and you DID THE GRIND, you DID THE QUESTS, and you 
 PROLLY WAITED FOREVER TO FINALLY GET THAT FREAKIN SWORD OF ORCSLAYING. And guess what... your wrists 
 prolly were a little sore from rolling the dice so many times and you had callouses on your fingers 
 from writing all your character info down... mapping out your dungeons, etc. I think this game rox... it 
 takes core D&D and brings it to life. So what if you wait a little while for a group... check out 
 the rest of the city... do some grinding... explore what you can, check out the graphics, the sounds, 
 talk to some people... the same people that prolly have been waiting as long as I have for some 
 true D&D to come to life. AC2 this is not... GW it is not.... NWN it is not... THIS IS D&D BABY... enjoy 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ychi
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 2, 2006 1:15 am PT
Review:  How could a game rate this bad or possibly be this bad? Its simple, extremely poor design. I tried 
 the beta and did not like it then but I wanted to give it a fair shot when it went to retail and 
 what has changed? Nothing.
  
  What is deceptive: the advertisements clearly state - no grinding but that is exactly what you 
 do - grind quests over and over until you cannot enter them as you have leveled higher. If you 
 fail to grind quests then you will not have the needed experience to get to a higher level and 
 the future quests will wipe you out. So a grinding away you will go down the path of mind numbing 
 boredom. There are no outdoor open public quest zones just more instances. Its an endless enter 
 door X over and over again.
  
  If anyone recalls Turbine pulled this stunt before with Asherons Call 2 where you can grind quests 
 over an over again for loot exp etc. It did not work well then and with today's expectations it 
 *still* does not work well now. Except one vital difference from before, at least in AC2 you gained 
 experience per kill so there was some progress along with making some income.
  
  So what is broken:
  In order to gain experience you have to COMPLETE the quest, sure you can 
 kill monsters in them all day but if you leave with the quest incomplete you get ZERO anything. 
 
  
  You can place yourself looking for group for a quest a nice touch *but* if no one joins you then 
 you are out of luck as you will never advance since you have not finished any quests. So if people 
 blast though that level range and no one is around to group, again you are out of luck. Wonderful 
 isn't it? You would swear the developers figured it was not a problem as they could "always get 
 a group - oh surprise! They are making the danged game!"
  
  Soloing? Forget it. The early stuff its possible but in a very short time it becomes pointless 
 to do so as you quickly become outnumbered by the monsters. This will quickly spiral down hill 
 as you burn money on repairs, food for healing at the Inn etc.
  
  Do or die questing joy. You get a designated place to rest and you get to rest - once - per location. 
 Based on the size of the dungeon you can have more than one spot but usually its just one. Even 
 better, remember you only get to rest there ONCE. So that covers all the healing mana regeneration, 
 etc. If you need more too bad, you get the pleasure of starting the entire dungeon over again from 
 the beginning.
  
  Ok, its dark, its creepy the dungeon drips with adventure, the DM comments add even more color 
 to the game, you want to soak it up and enjoy it as its the first time you have seen this new place. 
 Where is your adventure party? They are already a mile ahead of you zooming along. Why? They have 
 already done this quest several times and now its just a grind for them. You still want to experience 
 and soak up any content of that quest created by the hard work of the developers? Too bad, no one 
 wants to wait on you, get moving or get kicked from the group.
  
  Even with the character creation you quickly look like a clone, the player models feel rigid/stiff 
 and lack personality. Still to this day City of Heroes/ City of Villains holds the Crown for unique 
 player appearances.
  
  The interface is very clunky and uninspired. Example: there is a spot where the D20 die pops up 
 to show you the roll made nice touch, but it then disappears until it needs to pop up again, during 
 the flurry of battle you can accidentally drag that window over to some weird place. Drag remember 
 because that window as invisible so you never knew you had grabbed it. Also several windows do 
 not remember where you parked when you use them again so if you do not like the default interface 
 layout, too bad for you.
  
  What works:
  
  The Dungeon Master comments are a great touch and it makes it feel like the old pen and paper D&D. 
 I would almost swear it was an interactive advertisement to prompt you to go play the original. 
 I know I felt that way while playing DDO Online.
  
  The graphics are solid and the lighting and mood of the game are captured well.
  
  Also the 
 sound is very solid as well as the environmental effects panned niced across the speakers.
  
  The Character Models are rendered decently and to scale so if you did not like the World of 
 Warcraft exaggerated graphical style then you should feel pretty comfortable here.
  
  Voice chat is nice that it is integrated into the game but do you really want to see that slender 
 female elf sound like a burly retired oil platform worker? Bleh!
  
  Rouge class is actually really useful in this game as they are needed to find and disarm traps, 
 open locks, locate secret places. A very nice touch. Its been a very long time since any MMO game 
 had rogues useful again in this manner. 
  
  Conclusion:
  I really wanted DDO to succeed. Competition is a good thing and I wanted to see something else 
 beside World of Warcraft this or that. We need competition as it will offer more variety in what 
 we can play and enjoy and keep the gaming development community in growth mode vs clone mode. We 
 have enough clone or sequel mode as it is right now.
  
  During the Beta Test, I posted along with many people our community feed back about DDO online 
 needing more time as the above notes were the exact same problems then as they are now. The developers 
 completely ignored our pleas and now bingo, its retail. Only time will tell if it will improve 
 or wither and die off.
  
  If you are still desperate like I was to try anything new at the moment *wait* for the 14 day trials 
 to come available and save your hard earned $$$ just in case you do not like DDO either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burrek
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 1, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  
  
  pros: fast paced dynamic combat, strong atmosphere, excellent group dynamics
  
  cons: bugged quests, lack of content, limited scope
  
  Dungeons and Dragons Online : Stormreach 
 starts out by dropping you off in Stormreach Port and presenting with opportunities to adventure 
 in a variety of locations.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  From the artistic point of view the graphics are allright, nothing exceptional, but they have more 
 flair than EQ2 or Quake3. On the technological side of things the graphics have post-process effects, 
 light bloom, reflexions, bump-mapping (although used sparingly, no plastic looking stone or faces) , 
 gloss mapping, realistic shadows, and high resolution texturs. The engine is pretty good and well 
 optimized. It also has alot of options to tweak the performance for a large range of machines.
 
  
  The armor designs are very nice, they mesh realism and fantasy in good proportion. Every character 
 starts with the same armor type, but after 1h of gameplay you will have found 2+ armor sets. Even 
 the same type of armor has multiple desgins which lets the players pick and choose what design 
 fits a character best. The character models are also very realistic and have nice proportions and 
 animations. The animations are not motion-captured and do not feel 100% realistic. I would say 
 the animation quality is similar to WoW. There is a wide variety of hair-cuts and facial features 
 as well as skin tones. Unfortunatly it is not possible to change the frame or size of the characters 
 which makes all humans, elves, and dwarves look alike from afar. 
  
  One complain I have is the lack of variety in the advneturing settings, most of the first few levels 
 are spent crawling in sewers and warehouses, killing kobolds ... and more kobolds... and some more 
 kobolds... did I mention the Kobolds? Since the game uses a tile system you will eventually get 
 a feeling of dejavu. The game does have different lighting, fog, props, etc., as well as very different 
 tile setups, yet the art is the same for the different dungeons. Later on in the game you will 
 venture into ancient temples, catacombs, jungle areas, pirate hidouts, underground cities, dangerous 
 caves, and tropical islands. 
  
  The common city areas are designed by hand and are fairly good looking. I feel the artists failed 
 to give the impression that the ruins serrounding the more modern housing are 1000's of years old 
 and failed to capitalize on the concept of a city borderd by limitless jungle. None the less the 
 many districts have their own distnict art styles and present a nice veriaty.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  The ambient effects bring a lot of atmosphere to the game. It's often times 
 rather spooky to be creeping through a dungeon and wondering wether what you heared was a monsters, 
 the wind, or some harmless vermin. One nice detail is that the tavern ambient noise will change 
 depending on the amount of people inside. From a quiet atmosphere of clinking glasses, all the 
 way up to the chorus of the joint voices of many a conversation.
  
  Whenever participating in an adventure DM text will show up on the screen and give you hints about 
 your serroundings. The text is also enacted by an excellent voice actor and it brings another layer 
 of immersion into the game. 
  
  The characters themselves do not have any voice emotes (they don't have many emotes overall) .
 
  
  The music is also excellent. Tavern music mixes a medieval jigs and pirate songs, while in-mission 
 music has an interesting mix of forboading tones and rythmic combat staccatos. It's rather hard 
 to define the in-mission music since it's nothing like anything I heared before. I would best desribe 
 it like "gothic tribal" music, very unreal, yet very good.
  
  The ambient music in the city areas will soon grow old since there is only one tune per area.
 
  
  The game inspires role-playing, but it does not facilitate it. The thick atmosphere encourages 
 character immersion, yet the lack of usable benches in taverns, lack of alcohol or any other props, 
 forces you to use /e instead. Since the pacing of the game is not forced, there being no respawn, 
 it is much easier to add RP comments while in mission, moreover the forced tavern visit are a nice 
 place to socialize between missions and for random RP with strangers.
  
  Value: 8/10
  
  The game is short when compared to MMORRPGs like WoW or EQ. The amount of gameplay is just slightly 
 above GuildWars PvE. The developers promise to bring a lot of new content in monthly patches (akin 
 to AC, and AC2) and that will certainly extend the gameplay, although it's hard to comment on that 
 until I acctualy see a content update.
  
  I'd say you can get about 80+ hours of gameplay with your first character. This also depends on 
 how fast paced you like your adventures to be. The game does encourage using alts since every class 
 plays differently. Unfortuantly the game can get repetitive quickly due to the fact that there 
 are limited missions which you will have to do more than once, the game does provide diminishing 
 returns whenever repeating a mission so it's enouraged to seek out new missions, yet there is a 
 slight amount of repetition. I'll go into more detail on the mission replyability in the gameplay 
 section.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  The game is really fun! the combat is fast-paced, dynamic, and exciting. The missions are interesting 
 and varied. The only downside is that there is little to do outside of combat. The fun that is 
 there is top-notch.
  
  The game provides an excellent LFM and LFG system that lets you specify who you are looking for, 
 what you want to do, and what level range of characters you want. 
  
  Here is a little on class balance in groups:
  
  Obviously the cleric class is the most favored 
 companion due to the fact that they are heavily armored, can heal, can deal with undead with little 
 trouble and can cast buffs as well as offensive spells. 
  
  The second most important character is a rogue, yes a rogue. Unlike many MMOs that followed the 
 DnD rogue staple DDO makes the rogues play the role they were designed to play: trap and lock specialists. 
 The adventures are full of traps, locked doors, hidden passages that only a rogue can disable successfuly. 
 The only thing is that you never want to have two rogues in the same party since soon enaugh you'll 
 see the fur flying. Running into a trap can often mean death to a character so it's a good idea 
 to have the rogue around.
  
  Rangers are light fighters that focus on ranged combat as well as verious survival skills.
  
 
  Fighters are flexible melee combatants that can be either damage dealers or expert defenders.
 
  
  Berbarians are sowmhere between a fighter and a ranger. They can deal very good damage yet are 
 not as flexible as fighers.
  
  Bards are a flexible class that can be either a figher, caster, or healer.
  
  Wizards and Sorcerrers 
 have a nice selection of spells and they play much more stratigically since they usally don't participate 
 in melee combat and isntead have to ratio their spells so as to use them most effectivley before 
 they run out of spell points.
  
  Paladins are clerics with a stronger melee focus, they get fewer spells than clerics and have more 
 combat orinted special abilities like Smite Evil. 
  
  All the classes are very customizable as per the 3.5 DnD rules.
  
  It should not take too long 
 to get a group going. Even a party of 2-3 (max is 6) is very strong and will have no trouble with 
 quests of equal level to that of group members. Once you have a group ready you will venture into 
 a quest instance. The quest instances are usualy within a minute (or less) of travel from the quest 
 givers. The quests themselves provide a veriety of ojective: rescue missions, location defense, 
 clean up missions, stealthy item "retrieval", treasure hunting, exploration of ancient ruins, investifgations 
 of unusual events, etc. . 
  
  There is no automatic health regeneration in the quests which adds a deep level of strategy and 
 intensity to each quests, especially the ones that require you to survive an onslought of enemies 
 or escape with your life from a bad situation. You can only regain your lost health in taverns 
 which makes the taverns seem like... taverns, places to rest up and look for work and adventuring 
 companions. The focus on taverns definitly brings the community togather, encourages roleplaying, 
 and aliviates the feeling of solitude that instances bring. It can become rather tedious when it 
 comes to selling and resting between every mission yet it is a decent system overall since the 
 travel times are extremly short.
  
  Once you finish a quest you will be awarded experience equal to the experience worth of all the 
 enemies in the dungeon + the quest exp. You can earn bonuses to your quest exp by performing exceptionaly 
 well in a mission. This is a personal gripe of mine since it prompts the players to go out and 
 smash all the crates and kill every last enemy to get that extra 3% exp.
  
  The combat itself is very fast paced and reminds me a lot of Fable. It allows the player to simply 
 turn auto-attack on to win a fight, but it also gives you the ability to lead your character directly 
 which will appeal to anyone that likes a good melee combat game or enjoys dynamic combat that requires 
 quick thinking. The game encourages preparation before encounters since there are tactics that 
 can dramatically affect the outcome depending on the foes and the enviornment.
  
  It is not possible to get to level 10 (the cap at release, each level being devided into 5 subleves, 
 which gives 50 opportunities for advancment) without repeating some of the quests along the way. 
 You will quickly see dimishing returns if you repeate quests (in terms of both loot and experience) 
 so repeating a quest more than 3 times is not advisable. The game has multiple difficulty setting 
 for every quest, as well as a small degree of randomness in monster and loot placment, combiend 
 with different group combinations (and thus different approaches) , keep things fresh.
  
  The interface provides a basic degree of customizability, allowing you to drag everything around 
 and change the chat windows at will. There are two noticable flaws: lack of /replay key and a fairly 
 poor in-group interface that tells you less about the players your with than the LFG/LFM and guld 
 interfaces. Overall the interace is not much different from AO and EQ2 in terms of design and options. 
 
  
  I personally had no problems running the game. I've heared of people having some lag issues and 
 loading issues with the scenary but can't say what % of the players do experinece those. The game 
 engine is based off of AC2 graphics/server engine and so it has been well polshied and optimized 
 through the years.
  
  
 
  
  DDO vs DnD
  
  Here is a short list of things that DDO fails to implement when compared to PnP DnD:
  
  - no 
 monk or druid class
  
  - only 5 races
  
  - Alignment has no meaning other than req for items
  
  - There are no evil Alignments
  
 
  - There is no real GM
  
  - You are forced to follow the story the way Turbine intended
  
  - There is no over-arching story for your characters, only smaller campigns and single quests
 
  
  - When preparing spells you cannot allocate a specific number of spells and instead there are spell-points 
 that can be used to cast any of the prepared spells
  
  - You cannot rest whenever you want while inside an instance
  
  - there are a few missing feats 
 and skills from the PnP version
  
  - the game does not calculate exp per kill
  
  - there isn't the same level of interactivity with the enviornment
  
  - there is no choice 
 in NPC interaction
  
  - warforged can drown and are no immune to poison
  
  - you cannot attack your fellow party members
  
  Can't think of any more, if there is something 
 that you think is should be on the list please let it be know.
  
  
 
  
  The game will appeal to those that enjoyed the PvE part of Guild Wars as well as to any cRPG fan 
 that does not mind fast paced combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainsedge
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 1, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Firstly DDO is not WoW... if you want to compare it to something its like Guild Wars with some 
 Diablo II.
  I've been playing DDO for the past weekend+, and have come to enjoy the stories and background 
 some of the quests send you on. With the narration of the in game DM (to include purposefully cheesy 
 voice acting) and fast paced combat the first several levels have felt like I was playing the paper 
 and pencil game all over again.
  Though the game is very faithful to the 3.5v of the D&D rule set, it does take a few liberties 
 to extend your characters life beyond just 10 levels. Between each level there are "ranks" which 
 allow your character to gain, for a lack of a better term, class specific feats that mold the character 
 into something a little more than just levels gained and stats. And like most paper and pencil 
 games it encourages (maybe requires is a better word) groups for most of the quests beyond the 
 first couple.
  With that said I do have some criticisms about the game, namely its VERY time consuming and is 
 hard to spend only an hour on. In effect each quest is an "instance" game that require you to take 
 time out to find a group to finish. For those who have played WoW, its like waiting for a PuG for 
 instances (but not as annoying) . Another problem I have is the system for receiving credit is pretty 
 flimsy and if you are not careful, you can be left without completion credit while the rest of 
 the group does, even though you were present from start to finish of all the quest goals.
  All in all, I would highly recommend it if you are a fan of MMORPGs or D&D in general and want 
 to try something different. But if you don't have too much time to spend at one time to group with 
 friends/guildmates/pickup players, I would caution it can become a relatively flat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keledron
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 1, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  The idea of a playing DnD in an MMO environment is not a new idea. The first attempt at something 
 similar was done back in the mid-90s called Neverwinter Nights (not that Bioware released... thing) . 
 The original NWN offered a really faithful recreation of 2nd edition DnD rules, and an excellent 
 online experience, and soonafter faded away when AOL no longer wished to maintain it.
  
  Fast-forward about 10 years later and DDO is now released. First off, no matter how you slice it, 
 DDO is a love it or hate it experience. This will all depend on how much you enjoy true Dungeons 
 and Dragons. If you've played tabletop DnD sessions (and your DM actually understood the rules) 
 and you enjoyed it, there really is no reason you won't love this game. 
  
  The graphics are very well done, and the character models/items you find along the way will definitely 
 give you enough to look different from many others you meet along the way. The environmental effects 
 (torch lighting, reflections, etc) are all well done, and the city of Stormreach looks awesome 
 no matter where you are looking.
  
  The audio is well-done and not overbearing. Its enough to keep you immersed, but maybe there could 
 have been a bit more in this department as far as in game music/the soundtrack. Its decent, and 
 if you have an EAX setup the game really takes advantage of it. The integrated voice chat is the 
 best feature, hands down, in the DDO interface. Within a few mouseclicks, you can forget Teamspeak 
 ever existed, and you'll be coordinating verballiy with your groupmates in no time.
  
  Gameplay is the big one. Its incredibly different from any MMO out on the market currently, and 
 for two big reasons. One of which is the realtime combat system. If forces interactivity AND strategic 
 decisions. You cannot under any circumstance just hit auto-attack and go make a snack. Like DnD, 
 many things factor in when you swing your weapon (are you flanking the enemy? are you hitting them 
 from the side? etc) , and each weighs in heavily as to what happens afterward. It sounds almost 
 too good to be true in a sense, but Turbine has pulled it off nicely.
  
  The next big gameplay difference is of course the DnD 3.5 rules themselves. This is the most faithful, 
 best attempt at recreating the DnD experience into a game, ever. No game before this (except maybe 
 the really old Gold Box games: champions of Krynn, death knights, etc) has ever come close in bringing 
 the experience as true to the tabletop game as DDO has. To fans of the genre, this is a wonderful 
 thing. To people who have played nothing but WoW or even EQ2, you're in for quite a change of pace. 
 In fact, if you've played these games and DND itself is not familiar to you, I suggest you read 
 up on DnD itself and how it works before buying the game. Mainly because it is quickly apparent 
 when there are characters who don't understand their character's role in a party. (Ex: Someone 
 playing a ranger and constantly rushing to the frontlines to fight instead of sitting back and 
 using their bowskills, or a wizard running off ahead of their party on their own in search of a 
 treasure chest... etc)
  
  Grouping is an absolute must in DDO, from almost right off the bat. Just like in DND, no one character 
 can do it all. This makes sense if you give it thought, as DnD itself always was a social game, 
 played by several people and each could control one or multiple characters. So if the idea of not 
 being able to solo even remotely efficiently is something you see as negative, don't even bother, 
 and stick to what you're playing already. 
  
  Once you get a mindset for the DND experience as a whole, you are in for an awesome treat. DDO 
 offers the most intricate quests, with good plots to them, and some of the most sadistic Trap layouts 
 this reviewer has ever seen. This makes rogues a requirement for a very large majority of the quests, 
 as they are the only ones able to disarm them. Some of the series of traps almost feel like an 
 Indiana Jones movie as you try to navigate through trapfilled rooms, with certain death awaiting 
 you at the first misstep.
  
  Again, DDO sticks to DnD in an almost religious manner. There is a reason for that, in that it 
 works, and works well. Characters do not automatically regenerate health and mana while in a dungeon. 
 These can only be gained at Resting points in dungeons (of which there can be one or several) and 
 this really enforces the diverse party atmosphere. If you are killed in a dungeon and any party 
 members are fortunate enough to survive, they can carry your soul stone to one of these Resting 
 Points and revive you. The catch is that you can only rest at these, and resurrect someone, once 
 for each point. Again, this is a huge diversion to the norm, but it works.
  
  To conlude, there really is one of the best MMO experiences to be had in DDO, but its not for everyone. 
 There is a decent learning curve, especially for the DnD unitiated. Don't go in trying to compare 
 it to WoW, they're not even in the same ball park, and its for many reasons. DDO features a rich 
 quest system, and a very sophisticated system in general that, once understood, produces one of 
 the best and most addictive MMO experiences to date. 
  
  Thats my take, take it or leave it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawkwin_1
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 1, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  DDO is a game that attempts to incorporate most of the core rules of DnD 3.5 into an online, group-based, 
 roleplaying game. It does so with some modifications to the DnD rules while keeping much of the 
 basic design. Players, in order to play effectively, are encouraged to group with other players 
 to complete NPC assigned quests. Loot and exp is acquired on these quests which the players use 
 to improve their characters.
  
  The Good
  DDO is a close approximation of the 3.5 rule set. It is closer than any other game except NWN. 
 It is somewhat of a living world in that you can interact with other people not in your group, 
 when you are in town and not on a quest. Most of that interaction will occur in taverns. There 
 is not much interaction that takes place outside of the taverns. For people that are familiar with 
 DnD, this is a very good thing. For those that are not, well read further.
  
  The Bad
  Perhaps it is due to the selection of my server but I have found that there is little, scratch 
 that, no roleplaying. Perhaps this is a symptom of beta players and the rush to achieve some level 
 of status before the rest of the world has access. I do not know. I do know that I have not encountered 
 a single person roleplay during a quest. In most if not all of the quests, you can tell who has 
 played beta. They are the one way off in front that has left the rest of the party behind. They 
 know the way. They might give some directions every now and then but basically there is no communication 
 -- and certainly not at the level of what one would expect of an actual PnP game. In this way, 
 it is no better than any other MMORPG out there.
  
  The Ugly
  The learning curve is horribly steep for those not familiar with DnD. Spell descriptions do not 
 tell you the specifics of a spell (e. g. this spell will do 1d6 damage per caster level up to lvl 
 6. This damage type is fire, etc.) . Instead, you get a rough generalization as to what the spell 
 does. You are required to search the database to learn more about each spell and function that 
 does not give a more detailed description; or you must have a copy of the SRD or a Player's Handbook.
 
  
  Because DnD 3.5 is a VERY complicated system of rules, and because you cannot respec in this game, 
 you will find many people that will feel gimped later in the game as they learn that they did not 
 do something at character creation that was critical to the success of the character. For example, 
 clerics need 15 in Wisdom in order to be able to cast lvl 9 spells when they gain access (this 
 is not an issue now but it would be upon release of higher level content) . If they do not take 
 a 15 in Wisdom, they would have to wait at least four more levels to cast lvl 9 spells. The same 
 goes for many of the feats that require many attribute specifics as well as many prerequisite feats.
 
  
  The interface is not very userfriendly. From selecting attack actions to the size of the icons, 
 to the functionality of the chat groups, everything seems to be not quite completely thought out. 
 It is as if everything should still be in beta. It is very difficult for me to either see combat 
 info, talk to my party, or hear what non-party members are saying at the same time.
  
  Lastly, combat for melee characters is horrible. If you used ranged combat, you basically point 
 and click and the game will do the rest because you are locked on target. If you are engaged in 
 melee, and you know anything about how PnP DnD works, movement and positioning is a very critical 
 component of the game. It is very easy to miss an entire round or two of combat because your currently 
 selected target decided to take one step back (5 step rule) and attack. If you are engaged in your 
 attack, you might lose that entire round because you did not move close enough to finish your attack 
 (maybe you only moved 2 feet) or you moved to far and now your target is to your left or right, 
 and you no longer face your target. You could find your target run off in a random direction and 
 attack someone else. Now you have to manually spin around, find where your target went, and get 
 close enough to engage again before they run off in a new direction. You can lose numerous rounds 
 during a large encounter doing this nonsense. You never encounter this in PnP DnD. This issue is 
 exacerbated when you are fighting multiple targets. Because you cannot autofollow your target, 
 you can easily lose which one you are currently targeting and have no idea which way to face with 
 your attack. Eneviatably, you find yourself selecting a new target instead of chasing down the 
 old one. In PnP DnD (as well as most MMORPG) , a strategic fight often requires you to focus on 
 one target. In this game, you often find yourself having to select a new target every round or 
 two because you can no longer determine which one you are actually targeting.
  
  Lastly, lastly, the game just feels "chinsy" The quests are not well thought out. You simply find 
 an NPC with an icon over their head, follow the preselected text, and then go to the starting point 
 to do the quest. It is entirely too overly simplistic. When you complete the quest, it has no impact 
 on the city or you except that it may grant you access to new areas of the city. You gain no prestige, 
 you gain no faction, prices don't become cheaper, certain NPCs don't treat you any different, and 
 to top it off, you can do the quest again, as if what you did never fixed the problem in the first 
 place. In this way, the world is entirely stagnant. It makes it so it is little more than an online 
 single-player game. Your only sense of accomplishment is in the form of items and exp. And with 
 the relative ease of the quests and coupled with the pace at which it seems players want to finish 
 the game, I can't see a long life for DDO, especially with the monthly fee. The game has no feeling 
 of life typically associated with MMORPGs and it does not have the precision of PnP that would 
 would expect of a DnD game.
  
  I really hope to see this game succeed but count me a skeptic. I bought this game last week, after 
 posting concerns about my skepticism and beta players assuring me that I should not be worried 
 -- that it is not as it seemed based on the posts of the old message board. I am beginning to believe 
 that I was correct in my initial impressions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilaen
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 1, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  Let me say this first. Do not play this game if soloing is something you like to do.
  
  Much like the pen-and-paper D&D game, DDO is meant to be played with a group of friends. The combat 
 is fast paced and highly strategic in nature. The dungeons themselves are also tricky and require 
 teamwork and the skills of everyone in the group. If I was to compare this game to another MMORPG 
 I'd say City of Heroes is the closest match.
  
  There have been a few annoying interface bugs. Sometimes windows won't remember where they were 
 between sessions. There is a also an issue with guild chat occasionally not displaying messages 
 from some players.
  
  I'm definitely having fun with this game. Playing with friends really makes a big difference. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sqldbaman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 1, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  Some FAQ about DDO: 
  
  1) What is DDO? 
  A: DDO is Dungeon & Dragons Online 
  
  2) What is the main type of play in DDO? 
  A: It is quest-based play. No PvP or the like. Everything 
 is geared to to quest-based rpg. No camping occurs since quests are all instance-based and loot 
 is reserved in every chest for each member of the party... it is randomized so you never know what 
 you will get... and it is ALWAYS different then what everyone else got. Further, you can redo quests 
 over again... the pathing is the same, but some aspect like certain monsters will vary. Most importantly, 
 the loot varies even on re-do quests and the experience points are still received. 
  
  3) Is there anything in the game that promotes mingling with others? 
  A: You betcha. You have 
 to heal in taverns (which there are multiple locations and vary with NPCs and quests) . You regen 
 your mana and life points in taverns (the only other spot are healing shrines in dungeons, but 
 they can only be used once) . The grouping system allows you to flag yourself on a search "report" 
 that allows you to literally advertise that you are looking for a group... you can define specifics 
 and such much like an advertisement. This allows you to instantly have others join your group on 
 the fly... from anywhere in world. The map allows them to locate you and communications (/tells) 
 are very smooth. This part of the game is very slick... probably the most efficient versus any 
 other MMORPG that I have seen. 
  
  4) Is there crafting? 
  A: No. There is talk of it... but nothing is present in the game as of now. 
  
  5) How does 
 the economics work in the game? 
  A: You sell things to NPC vendors. "Things" include all the loot you gather from quests through 
 rewards and discovery (looted off corpses and in boxes/vases/etc.) . You can sell/trade between 
 people ingame. The system is very similar to other MMORPG style games... so nothing new there (trade 
 window, etc.) . 
  
  6) Is the game stable? 
  A: So far (fingers crossed and knock on wood) ... yes! No issues that I have heard ingame or have 
 experience personally on two machines. No one in our guild has stated any issues they have discovered 
 either. 
  
  7) How do the graphics and sound compare to SWG or Asheron's Call 2? 
  A: Different engine for graphics... but they are very clean. The higher you bump your detail... 
 the more you see (like in any game) . I was looking at my characters imagine in a mirror the other 
 day... had my detail bumped to high (one below top setting) . The graphics are similar to Asheron 
 Call 2, but better detail. Which is better... SWG or DDO? Hard to say... SWG had some very clean 
 graphics... but lots of bugs and landscape issues took away from it. I have not seen any graphic 
 issues in DDO as of yet. 
  
  8) How customized can you make your character? 
  A: This is where DDO shines! You can make an Warforged (Steel char) , Elf, Human, Dwarf, or Halfling. 
 You can be male or female. You can easily customize body and facial aspects much like SWG. The 
 difference comes to the detail in skills and feats. You are given 28pts to do with as you please... 
 there are literally hundreds of combinations. Mix in feats and classes (Ranger, Bard, Cleric, Fighter, 
 Sorc, Wiz, Paladin) --- employ the rules of D&D... and whammo, you get a very customized character. 
 An example - my Ranger Elf had 28 skill points and an additional 40 skill enhancement points... 
 along with several feats and even a favorite enemy. 
  
  9) Does it live up to the hipe?
  A: So far yeah. Remember, it is not a PvP game. You cannot attack another player by any means at 
 this time. This game promotes team work and the need for varied classes (i. e. a well balanced group 
 will achieve more success having varied classes to deal with different issues deep in a quest) 
 help promote this goal.
  
  10) Lastly, is it fun?
  A: Yes. Eliminate greed to grab the best item (loot in chest are reserved for you - specifically) . 
 Eliminate camping (instance-based) . Eliminate the need to intimidate others through improper PvP... 
 make teamwork and grouping a necessity on higher lvl quests but provide environments for going 
 it alone too... and you get a really fun game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: funk_99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  Lots of complaints from folks who keep saying that repeating the same dungeon isn't fun, 'cause 
 the dungeon is still the same. Here's a thought, PLAY A DIFFERENT DUNGEON!! This game is not about 
 power-leveling. It's not about racing through the dungeon to "get the loot" or just get to the 
 end for the xp. At it's heart, this game is about exploration with a group of people. 
  
  Link up at the tavern, make sure the people you are grouped with are people you actually want to 
 play with (if not, leave and find a different group) , and a quest or two. Want to solo? Go play 
 WoW, and ninja loot to your hearts content goldfarmer. Want to spend some time with actual people, 
 really getting a feel for the world, and feeling like reaching a new level really means something? 
 Play DDO.
  
  Complaints - Not everything is perfect, of course. I must agree with others who have said that 
 there is not enough opportunity for character modification. It is D&D, and everyone has a backstory 
 for their character. Let us express that in our appearance. Hopefully that can be addressed in 
 an update. Also, combat can turn into a shapeless blur if you have six people beating on one kobold. 
 I'm not sure you should be able to occupy the same space as another character during combat (at 
 other times it's necessary) , and that might need to be addressed. Overall, I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ax_prime_basic
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 28, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Dungeons and Dragons Online is an online role playing game from mmo veterans Turbine, who previously 
 worked on Asheron's Call, and is based on the popular pen and paper role playing series. While 
 the game take place in the new Eberron campaign setting, the game captures a the "spirit" of DnD 
 excellently. Equally important though, is how the game distinguishes itself among a sea of online 
 role playing games by making meaningful additions and tweaks to a genre that, while still very 
 young, was becoming stagnant (though World of Warcraft surely helped shake things up for mmo's) . 
 The game has a few problems, and you just have to wonder if the developers can sustain content 
 hungry players, but as it stands most people looking for a good online dungeon crawling experience 
 would do well for themselves to pick it up and play for at least the first free month as it's a 
 total blast.
  
  The game starts out by having you pick a character and customize their appearance. It's not as 
 limited as other games but not quite as deep as something like Star Wars Galaxies in terms of options 
 here... but you can make a fairly distinct character here. After that you can customize all of 
 your character's attributes or stick with a pre-rolled character. Upon choosing your character's 
 appearance, attributes, and name, you'll be thrust into a tutorial section where you learn the 
 basics of the interface, combat, and questing. Here, you'll gain a bit of xp for yourself and also 
 get some weaponry to take with you as you make your way to the actual city of Stormreach. You're 
 eased into play pretty nicely, though in the beginning a few too many tutorial boxes pop up and 
 it can get a bit tedious reading them all. 
  
  Things change for the better once you reach the city, as you're accustomed to the interface, and 
 can focus on quests. You'll recieve a few solo quests as people also fill you in on a bit of Stormreach 
 lore, and you might even have a bit of a chuckle as you discover things about Lord Gerald Goodblade 
 and other characters. The harbor area is where you'll be for the first few hours of play, as you 
 acquire quests and venture down into the sewers and other grimy areas. Here is where you'll need 
 to start using a party, as the average player won't be able to take on the depths by themselves. 
 The game has a pretty slick system for party management, actually. You can set up your "LFG" flag 
 and wait it out, or scout the "looking for members" page and just hop into a group at the touch 
 of a button if you meet the leader's criteria. In typical fashion, healer's can be a bit hard to 
 find sometimes, as can rogues, but generally you won't wait too long for a party thanks to subtly 
 innovative but highly useful search function.
  
  The quests are the heart of the gameplay in DDO. Thankfully, Turbine hits it out of the park here. 
 These quests are closer to the kind of thing you'd see in a single player role playing game... 
 not the typical fetch quests from mmo's of the past. Mission objectives are varied and more interesting, and 
 the environments are much more interactive than in other games in the genre. This helps DDO mightily 
 as every quest has a sense of discovery and intruigue... there are a few similar looking areas 
 (a dungeon is a dungeon no?) , but not all of them take place in sewers. Some of the areas are outside 
 in hilly areas and such. The quests range from short (some only 10 minutes long) to pretty lengthy, 
 requiring a good hour of play on occasion. The bottom line, though, is that each one is fun and 
 engaging. It's about time mmo's saw gameplay of this caliber.
  
  During each quest you'll invariably end up in combat, and thankfully the combat has a pretty good, 
 quick feel to it. While some enemies bounce around way too often, combat is hectic and generally 
 exciting. Oddly enough, you do not gain experience from most fights. Only fights tied to quest 
 objectives net you any xp, such as boss fights or clearing the guards from a room, and even when 
 done the xp for doing so is generally pretty miniscule. This is a surprising change from the rpg 
 norm, and one that is almost uncomfortable at first.. but it's actually one of the game's greatest 
 strengths. It puts the focus solely on the actual quest or adventure, so you won't find people 
 mindlessly clicking away on kobolds all day... but rather hopping into new dungeons or trying old 
 quests on higher difficulty levels for more xp and better items. Weird at first, but the game shows 
 subtle brilliance yet again. 
  
  It also helps that the game looks so damn nice. While you won't be looking forward to F. E. A. R.-quality 
 visuals, you can surely prep yourself for what is probably the best combination of performance/fidelity 
 available for an mmo. Everquest II might have a few fancier effects, but that game doesn't run 
 particularly smoothly over the net. There are some cases of slowdown, such as when you first enter 
 the marketplace or a tavern, but on the whole it runs very nicely. You are treated to nice, sharp 
 textures, great coloring, wonderful lighting and shadowing, and some nifty art direction. The steam 
 tunnel quest in particular led you down to some wonderful areas, with glowing mushrooms and crystals 
 everywhere that created a truly magical feel. Some areas, like the library, are oppressive in their 
 spookiness. In the Redwillow quest, you can see beautiful beams of sunlight streak down between 
 the canopy of trees... it's all quite gorgeous. The new campaign setting allows for some bizzare 
 areas that are a departure from the high-fantasy norm. Stormreach itself is a really bizzare place, 
 with odd architecture everywhere and a lot of visual variety, especially when visiting the various 
 "houses". House Denieth looks almost nothing like House Jorasco, and it's pleasant to see the amount 
 of visual imagination throughout the game. Simply put, the game looks fantastic.
  
  Audio is also quite good. The sound effects are all very nice and powerful, effectively conveying 
 the sounds of clanking swords and thunderous spells. The ambient sound adds a lot of mood to everything. 
 Dripping sounds and low hums can be heard, as well as wildlife in the outdoor areas, and some spooky 
 noises in tomb areas. The DM narrator is a fantastic touch too. Yet another touch of genius in 
 the game, you'll hear a DM voice tastefully give you some context at the beginning of each quest 
 and also at key points. This is great even for those who don't play DnD, but especially great for 
 fans of the pen and paper games because it really makes it "feel" more DnD. All the while, pleasant 
 music accompanies your adventures, lending them an epic feel.
  
  There are a few potential downsides though. The game is "technically" a mmo, but it isn't an mmo 
 in the way that World of Warcraft is. There is no sprawling world to explore. No crafting. No auction 
 house. The game is basically Stormreach, the HUB of the action, and all of the quest areas which 
 are instanced for your party only. The game feels a lot smaller this way, and some people will 
 definitely be put off by this aspect. Still, in the context of the DnD setting, it works perfectly, 
 as you'd usually only play DnD with a few friends. Also, it keeps things clean and tight for the 
 dungeons, as you don't have respawning enemies (most of the time) , because the game doesn't have 
 to refresh the enemies for other parties... because they aren't coming into your dungeon. Also, 
 when getting treasure, you will never have to "roll" for items, as the game has items reserved 
 just for you in each chest, and key items are duplicated for each party member. Turbine has effectively 
 solved a huge problem in mmo's here: loot ninjas. You just don't have them because your stuff is 
 yours, no matter if you get there first or last. 
  
  Much less forgiveable is the presence of a few bugs. This reviewer was in a dungeon where all party 
 members lost their connection at the same time and were lagged out of the dungeon, losing 2000 
 xp and about 30 minutes of playtime. I must clarify that this is the only bug of this magnitude 
 I've encountered, and it seems to be an isolated incedent. But the though of it happening again 
 is surely something that keeps me on my toes. I've heard a few reports of banking bugs, but I haven't 
 experienced them myself. Any others I've encountered are pretty small and rare. Overally the game 
 is pretty polished.. but the bugs are disappointing when you encounter them.
  
  Also, the interface could use a bit of tidying. It's difficult to keep everything together in combat 
 in particular, when enemies bounce around it's almost impossible to click on them, and often times 
 combat is over before I can get one of my special moves off. Mostly, people seem to be able to 
 deal with it, but it could be a bit better. The inventory can get a bit cluttered, and also, the 
 money doesn't sort well at all, leaving many players initially confused as to just how much money 
 they actually have.
  
  Probably the biggest concern is how much longetivity is here. With myself and many players already 
 halfway to the lvl cap... you have to wonder if the 14 dollars a month will be worth it, as turbine 
 is going to have to crank out quite a bit of content to satiate rabid gamers out there. Still there 
 is a counterpoint to this argument. The actual gameplay condenses a lot of the action that gets 
 dragged out for so long in other mmo's, and the end result is a game that is much more enjoyable 
 and feels more like a game and less like a job. It remains to be seen whether this business model 
 is successful or of it will be altered down the road.... because the game is such a blast and addictive 
 enough that many players will power through the content, not because you have to do so to get anywhere. 
 I just have to wonder how quickly Turbine can deliver us all new, engaging content, and have it 
 be enough to satiate hungry gamers. As it stands, the first month is definitely worth the purchase 
 price of the game at the very least. Only time will tell if the game can be successfully sustained 
 like other mmo's.
  
  The bottom line is that Dungeons and Dragons Online is a wonderful game that has many things going 
 for it, and it brings some true innovations to the mmo table. The great graphics, fast combat, 
 engaging quests, and overall addiction factor make this a pretty easy sell to people who love dungeon 
 crawls and online gaming. People looking for a sprawling everquest style game will most likely 
 want to pass on it, but they'll be missing out on a super fun rpg with a lot to offer. It bears 
 mentioning that the community currently playing DDO, at least on my server, is SO NICE. Nowhere 
 is there a player shouting from the rooftops about how they're selling +3 armor of whateverbane... 
 I've seen countless instances where players just flat out give each other rare items, just because 
 they feel like sharing with their adventurers. Somehow, Turbine's game design decisions have made 
 a game virtually free of griefing, loot ninjas, farmers, and campers. Effectively, they've rid 
 the game of many of the genre's annoyances. Couple that with accessible, addictive, engaging gameplay, 
 and the wonderful presentation, and you've got quite the online rpg indeed. A torch bearer for 
 the new generation of mmorpg's.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genodude
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 28, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Until you have been playing D&D for years upon years you can't just look at this game and say "Yet, 
 another bad MMO." This game isn't just an MMO, it's D&D. If you complain that the whole game bases 
 around partying, well, NEWS ALERT!!! I don't remember the last time I played D&D be myself. I'v 
 been hearing people say that the dungeons are the exact same! Hmmm... let me think... no I don't 
 recall going into the same dungeon just to go kill monsters, and no, I don't recall the placing 
 of chests and traps magically changing. This is D&D. Not your regular MMO. When you play D&D you 
 don't say "Lets go back to the dungeon so I can get to level 6." What Turbine and Wizards have 
 done is exactly how D&D is supposed to be. If you don't this, you obviously haven't taken a liking 
 to D&D. I have the feeling that only the pencil and paper players will really see how great this 
 game is. I can't remember the last time a game has followed all the rules to D&D. This game finally 
 does it. It has ALL the characters, along with some awesome new ones! It has almost all the feats 
 and almost all the skills. The only feats and skills missing are the ones that obviously wouldn't 
 fit very well into a video game. I strongly suggest to the classic MMO player who is thinking about 
 ditching this game to join a guild that isn't worried about leveling up, but is focused on playing 
 D&D. I'm sure you'll see the game a bit different. If I can't say it any more clear, THIS IS D&D! 
 And as all other MMO's, there will always be some things to improve upon during release. Patience. 
 Patience... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combathanger
Rating: 4.2
Date: Feb 28, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  DDO does something that is becoming rare in the gaming industry, they tried something new. Now 
 the MMOG is not new, but they depart from WOW, COH/V, EQ and the likes by totally eliminating the 
 'random monster spawnpoints'. This takes away one of the main problems facing many MMOGs, that 
 of thousands of people standing around a small area, just killing the same monsters over and over, 
 collecting the same resources over and over. This repetative gameplay is what turns me off of most 
 MMOG.
  
  DDO is making things 100% quest driven, meaning you have specific challanges to overcome, and gaining 
 levels isnt based on killing the most monsters, its based on achiving the objective. That could 
 make for a very refreshing game, if it wernt all implemented with such a lack of vision.
  
  You simply MUST group up to go thru all but the most basic low level quests. After 2 hours of gamplay, 
 you cannot hope to survive without a strong group of players by your side (the party) . So lets 
 say you decide to do a quest.... Each and every member of your party must, on thier own, go to the 
 character that issues the quest, and accept it. This means you spend countless wasted hours waiting 
 for the rest of the party to go get the 'find the golden egg' quest or whatever. Why you couldnt 
 just have the party leader bestow the quest to you, or just let the first person to enter the quest 
 open it to the rest of the group... who knows.... so lets all wait while the elf goes to find the 
 drunk sailor to get the quest.... yeah.
  
  Combat is 'real time' but is such a mishmosh of 10 characters on top of one another all clicking 
 attack at the same time, you cant see the enemy most of the time. And by real time, I mean FAKE 
 real time. If you strike and enemy and backup 30 feet, it will then swing its weapon and hit you 
 5 seconds after you were well out of range (and no this isnt lag) . Its a turn based system made 
 to look real time, and it is a frantic fluster cluck at best.
  
  Player creation is very limited in variety. Half the population of human males look more or less 
 identical with about 1/10th the variety of COH. Each race has a few diferent noses (and I mean 
 a few) a few eyes and a few lips, with 10 or so facial hair and hairstyles. There is NO height 
 or Weight adjustments so everyone is the same size and shape (for their given race) . There is no 
 customization at all below the neck. Pathetic.
  
  Graphics are average at best, with numerous gliches having lights, fire or smoke bleading thru 
 walls as if they didnt exist.
  
  Dungeons are repetative, and while they have lots of charater and even some pretty good mood in 
 them, the 'get the goal as quick as possible' rush to finish makes them much less enjoyable, especially 
 when everyone know where all the traps and secret doors are... theyve played it 5 times before.
 
  
  Overall average at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingotnw
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 28, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  To me any MMORPGs strongest point is it's community, something this game is going to be lacking. 
 The chat system is easily the worst in any high profile mmorpg due to its restrictive nature, and 
 difficulty to make sense of. The heavy use of "instancing" through out the game leads you to believe 
 you are playing a single player game, or at best a multi-player game like Neverwinter Nights, only 
 without the good story line. 
  
  At first I really liked the game, but the more I played it the more its flaws stood out more than 
 anything else to me. The combat system feels very random, and even though you can pick quests on 
 your own, it is very linerar by any game standards, for a mmorpg this is inexcusable. 
  
  As far as MMORPGs go, I am more of an old school EQ1 fan (EQ-VElious expansion) , and am eagerly 
 awaiting Vanguard: Saga of heros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lexus8121
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 28, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong this game could be very good for some gamers, But
  After playing WOW for 8 Months D&D is total letdown.
  The game is plain Boring and repetitive 
 , there is no such thing as profession or Crafting.
  The game is you hard if u try do any quest by your self. You always need to wait for other players 
 to help u with simple and short quests.
  To get good xp points u can play same quests over and over again, and in the quest nothing changes 
 the traps, enemies and treasures stay in the same place.
  Only thing I liked the most was the graphics and sound. 
  I am glad i only payed the beta and 
 did't have to spend $50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaborwaki22
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 11, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  I am very dissapointed in some of the reviews this game has been getting. First of all, if you 
 are a WoW geek then you will not like DDO.
  DDO is the first non-chat room rpg that I have liked. Many people like to get on their game and 
 spend just as much time talking about non gaming issues than acually playing. This does not take 
 place in DDO. DDO is a game that you have to work to get exp, no exp comes easy. The game critics 
 give this game some nice ratings, and they are correct. Dont look at this game comparing it to 
 the most trendy and easy of current MMO's. Look at the game as if you never played any other game 
 and you would easily rate this game a 9, because it is well made, and fun. Thats the bottom line.
 
  
  I am a big fan of most RPG's and especially a fan of Dungeons and Dragons. Ever since the first 
 RPG's that were video games, like Dragon Warrior and Final Fantasy type games, I've always wished 
 that somebody would make a video game for D&D, and at every attempt, it seemed to fail. It's very 
 hard to convert the rule's for D&D into a video game that people would enjoy, it's basically too 
 hard or advanced. 
  In DDO, you make your character and start with some small quests or adventures that are solo adventures, 
 but very soon while you are still a level 1 character, you need to start grouping. Just toggle 
 your LFG (looking for group) tag and go stand in a tavern. Just like traditional D&D, all adventures 
 start from the tavern (kinda) . Once an adventure is started, you and your group are instanced into 
 your own advanture where nobody can interfere. Kind of like going into a instance in WOW, or like 
 leaving town in Guild Wars.
  The graphics are great, and the enviroment is very detailed. I like how the traps in the dungeon 
 are real, and you can see them and where they originate.
  DDO might be a tough game for a WOW player, especially for those who do like to group, but for 
 a long time fan of D&D, like myself, this game is awesome. I feel like im playing D&D every time, 
 and even the voice of the dungeon master reminds me that this isnt any old online RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smintar
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 1, 2006 5:34 am PT
Review:  Never before Have played a game that is so repetitive, The Quest system is by far one of the worst 
 I have ever played. Theres nothing dynamic about it, repeat and repeat same old tried quest yes 
 the quest givers do give out quest and yes they r different in some ways but go back to them again 
 to gain xp they r always the same. Some short some long .
  
  Graphics in some area r indeed outdated example: Poster Gate Wilds, when I went there I thought 
 I saw remnance of some SSI Tank games and to see this all one has to do is zone in.
  
  Some of the good parts are The over head map that was done right I would think character creation 
 a whole better than wow but on par with some other on-games.
  
  The color in the game reminds me of Doom3 and some quake or elder scrolls especially in the sewers. 
 The UI is not simle to bad they didnt take WOW UI and install for easier use for players That really 
 needs a good tweak .
  
  For those that say this game is alot of FUN? I really question thier own lives unless they like 
 repetition. Because the game really realy falls short on FUN!
  Game still has alot of issues, to many exploits That I found while playing, I made lvl 2 soloing. 
 Well Im sorry about being so negative but the fact remains this 1 doesnt any higher rating than 
 what I gave it maybe fanboys will score it higher , I do that GS will tell it like it is if not 
 I certainly would challenge thier review 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
