-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dungeon Siege: Legends of Aranna
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/dungeonsiegelegendsofaranna/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 13, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.4
Critic Score: 7.4, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 1,026 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Mad Doc Software
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Nov 11, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Legends is a 15- to 20-hour long expansion that packs more of the same type of dungeon-crawling 
 gameplay from the original -- with an emphasis on the "crawling" part. 

  More than a year and a half after its release, Dungeon Siege is still a game that provokes a mixed 
 response from gamers. Microsoft's highly anticipated 3D Diablo-killer met with completely different 
 reactions from different players, some of whom were highly impressed by the game's visuals and 
 advanced artificial intelligence, and some of whom felt the game went overboard with the AI -- which 
 ended up doing most of work without direct involvement from the player. At any rate, clearly the 
 game had some room for improvement, and one would hope that the significant time that elapsed between 
 the original release and the release of the game's first expansion pack would have been spent addressing 
 some of these issues. However, if you were expecting Dungeon Siege: Legends of Aranna to shatter 
 the status quo, you're going to be disappointed. Legends is a 15- to 20-hour long expansion that 
 packs more of the same type of dungeon-crawling gameplay from the original -- with an emphasis on 
 the "crawling" part.  

          Welcome back to the world of Aranna.     

  Some of the grumbling about Dungeon Siege stemmed from the fact that, while it's hardly a bad game, 
 it is one that can get old quickly, depending on how much control you hand over to the AI. Since 
 the AI handles most of the combat, by default, it's easy to feel like you're not doing much... in 
 terms of actually doing anything. It didn't help that the levels were designed in a way that limited 
 any sense of exploration or adventure, as most of them were just narrow, linear paths that you 
 couldn't stray from. In essence, Dungeon Siege basically felt like the rail shooter of Diablo clones, 
 with the added disadvantage that you weren't really doing anything besides watching your characters 
 do all the cool stuff while you were left to smash ton of crates. And we mean a  ton  of them! 

  Since Gas Powered Games and creator Chris Taylor are busy working on Dungeon Siege II, Mad Doc 
 Software (Star Trek: Armada II and Empire Earth: The Art of Conquest) handled the yeoman's work 
 on Legends of Aranna. Mad Doc played it safe with the expansion by sticking to the original formula 
 and offering the obligatory new campaign, creatures, and items that are expected in an add-on. 
 You still control a party of characters, slay monsters left and right, pick up lots of loot and 
 gear, and then repeat the process over and over again.  

  The campaign story in Legends should sound familiar to PC role-playing fans: An ancient evil has 
 reawakened and seized the McGuffin it needs to take over the world. Naturally, your job is to neutralize 
 this threat, and along the way you must discover whatever happened to your parents, who left you 
 behind years ago. It's a fairly standard setup that quickly sets up the game, but it provides little 
 motivation to keep you churning through the dungeons. As Legends was designed for beginning characters, 
 you can't import your existing high-powered Dungeon Siege character, so you're basically starting 
 from scratch once again. This will probably annoy Dungeon Siege fans who were hoping for an add-on 
 campaign that would challenge their 40th- and 50th-level characters.  

          It's a beholder-like creature but with laser beams!     

  The level design remains 
 true to the original; it still feels like you're being guided through the world with the designer 
 holding your hand, as opposed to actually getting to explore the world on your own. It's somewhat 
 frustrating because there are times when you'll feel that this could be a great engine if it actually 
 presented you with a world that gave you choices on where you'd like to go, as in most other role-playing 
 games.     

  As you travel down the path, you'll run into groups of monsters every 50 yards or so. This is a 
 Diablo clone, after all, so you'll cut through about a regiment or two's worth of monsters every 
 hour, and though there's a huge variety of monsters in the game, it tends to throw waves of the 
 same type of monsters at you at one time. The enemy AI in Legends remains as it was in Dungeon 
 Siege; monsters will ignore you until you trigger them. Then they'll charge at you. There's no 
 sense of actual intelligence or tactics by the enemy -- or even awareness, for that matter. Combat 
 only gets difficult when it overwhelms you with numbers, but the system is so easily manipulated 
 that all you have to do is just trigger a small group of monsters and take care of them while the 
 rest of their buddies stand idly by.  

          After every battle, there's a ton of stuff on the ground to sort through.     

  The 
 party system is one of the strengths of Dungeon Siege versus Diablo, especially since Dungeon Siege 
 is capable of creating a large and varied team. Of course, this can be a double-edged sword because 
 it's possible to create a huge and powerful combat team that simply bulldozes through the entire 
 game. You can pause the game during combat to give orders to your units, but, once your party is 
 powerful enough, it's easier to let them hack-and-slash on their own. Your only real role during 
 combat is deciding when to hit the healing potion button. The only time that pausing and giving 
 orders actually plays a role is during the final boss fight and a few other boss engagements.  
 

  Once again, the game throws a gazillion different items and weapons at you, each with its own unique 
 characteristics. Unfortunately, it just feels like overload. In the overall scheme of things, does 
 it really matter that one sword does 420 points of damage every 90 seconds while another does 425? 
 There's no palpable sense of difference between a character with a melee skill of 14 and a melee 
 skill of 15, so does it matter that this sword adds a plus-one to melee attacks? The sheer amount 
 of detail is bound to please statistics hounds, but it doesn't make that much of a difference in 
 gameplay for the rest of us.  

  Multiplayer remains pretty much the same as the original Dungeon Siege, and players can set up 
 a cooperative multiplayer server that they can explore as a group or separately. Legends plays 
 relatively smoothly over the Internet, though we did notice a slight little stutter over a network 
 game.  

  The once-remarkable graphics still look rather impressive, and the combat retains that fluid and 
 chaotic feel that reminds you why people loved the original game early on. The sound effects and 
 music also remain top-notch. We were stunned, though, by some of the technical issues in the game. 
 Legends refused to load properly on three different computers, and we used both Nvidia and ATI 
 cards. With the Nvidia system, Legends loaded up to a blank screen. Meanwhile, on two separate 
 ATI systems, it actually rebooted the computers! We managed to fix that by upgrading to the newest 
 ATI drivers. However, we couldn't fix the problem we had with the Nvidia system -- even with the 
 latest drivers. If you somehow manage to get past these glaring problems, though, the rest of the 
 game is stable and appears relatively bug-free. This is a serious problem, however, given that 
 Nvidia and ATI are pretty much the only two brands that gamers use.  

          A gigantic tentacle, or, "When Plants Attack."     

  Put it all together, and Legends 
 turns out to be an exercise in tedium. There are whole stretches of the game when you're just steamrolling 
 through monsters, smashing boxes, and then moving on to the next room so you can kill more of the 
 same monsters and smash even more boxes. Repeat this about 20 or 30 times per chapter, and it begins 
 to feel more like Dungeon Crawl rather than Dungeon Siege. Couple this with the game's frustrating 
 hardware problems, and this is an expansion that you're better off skipping. Instead, we recommend 
 that you wait for some of the promising mods that are being developed by the Dungeon Siege community, 
 or you can just wait for Dungeon Siege II and hope that the next time around the gameplay will 
 have more to offer.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (31 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ssta
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  We have waited long for this expansion. I have played Dungeon Siege 2 for quite long time (100+ 
 hrs) , and I thought I would see something new, something different, but in any case - I expected 
 better.
  I bought the game the summer it came out, I got it first in my town, maybe my country. I went in 
 the shop on 45 degrees Celsius!
  When I installed it, I cannot find my character in the conversion list. Conversion option without 
 conversion? I had level 69 fighter, outstanding equipment, and completed the Dungeon Siege 2 (original) 
 on the three difficulties.
  "All right" I said, "I'll take some of the pre-made characters". So I took the dwarf.
  Played 
 for a few minutes, and when I saw the character sheet, on what "the game makers" spent their skills.... OH, 
 They know how to MESS UP the character just to show the new skills which are complete DISASTER 
 and something unnessesary!
  Items enchanted with spell on a hit? Oh please! That was supposed to be in the original game!
 
  I've waited for a patch, and never found one, internet connection problems I suppose.
  I never converted my character, and never played this game for more than 10 minutes.
  
  If 
 you played DS 2, don't buy this one! Stick to the original!
  
  Complete disaster! Can't find worst words to describe this game, so I chose "Total Letdown". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Justiciero
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 3:04 am PT
Review:  When i realise i will not play again Dungeon Siege after playing only three times i saw this one. 
 I thought it was a expansion with new features but it was all the same. The history doesn't matter 
 here, it's only click and fight and then walk to the next point.
  
  There are new monsters and i think it has new behabiours but it's not enough to add replayability 
 to the game.
  
  Well, it has really good graphics, and the engine is great, but it is like playing Diablo again 
 and again without a reason, yes, is a good game, but it bored me to hell. And there are other games 
 better than this one.
  
  And there is something than angried me. It has a new "complete armor" system. If you find all the 
 pieces of special armors the separate powers of each one increase when you wear the other parts, 
 so the complete armor has more power than the sum of the pieces' power. The bad news is that none 
 of them were the best armor of the game, i ended selling all pieces and using the best armor i 
 had in that moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolf-Man2006
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  So what if its been a few years since the DS series came out, I can say that LoA is your average 
 expansion pack to a great game. Basically, you fight monsters with a group of teammates while using 
 swords, spells, and axes. Make no mistake that LoA is an expansion pack with nothing new or challenging. 
 Fortunately, you might forget all that with the new monsters and weapons (The new pack-animal is 
 cool by the way) . However, like DS, you play Diablo-on-Steroids. Like old-school DS do you hack-and-slash 
 anything that comes your way. Like DS do you encounter abysmal voice acting. So, you can tell that 
 if you want something challenging from this expansion pack, don't bother. However, if you are a 
 DS fan that'll like new things, buy this.
  
  P. S If you are looking foward to playing DS for the first time, pick the expansion pack first because 
 I think you get both the original game and the expansion pack. All for about $10-$15. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrsZato
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 16, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  The second game that I started playing as a gamer. Now I can clearly see why many people are addicted 
 to this game. My guy got me into this game as a way to keep me from being bored out of my mind. 
 Well it worked. Now we have something that we are mutually in agreement over. This game is great. 
 Also, very good for those just beginning in the gaming world. I am a much older person myself and 
 am amazed at myself and my interest in this game. The character builder is very easy to use and 
 very easy to create your characters. My suggestion to you is once you have reached mid part of 
 the first level of success is that you find Chicken World or Chicken Warrens so that you can master 
 your skills at Melee, Range, Nature Skills, and/or Combat Skills. Now if you are into doing magic 
 then I suggest you use more than one Spell Book and get the higher end ones when available or if 
 you have the funds for the item of purchase. Then get involved within the community there. There 
 are a lot of people that will help you out along the way and are there to assist you with your 
 gaming experience. Watch out for MODS . Some are rather nice and great to have on hand but there 
 are others that will mess up your gaming experience. Take it from me, I just experienced that. 
 So, with that in mind, let me know what you think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 24, 2007 6:45 am PT
Review:  Like any other expansions, it includes a new class (the half-giant) , new creatures to fight, new 
 equipment and spells to fight with, and a new story campaign. But even so, it isn't interesting 
 enough to put your money into this unless you get the budget bundled version (re-packaged recently) .
 
  
  Just because Legends of Aranna retains so much of the original Dungeon Siege, it becomes just the 
 same old chore of hacking your one-way route to the last boss, period. I practically yawn every 
 now and then throughout my game since nothing really stood out in this expansion compared to the 
 first game. Being an action RPG fan, my only reason for playing this is just to add this to my 
 'I-completed-this-before' archive.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wackys
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  Ok.... Another of my favorite hack and slash is back in a expansion let's see how it fairs
  
  Pluses: inclusion of Sets is a very good ideea; the same old graphics are getting a little lame 
 but not very; Multiplayer; great sounds as allways; incredible replay ability (i played it 3 times 
 and finished it) ; Many new items spells and all that; cool side quests
  
  Minuses: somewhat lacking story; graphics are getting a little lame; the world is a little small
 
  
  Well maybe i am overrating it but i love the game. All of those new items are very cool and the 
 special abilities of the sets are cool. Anyway this game is a must cause not only cause it contains 
 Legends of Arrana it also contains the original Dungeon Siege so it's great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoJo10
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 4, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This is a Diablo clone. I've actually never played Diablo - but having read nearly every review 
 of every game ever made, I have a lot gaming knowledge.
  
  The game is kind of addictive to play, I mean it's got that addicitive quality about it. Maybe 
 it's because it's really simple to play - there are only four things you can do, melee weapons, 
 bow and arrows, healing magic, and offensive magic. And you have a party and pick up characters 
 along the way. However, these characters don't really have a backstory behind them; this game is 
 like Icewind Dale if you've played that, that in the way it's story is: the story is really about 
 the whole group of hero's, and not really just you.
  
  Story is cliche - there's an evil force that's been unleashed - you have to save the world, blah 
 blah blah. There are some side quests, they're okay.
  
  The leveling up system is pretty cool - as you use an ability, melee weapons, bow and arrow, defensive 
 or offensive magic, it levels up and you get better at it.
  
  The armor and weapons are cool too. You can upgrade all your weapons and armor - you find a ton 
 of goodies on the ground that you can sell for better equipment; it's cool.
  
  Is this game better than the 5.4 than gamespot gave it? Yes - but then again, they were just reviewing 
 the expansion pack. The main quest is very good, and the expansion is good too - I guess they just 
 got bored with more of the repetitive gameplay that was exactly the same as the first - and the 
 developers didn't fix the spell problem (you can only have one of each spell in your shortcut keys) , 
 which is a problem, but a relatively minor problem.
  
  So if you want a good hack-and-slash, grind it out kind of game, this game is it. It's worth the 
 $20, or $10 I think they're charging for it.
  
  So if you want an okay RPG, go out and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rynn21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  The campaign story in Legends should sound familiar to PC role-playing fans: An ancient evil has 
 reawakened and seized the McGuffin it needs to take over the world. Naturally, your job is to neutralize 
 this threat, and along the way you must discover whatever happened to your parents, who left you 
 behind years ago. It's a fairly standard setup that quickly sets up the game, but it provides a 
 huge amount of motivation to keep you churning through the dungeons. As Legends was designed for 
 beginning characters, you can't import your existing high-powered Dungeon Siege character, so you're 
 basically starting from scratch once again. This will probably annoy Dungeon Siege fans who were 
 hoping for an add-on campaign that would challenge their 40th- and 50th-level characters. However, 
 you can coustomize your character to look the same as before, and if you really loved the first 
 game then you will probably love this 15-20 hour expansion pack that includes the original game 
 within its contents. I'd advise you to play the original before the expansion so you might not 
 be so confused when you start playing teh expansion pact. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebelILL
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 9, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  
  Dungeon Siege: Legends Of Aranna is the expansion to the original dungeon siege. However it is 
 not like the original dungeon siege and is far less enjoyable than the first. 
  
  Gameplay: Just like the original dungeon siege, in fact not really that different at all. There 
 is a new pack animal that you can have like the pack mule in the first game, new races, new spells, 
 new levels, new characters, new items, and a new story. But the gameplay has not changed a bit. 
 This game's story is also not as good as the original. It happens after the first game with the 
 Seck defeated, but now there is a bigger, stronger enemy trying to take over the world even more 
 powerful than Gom. It all has just been done before. 
  
  Graphics: Again, same as before. But after a while the levels just feel over used and dont look 
 appealing anymore. There is a new feature where you can see a map of the entire world of DS: LOA. 
 It serves to remind you, how freaking huge the world is that you have to pass through before you 
 finish the game.
  
  Sound: Some of same tracks from before are here and a variety of new ones. But the music is so 
 similar to the first that a lot of people would hardly notice.
  
  In the end DS: LOA try's to expand on Dungeon Siege by adding more to the first but fails to make 
 it as fun as it was originally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtJcoo
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 8, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege: Legends of Aranna is the 'expansion' pack to one of the greatest hack and slash 
 RPG's of 2002. Yes, Legends of Aranna (LoA) is supposed to expand upon the already awesome game 
 of Dungeon Siege, but therein lies the rub on which I have mixed feelings.
  
  LoA is not an expansion pack in my opinion. It is a completely new game, and should have been called 
 Dungeon Siege II: Legends of Aranna. But I guess then people would then expect something new, and 
 LoA is not really new in aspects such as graphics and gameplay, so all they could do is market 
 it as an expansion pack. There is no connection between the original and the expansion however, 
 so that is why I don't think its an expansion. It does add new spells, armor, weapons, and a new 
 playable race (Half-Giants) , and the inclusion of sets was a great idea, if not a late one. Gameplay 
 has not changed, but that is not necessarily a bad thing. Why fix what isn't broken?
  
  The graphics are just as good too, and the new world you adventure through does not lack anywhere 
 in the graphics department. It is a visually stunning game, with lots of smooth textures, well 
 rendered shadows, lots of colours, and no loading screens. Of course, this hasn't changed much 
 from the original, but again, the original exceeded in the first place. LoA simply lives up to 
 it.
  
  As for sound, the music score is great, with some new pieces thrown into the mix. The sound effects 
 are awesome, and the voice acting is exceptional. You can't get much better sound than this!
  
  As for value, however, because LoA does not add much to the game, it is not worth buying if 
 you have already played Dungeon Siege through. If you haven't, though, the LoA is perfect for you, 
 because it is packaged with the original, for a cheap price. That is the only reason I didn't give 
 the value rating a lower score.
  
  Overall, I think this game should have been released by GPG as an official mod for Dungeon Siege, 
 instead of an in-stores expansion pack. You can download its equivalent for free through mods made 
 by amatuer game designers and such. Try Lands of Hyperborea, or The Circle of Lorent for example, 
 or if you want an even more heavily modified game, try Ultima V: Lazarus, or Copperhead: Retaliation! 
 All in all, it was a fun to play 'mod' and lives up to Dungeon Siege, but I don't think you should 
 have to pay for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limewolf
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 19, 2006 3:04 am PT
Review:  
  This is a great expansion for a super hack and slash RPG. If you liked dungeon siege I would recommend 
 this to you. It is basically more of the same, but adds some news features that will please hard 
 core players (back packs and item sets for example) . I would say they could have done even more 
 with it (more item sets perhaps) , but it is still well worth getting. Like dungeon siege it is 
 very easy to get into and not very difficult to play in general. If you buy this expansion it includes 
 the original game which is handy if you don't have it, so I think it's well worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 6, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  A ton of multiplayer tweaks which makes it a ton easier to save your quest while playing co-op.
 
  The Player Vs. Player (or PVP) is some of the best.
  Some of the best dungeon sounds in any game.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  The game requires a heavyly 
 loaded computer.
  No feature for anti-hacking unless you download one on a website such as Dungeon Siege Haven.
 
  Joining a game that says "no hacks, no drops" and upon entering, a hacked character kills you 
 and all your crap drops.
  
  :Overall:
  This game is seriously like $5 these days. It includes the original Dungeon Siege and it well 
 worth the money. This was my Diablo killer and trust me, I was a huge Diablo fan. A must for any 
 fan of the hack-n-slashers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saeed_lp_69
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Players return to the world of Aranna and start an all-new adventure in the Dungeon Siege expansion 
 pack, an addition to the popular Dungeon Siege PC title. Players are drawn outside the original 
 Kingdom of Ehb into the wilds of Aranna to solve an ancient mystery. 
  
  The adventure reveals the origins, lives and eventual downfall of the ancient Utraean civilization. 
 Building on the critically acclaimed gameplay found in Dungeon Siege, the expansion pack features 
 a new part of the world to explore, fantastic creatures to battle, treasures to loot, mysteries 
 to unlock, weapons to wield, armor for protection and unique items sets.
  
  All-new campaign. Journey through nine spectacular areas, including an all-new jungle region, as 
 you unravel the rich history and mystery of the world of Aranna. 
  
  Additional spells. Mages wield dozens of new magic spells including Diminution, Animal Rage, Zorkon's 
 Bonecrusher, and the Orb of Fire.
  
  Half-giant player character. Standing over nine feet tall, the new half-giant player character 
 towers above the rest of the characters and attacks with a primal ferocity. 
  
  Even more intense battles. As you adventure through Aranna, you'll encounter previously unseen 
 creatures to battle, including the reptilian Zaurask and the catlike Hassat.
  
  Cooler treasures. Discover rare and powerful treasure sets among the spoils of battle that, when 
 combined, grant the owner new and wondrous abilities.
  
  New pack animal. This pack animal fights back, defending the player's treasure to the death if 
 necessary.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixan_akrau
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2005 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Really, I went straight from having the demo to this expansion. It's great to have as long as you've 
 never played the full original first. Else, then it must be crap. Really, comparing the two, I 
 find the story and system of the expansion game to be a great improvement to the original game.
 
  
  The graphics aren't really improved from the original, but they aren't bad at all, though, your 
 character actually looks kind of ugly close up. At least it's nearly impossible to play the game 
 that way most of the time.
  
  The game-play gets rather boring and repetitive after a while though, and originally, what only 
 kept me going was just seeing what all the spells did and how the story was going to progress. 
 The game allows you to dig through the story yourself, with all the writings left behind, rather 
 then just making you sit through a bunch of long cinimatics. Eventually though, everything narrowed 
 down to:
  *click*
  "KILL HIM!!!"
  *guys gang up on one enemy and soon, the enemy is laying dead on the ground*
  *click click click*
 
  "KILL THEM!"
  *guys run around and attack all the multiple enemies on the screen, you need to use health potions 
 or healing spells, and soon all is over again*
  *click*
  "RUN THERE!!"
  *guys run over there and encounter more enemies*
  ... and so on and so on and so forth.
  
 
  The sound effects to all the spells are pretty unique to just the spells, and the sound ads a 
 great amount of suspense as you hear spiders and things crawling along the walls, or zaurask hiding 
 somewhere plotting your demise. Muahahaha. The music though is very nice to listen to, and I never 
 get tired of it; however, in LOA, the music is often recycled from the original, so if you've played 
 the original, it's going to be rather boring.
  
  Some annoyances do occur, such as your characters running unnecessary lengths when you click somewhere, 
 or just sit there, jiggle, and don't attack anything. Also, items can get stuck in unreachable 
 areas. Oh, and another feature in the expansion are the armor sets you can collect, which are actually 
 entirely pointless just because you can build something better yourself.
  
  All-in-all, this game does get boring after a while, and I especially don't recommend it to people 
 who have the original already. If you haven't played the original though, this is really worth 
 a try, and I find it to be a very engaging story, and for some time, you will get fun out of it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2005 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Your right to party.
  
  Ever since the very first days of role-playing, there has been a fundamental split between the 
 single character games, like Ultima, and those where you had a party, like Wizardry. By and large, 
 it was always less complicated to play and in turn to design the single-player RPGs, which often 
 left the party out in the cold. Managing eight characters simultaneously is exponentially harder, 
 but it's always a little disappointing when you find that Mighty Battleaxe of Smiting and just 
 throw it away because youre a wizard.
  
  Then Dungeon Siege showed up and streamlined the RPG party system so gracefully, you barely noticed 
 it was there. Your characters would so smart things, like heal each other or attack monsters even 
 if you didnt tell them to. Press the healing potion icon, and everyone who needed to would automatically 
 drink a potion. How are you feeling, Stig The Barbarian? Fine? Great!
  
  Baldurs Gate micro-managers, who were always pausing the action to consider all possible spell-and-sword 
 combinations, might have felt that Dungeon Siege was a little distant, but I was thrilled. It was 
 great to see all my little guys taking some initiative for a change.
  
  Fans of the original should be pleased that the expansion is here, but its not really an expansion, 
 because you dont need to have the original Dungeon Siege to play. Thats because the entire first 
 game is included with Legends of Aranna, making it an especially good deal for people who have 
 never played Dungeon Siege before.
  
  So whats new in Legends of Aranna? How about a new single player campaign? Venture out of the 
 Kingdom of Ehb and into the wilds of Aranna to try and unravel an ancient mystery. Like the first 
 one, this campaign is for new characters and is about the same length. And while its a good, classic 
 dungeon crawl, its also disappointingly linear, again, just like the first one. Of the three worlds 
 available to explore in Legends of Aranna, its the more open-ended, multiplayer Utraean Peninsula 
 that is my favorite.
  
  Of course, theres plenty of new stuff inside the Aranna campaign: new spells, monsters, weapons 
 and armor. A notable addition are magical sets of items, which become more powerful with every 
 part of the outfit you find. There's also a new half-giant race that can join your party. Towering 
 over all the others, it looks as if Shaquille ONeil has joined the team.
  
  Legends of Aranna has fine-tuned the slick interface ever further, with smarter inventory management, 
 a button for distributing potions and lots of other little tweaks. Unfortunately, whats still 
 not included is a toolset for making your own adventures. Giving the tools to the fans is like 
 throwing gasoline on a fire. Youre practically guaranteed unlimited new content and creativity.
 
  
  Everything else is exactly the same as the original. The graphics hold up surprisingly well for 
 a year-and-a-half old game. The sound is still great, with a good score, plenty of clanging metal 
 and fighters that dont shout their battle-cries too often. The most impressive part of Dungeon 
 Sieges technology is still very cool: no loading. Once you start playing, youll never see a loading 
 screen, ever. Very nice.
  
  However, Legends of Arannas best selling point might be how much of a bargain it is, at least 
 if you never bought the original game. Since its priced as an expansion at $30 but actually has 
 two full games, it's one of the best PC deals this year. So go buy yourself an early Christmas 
 gift and get this party started.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sskkmiller
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 28, 2005 12:22 pm PT
Review:  This expansion pack is a fairly long game that I think deserves a better score than it recieved. 
 I liked the new additions to the game and also enjoyed seeing the world of Arrana. The graphics 
 weren't tuned up to much which disappointed me but thats okay because underneath all of the new 
 features and the mediocre graphics, it is still Dungeon Seige and that is what counts. If you like 
 heated battles between your party and thousands of enemies, this is a game that you should definatley 
 look at. It is exciting and will keep you hanging on until the end. I still like the original better 
 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 13, 2005 9:49 am PT
Review:  This game is an awsome game!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Gameplay: this is and awsome game. You keep playing until you reach the highest level in the game. 
 there are really cool areas to play in and the enemies are taugh and great.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great for a role playing game. The players look fantastic and the enemies 
 look cool.
  
  Sound: The sound is a really disappointment. It isn't bad but it isn't good ether.
  
  Value: 
 In this game you have a great multiplayer experience and the enemies on the internet are great.
 
  
  Reviewer's tilt: overall this game is awsome and you should really make it you first choise of 
 buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gideon89
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 29, 2005 5:28 pm PT
Review:  After I went over to a Friends house to play this game, I fell in love with it, (not really "IN 
 LOVE") so I went home got some money went to the story an bought it. I got home and Popped it in, 
 I must have played 8-10 hours strait, almost beating the game. This game is addicting, almost as 
 addicting as Crack (not that I would know) . I finally went to bed, and woke up the next morning 
 with a hammering Migrain, probably worse than any Hangover. the point is of this, Don't play this 
 game or any game for that matter any longer than 2 hours strait, even if it is really addicting, 
 you can force yourself off the computer to get outside and be active. 
  
  The gameplay was a little slow at times, and sometimes the game would freeze up after 3 or so hours 
 of play.
  The Graphics (IMO) are fine for the type of game and considering when it was made, they could have 
 possibly done better on the Graphics.
  Sound is sometimes sketchy, Delayed sometimes, but over all has good sound quality. 
  It will 
 be good on a machine with great VidCards and SoundCards. 
  Overall I loved the Game and still do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ncdiablo108
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2005 11:21 am PT
Review:  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smokes1984
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 20, 2005 2:26 am PT
Review:  I need more people to play this game with online. 
  If you like to use codes then I dont want you to play the game with me or my friends. 
  If you 
 have a true love for gaming in games like this amazing one then drop me a line.
  As always love this game and many others.
  If you are looking for a game to sit down and play 
 for a long time then this is the game for you.
  I play as a mage.
  We have 2 archers.
  We need a warrior. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnoel809
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 15, 2005 7:33 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the original Dungeon Siege. To get ready for DS 2, I decided to play LOA, since 
 I'd bought it but never got around to playing it.
  
  I thought the expansion was good, with enough of a story to keep things interesting. One of the 
 bad things was there were not enough merchants around. My party would get bogged down with goods 
 and have to leave stuff behind. A minor thing, however.
  
  As expansion packs go, this is one of the better ones I've played. 
  
  One last note. My wife 
 and I enjoyed playing Dungeon Siege cooperative multiplayer (even though you couldn't save your 
 progress, it was still fun) . I wish more games had that capability. Recently we've been playing 
 co-op with various games on our X-Box, but even the numbers of games there is limited.
  
  I've played the demo for DS 2, it seems like it will be good. A lot of people griped about Dungeon 
 Siege "playing itself," especially in combat. I like the auto-combat, that way you don't have to 
 take care of every little thing. We'll see how DS 2 is.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunterBruno
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 16, 2005 3:18 pm PT
Review:  The original was great, this one was good. I love the style and graphics but maybe is the next 
 generation of role-playing games much more demanding of your nerves. Dungeon Siege 2 perhaps?
 
  The sound is fine and you can upgrade your character to full strength in either ways. like archers, 
 sorcerer's and swordsmen. You can have other characters in your party to make your quests less 
 hard. I'm scared of spiders, specially the great ones and after playing this game it's not over. 
 So for a good therapy will this game not do it well.. Just joking around. Worth playing but the 
 original is better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StormRaider31
Rating: 3.4
Date: Feb 10, 2005 11:54 pm PT
Review:  I did not like this game at all. It was way too easy even on hard. It has a nasty demonic feel, 
 understandable coming out of the Mad Doc shop. The vocalizations added nothing but annoyance to 
 the game. It felt like a rush job lets get something out quick and make some money. There was 
 little to no logic for what you were doing or why you were doing it. You knew what your over all 
 goals were (to become a hero and to vanquish the Shadow Lord before he destroys everything) but 
 the getting there (you know the fun part) is muddled, half baked, and down right stupid. As much 
 as I enjoy the original; I loath the expansion which I have not finished because I just cant see 
 it getting any better. However, the graphics and special effects from spells are once again gorgeous. 
 The patches are well appreciated, especial for the original. And I like the new weapon & armor 
 stats and combos. I pray they keep Mad Doc as far away from Dungeon Siege II as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 8, 2004 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege attempts to be a Diablo2 with 3D graphics but the gameplay is so simplified it insults 
 the intelligence of anyone who plays it. 
  
  Diablo 2 (with the add-on) at least allowed for levels of difficulty to challenge just about anyone. 
 Here with Dungeon Siege one almost feels the game is playing itself and you are just watching.
 
  
  Leveling up isn't as fun as it could be because everything is done for you. 
  
  The graphic engine is surprisingly blurry and low-res even at the highest resolution settings. 
 Blurry bitmaps are everywhere and there just aren't anough polygons to any object or enemy to make 
 the game feel immersive. Everything is too blocky for a game made in 2003.
  
  Whoever made this game for Microsoft should not be allowed to make more PC games. It defines what 
 a "mediocre game" is. 
  
  Gamers would do best to play something better like Knights of the Republic. That game isn't perfect, 
 but the combat is fun and the story-line is often good. Baldur's Gate is 2D but again, it blows 
 Dungeon Siege out of the water.
  
  This game is a stinker. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkullLeader00
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 13, 2004 2:05 am PT
Review:  Like I said nothing new ... but its fun and I am playing it waiting as patient as I can possibly 
 be for Dungeon Siege 2.
  I love this game, but the expansion could have been a little better but its the same as original.
 
  Same graphics, but now its a little outdated
  Story is adequate at best
  Sounds are nice
  Bottom line if you love the first game get this one just for fun in preparation 
 for the second dungeon siege
  
  
  I give it a 7.0 because there is nothing special to give it anything more, but it is a fun game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2004 9:46 pm PT
Review:  I loved the series, i love this game, i duno why gamespot reviewers hate it!, it's a real great 
 game!!!!!!. THe story is great, and makes you wanna play more and more of it, you can play this 
 game for hours and hours and still wanna play more. The actual engine of the game is great!. the 
 graphics are nicely polished and are great!. The original dungeon siege also comes with this expansion!!, 
 and both games are well worth playing. The multiplayer is fun!, i've played this game with my friends 
 online for hours and hours, The characters are great. I'm not much of a RPG fan, but this game 
 made me one. It is simply one of the best!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BJ1947
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 26, 2004 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege: LoA was a more interesting and satisfying game to play, perhaps because I had the 
 previous experience of Dungeon Siege. The quests were interesting, and the pack animal options 
 were good, particularly since one was a fighter type. However, having a virtually uncontrollable 
 animal to worry about in a major battle sequence became something of a hassle. I worried all the 
 time about keeping the pack animal alive, at the cost of my other party members! The use of backpacks 
 made having a pack animal redundant, so it was more sensible to add another fighter in place of 
 a pack animal. I found fighting the Hassat cat people a morally disturbing issue. I'm sure a dog 
 lover would feel similarly if dogs were protrayed as advanced, but hostile species. The game was 
 thoroughly engrossing, however, and the scenery was great. The final Big Boss was tough, but less 
 so than the previous Big Boss in DS. I'm really anticipating a great game in Dungeon Siege II. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daifu
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 25, 2003 5:09 pm PT
Review:  As some other reviewers have stated, this game is very much like Dungeon Siege, except with some 
 additional gameplay features that only work to flesh out the experience. The backpack is a very 
 useful feature, that would be better if you could sell to a vendor from it instead of having to 
 empty it first - but as far as carrying more goods it is indispensable. The Traag is a nice feature, 
 not exactly a tank by any means, but nor is it supposed to be. The Item sets that are to be collected 
 are very potent and all have back stories that are well developed. They are pretty difficult to 
 find for the casual dungeon crawler also. On my first run through the game I only managed to find 
 one complete set out of four that I had attempted to. Transportation is aided by mechanical/magical 
 clockwork technology/wizardry that only helps the player get to and from necessary points and points 
 of interest more easily. The over-arcing story of the Utreaens and their island's history is told 
 throughout the game and is well done, though not as well as in the original Dungeon Siege.
  
  All in all, this is an entertaining game that has the same low learning curve as its predecessor, 
 the same basic gameplay with some nice tweaks and the same enjoyable, low maintenance gaming experience. 
 And, packaged with the original, it is an exceptional value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danzig148
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 22, 2003 7:37 am PT
Review:  The original Dungeon Siege is one of my favorite games, but Im extremely disappointed with the 
 expansion pack. While the games share the strength of the Dungeon Siege engine, poor play balancing 
 and dull level design in the expansion creates a repetitive and boring experience.
  Having played the original twice, I began Legends of Aranna on the hardest difficulty. By simply 
 having the patience to break open all the crates and sift through all the treasure, my party was 
 near invincible in comparison to my enemies after only about 30 minutes of play. As my characters 
 grew in experience and found even more magical and powerful armaments, they stayed several steps 
 ahead of the increasingly powerful enemy. This allowed my small party to slice through monster 
 after monster, rarely using healing spells and even more rarely using healing potions. With gameplay 
 this unbalanced, the strategic points of the original Dungeon Siege are completely lost, as you 
 really dont need to pay attention to kill wave after wave of inferior monsters.
  Level design is also lacking compared to the original. The original game packed a variety of interesting, 
 challenging monsters into a detailed world. Legends of Aranna contains only sparsely populated 
 monsters scattered throughout a long trek of indistinguishable underground caverns and forests. 
 The original Dungeon Siege combined a variety of monsters in a large group to create tactical challenges, 
 while the expansion places small groups of similar monsters that can be easily disbanded.
  While crate smashing was an annoying task even in the original, crates contained much needed 
 supplies or hard earned treasure. In Legends of Aranna, I honestly believe I encountered more crates 
 than monsters. These crates and vases are scattered randomly around the map in dense clusters, 
 and the repetitive clicks to smash through them all is truly a test of patience. The game provides 
 a large amount of treasure for very little work, causing much more time spent smashing crates and 
 viewing treasure than in actual combat. 
  The new monsters encountered in the game are completely unoriginal. Cat people, Lizard people, 
 and uncreative variations of some previous ideas arent as captivating as the wide variety of new 
 creatures encountered in the original.
  Another disappointment was the selection of items found at the shops. The magical items found during 
 questing were far more powerful than anything sold in the shops. This takes away from the RPG formula 
 of slaying monsters, selling loot, and purchasing more powerful items. In fact, with so many great 
 armaments lying around in unguarded crates, youre left to wonder why your enemies cant put up 
 a better fight. Maybe they would rather die than have to break open any more crates
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exman
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2003 10:41 am PT
Review:  What makes me laugh is the same people that rated the original Dungeon Siege an 8.4, have now rated 
 the expansion pack a 5.4. What makes this so ironic is that in their review of LOA, they said it's 
 the same game! So, my obvious question here is, if it's the same game, how do you explain giving 
 one an 8.4 and the other a 5.4? Makes no sense at all.
  
  On a positive note, and what they should have said in their review of LOA is that if you liked 
 Dungeon Siege, you'll love Legends of Aranna!! It's simply more of what the original gave us with 
 some nice additions like the backpack, the Traag (a mule that fights) and more weapons and armor 
 that you could possibly imagine. Excellent add on to an excellent game. Nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irish27
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 16, 2003 9:15 am PT
Review:  I'm not sure why Gamespot reviewers don't like these games. They may not be as deep as some other 
 RPG offerings but they are a lot of fun. This is a game I can get in and out of quickly when I 
 don't have a lot of time to play. Other RPGs require you to really be into the game and remember 
 what happened from one section to the next to follow the quests. Dungeon Siege is just a lot of 
 fun to play. It reminds me most of the Diablo games in it's simplicity, and every reviewer out 
 there falls all over themselves to give Blizzard games a great review. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
