-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dungeon Siege II: Broken World
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/dungeonsiegeiibrokenworld/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The new classes bring a number of interesting new abilities to the game.
 plenty of solid voice work.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The quest is short, and the story isn't nearly as interesting as in Dungeon Siege II.
 most of the dungeon designs are dull and repetitive.
 dated graphics look rough in spots.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  3, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 6.5, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 679 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Take-Two Interactive
Developer: Gas Powered Games
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Aug 1, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Broken World brings a couple of welcome new features to an already good game, but the short campaign 
 and lack of compelling content will leave you feeling disappointed. 

  Even an earth-shattering cataclysm can't stop developer Gas Powered Games from visiting the world 
 of Aranna yet again, this time in the form of an expansion to last year's Dungeon Siege II. Appropriately 
 titled Broken World, the expansion picks up a year after the events in the previous game, where 
 you defeated the evil wizard Valdis and basically destroyed the world in the process. Broken World 
 could have been an interesting look at the aftermath of the epic struggle with Valdis, but ultimately 
 it proves to be little more than a trivial experience. After the lengthy and far-reaching campaign 
 of Dungeon Siege II, the short and narrowly focused 10-hour expansion feels like more of a throwaway 
 side quest than a compelling new chapter in the history of the troubled world of Aranna.  

          The world of Aranna has seen better days, but all that misery means plenty of work for 
 a hero.     

  A year after the second cataclysm, you find yourself in a dryad outpost where nobody likes you 
 and everyone is miserably trying to piece their lives back together. You come to find out that 
 the surrounding area is plagued by once-innocent people who have become twisted, deformed "bound" 
 creatures. You also learn that there's a surviving dark mage that you failed to kill when you were 
 on the hunt for Valdis in the previous game, and he's trying to summon the dark lord Zaramoth to 
 bring peace to the world by destroying it. You, of course, recognize the flaw in that line of reasoning 
 and set out to defeat the dark mage before his evil scheme is realized.  

  When you start Broken World, you can choose to import your party from Dungeon Siege II, or you 
 can start a new game with one of six premade characters. All of the premade characters start out 
 at level 39, so if you've spent the time leveling up your Dungeon Siege II characters, you'll be 
 at a considerable advantage when you start on Broken World. However, if you do that, you'll also 
 probably be disappointed by all the new loot you'll find, because most of it will be worse than 
 what you already have. Another benefit of starting a new character is that it will give you the 
 chance to play as the new race and try out the two new classes.  

  The new race in Broken World is the dwarves, which fits thematically with the rest of the races 
 in the game, such as the half-giants, elves, and dryads. Playing a dwarf doesn't significantly 
 change the experience of hacking your way through mobs of monsters in one dungeon after the other, 
 though, so the addition is entirely superficial. Your dwarf character can be used in Dungeon Siege 
 II as well, but it seems slightly odd to do so because there are no other dwarves in that game. 

  Unlike the new race, the two new classes in Broken World can make an impact on how you play the 
 game. The blood assassin and the fist of stone are two hybrid classes that combine magic and combat 
 skills to create unique new abilities. The blood assassin requires you to have a specific level 
 of ranged and combat magic skills, and the abilities combine both of those skills. A blood assassin 
 has plenty of interesting abilities that make it a class worth pursuing. In addition to the ranged-attack 
 skills, the assassin can cast magic to set an enemy's blood on fire and inflict damage over time, 
 for example, or place "marks" on enemies to increase the damage they take in combat. The fist of 
 stone class is a mix of nature magic and melee, which makes characters in this class good at fighting 
 and at healing, making them the most self-sufficient class in the game. The fist of stone abilities 
 include magic that draws power from the earth to increase defense, as well as the ability to strike 
 the ground to cause tremors that damage surrounding enemies. Both of the classes are available 
 to play in Dungeon Siege II, as well as in the expansion, but although they're fun to play, they 
 aren't so different that you should go back and play the previous game for the new classes alone. 

          The new race isn't anything to get excited about, but the two new classes give you plenty 
 of interesting abilities to play with.     

  There are a handful of new dungeons to fight through in Broken World, as well as a few optional 
 side quests to keep you busy. The main campaign is fairly short, and you'll easily be able to finish 
 it in less than 10 hours. If you take the time to do all the side quests, you might squeeze another 
 couple of hours out of the game. But the problem isn't so much the length of the game as it is 
 the content. The dungeons are all generic and fairly small compared to dungeons in the previous 
 games. There are some larger dungeons, but they aren't any more interesting to explore. The last 
 dungeon in particular feels like one extremely long corridor with nothing to explore, no puzzles 
 to solve, and no secret treasures to find. Instead, you run down a long hallway that occasionally 
 opens up into a large room where you fight a huge mob of monsters, then continue down the next 
 hallway to do the same thing 10 more times before fighting a boss. The bosses in the game are also 
 somewhat generic and disappointing. There are about half a dozen boss fights in the game, but only 
 three different bosses. It also doesn't help that the main antagonist is a poorly developed character 
 who just seems to be pulled from thin air to stand in as a villain. Beyond the dungeons, the story 
 brings nothing to the Dungeon Siege universe and could just as well go untold.  

  Since the expansion is designed as high-level content, you can expect it to be slightly more difficult 
 than Dungeon Siege II. The monsters all seem tougher and more varied in terms of vulnerabilities 
 and behaviors. You'll still be able to easily hack through just about any enemy in a matter of 
 seconds, but when the game throws a dozen of those enemies at you (as it often does) , it can be 
 a challenge to stay alive. With so many enemies, the challenge is derived not only from fending 
 off multiple attackers, but also from the resulting confusion of having so many characters onscreen 
 at the same time. Some of the enemies are very small, which makes them difficult to spot. You'll 
 often just have to wait for your computer-controlled allies to start attacking before you know 
 where your target is.  

  Dungeon Siege II was a good-looking game for its time, and it offered plenty of variety in terms 
 of scenery. This expansion doesn't fare so well, partly because it's built on a rapidly aging engine 
 and partly because the scope of the content is much more narrow, so you end up seeing a lot of 
 the same places and faces over and over again. The environments are still the best part of the 
 presentation, with dead forests and harsh wastelands that you'll wish you could explore further. 
 However, the textures do look a bit blurry, and you'll see the same few tile sets repeated in just 
 about every dungeon in the game. The character models don't look so good, either. When the camera 
 zooms in close to your party, you'll notice that they all look very blocky. The creatures look 
 better than the characters, but they often blend into the background or are too small to see very 
 well, which can be frustrating. The special effects still look good for casting magic spells and 
 performing special moves. It's especially satisfying the way creatures violently burst into a fountain 
 of blood and guts when you kill them with your special moves.  

          The graphics haven't aged well, but some of the environments and combat effects still look 
 good.     

  The accompanying thuds and messy sound effects of battle sound good, too. There's also a ton of 
 voice work for every single non-player character in the game, and for the most part, it's all very 
 well done. The soundtrack is composed of some orchestral tracks that are subdued most of the time 
 but pick up when the action gets intense. It's good music, but it isn't anything you'll remember 
 after you're finished with the game.  

  Dungeon Siege II: Broken World feels more like it should be the first act of a game rather than 
 the last act. It doesn't bring anything to Dungeon Siege II in terms of the story, and it's too 
 short to stand on its own as a separate campaign. The new character classes are a welcome addition, 
 but they alone aren't worth the price. Broken World also doesn't add any multiplayer-specific features, 
 so that part of the game remains unchanged. You can play through the campaign cooperatively and 
 experience the new content that way, but the multiplayer doesn't increase the longevity of the 
 expansion. If you're just looking for a hack-and-slash role-playing game, you'd be better off replaying 
 Dungeon Siege II, because it's a much more satisfying experience.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost additions in Broken World are two new classes and the new race: Dwarf. While 
 the first is a nice idea and have some impact on game play, Dwarf is not different enough from 
 other existing races (which already failed to show their distinctive characteristics in the original) . 
 Like many other expansion, BW let you start off as an epic character at level 38, but it doesn't 
 offer a new set of new skills for existing classes. As a result, you don't really feel your character 
 proceed in power when they gain new level, it's only the matter of how much hitpoint and mana you 
 gain. 
  
  Combat in Dungeon Siege series has never been appreciated, but it's even worse here. I started 
 to feel disappointed right in the first chapter of the game, while my character ran through a long 
 road and hardly encountered anything other than few "bound" creatures here and there. Besides, 
 boss fights are all tedious and repetitive. At least in the original, the designers tried to add 
 some distinctive tricks for each boss, but now you can find the best strategy is to left click 
 as quickly as you can.
  
  Storyline and quest are very poorly designed. While the game tried to shattered world with tragic 
 atmosphere, the story it offers is too short and quests feel lack of interrelation. In most case, 
 you will find yourself travelling to a specified location to kill or retrieve some stuff, then 
 return to inform your success.
  
  Dungeon Siege used to be a promising game when its first version came out. Personally I regret 
 that the series don't receive enough attention and effort from its developers as it should have 
 been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhcpvisigoth
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 12:28 am PT
Review:  As a sequel to one of my most favorite games of all time, I expected Broken World to be something 
 much more than what it is. I imagined I would sit and play it for hours on end, ignoring my common 
 sense and daily rituals. But, alas, this is not to be so. Broken World fails to stand in and of 
 itself; it is only good as an expansion pack.
  
  Sure, the recipes are great. The two new pets add a little bit of spice, too. But that's about 
 it. The weapons and armour and enemies are essentially the same. The only marked diference is that 
 of the final boss.
  
  The Overmage of Cinbri has to be one of the most overwhelming and intimidating characters to come 
 in a long time, rivalled only by the Prince od Demons from Baldur's Gate.
  
  All in all, I recommend this game to all who do not wish to leave the Dungeon Siege saga unfinished. 
 It is great as a one-time, all-out gaming spree, but it's replay value is terribly limited by the 
 fact that it's three acts span only about three chapters each. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_moeha
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 10, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  I like the game but it is not as good as Dungeon siege 2.
  Positive: The blood assassin and the fist of stone are very nice and powerful soldiers. Some new 
 armour. The bosses are a lot better (especially the last one, zaramoth reborn) . The graphics.
 
  
  Negative: Sometimes, the storyline is quite confusing. Too much options. Not enough secondary quests.
 
  
  The coolest new thing are the blood assassin and the fist of stone: their attacks are VERY nice. 
 Also nice is a new added category to advance in (blood assassin and fist of stone) .
  
  Conclusion: I dont think its a must play, but it is fun playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kelteel
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  The Dungeon Siege series of games are one of the few games that are just plain fun to play especially 
 when you need a break from the mundane same-o same-o games that are marketed. They don't pretend 
 to be Diablo or any other game. They have the formula right for just having fun.
  
  Broken World is no different and I have no problem with paying for it because I know I will have 
 fun playing it and I am. I rated it a 8.5 and one reason is I can import my party from DS II and 
 revisit the world of spells and hack and slash thru monsters. I found both Oblivion and Neverwinter 
 Nights 2 boring as the games wore on and C&amp; C 3 is all of it's the same as all of the previous 
 games in that line. C&amp; C 3 got high marks from me at first but I would downgrade it now as not 
 much is really different except for better graphics and special effects.
  
  Lighten up with all the complaints because it did not meet your expectations and have fun. This 
 series is just plain and simple fun and I am looking forward to DS III knowing that the developers 
 have to give us a different place and time and keep it fun.
  
  For difficulty I want the next Diablo and Homeworld with no cheats, hacks or mods and the ability 
 to replay. I would also like to see a sequel ot The Throne of Darkness, Dungeon Lords and Freelancer.
 
  
  I enjoy gaming and the games that are fun will get my money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnoel809
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 17, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of the Dungeon Siege universe. I've play all the PC versions and expansions, plus 
 I've got the PSP version for when I travel (any game beats the movies they show on airlines) . My 
 wife and I used to play the original DS on our home LAN, the co-op was great except you couldn't 
 save where you were. You played, then if you wanted to play again another time, you started all 
 over. Better than nothing, but not much.
  
  I was thrilled when they came out with an expansion for DS2. I enjoyed DS2 a great deal, much more 
 than most of the reviews I read. Once I started playing Broken World, it was still good, but it 
 didn't have that new feeling. It started feeling pretty repetitive fairly early and kept right 
 on. Some levels I thought I'd played before, which I probably had in DS2, with just a little scenery 
 change.
  
  Overall it boils down to this: if you're a huge fan of DS and need something to tide you over until 
 DS3 (which hopefully will be made) , play it. If you've got other things to play and don't usually 
 care for expansion packs, stay away. I got stuck on one section (one boss wizard kept kicking my 
 party's butt) , so I had left this game alone for several months. Once I found a cheat code to beat 
 the wizard, I went back to it. That was the only section of the game I couldn't get past on my 
 own. Strange, since it was fairly early in the game. As expansions go, it's not bad (compared to 
 some I've played) . Compared to stand-alone games, it leaves something to be desired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 19, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7/10
  More of the same, that's what Broken World provides. But not much more. As an expansion to the 
 fairly good Dungeon Siege II, we are supposed to get a whole new campaign, a bunch of extra classes 
 and a truckload of items to play with. While nothing presented here is inherently bad, nothing 
 is standing out. So I find myself in a quandary. On the one hand, it's repetitive and it does nothing 
 new. On the other, it's good and I enjoyed playing it through. So I've just decided to mark the 
 gameplay aspect the same as the parent game: good, but nothing special.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Again, not much improvement from the original game, except now it's a year later 
 and it's even further down the shiny pile. It does look decent, everything is clear and the job 
 is done. But I'd like to see a bit more flash occasionally.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  Well, at least here we have an improvement. The voice acting isn't quite as bad as in Dungeon Siege 
 II, which on occasion made my ears want to commit ritual suicide. The music is still the same good 
 orchestrated score as can be found in the original, so no problems here.
  
  Value: 5/10
  The campaign is insanely short, and while the difficulty has certainly been upped from that of 
 the parent game and the other additions do provide some amusement, I do question whether Broken 
 World can be counted as a true expansion. It's just too small, and certainly not worth the &pound;20 
 or whatever it cost when it came out. Thankfully I got it bundled in free with Dungeon Siege II, 
 and I suggest you find a similar deal.
  
  Tilt: 6/10
  Fair.
  
  Pros:
  Thankfully a challenge is now presented in some aspects of the gameplay with a nicely raised difficulty 
 level. The new races and whatnot allow for extra diversity - new things to play with are always 
 good, and here we really do have to make the most of what we are given.
  
  Cons:
  Again: it's just too small, with not enough improvements.
  
  Conclusion:
  If you enjoyed 
 Dungeon Siege II, play it though for the improved challenge. Just don't pay full whack unless for 
 some bizarre reason you enjoy paying for empty promises. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poton
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 3, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Total let down id you compare it to dungeon siege 1. I was seriously hoping this would bring dungeon 
 2 back up to ds 1 standard, i love ds 2 new leveling system over dungeon siege one but it really 
 does lack content and pvp. Pity they never revamped dungeon siege 1's world for dungeon siege 2 
 muliplayer by simply upgrading the models and textures but anyway broken world is just a little 
 bit more dungeon crawling and unless you have a good few friends to play it through with or really 
 want to be a dwarf its probably not worth getting...
  
  Vlaue:
  Not to keen on the new classes myself and havn't added enough content.
  
  Graphics: same standard 
 as ds 1 so ok
  
  Gameplay: virtually the same as ds 2 which is disapointing since theres litte else in the expansion 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astafar
Rating: 3.4
Date: Mar 15, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  As far as content, after defeating Valdis, saving the world, and bringing the second age to an 
 end (inadvertantly) ... suddenly everyone in town hates your guts. Everyone sneers at you with distain 
 and speaks harshly. They seriously say, Well even though you ruined our lives and ended the world... 
 I GUESS I could sell you something since we're so desperate. I kept thinking to myself, Ok, would 
 you rather have liked to stay under the heel of a crazy dictator that was TRYING to bring an end 
 to the age? Hardly a hero's welcome for saving the world when in the first Dungeon Siege they had 
 lost all hope and were terrified of the pain and suffering Valdis brought.
  
  I spoke to a few townspeople and picked up some quests. Then I saw a strange icon on my minimap 
 and ran towards it. It's a guy that lets you reset the skill points on your characters for some 
 gold. SWEET I thought, because I only really focused on two warriors, a fire mage, and a healer/pet 
 mage during the campaign so I just sort of spent the other characters points on 'whatever'. Now 
 I could fix their skills and have a well-rounded party for when I jumped over to multiplayer.
 
  
  I kicked my main guys out of the party to make room for the other characters to take them -- three 
 at a time -- to this 'reset' guy. I went to the Inn and saw all of my characters. This girl named 
 Deru was first on the list of characters, but I didn't want her... I wanted to reset a guy named 
 Vix first. I highlighted Vix and clicked Add to add him to my party and out pops Deru. I thought 
 I had made a mistake, so I opened the Inn list again and EVERY SINGLE ONE of my characters were 
 gone except for the initial 3 I had in my party when I imported from the first campaign. I thought 
 what am I doing wrong? So I went to the forums and learned of the infamous Inn Bug . Apparently, 
 when you save your game repeatedly in the original DS2 your saved game can become corrupt. Then 
 when you import your characters unto DS2: BW this Inn Bug happens. Also, maybe this is rumor, Gas 
 Powered Games knew about the bug when they released the game. The know why it happens but not how 
 to fix it and I even read something on the forums about how they can't fix it because of something 
 with Microsoft having to fix the problem because they don't have the ability or permission to patch 
 the appropriate files.
  
  TOTALLY UNACCEPTABLE.
  
  I figured well maybe I can still enjoy the multiplayer from the first DS2. But I didn't like my 
 other party members and if I was going to spend a ton of time on DS2 multiplayer I wanted my rounded 
 party... but I didn't have access to the reset guy because he was in DS2: BW which I couldn't use 
 because of the Inn Bug. Final Answer: If I want my rounded party I have to start all over again 
 from scratch and create them... but then I questioned the replayability of DS2.
  
  I gave up and quit the game. I don't have much desire to continue playing. I can't believe a game 
 company would release a broken expansion, let alone not be able to fix it when they know the problem. 
 People on the forums were complaining about, Paying $30 to be a beta-tester. I agree.
  
  Supreme Commander is the hype game out there. It looks pretty cool but it might just be flash or 
 hype. I noticed that it was created by Gas Powered Games. That alone might deter me from buying 
 it. I'll check out the demo first, but I am almost completely turned off and question future games 
 released by this company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonweyr
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 3, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Not worth buying if it wont even download. Paid for 4 different copies and not a single one of 
 them would even initialize and download to my hard drive. Could I have bought the only 4 worthless 
 discs produced. I think not. Once again 2K has proven to be nothing but a bunch of hype. Anyone 
 else out there have this kind of luck with 2k games? Have also tried to download this expansion 
 on the computers of 2 friends who also play the game and nothing. One of them even bought a copy 
 and couldn't get it to work either. Think it is time to find another publisher with better equipment 
 for making game discs that can actually be used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcsk8ter
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  Let me explain more in details my opinion of Dungeon Siege2: broken world
  
  Graphics: It may look old like graphic but the creator always make a little change that feel us 
 more in the game . (8 out of 10)
  
  Gameplay : It is very easy to play in that game like the previous episode they kept the same thing 
 with new things.
  
  Longevity : The story keep the track but since ist an expansion we can finished it kind fast .
 
  
  Music : The sounds are great and it kept the ambiance of the series
  
  Overall : That little chapter that we may think it is the last conclued it very well and i have 
 very like it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dana2503
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Looking backwards, this game left on me only one impression when I finished it, that erased all 
 other impressions I had during playing game: too short.
  But, since I know well all DS games, that was exactly what I needed. Short game, with nice graphic 
 and sounds, easy to play, without using your brain, with lots of killing and slashing around...
 
  New classes that are available here are nothing that is revolutionary, but two new, dual-classes, 
 if I can call them like that, might be quite interesting, because they give you some interesting 
 and useful skills that are improving your main abilities. This is the only thing that can give 
 you some thinking in this game, how to use your experience points for your characters and make 
 an interesting party.
  Of course, there is still one annoying thing, and that is limited number of your party members, 
 only four for the first time, and after you beat the game, and play it again, you can add one more 
 member. Two times like that. But, I can freely say that no one would bother beating this game twice, 
 because in the first time, you can explore 100% of things and places that game offers.
  There are no surprises, like hidden quests, because you have a menu, where is listed exact number 
 of quests you can take.
  Pretty easy game, in which you have even pointers in which way you should go.
  There are interesting 
 sets of gear, which give you bonuses when you collect more then one item from that set, but, even 
 there are some annoying things, like too many sets, but very hard obtaining of at least one complete 
 set, and repeating of items, which should be unique.
  Story on which you can forget easily, because it is not important at all, and even not interesting, 
 in the way you can already guess it from the start.
  But, game is quite satisfying if you are in busy times of your life, when you want to play something, 
 but you are not able, or maybe not in the mood to go too deep into some game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darnell0216
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 13, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  The Good: They did a good job with this expansion/update and added alot of wanted and needed features. 
 The add-on helps finish the story nicely and it's more great gameplay and those completely new 
 and jumping straight to this expansion can still start from the beginning with some extra bonuses.
 
  
  The Bad: Bugs. The biggest headache right now is a "Corrupt Inn" bug, which deletes all your chars 
 except for 1 if you import your DS2 gamesaves. This makes it a pain for those who like to go for 
 the whole 100% and finish with all your chars and their side quests. The workaround for it involves 
 alot of work and can reset up to all of your henchmen. What's worse is even if you haven't used 
 a mod in the past, restrictions in DS2BW can sometimes prevent DS2 gamesaves from being detected, 
 requiring the AllSaves Mod.
  
  Overall: If you've played a clean game then getting might not be an issue, though you may still 
 have a corrupt inn. GPG is trying to find a fix for the issue but so far no go. So unless you're 
 willing to take the risk, do without the rest of your chars or starting from scratch, wait for 
 the patch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antraxspore
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 17, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Well the most I like about DS are the visual effects and the enviroment of the map,... it looks 
 awesome when u cross a bridge in the jungle and see under the flowing water of a river. I think 
 the eviroments are well designed u see the light that pases trought the top of the tress or when 
 u see the creeps jumping down the trees to attack u. What I find also awesome was that if u where 
 whielding a magical weapon u could see the "magic" floating around them.
  
  The problem of broken world was that it was defenitly to short.
  What I also disliked was that 
 I couldnt convert my DS2 character to broken world character which I found very anoyeing, I was 
 level 71 and wanted to end the game with the expansion and I wasnt posible so I had to chose a 
 premade character lvl31 and that wasnt fun stating the game again was also something that I didnt 
 want.
  
  Overall I think DS 2 a& broken world are great games I cant explainmyself why they gave the graphics 
 so less points but well.
  For me DS2 is the RPG with the best graphics on marked of course excluding those "RPG's" in the 
 style of oblivion.
  
  If u have the money and dont have any other good altertavie to buy + if u are a true DS2 lover 
 go buy it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddeputatu1
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 10, 2006 4:58 am PT
Review:  As the title says i found it quite disappointing i mean IMO this expansion is just so u have an 
 ending to an unfinished storyline. I would give it the same rating as ds2 because its the same thing 
 .Don`t get me wrong the game is great because its ds2 but its disappointing bcuz in my eyes the 
 new features are there just to be not as a new challenge ... too bad .For the 2 new classes they 
 could of made a particular skill tree , ow well .Ow and my biggest disappointment is that the new 
 golden sets dont give any bonuses , quite stupid to be honest . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 10, 2006 2:01 am PT
Review:  Hack & Slash game , sounds not very special . well , this expansion makes the difference . More 
 options been added to Dungeon Siege II . If you ask me if this game is addicteble , i Say : Son 
 , get your self a copy of DS II + brokenworld expansion and waste your time ! .... Anyway this 
 expansion makes a lot fans happy ! Lets make a list ":
  
  1. More realistic Sounds added 
  2. You have now more the feeling being part of the game
  3. 
 What Ever , Too much to say !!....
  
  it has a catchy gameplay , its not too hard but i think the makers must have invested more time 
 in the learning curve . it takes lets say much minutes before you can and know everything. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wljohnso
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 7, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  This is a decent add on, I agree that the new content is a little short and a bit of a cookie cutter. 
 I like the new class features and regret not having the assassin from the get go as my character 
 design fitted in with that idea. 
  
  So it is a bit spendy for an add-on without huge amounts of content... I do not regret my purchase, 
 but I would have liked a little more game.
  
  I have to wonder about gamespot burying the review for this game. Sure they took advertising money 
 and then proceeded to put it in stealth mode for days on end. Maybe their review is fair, but I 
 have to waonder about their objectivity and ethics none the less. A review should be made public 
 like any other review, which Gamespot did. 
  
  BTW if you say anything critical of Gamespot they will lower your user score. I guess the truth 
 hurts. Talk about shooting the messenger. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 5, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Technically, DSII: BW is on a par with the game it's an expansion for, DSII... no shock there. As 
 such, it has decent graphics, great sound, and the interface and other nuts and bolts fit well. 
 However, it's been a while since DSII came out, and unlike an expansion like WC: Frozen Throne, 
 this is not a game within a game.
  
  The new classes add replay value for people who've run through DSII a LOT and are desperate for 
 more. They are truly original, but without enough new storyline content, it won't be enough to 
 draw you in for a truly NEW experience. As a mod, or an episode I of a new game, this would work. 
 As a long awaited expansion this falls short.
  
  That said, there is an audience for this, and for that audience I would highly reccomend it. I 
 don't mean to sound snide when I say that some people wanted more, and that two new classes = two 
 new playthroughs in which case the extra content is icing on te cake. If you're one of those people, 
 fantastic. For the rest of us, it's a hard call, because although the technical aspects of the 
 game hold up well, it falls terribly short on value. This score is all about "tilt". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berma_1991
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 5, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  Hack & Slash game , sounds not very special . well , this expansion makes the difference . More 
 options been added to Dungeon Siege II . If you ask me if this game is addicteble , i Say : Son 
 , get your self a copy of DS II + brokenworld expansion and waste your time ! .... Anyway this 
 expansion makes a lot fans happy ! Lets make a list ":
  
  1. More realistic Sounds added 
  2. You have now more the feeling being part of the game
  3. 
 What Ever , Too much to say !!....
  
  it has a catchy gameplay , its not too hard but i think the makers must have invested more time 
 in the learning curve . it takes lets say much minutes before you can and know everything. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
