-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dungeon Keeper 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/dungeonkeeper2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 16, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 8.2, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 2,319 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Bullfrog Prod.
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Jun 30, 1999 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's impossible that you won't find something to like about Dungeon Keeper 2. 

 There's something immediately unsettling whenever Bullfrog turns out sequels. Best known for its 
 original game designs like Populous, Syndicate, and Theme Park, the mere thought of Bullfrog working 
 with an already-existing concept instead of introducing an entirely new one makes sequels such 
 as Dungeon Keeper 2 seem less ambitious than their innovative predecessors. All the same, the original 
 Dungeon Keeper, a real-time strategy game in which you'd construct a subterranean labyrinth within 
 whose corridors you'd kill the goodly heroes looking to rid their land of the likes of wretches 
 such as yourself, was one of Bullfrog's best ideas in years. In hindsight, though, it wasn't as 
 outstanding as it might have seemed at first, and suffered from being a little too formulaic and 
 at times too chaotic. And so Dungeon Keeper 2 seems like the right way to make amends, to take 
 a brilliant game design and perfect it. Which is why, in spite of this game's absolutely remarkable 
 detail, it doesn't end up being all it might have been - under the surface, it's too much like 
 its predecessor for its own good.  

 Although Dungeon Keeper 2 shares the original's half-silly, half-scary visual design, the graphics 
 have undergone an incredible refinement since the first game, lending Dungeon Keeper 2 some of 
 the best graphics you've ever seen. A dark, subterranean setting such as this one constantly runs 
 the risk of looking colorless and too despondent, but Dungeon Keeper 2 succeeds in conveying its 
 claustrophobic hallways beautifully, thanks to subtle but terribly effective light and shadow effects 
 that bring your catacombs to life. The various dungeon components, from paper-strewn libraries 
 and glittering treasuries to more sinister developments like cold graveyards and intricate torture 
 chambers, are all readily distinguishable and beautiful to look at right down to the finest detail. 
 And you can zoom in as close as you like from the default isometric view to appreciate that detail. 

 A wide variety of wicked denizens find themselves right at home within your underworld, and these 
 are the real stars of Dungeon Keeper 2. Most every one of them looks outstanding in full 3D, from 
 the wimpy, wiry goblins and skeletons on up to the gracefully wicked vampires and dark angels. 
 These creatures' various affectations, the way they move about, what they like to do in their spare 
 time, how they deal with their enemies, all make Dungeon Keeper 2 distinct and often very funny. 

 And while the graphics are vastly improved since the original, Dungeon Keeper 2 also sounds better 
 than the first, which sounded fantastic in the first place. In fact, even in spite of its visual 
 quality, it's Dungeon Keeper 2's sound effects that make this game as amusing as it is. Vampires 
 cackle suspiciously to themselves, rogues sound like they're up to no good, and trolls talk even 
 goofier than they look. Every room comes replete with its own ambient noises, which blend seamlessly 
 as you scroll around, surveying your handiwork. A somewhat inappropriate though catchy enough techno 
 soundtrack kicks in when your forces inevitably clash with the forces of good, and a perfectly 
 evil-sounding narrator will alert you whenever something is amiss, just as he will introduce all 
 your minions and facilities as they make themselves available. It's impossible to give Dungeon 
 Keeper 2's sound design enough credit - certainly its graphics seem more impressive at first, but 
 long after you're through gawking at the lighting effects, you'll still be cracking smiles listening 
 to the game.  

 But even the excellent sound will start to wear thin eventually, because the gameplay hasn't changed 
 much since the original Dungeon Keeper, which means there's more or less a right way to go about 
 playing the game. Dungeon Keeper 2 isn't as flexible or open-ended as it may first appear: You 
 simply etch out five-by-five zones for your rooms, sometimes bigger, sometimes smaller, and you 
 lay down the rooms as you can afford to. There's a fairly specific order in which you'll want to 
 build these, and it's more or less identical to how you built them in the first game. You'll quickly 
 learn to slap your creatures around to make them work faster, and soon enough there will come a 
 point where you realize there's very little left for you to see in the game. That's because the 
 problem in Dungeon Keeper 2, much like in its predecessor, is that most of the fun lies in the 
 setup. Almost all the missions, single- or multiplayer, build to an anticlimax where you just dump 
 all your creatures onto the enemy and hope yours are stronger than his.  

 Granted, Dungeon Keeper 2 combat probably deserves more credit than all that. The designers tried 
 to address the flaws of the rather mindless combat of the original game by making creatures fall 
 down stunned whenever you drop them someplace, at which point they're very vulnerable. Likewise, 
 some creatures are cowardly and will flee if they're outnumbered or outclassed. Others are fearless. 
 Many have support roles and need to be defended. And possessing a creature and fighting from its 
 first-person perspective imbues that creature with superior strength and stamina. You can also 
 set up deadly and elaborate traps, many of which work well in combination and can be applied with 
 a great deal of creativity.  

 Even so, combat still looks and feels so hectic, and so much happens so quickly, that most of the 
 time you'll just watch the dust settle and hope a few of your minions will be standing tall at 
 the end of it. Part of the chaos is on account of the game's interface, which while readily accessible 
 and legible, just doesn't really offer you the kind of insight you'll wish you had on your units 
 and the enemy's. At least the original game had an iconic representation of each battle, showing 
 the participants involved; here you don't even get that much, and you won't be able to tell who's 
 doing what to whom until it's all over. Combat in Dungeon Keeper 2 just isn't much fun compared 
 with the rest of the game, and yet the entire game is merely a setup for that inevitable confrontation. 

 It's possible the designers were aware that building up dungeons is more fun than defending them. 
 There's even a mode of play where you can take as long as you like and build up your dungeon without 
 any threat of enemy incursion, unless you choose to trigger an enemy attack yourself. Dungeon Keeper 
 2 is also chock-full of all kinds of little secrets, which are very often worth looking for because 
 they open up clever hidden levels or help power up your creatures. And between campaign missions, 
 you get very funny short movies with the various characters in action, which alone are reason enough 
 to keep playing. The campaign is quite long, the voice-over is always a treat, and the game has 
 a fair amount of variety between missions under the general constraint that is the game's restrictive 
 design. Beyond that you can play skirmish matches against a variety of computer opponents of assorted 
 skill levels, or easily jump into a multiplayer game over the Internet.  

 When you add it all together, it's impossible that you won't find something to like about Dungeon 
 Keeper 2. It's witty, it's fun to play and to watch, and its interface is easy to use, just as 
 the game itself does a great job of incorporating tutorial information right into the scenarios. 
 It's a high-quality game, the likes of which would give most any other developer every reason to 
 be jealous. Yet all the same, it isn't terribly complicated and doesn't introduce too many new 
 creatures or features that weren't already in the first one. At the same time, this is undoubtedly 
 the technically superior game of the two, yet its attention to aesthetics makes its ultimately 
 straightforward gameplay all the more disappointing.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (38 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: aeakes
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  After recently playing through the excellent Evil Genius, I got nostalgic for this old favorite 
 and decided to see if it would still be playable on my Vista PC. I was pleasantly surprised to 
 find that it installed and ran with no problem at all!
  
  Being an older game, its maximum resolution is only 800x600, but the charm and overall feel of 
 the graphical presentation soon made this a non-issue. The sound is also excellent, with a great 
 narrator and all the requisite sounds and effects you would imagine in a underground lair setting.
 
  
  The basic set-up is that you are the evil keeper of various underground lairs, battling for dominance 
 against the forces of good. This alone makes the game fairly unique - how often do you get to play 
 as the bad guy! This game will have you being bad and loving it.
  
  The game play consists of expanding your lair by carving out rooms from the surrounding rocks, 
 and building rooms to attract different creatures to your dungeon. Each mission tasks you with 
 defeating the forces of good to obtain their portal gem, along with various sub-quests and other 
 hidden secrets.
  
  One interesting feature that sets this game apart from the standard RTS is that you do not directly 
 control your creatures - they have their own agendas and will respond to environment depending 
 on the circumstances. You can, however, pick up your creatures and drop them in an area, where 
 they will proceed to attack enemies, use the training room, research spells, or whatever the most 
 likely task for their type happens to be. Beware though, they still may not always do exactly what 
 you want! Another amusing feature is that you can slap your creatures with your hand to make them 
 work harder, at the expense of a small hit to their hit points.
  
  In addition to your creatures, you are also able to research various spells, and craft many items 
 in a workshop; such as doors, traps, and defensive emplacements. You can set up some nasty combos 
 by placing these items in a strategic fashion, and set up kill-zones to assist your creatures against 
 any unwanted incursions into your lair.
  
  Overall this is one of my all-time favorite games, and while Evil Genius is a more modern update 
 of the same genre and excellent in its own right, I am still disappointed that no more sequels 
 were ever made in the Dungeon Keeper franchise. I cannot recommend this game enough! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obitus_sum
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  The basic concept behind this game is one I like to see - you play on the side of evil, directing 
 your minions to destroy other keepers (and capture "hero's" that come to destroy you) . You basically 
 mine out dungeons on your quest to be supreme evil ruler. It is a RTS where you find portals to 
 add creatures. Similar to Sim City, you zone certain areas of the dungeons you carve out. Based 
 on the rooms you have, you will attract different types of creatures to your dungeon. 
  
  There are two parts of the game that I find best - one is converting the heros that come into your 
 dungeon. Once you have a torture chamber, you can put the heros in there to convert them to the 
 dark side. The other is possessing your creatures and being able to walk through the dungeon in 
 a first person perspective. Now each time I see a new RTS I wonder if it will allow you to step 
 in as one of the units. 
  
  Pros - Innovative story, terrific humor, first-person-view when you possess a creature
  
  Cons 
 - limited maps (can only replay so many times) , dated graphics
  
  I sincerely hope they put out Dungeon Keeper 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cathad
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  So... great game... I think they should make more games where u can play the "on dark side of the 
 force" :) ) ... it was and it is something new.... they tried the same thing with Overlord (a little 
 bit easy and short, but a great game) . I suggest that u try Dungeon Keeper, I or II, because even 
 they are old.... the fact that u can the bad and nasty Dungeon Keeper/Overlord is very addictive. Enjoy 
 one of the best real time strategy/adventure (I can say, when u use posses creature) with some rpg 
 elements... TRY IT!!! GET ADDICTED
  Another good thing is the mplay option... that can drag 2 or more players in a great rts world.... that 
 can eat many hours... and the gold edition with the my dungeon option .... stii enjoying .... And 
 the mini games that u can play funny like hell... so to all rts lovers and that like to be "evil" 
 this is a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechosenone007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  As I said : Maybe not better than the first one, but great to play! First the good thing is that 
 the graphics are enchanced and make it look more real, everything about this game is the same as 
 the first one, but you get your very own freeplay mode where you start off with alot of money and 
 unlock all the rooms first! The bad thing is that is is more trickier, one mission I have been 
 going at for months now and it is really starting to bug me off. I recomend if you like mythical 
 monsters, dragons, blood, killing games. Buy it if you have a PC (Well of course you do lol) Hope 
 you buy it! ; ) Also you still get the chance to control your own monsters. We have old monsters 
 such as The Warlock and New monsters such as the Dark Angels. Same old boss, same old game! But 
 with better graphics and much trickier! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legend-of-Evil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Most people would have heard of Dungeon Keeper 2 and become excited, of course taking that they 
 had played the first in the Dungeon Keeper series, which was severely underplayed as it was.
  
  Dungeon Keeper 2 throws you into a world of minions, mining and heroes as you create your own 
 underworld masterpiece, slaying heroes as you go. This is done by gathering minions, who appear 
 through a claimed portal to use the rooms that you provide.
  
  A pro about Dungeon Keeper 2 is the minion animation, it is far surpassing the first game's animation 
 quality, but it doesn't really keep what mood was so well established in the first game.
  
  As you traverse the underground, you will come across minions such as Warlocks, Skeletons and Dark 
 Angels, all there to serve your every order and do whatever possible to acheive your goal.
  
  You cannot attract minions however, without using rooms to lure them towards your dungeon in 
 the first place. Build rooms such as Lairs, where they can sleep, Hatcheries, where they can 'fill 
 their bellies full of juicy chicken flesh', and the torture chambers, where captured opposition 
 members can be interrogated and converted.
  
  The voice-over differs only slightly from the original game, and a lot more humour is used to break 
 the ice at any point within a battle.
  
  As there are pros, so there are cons, one being that when one of your creatures wins the jackpot 
 at one of your Casinos, they start doing a stupid jig to 'Disco Inferno' for a few minutes, and 
 if you are middle battle, then you are more or less in big trouble, because as your minions don't 
 do anything but dance for a few minutes, enemies can move right past, and your minion's will be 
 physically incapable of attack or defending.
  
  Dungeon Keeper 2 offers a lot of entertainment for as long as you want to play it, with each new 
 level introducing new spells, rooms, minions or missions. It does not move past it's predecessor 
 when quality is concerned, but there is still plenty of fun to be had.
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  Sound - 8/10
  Gameplay - 9/10
  Overall - 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampire_Turtle
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  If you do not wish to read the full review I have made a brief; good and bad points about Dungeon 
 Keeper 2.
  
  Good: The humour of dungeon keeper 2 will make you smile throughout each stage, The graphics and 
 sound set the mood very well making you think you were there breathing in the cold, dank air, Many 
 ways you can approach a situation, Traps and spells are a fun and neat edition, Equally as good 
 as it's predecessor, Even if your not a huge fan of RTS the game is still fun.
  
  Bad: One mission is way to hard, story is simple.
  
  Graphics: Were revolutionary at the time, 
 and help to set the mood very well. The simple use of textures on creatures to walls make you feel 
 as though, you were actually there. The design DK uses helps set the humourous side of the game, 
 it will make you chuckle when you see an imp runnning away from an enemy giant! 10/10
  
  Gameplay: Is great fun, you can literally just have fun clicking on a wall and watch your imps 
 dig for you! Training creatures, mining gold, researching spells it's all a huge pile of fun fun. 
 There are also many other things you can do in Dugeon Keeper 2, but I won't give out spoilers! 
 The game difficulty is just right, apart from one level where it just leaps up like a frog on steroids, 
 and then comes down again to where it once came. (I think it's mission 14) 9.5/10
  
  Sound: Fantastic, it sets the mood just right for an underground smelly, dark and dank dungeon 
 in which you have control over. Hearing the occasional drop of water, padding of creature's feet 
 or even the farts of a Bile Demon all give the game great sound. Also the helper, (Horny) , has 
 a rather good taste in black humour and as well as keeping you informed, he will also keep you 
 entertained with his heart warming jokes.
  
  Story: It's quite basic but gets to the point very well. Simplicity in the story allows you to 
 have more fun, then having to keep on remembering things and then associating them with whats happening 
 now. However some people may want a more complex story, than DK2 has to offer. 8.5/10
  
  Overall, Dungeon Keeper 2 in my opinion, is possibly the best and most unique RTS to date. Pick 
 up a copy if you ever see one. This game gets my "MUST BUY!" Badge and a 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matttttttssssss
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  dungeon keeper 2 is an action stratagy game were you will have to complete around 20 or so levels. 
 the levels start of pretty easy with you having to fight the forces of hororric good and the goodly 
 lords of the lands but at around level 10 you will start to fight other rival keepers and in level 
 19 and 20 will have you fighting the king and his family that is what you will do in the main campaign 
 skermish mode gives players the option to play against other computer players, you will select 
 a map from about four different maps and start.
  the battles will be the same as any campaign levels.
  
  and last of all is the my pet dungeon 
 mode, you will build a dungeon and attract in creatures as in all the other modes but you will 
 not have any presure from other keepers or the forces of good (unless you click on a butten in 
 the toolbar you will get one wave of them which you can capture them and conwert them) the creatures: 
 here is a list of creatures that you can get in the game
  goblin: your basic creature
  firefly: good as a scout and nothing else
  warlock: good at researching and upgrading spells 
 and a good support for other creatures
  troll: not so flash in combat but can manufactur doors and traps in the work shop
  bile demon: 
 hardest creatures to manage and also slow but can hold of enemies
  skeleton: simular to the goblin but they do not need food or sleep
  vampire: one of the stronger 
 creatures in the game can only be created by getting four dead courpses ti the graveyard and letting 
 them rot into the ground
  balck night: your best and most deadliest creatures up close
  misteress: a powerful creature but doesent have much health
  dark elve: another great support 
 creature but best when fighting in groups but will find themselfs slain if combat gets too heavy
 
  dark angle: by far the most powerful creature in the game
  and imps: which are magical workers and don't fight unless the dungeon heart becomes under attack
 
  
  the down side to this game is that it crashes very commonly but its still a pretty good game!! 
 gamespot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartharel
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this game is very good, but ONLY if you get the patches for skirmish levels. unlike the first 
 game (Un-patched) the enemies now dig gold, and its also offers more strategies as it is now possible 
 to pit other keepers against each other, as they are no longer all allies. the last level is a 
 let down because its nothing like level 20 of the first game, all you have to do is summon the 
 reaper and bobs ur uncle. It appears that humour has been added and it does work well, but its 
 at the expense of that underlying sense of malice the first one had. although the dungeon runs 
 much more realistically, it doesnt seem quite so spontaneious as the first either, which deducts 
 the way i feel for this game slightly. However, if theres one thing that made me frown, it was 
 the realisation that the dragons, the tanks that gave backbone to the armies of the first game, 
 were replaced by these orange sausage monsters (Salamanders) who's only good point is there humourous 
 dance when the jackpot is reached in the casino. Dark angels are also not a very good replacement 
 for the horned reapers either. i suppose the new monsters are good but i can only wish that the 
 old ones had stayed. beetles, spiders, flies, dragons, demon spawn... why did bulfrog remove them? 
 we will never know.
  
  The game though is blessed by an actual storyline, it is not just a simple matter of ruling the 
 world, you must now defeat your nemesis (Nemesis) in a battle to end all battles. Its a shame that 
 keeper 3 was never made, as i think a similar game made with modern day technology would get something 
 along a 9.8 at the lowest from official reviewers. Dungoen keeper 2, will have to do for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goduffgo
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  The first Dungeon Keeper game was for me a really great game, when 3D graphics started to enter 
 the planet could'nt wait to see it on DK2 and it was worth the wait!
  The dungeon in the game is amazing to look at, there is always something going on. You will feel 
 like a tourist with culture shock! Cuts scences are graphicly subline. There is also little bonuses 
 through out the year for example when there is a full moon, there is a secret level to click on.
 
  My fav. bit in the game is when you have a massive dungeon, i like to home in on a creature and 
 see what it gets up to, at the top of the screen it has its name and lots of various little details, 
 you can watch it gamble to to bed walk around picking on imps prey, anything This game is soo much 
 fun and recomend it to anyone, my review cannot give this game the praise it deserves (coz im rubbish 
 at reviews!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oils06mustang
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  Not even close to the orginal. Limits the player to go in the direction of the game maker.
  
  NO Dragons.
  
  NO Reapers. Except the useless on that shows up at the end of ever level.
 
  
  Don't go out of your way to get this game. It does have its up side but not enough to keep you 
 interested. Also, the time allowed on the levels does not give the player time to build, and explore. 
 And once you beat the level, it's over. Nothing left to do. Might as well move on.
  
  If a Dungeon Keeper 3 comes out I hope they use the first game as a model and improve on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_hunger
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 21, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I really liked this game. I played pen &amp; pencil Dungeons &amp; Dragons for years, so I have 
 an appreciation of the dungeon-master concept behind this game. Dungeon Keeper 2 is a blend of 
 real-time strategy, base-building, and sim-developing, but the real treat is being able to play 
 as naughty as you want -- and be rewarded for it! There are a few things that I would change about 
 DK2, but overall, I found it quite enjoyable, even years after its initial release.
  
  Gameplay: There are three different gameplay modes. First, there is the campaign, which includes 
 several mission in which you snuff out the lairs of heroes and rival keepers on your way to dominating 
 the region. Typically, you build a base by tunneling out rooms and finding gold, attract a legion 
 of monster henchmen while doing so, and then take on the forces of your rival. There is enough 
 variation in the missions to prevent boredom, although there are a few very tough missions (especially 
 the last two) . There is also a skirmish mode that lets you fight against 1-3 rival keepers while 
 fighting off other interlopers. The skirmish game can be customized in various ways, although there 
 are only about 20 maps. Finally, there is a my pet dungeon mode for those who just want to build 
 their subterranean masterpieces without being troubled by opposition (although you can choose to 
 include set-piece battles against heroes) . All of the gameplay modes have their appeal, though 
 I liked the campaign and skirmish the best. The game can be played online, but I suspect there 
 is not much of a multiplayer community these days.
  
  The game is fairly easy to play, once you master the controls. You'll need certain rooms in place 
 (lair, hatchery, blacksmith, prison, torture chamber, and library) to really get things going, 
 along with a number of choice spells (heal, rally, make gold) that can be researched at the library. 
 You have limited control of your creatures, beyond being able to drag and drop them. You can take 
 direct control over a creature with the possession spell and even have a number of creatures follow 
 you. This puts the game into first-person perspective, which can be fun but not all that useful 
 in later stages of the campaign. But again, the real joy of the game is all of the naughty things 
 that you can do, like torture captured heroes in your custom-built torture chamber, have corpses 
 drug to your graveyard where they might eventually attract a vampire to do your bidding, or summon 
 the god-like Horny Devil to turn the tide of a battle. A fully fleshed-out dungeon feels almost 
 like a small town under your control, and you can spend hours just admiring and tinkering with 
 your handy work (or trying to keep your minions happy) . And though a somewhat dark game, DK2 has 
 more than its share of humor, from the Vincent Price-like narrator to the casino that gives you 
 a ridiculously funny treat if one of your monsters hits the jackpot. The game never comes across 
 as cheesy or trivial, but it obviously does not take itself too serious.
  
  Graphics: For a game that came out in the late 1990s, DK2 looks pretty good. Models are detailed 
 enough to be credible representations of various monsters, and animations are pretty decent. Some 
 models such as the enemy hero lords are used too often, but otherwise the visuals are good enough 
 to allow the game to immerse you.
  
  Sounds: The game does have enough sound effects to convince you that it takes place in an underground 
 dungeon. However, the best sounds are the voice acting, which is top-knotch all the way around. 
 The narrator is both sinister and hilarious, and the enemy heroes are over-the-top in their arrogant, 
 dismissive attitudes toward evil. The music is okay, but not particularly gripping. Technical Issues: 
 The game has been quite stable on my system, even though I have XP with service pack 2. Be sure 
 to install the latest game patch before playing. Replayability/Value: I picked this game up new 
 for about $12 on eBay, so I certainly got my money's worth. I don't see much replay value in the 
 campaign, though I can imagine replaying it again at least once. The skirmish mode is decent, and 
 there are enough maps to keep you playing for a while. If you are looking to play online, I'm afraid 
 you'll have a hard time finding a game.
  
  Pros: +great concept for a game
  +terrific voice acting
  +a few different gameplay modes
  +the dark humor is spot on + it's 
 good to be bad 
  
  Cons:
  +no online community at this point
  +a few frustrating campaign missions
  +no modding community to speak of 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshuahaveron
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 23, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  This game was released in 2000 and was a darn good game! Basically you have to create a dungeon 
 using some fiendish creatures called imps who work effortlessly for you and are created using mana 
 (magic) which your character generates over time. You then use these creatures to dig out holes 
 in the underground for you to build rooms in ( you're playing underground ) like lairs and prisons. 
 These then have uses like attracting new creatures which come through a portal and uses like a 
 lair is needed for the creatures to sleep in and hatcheries for eggs. There are several rooms in 
 the game which add a lot of depth, the rooms include graveyards, lairs, prisons, hatcheries, training 
 pits, training rooms, bingo room, treasury, outpost, workshop, torture chamber and many more. You 
 then must attract as many creatures as possible ( there are more than 25) and train them up for 
 battle. Different creatures are more powerful than others and have different abilities, for example 
 a troll can create traps to arm your dungeon with like cannons etc. and warlocks unlock new spells 
 and make them more mana efficient, (there are around 20 spells) .
  Then whilst building up a dungeon you must try to take over your opponents land and try to attack 
 their dungeon heart, which is in the centre of their dungeon and creates mana which is required 
 to keep your dungeon alive and you alive. If this is destroyed you fail and all your creatures 
 flee, or are most probably captured by your opponent. The multiplayer of this game is fantastic, 
 although nobody plays it anymore and so is the story mode which I like the spin on as you are actually 
 the evil side. The game is never tiring and is fun for all ages because I have been playing it 
 since it was released, so has my nana and so has someone else I know who is 35 and they all love 
 it. If you are interested go ahead and buy it you won't be dissapointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OThePestO
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 14, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  You can't call yourself a gamer until you have at least given this game a try. This is one of the 
 most original and most fun games I have ever played. While other games always put you in the position 
 of the good guy, this game does the opposite. In this game you get to be bad, very bad, and trust 
 me, being bad is so much more fun than being good! This game is so much fun that you will not even 
 notice the many hours you have spent playing it. Though I believe this game is best enjoyed in 
 single player, it does have a fun multiplayer aspect too it, and can be great fun when played with 
 friends. The graphics are great for their time, but the sounds including speech, music, and atmospheric 
 effects is one of the highlights of this game. This game knows how to create a good... or should 
 I say 'bad' atmosphere! Although I think anyone can enjoy this game, I believe RTS junkies will 
 enjoy it the most, put StarCraft down for a bit and give this game a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 22, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  Nothing speaks of classic more than an old-school Bullfrog game, be it Populous, Dungeon Keeper, 
 or Syndicate. Regardless, virtually every game made by the esteemed Molyneux-cofounded studio was 
 pure gold, and Dungeon Keeper 2 is nothing less than amazing. Dungeon Keeper was the best game 
 of the nineties excepting the likes of Command &amp; Conquer (and maybe one or two others if they 
 are slipping my mind; Diablo I suppose) , and had players constucting subterranean dungeons, luring 
 creatures through portals, and laying waste to rival keepers. Dungeon Keeper 2 follows the identical 
 forumula although it places emphasis is differing parts of gameplay, first and foremost being the 
 possession of creatures. New controls while possessing a creature allows you to gather a small 
 band of peers and lead them into battle personally. My only concern is there is too much emphasis 
 on this and it becomes tedious having to constantly possess and lead; if you do not, your army 
 will likely fail and you will be left with a defenseless dungeon. Traps are also emphasized more, 
 and cannons are vital to protecting your dungeon heart from assailants. Also, the 3D models lack 
 detail when compared to their predecessor's sprites, and while the inclusion of a 3D system may 
 be beneficial, I found the graphics to be lacking - especially the lightning spell, which if I 
 remember correctly, was earth-shattering in the original. Even with all the minor quips, Dungeon 
 Keeper 2 is an involving real-time strategy/action hybrid which will entertain for years to come. 
 And did I mention it's already eight years old? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemisis422
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  I played this game when it first came out. And though the number of tasks can be a little daunting, 
 if you enjoy overall game managment you'll truly enjoy this game. The graphics aren't the best 
 and first person combat is for the more hard core players. The tourture is fun. You can convert 
 goodly heros to your cause but its got draw backs as far as compatibility with evil creatures. 
 if you can segrigate the good from the bad with locked doors you'll be ok. Overwhelming tactics 
 are your best bet though traps if properly placed can be very affective in supporting your troops. 
 don't be timid the best defense is often the best offense. Train extensively and don't let your 
 creatures die in the combat arena. Watch them carefully and put your imps were you need them. Overall 
 a worthy game and deffinately one you should try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Seems like sequels are released to get the same people to buy the same game over again, companies 
 do that with movies same goes for video game developers. I believe this is no exception. Sure there 
 were a lot of changes made to the original, much better visuals and sound. Interface was spruced 
 up a little to make it look newer. What I find though with all these changes it lost a lot of the 
 appeal that made me play hours and hours with the first. Sure one look and you might go wow thats 
 new but after awhile youll think that the developers could have done a lot of these changes through 
 patches or even expansion set and not charge full price. If you didnt play the first one then 
 I say buy this one to play but if you already have the first, you might not want to bother with 
 this sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebestwarhero
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  i have play this game so much i had to get a new disk it is a revolution when it came out you need 
 to get if you have not played it and will only set you back &pound;2.35 bargain and people with 
 it on you wish lists just buy it not costly at all or are you cheep because thats what the game 
 is only Graphics letting the game down and note to any game makers or if
  bulldog is still around make another it would be a massive hit look how many collections there 
 are the Graphics are ok they need some work done but if you got the game when it came out they 
 are still pretty good todays standards its a good vs evil game but you not good how cool and what 
 a name for your hero horny it still makes me giggle 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shane_F
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 8, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I owned the first one for how ever brief of time so I could not write a review of the first game 
 of this masterpiece series, but the second one I owned for a long time, and now that I had a chance 
 to re-play for a few days, I can't believe the game is still as good as it was the day I got it.
 
  
  First the positives, I can't fathom how many they are, but with all this game had to promise at 
 the start, on todays computers and graphics, the game runs great... even on my IBM R51 laptop.
 
  
  the only problem I have is that Windows XP, SP2 seems to crash the game a lot. I get far in a level 
 and it just goes boom . A minor downside to loving to play old game, but what the hey.
  
  A+ game now, but at the time of release A. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indestined
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 7, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  I'd have to say that of all games I've ever played, this is the single best. I haven't actually 
 played a game that I've loved more than this, and its sad because i doubt I'll ever see the third. 
 the brilliance of this game is shown through its creative game play and extremely effective evolution 
 from its predecessor. I can't even begin to explain how capturing this game is. I can't even play 
 WOW with as much captivity as this. If anything, this game deserves a sequel, too bad it'll never 
 get it. Imagine it with current day graphics and speed. the extra features that they could pack 
 into it. although a sequel would be amazing, this game itself is the best yet. although the graphics 
 are oldschool, nothing can hold back the quality of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaddyDX
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  Just what the title said, I have been playing this game quite regularly for six years (since release 
 date) and it never fails to enchant me. Why? Well let me tell you. There's just something about 
 this game that I cannot describe in mere text, so I will try to persuade you to buy this game with 
 this limited review. Still, it should be enough. I will attempt to pour as much information and 
 persuasion into this review as possible as people who have not played this game owe it to themselves 
 to play this masterpiece.
  
  - Game play -
  Like all God-sims, DKII requires a lot of attention and multi-tasking. As a 'Keeper' you have to 
 build, master spells, protect your creatures, master combat, develop and build defensive measures 
 for your demonic dungeon, train your creatures, mine gold (most importantly) keep your creatures 
 happy while they inhabit your dungeon etc etc. The list goes on and you're doing all of this simultaneously 
 literally every second you play. This may put your head in a scramble but don't worry. The dungeon 
 is about 90% self-sustaining meaning that the dungeon will run itself most of the time requiring 
 moderate input from the player as it develops.
  
  Overall, the game play is pretty linear but keeps just enough complexity to give you the sense 
 of accomplishment upon completing a level.
  
  
  - Visuals -
  
  Bear in mind that DKII was released six (or seven in the US) years ago. As you've expected, the 
 graphics are aged and dated. Does this mean that they are bad? Absolutely not. Yes you will get 
 the bad textures and yes you will get the dated polygons. But the graphics work. And they work 
 perfectly, if I do say so myself. The visuals are unprecedented when it comes to setting the mood 
 and atmosphere and that's a big factor that should be included in a game like this. After all, 
 in this game, you're a God. An evil God, and so you can build an evil empire. You should also have 
 the right to be mesmerized by your completed creation. The game's graphics do this perfectly.
 
  
  Overall, yeah, the graphics are dated. But they work. By God, they work.
  
  - Sound -
  There is virtually only three (four if you count the choir track) tracks in DKII. 
 The opening theme, the combat theme (but only if you summon Horny or things get really intense) 
 and 'Disco Inferno' by 'The Trammps' when there is a jackpot winner in the Casino.
  When you are playing you will only hear the very atmospheric drips. unexplained sounds, women and 
 men screaming in torture in addition to dreary and sinister choir scores. It sounds pretty disturbing 
 when you think about it but you're a Keeper! Those things are music to your ears!... sorry.
  Back on topic, all of these things really make you feel and think like an evil God. It sets the 
 mood, the atmosphere and puts you into character.
  Probably the most intriguing factor about the sound is the mysterious and the strangely well-mannered 
 adviser. The developers have made the perfect choice for choosing the voice of Richard Riding. 
 His voice is what makes the game come to life. The adviser is always by your side giving you very 
 helpful suggestions, insulting your opponents and on occasion saying something completely hilarious 
 or random. Quite ironic is the fact that though he may be on evil's side he is extremely friendly 
 and well-mannered with you. I wouldn't have it any other way as that sense of irony is gold.
  
  - Value - On the main campaign there is about 20 levels with some hidden levels. The first 
 few levels will last about 30-60 mins. But the later levels will literally last about 2-3 hours 
 or maybe even more depending on your skill.
  Aside from that there is a multiplayer mode which surprising still has a small amount of people 
 playing. I've found that everytime I search for a game there is always at least 5 to 10 people 
 on at all times. Multiplayer mode will surely keep you playing for an extreme amount of time.
 
  There is a mode called 'My Pet Dungeon' which basically lets you build your own dungeon without 
 any time restraints or any threat of enemies (unless you request enemies) . Totally stress-free 
 dungeon keeping is very addictive and takes up most of the ratio of hours playing this game.
  
  - Conclusion - Get this game. No questions asked. For me, this is one of the few games that 
 I know of that I can truly called perfect. No exaggeration. As I said, there is just something 
 about DKII and that keeps you coming back for more. Ot's like... try it yourself and you'll hopefully 
 see what I am rambling on about it. Nowadays, you can get DKII for around &pound;5 (around $10) 
 and seeing that it is 7 years old it can be played perfectly on any recent computer or even earlier 
 computers for that matter. XP users might have some problems with crashing but this is easily fixed 
 with a patch that is already included on the game disc.
  There really is no excuse to add this game to your collection. It's cheap, it's fun, it's perfect.
 
  
  P. S Thanks to all you losers not buying this game when it came out they have cancelled the DK3! 
 =P EA have begun producing game under the 'Sold out' range so maybe if there is enough copies sold 
 Bullfrog (now Lionhead) will reconsider a sequel. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junglemanchild
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Keeper 2 is the follow up to the classic Dungeon Keeper. There are a lot of changes, some 
 are good and some don't really work. You take the role of the Dungeon Keeper and control the forces 
 of evil in a quest to claim the portal gems and enter the land above ground. GAMEPLAY 9/10
  
  I will try and not compare this to the original game, but in some cases I must. Basic controls 
 are the same, you use your hand of evil to select areas to dig, pick up creatures, slap creatures, 
 select and use spells, build room etc. This doesn't take very long to get used to, especially with 
 your right hand man telling you whats going on. Several creatures have been changes from the original 
 and it is the same case with the rooms. One thing which many fans didn't like is the fact that 
 the dungeons seem a lot smaller and it doesn't take very long to find your opponents. The horned 
 reaper (Horny) can only be summoned in a spell and is not a creature who you can control in your 
 dungeon. It now costs mana to cast spells and keep imps, this stops you spending gold on spells 
 which was too easy if you had a gem supply. Levels can be quite tedious, especially since you are 
 doing the same thing in most levels. There just aren't enough levels with enemy keepers, most are 
 just heroes. Your creatures are now stunned when they are dropped, this is a good addition, since 
 you could drop all your creatures on a pile of enemies in the first game and destroy them in no 
 time. I still believe fans of the original will pick it up in to time. New players will have all 
 the help they will need in game.
  
  GRAPHICS 9/10
  
  I re installed this game recently and was really surprised with how well the graphics look. It 
 really doesnt look dated at all , which is amazing for a game released years ago. They have been 
 updated greatly from the first game, which doesn't look good nowadays. The lighting of the dungeons 
 is fantastic and gives your dungeon an evil atmosphere. The rooms, creatures and water all look 
 really good, not amazing nowadays but good enough.
  
  SOUND 10/10
  
  Sound is amazing. Your mentor is back and he is as funny as ever, he has a sinister voice which 
 adds a lot to the feeling of the game. Creatures huff and puff, creatures scream and cry in agony 
 as they are tortured, they will scream in anger as they charge into battle. It's a strong point.
 
  
  VALUE 10/10
  
  You can find this game for about &pound;4. It really is worth it and will keep you entertained 
 for hours. There are different styles of games, skirmish, pet dungeons and multiplayer. Plenty 
 of replay value
  
  ------
  
  I give this game an 9.3. Its an underappreciated game and is almost as good as the original game. 
 Some things could have been changed but they have still given us a highly entertaining strategy 
 game. Recommended for all fans of the original and anyone else who owns a PC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emo_Kid13
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely believe it is the best game made in the world!!!!!
  w e r t y u i o p a s d f g h j k l z x c v b n m q w e r t y u i o p a s d f g h j k l z x c v 
 b n m q w e r t y u i o p a s d f h j k l z x c v b n m q w e r t y u i o p a s d f g h j k l 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Termite551
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 20, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  DK2 like the original takes place in the boiling furnace of the underworld where you (The Keeper 
 ) will attempt to Capture all of the Portal Gems, which seem to be the keys to the gate to Earth. 
 The Dungeon creating is one of the best parts. You create rooms with your Imps which will simply 
 destroy the rock you Tag with your greenish hand cursor. After the Imps destroy the rock they will 
 capture the ground tiles for you to build on. After the room is prepared you simply select the 
 room you wish from the selection screen and presto a fabulous (Well not really very grim and dark, 
 but none the less graphics wise they look quite good) room is made. The Creatures in the game are 
 also very imaginative and fun. The Imp is your mana sustained worker (Mana is the magic you use 
 to cast spells) and will as mentioned above make your rooms. other creatures are fun and (considering 
 the graphics of the time) very nicely rendered. The campaign is quite long and should last you 
 a long time. The Skirmish mode is also fun and has much replayability value. The My Pet Dungeon 
 is a strange mode focusing less on battle and more on Dungeon creation. The graphics in the game 
 are nice and grim. Your dungeon has very creepy lighting from the torches on the wall. Your creatures 
 walking around your dungeon going to the various rooms to do stuff gives your dungeon a nice homely 
 feel to it (until dwarfs smash your walls open to attack your dungeon that is) . The battle animations 
 are good and creatures have a variety of attacks to choose from. The sound in the game is very 
 well done in my opinion and fits the setting like a glove. Your advisor has a morbid voice that 
 makes you feel like you are actually controling the forces of hell. There isnt much music unless 
 you get into a fight then a frantic battle tune comes on which is cool , and after the battle is 
 over it will slowly settle down back to the sound of water dripping and your creatures doing there 
 work. The game is a good value because you get many modes and numerous maps (and even more on the 
 internet) . DK2 is a superb game that any RTS or even non-RTS fan should get. It combines a rather 
 sick premise with solid gameplay, Dark yet funny humor, creepy lighting and creatures, and the 
 killing of good guys into a very enjoyable experience. Termite551 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GHANZ979
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 8, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  A-W-E-S-O-M-E
  I wish they made a third
  
  Dungeon Keeper 2 was a great game that had a modest release and a slow death. So many new ideas 
 were added to the realm of Strategy games that Bullfrog truely revolutionized strategy games as 
 many new games have been released that emulated Bullfrogs tunnel and Strategy/RPG gaming such as 
 Evil Genius (Although Evil Genius is nowere as addictive or fun as Dungeon Keeper 2.) What I mean 
 by Strategy/RPG is that it takes the thinking ,planning and base building of your regular birds 
 eye view strategy game and adds an RPG element of training your creatures so that they become stronger 
 and adding Different types of Creatures so that your Dungeon becomes stronger as a whole. Traps, 
 while numerous, were not always useful but used in a more entertaining fashion. I think the CPU 
 uses traps alot more. I just wish i could play it on my current xp machine without it bugging out 
 randomly . Not only that but the patches themselves add even more content to everything. However, 
 you cant get black knights as often with the 1.1 patch... that kinda sucked. Another complaint would 
 have to be that the enemy AI isant very adaptive or smart, because on certain levels you could 
 kickback without any worry of enemy retailiations... giving you the time to pick and choose the 
 fight. Not only that but against heroes there wouldn't be any continous or organised attacks on 
 their part... just random strike groups that would either break your dungeon or end up helping it... usually 
 the latter.
  The best part about the game was the fact that it was so highly addictive-I SPENT HOURS getting 
 my forces up to the perfect level, and many times i would keep replaying levels to perfect traps (damn 
 sillven elves level) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trakerman
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 3, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Just too bad DungeonKeeper3 got canned as this is a great fun game to play.
  I have just reinstalled it after quite a long time as it wouldn't run on WinXP, but for some reason 
 it seems to be working fine now . It might have something to do with the SP2 patch but im not sure.
 
  You can't go past this game for Value for money now as a PC Classic game for around 10 bucks.
 
  Even though its an old game the graphics are reasonably good, there is a good variaty of creatures 
 and if you get the editor you can make your own maps
  although some of the map making can be a bit complicated for beginners.
  A highly recomended 
 cheap game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 26, 2006 5:16 am PT
Review:  Dungeon keeper 2 is a bad sequel to Dungeon keeper 1, because the first part was a masterpiece 
 and this one is different.
  
  Gameplay: This is the part where you can find anything back of the original dungeon keeper.
  
 
  +Same strategy as first part, long campaign, skirmish, online works better then first part.
  
 
  -Not enough creatures like in the first DK, boring singleplayer campaign, some extra's are not 
 that interesting.
  
  Graphics:
  +Great graphics with bad gameplay, looks better then DK1, Runs good but lots of crashes, -Lags 
 online, crashes more then DK1.
  
  Sounds:
  +Good sounds, believing sounds, good music (again)
  
  -Amazing, best of the whole game.
  
 
  Value:
  +Long singleplayer campaign, skirmish, some extra's and multiplayer
  
  -Boring campaign, Online lags to much, extra's dont add a lot
  
  Tilt:
  +Decent tutorial, 
 Some nice cutscenes and movies
  
  -Takes a while before you get the hang of the gameplay
  
  DK2 is not very interesting, buy DK1 instead.
  Cya all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 15, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Keeper is in my opinion the best evil sim that you can buy, and Dungeon Keeper 2 serves 
 as an excellent follow up.
  
  Like in the original you play as a Dungeon Keeper in the sequel. Your objective? To conquer another 
 continent, of course! Unfortunately the heroic do-gooders have banished all Keepers to the underground, 
 and the only way to reach the surface is to acquire portal gems from the Lord of the Realm in each 
 realm. Fortunately because you so efficiently conquered that other continent in the first game, 
 Horned "Horny" Reaper himself is willing to assist you in this task.
  
  Your primary objective in Dungeon Keeper 2 is to obtain a Portal Gem for each realm. To do so you 
 need to build a satisfactory dungeon in each realm to attract powerful creatures. Like in the original 
 you can build a variety of rooms each with different properties, and traps to send those irritating 
 heroes to their doom. As there is no honor amongst evil-doers you will also have to occasionally 
 deal with rival Keepers who also seek to conquer the land like in the original game. Dungeon Keeper 
 2 also features a "My Pet Dungeon" mode which functions like a sandbox mode where you can build 
 a dungeon without worrying about invading heroes, or rival keepers attacking. You can trigger hero 
 invasions if you feel that your creatures are getting too comfortable, though.
  
  For their time the graphics in Dungeon Keeper 2 were not bad. They seem blocky by today's standards, 
 but unlike its predecessor all characters are in full 3D, and of course the environments remain 
 full 3D. Like in the original, you can also possess your creatures to explore your dungeon in first 
 person which is a very nice feature.
  
  The sound isn't bad, the voice acting serves its purpose, and remains solid throughout the game. 
 Especially your advisor who seems more calm this time around. Sound effects are also suitable, 
 but the music seems non-existent. This is not a problem, however; since the original DK didn't 
 feature a memorable soundtrack by any means.
  
  If you liked the original, or are seeking a great sim where you are the villain then Dungeon Keeper 
 2 is for you. It has great longetivity, and lives up to its predecessor by not fixing what isn't 
 broken. It's unfortunate that Dungeon Keeper 3 will never see the light of day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acheval
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 8, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  Imagine slapping your minions, torturing your enemies, and building an evil empire. Then, imagine 
 no more. Welcome to Dungeon Keeper 2, an absolute steal of a game nowadays (if you can find it 
 on the shelves) . I got it back when it just hit the bargain bins, and patted myself on the back 
 for getting such a good deal. Even by today's standards, DK2 is a jewel of an RTS, and here's why:
 
  
  Basic Info: You are one of many minor Dungeon Keepers, building your miniature empire underground 
 in the hopes of toppling the forces of good that occasionally make forays into your subterranean 
 abode. Your ultimate goal is to squeeze out all other DKs and Goodly Heroes to become the single 
 strongest contender for Evil's bid to open the heavily guarded portal to the outside world and 
 crush Good once and for all. In order to make this quest a reality, you must dig out specialized 
 rooms to attract evil creatures to your dungeon, where they will eat, sleep, train, and yes, *gamble* 
 in preparation for frequent battles.
  
  Voice Acting: Phenomenal. There was never a jarring moment when phrasing was too slow or out of 
 place. Everything was exactly as it should be -- Evil was gleefully malevolent and sarcastic in 
 tone, and every Good character was such a sickeningly sweet goodie-two-shoes that you positively 
 itched to smack them down.
  
  Graphics: For the time, quite good. Plus, comedic cutscenes interspersed amongst each campaign 
 level helped to give you the best picture of characters that were otherwise obscured by the lower 
 resolution of regular gameplay.
  
  Gameplay: You have your choice of campaign mode, multiplayer, or the "My Pet Dungeon" sandbox mode. 
 All of them have high replayability, as you can expand in as many directions as you like and each 
 time will be a little different from the last.
  
  Complaints: Even after patching, DK2 has been extremely buggy for me, prone to locking up at the 
 weirdest moments. Having to hard reboot and replay an entire level 5 times gets pretty boring pretty 
 fast, so I got into the habit of compulsive quick saves. Plus, since Bullfrog got bought by EA 
 (and the game's so old) , there sn't any support for it these days. No new patches, no new maps, 
 and almost no one playing it online anymore... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otownshend
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 16, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  I only played First Dungeon Keeper once or twice with a friend. When Dungeon Keeper 2 came out 
 I bought it. 
  When I started playing , the first mission gave me a change to learn how master the controls and 
 play about picking Imps or Goblins and also slapping about! 
  Each mission got new creatures and rooms to build. 
  As you get into the game you can get so 
 addictive to it, you start to capture Enemy Heros and other Creatures and then start torturing 
 them to join your side of reveal map information.
  
  I would truly recommend this game to my friends, (I also introduced the game to my girlfriend) ! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theoriginalgame
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 11, 2005 11:42 am PT
Review:  I wasn't a big fan of the first dungeon keeper but after playing it round my friends house i just 
 had o buy it. Not only was the gameplay outstanding but the graphics of the creatures and enviroment 
 was great too. 
  
  When i first started the missions i thought they would all be the same but i was soon proven wrong. 
 each mission had a unique story line and the ability to go first person made it even better. 
 
  
  If you are thinking of buying this game then i would highly reccomend that you do. the graphics 
 and gameplay is just amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Niksia
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 3, 2005 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Keeper 2 is one of those games I dust off every so often and insist on playing again. Being 
 the bad guy makes it all the more fun, that and spanking imps. ;) Sadly I didn't solve the level 
 with the painfully short timer, but hopefully the fix will work this time around. Could be a little 
 more indepth, maybe one day we'll get a sequel that improves on that.
  
  What else can I say? Sometimes I just get the urge for some imp spanking! The ability to tweak 
 room layouts to make upgraded versions of monsters is good, even if I can never remember to use 
 it properly. And the hidden goodies, dig dig dig. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 7.6
Date: Sep 20, 2005 4:49 pm PT
Review:  So young Keeper you have come Forth to Read this review Well done HAHAH.
  ok ill get to the point Good game In a lot of ways With the graphics and Sound But some How you 
 will like this game like me.
  
  Graphics: Well there good But not that good Can get a bit blury and on creatures Bodys but thats 
 only when you zoom really close. Nice dark And gloomy look the Graphics do on this game Who can 
 complain Graphics are well um good.
  
  Gameplay: Can get a bit Of the same Most times you know like Build rooms and then train Your Creatures 
 then attack. Although Can get fun When you are Fighting At times But your always doing the same 
 things. When it comes to fighting Enemy Keepers that can get More fun other than Fighting The goody 
 Forces of good. So like Graphics Game play is well Um good.
  
  Sound: Sound Has to be My most liked Thing about this game Sound. Sounds Good on it With the Water 
 driping and Monsters training Very fun to listen to At times Which is why i like the sounds on 
 the game.
  
  Value: Well its Fairly good Online never works so dont expect to play online But its kind of Worth 
 if you dont pay like 20 for it or 20$ maby if you pay like 10$ or Pounds less then its worth your 
 money. I mostly just play on skirmish But skirmish if fun.
  
  Well i would Buy it Good game in some ways And bad game in others I love the intro movie. Do you? 
 Good cos its graphics and sounds And bad cos its Bit borring Gameplay and Online. You you will 
 find something to like about it. surely. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alvarinho
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 9, 2005 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Having played this game two times, back in 1999 and now, 2005, probably this game had more of my 
 time than it should. But i played the first game and loved it, a lot! One of my favorite games ever, 
 but the sequel while better in some areas, lacks severely in others.
  
  Creatures
  
  In this game you are evil, in these days thats kinda common but back then there was not much of 
 it. Youre a dungeon master trying to pet your creatures while fending off the good guys. You can 
 do this, using spells and by using your creatures to fight them off. Theres a litle RPG here since 
 you can level your creatures up to level 10, you level them by fighting the good guys or by training, 
 here is where i find one of the problems of this game, at least in comparison to the first game, 
 there are two rooms you can train them one levels the creatures to level 4 and the other up to 
 level 8, the second, Combat pit, is where theres a litle problem, you drop your creatures into 
 the pit, two or more of them, and they fight to near death, this is where theres a litle micromanagement 
 involved that wasnt on the first game, since most of the time you have to tell your workers to 
 go get the injured, while it doesnt seem much, near the end of the game, when you need fully leveled 
 creatures it becomes quite annoying since you have to monitor the training and it becomes kinda 
 boring, good thing the creatures level fast, or you could take hours to finish a level. But here 
 comes another problem. You dont want to train your creatures to level 8? Fine, just train them 
 to level 4 and summon Horny (by far the most powerfull creature in the game) every time you need 
 fighting. Thats all you need right up there to the last level. 
  
  Traps
  
  There are quite a lot of traps and doors on this game, while it seems nice and probably adds a 
 litle depht to the game, they are really not needed (with the noble exception of the doors) . Since 
 traps use mana and Horny uses it too to stay longer in the dungeon its really a no brainer since 
 even half a dozen traps have trouble killing enemy heroes but Horny easily kills a few.
  
  Rooms
  
  The rooms are used to attract creatures to your dungeon, there are quite a bunch in 
 this game but after you figure out wich creatures are best you just build a few.
  
  Graphics and sound
  
  This is where the game shines. Really! Its 2005 and i can really find 
 these grafics appealing, they stand really well the test of time. The sound is top notch, with 
 screaming heroes and nice effects, you wont have the need for your MP3 collection!
  
  Gameplay and final thoughts
  
  This game plays good has no control issues and killing heroes 
 is really fun. Why am i bashing it? Simply put it: the first game was much better!! Why? Level 
 design. In the first game you fought heroes, enemy keepers and the map itself. In DK2 you just 
 dig everything, find the good guys and summon Horny. In the first you had to expand, to train your 
 creatures, build traps to defend yourself and when your creatures where leveled attack. Other very 
 important issue, while fighting heroes is nice, fighting enemy keepers is a lot more fun, and while 
 the first game put aside the good guys killing in the name of fun, the second doesnt.
  After all this i can still easily recommend this game. In six years still theres nothing like 
 it and in the end: Evil is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDWilliams05
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 25, 2005 1:06 pm PT
Review:  This is the better of the two dungeon keeper games. The Graphics are a little smoother, the attitude 
 is more gritty, the humor is a little more humorous, but was there anything radically different. 
 Yeah the possesion of a character and going first person, althout it was pretty flakey it added 
 a new dimesion to the game. It really was much better than the first one, so the game didn't really 
 add any innovations, except the 3D rendering which was pretty bad. The gameplay is pretty much 
 the same, build your dungeon and defend it from the likes of enemy characters. This and its predecessor 
 can be bought together in the bargin bin or shelf, so really you should pick up both of them and 
 give them a try, i think you will find they are both little diamonds among rocks in the bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 28, 2005 7:26 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in Dungeon Keeper 2 are much improved over the original. You can turn the camera and 
 zoom in and out to see all the details of your dungeon. Sound, as well, is much improved. 
  
  Gameplay is still the same as Dungeon Keeper. You make rooms to recruit minions who attack 
 your enemy, etc... etc... There really is very little added to the gameplay to make it much of 
 a sequel. Dungeon Keeper 2 is basically a content upgrade that somewhat dissapointed me. 
  
  Dungeon Keeper 2 is only better graphics and more content, so I wouldn't recommend it except 
 for the fact that it comes with Dungeon Keeper 1 anyways. 10 bucks for both games is good if you 
 like playing strategy games that you don't actually control *everything*. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 16, 2005 8:53 pm PT
Review:  I LOVED THIS GAME! Granted the story line was so so, and the graphics aren't that great by todays 
 standards, but it was refreshing to play a game as the bad guy and whoop some Noble knight butt.
 
  
  The option to go into FP mode as anyone of your creatures was fun and allowed for a faster ability 
 to explore the dungeons. I just wish I could have gotten a chance to play multiplayer against other 
 people as it would have been fun to steal creatures and train torture the will out of them. Oh 
 well maybe when theres a DK3. If will most likely never happen but if it does I will definitely 
 have to pick up a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: optophobic
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 12, 2005 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game in a pack of five games distributed as a "horror gaming" package. Whatever that 
 means. I bought the pack for Alice and Undying. To my pleasant suprise the game that caught my 
 attention and my gaming time was Dungeon Keeper 2.
  
  This game puts you in control of a, well, a Dungeon Keeper who has to build traps and gather creatures 
 to fend of Knights on a valiant quest to take you crystal. The premise alone would make most game 
 incredibly fun.
  
  If I had to compare the game to anything, I would say it is like being on the reverse side of Diablo, 
 but more in the style of WarCraft and games like that.
  
  The game has a lot of humor and doesn't take being the dark lord of the underworld too seriously, 
 which is good. On some missions you gain extra points at the end if you have slapped your creatures 
 so many times.
  
  The game can be difficult and there is a lot to manage, but a friendly (and sometimes annoying) 
 voice helps you out. They let you know to build for food or places to sleep and they constantly 
 let you know that your portal has given as many creatures as it can, over and over again. Maybe 
 I was doing something wrong that I kept getting that message.
  
  The game though is tons of fun. It is something to look for in bargain bins and used game stores. 
 The game might not be easy to find though, because there is a lot of reply value to this game. 
 You can find hidden secrets in the levels and even after you finish the game there are "pet dungeons" 
 that you can control and have a lot of with as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viperweasel
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2004 2:41 pm PT
Review:  one of the best games of all time, better than the first in this game you must go to war with emeny 
 heros and other keepers in order to kill the king and enter the sunlite land of the heros, new 
 rooms like combat pit and casino also has rooms from the original game but these rooms look great, 
 new creatures like dark angels and black knights to train and destroy rhe enemy with. the levels 
 are amazing, levels where you must face a vampire army of 120 heros at once, other levels where 
 you must make a army of skeletons 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
