-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dungeon Lords
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/dungeonlords/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Pretty fun, hectic hack-and-slash combat.
 Some charming details here and there, such as some lively bad guys.
 Lengthy quest offers plenty to both fight and explore.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Unbalanced character classes practically force you down a particular path.
 Lots of noticeably missing features, such as an automap.
 Simplistic quest system.
 Messed up audio.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 13, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 4.8, 39 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 1,301 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: Heuristic Park
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     May 5, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Unfortunately, a slew of noticeably missing features and other problems may well end up drawing 
 too much of your attention away from the game's good parts. 

  Though today's role-playing games are often expected to be sweeping, story-driven epics, it used 
 to be that most such games were pure dungeon crawls. You'd guide a band of adventurers through 
 increasingly dangerous mazes filled with more and more, bigger and bigger monsters, while finding 
 treasure, solving the occasional puzzle, and gaining experience levels. Dungeon Lords is a throwback 
 to this style of gaming, with its emphasis on hack-and-slash combat and corridor crawls. As such, 
 it's consistent with designer D. W. Bradley's previous works, which include some of the later titles 
 in the classic Wizardry series. Dungeon Lords is a lengthy game that can offer a lot of the basic 
 thrills that make role-playing games fun to play. Unfortunately, a slew of noticeably missing features 
 and other problems may well end up drawing too much of your attention away from the game's good 
 parts.  

          Gibbering goblins and pompous elves are just some of the types of creatures you'll get 
 to kill in droves in Dungeon Lords.     

  Dungeon Lords is set in a fantasy world on the verge of ruin, thanks to the ambitions of an evil 
 wizard. This is your prototypical fantasy story, which casts you as the hero destined to save the 
 day. Whether you see all this as typically uninspired or traditionally archetypal probably will 
 depend on how tolerant you are of convention. At any rate, Dungeon Lords may not seem terribly 
 original with its cast of elves, dwarves, goblins, dragons, and whatnot, but it offers a few amusing 
 twists in its interpretations of these sorts of icons. The game's got something akin to homegrown 
 charm. It's not flashy, and it's not trying to turn your world upside down, but it's got kind of 
 a goofy quality about it that can be a refreshing change of pace from the very serious tone of 
 many role-playing games. You'll notice this early on as you hear legions of goblins gleefully cackling 
 like a bunch of bozos as they circle and swarm around you.  

  You play as a single character in Dungeon Lords and are free to choose from a variety of races 
 and classes when you create him or her. The broad range of starting options turns out to be somewhat 
 deceptive, but that's not really a bad thing. You can be everything from a dwarf fighter to an 
 elf adept to a human mage, or maybe one of the game's several different "demigoth" races, like 
 the diminutive thrall or the hulking urgoth. But these drastically different-sounding choices don't 
 really limit how you can go on to develop your character as he or she continues gaining experience 
 throughout the game. In fact, there are a whole bunch of advanced character classes that aren't 
 available at first, which you'll be able to pursue later on as the adventure continues.  

  The good thing about Dungeon Lords' character advancement system is that it gives you a lot of 
 freedom to continually fine-tune your character with incremental statistical upgrades so you can 
 gradually develop him or her however you like. The bad thing about it is that not all the different 
 directions in which you can grow your character seem particularly viable. Specifically, melee combat 
 skills seem to be the best, most effective area of concentration. The magic system -- featuring multiple 
 schools of magic, each with its own spellcasting system and spells -- is interesting on paper, but 
 it isn't terribly useful in practice. At least, it's not terribly effective for the sorts of prolonged, 
 nonstop battles you'll be experiencing throughout Dungeon Lords.  

          Combat is a total clickfest, but it can make for some good, hectic fun.     

  What 
 this game does well is swarm you with enemies. Combat plays out like a basic third-person-perspective 
 hack-and-slash game, letting you maneuver around, slashing your foes wildly. Health running low? 
 A healing potion can whip you right back into shape. Even death doesn't matter much, as you can 
 revive yourself at the touch of a button, at the cost of just a small penalty to your stats. This 
 contributes to the game's breezy sort of feel, which helps make the experience fun more than stressful, 
 at least while you're in combat. The action is simple but reasonably responsive. Side-to-side and 
 backward movement will feel very sluggish at first, but eventually it'll seem like more of a realistic 
 touch, since it's naturally easiest just to keep pressing forward. You'll typically face a dozen 
 or so individual enemies at a time, and these do a good job of surrounding you and using both ranged 
 and close attacks to try to bring you down. One aspect of the combat that's pleasantly surprising 
 is that enemies can hit one another in their efforts to stop you. Maneuvering in such a way so 
 that the bad guys get in one another's line of fire is one of the basic strategies involved in 
 surviving the tougher skirmishes in Dungeon Lords.     

  Action in Dungeon Lords is fairly constant. Even when you're walking the streets of town or are 
 wandering around in the wilderness (and we do mean wandering -- more in a bit) , it's never long before 
 you get jumped by a throng of ne'er-do-wells and are forced to fight it out. The pretty solid, 
 fast feel to the combat, the bright speckled spurts of blood that didn't earn this game an M rating, 
 and the litter of gold, weapons, and other trinkets left behind in the wake of the carnage help 
 make these random encounters generally worth looking forward to. When the dust settles, you just 
 jam on the shift key to quickly pick up everything -- a mindless process that's still rather satisfying. 

          You'll notice a lot that seems missing or otherwise unfinished in Dungeon Lords.     

 
  So what's the problem? The problem is the game surrounding all this action isn't that good. A 
 rudimentary quest system locks you into long-winded conversations with the occasional non-player 
 character who might eventually tell you to go somewhere, find something, or whack somebody. And 
 a sprawling, thinly detailed wilderness threatens to knock you off course every step of the way. 
 Dungeon Lords isn't a short game, so you won't finish it in a weekend. But how long it ultimately 
 takes you will greatly depend on how much time you spend getting lost.  

  The printed manual, and even the in-game help system, which pops up when you first begin play, 
 assures you that you can toggle an automap with the touch of a hotkey. But you can't. At least 
 the game ships with a printed map of the overworld (and there's an onscreen compass) , which is 
 better than nothing. Still, once you get into some of the more complicated dungeons, you'll need 
 to memorize the layouts (or, may we suggest, map them out by hand on graph paper?) and keep your 
 eyes peeled for tiny clues or items that may be critical to your progress.  

  The lack of an automap would be noticeable even if the game didn't refer to the feature, though 
 the references make the omission much more glaring and annoying than it would have been otherwise. 
 It's probably the most serious such omission, but unfortunately, there are plenty of others. In 
 fact, some, but not nearly all, were addressed in a downloadable patch released about a week after 
 the game. So, if you're waiting for the durability of your armor to decrease, give it up; it ain't 
 gonna happen. Or if you want to customize the look of your character when you first start playing, 
 just stop clicking on those buttons, because they're not going to work. It's strange that the references 
 to these missing features weren't simply cut from the game, along with the features themselves. 

  The gaps in the design contribute to the sense that Dungeon Lords is a seriously buggy game, though 
 for what it's worth, the game never once crashed on us on our primary test system, in this case 
 a 2-year-old laptop. We weren't as lucky on two other, newer test systems, though. The game does 
 perform quite well on lower-end systems, even when lots and lots of stuff is moving around and 
 attacking onscreen. The look of it ranges from rather ugly to rather impressive. Some of the character 
 designs look really plain and quite bad, while a lot of the enemy creatures are actually quite 
 imaginative and fluidly animated... and are especially lively in the sorts of large groups you'll 
 usually find them in. Meanwhile, the environments in Dungeon Lords are pretty plain. Day or night, 
 the world of the game looks fairly drab. And you'll probably soon grow weary of how your character 
 will often look back over his or her shoulder at you every few seconds when standing still. As 
 for the audio, Dungeon Lords sounds about as good, and about as inconsistent, as it looks. Some 
 nice-but-rare music and occasionally funny effects are undermined by a lot of repetition, a lot 
 of silence, and some bad mixing that causes some sounds to play much louder or softer than others, 
 undermining the overall impact.  

          Those longing for a traditional hack-and-slash dungeon crawl should find most of what they're 
 looking for in Dungeon Lords.     

  Dungeon Lords includes a multiplayer feature, letting two or more adventurers play through simultaneously. 
 We experienced some pretty bad lag with more than two players running around, but the cooperative 
 play could help give the game some extra-added depth and longevity. It also possibly invites a 
 greater variety of playing styles than can be justified when playing through solo, where you're 
 forced to contend with your enemies alone (in most cases) . Even so, multiplayer doesn't resolve 
 any of Dungeon Lords' gameplay issues, so you'd need to find another fairly tolerant RPG fan to 
 appreciate the game's finer points along with you. With some more follow-through, Dungeon Lords 
 could have been a significantly better game, making it a lot easier to recommend to fans of the 
 genre. As it is, the game can still be worth getting into, if you aren't particularly bothered 
 by the parts of it that aren't there.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (70 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Wackywillpop
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  as i started this game i was hoping for something new but as i played i noticed nothing really 
 was that great to hope for.
  
  as you set the options you notice that it has a random encounter option to small normal or more 
 if you pick more you will be getting monster after monster nonstop.
  
  when you need to heal you go into your equipment and use a potion but what's odd is that ever thing 
 still goes on but the monsters don't hurt you while your in your equipment and half the time your 
 armor most of the time break and give your penalty's for new armor so be sure to block a lot.
 
  
  one more bad thing about this game is you cant die really, but after while of playing the game 
 isn't that bad more of a pass time game i like to call them look in the bargain bin and give it 
 a try you might enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AelfricRaven
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 21, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  Some people like it, some people don't, and to be honest, I like the game, but just barely. If 
 you can look past the glitches the game has, missing features and hard fights, you can have fun, 
 because at it's core, it's a hack-n-slash type of game, and it plays like one, though it is a authentic 
 click-fest. Now the worst has to be missing features. I mean, c'mon, no automap?! In a game this 
 huge?! No way!
  
  
  Gameplay: 6
  The game to it's core is a hack-n-slash, and like I said before, it's a clickfest, so don't bash 
 your mouse, and there are some original monsters and bosses. What pisses me off is that monsters 
 WILL swarm you consistently if you stay in the same place for some time, and some fights can and 
 will piss you off due to some chessyness of the monsters, like they will knock you down even when 
 parrying. Classes are unbalanced also, so you're basically going always as a fighter rather than 
 a mage, because you don't start with runes/crystals/scrolls to help you out in the beginning. The 
 quests are actually pretty big, so get ready to have to spend some time in them, but the problem 
 is (like most today RPGs) the quests are very simple. Fetch this and give it to me to have X. Kill 
 this to be free. Search this and bring proof. Already seen, give me something new please!
  
  Graphics: 7
  The graphics are actually pretty nice, it has a nice ambient and a good amount 
 of types of terrain to fight, like houses, grass areas, dungeons, caves, etc., and the overworld 
 is really big. Really, it is.
  
  Sound: 5
  I didn't like the sound much, I thought it was kind of repetitive, and sometimes the sound won't 
 trigger, or it will trigger too late.
  
  Value: 6
  If you're into dungeon crawls and can look past the bugs, glitches and missing features of the 
 game, you can have a good time, honestly.
  
  Tilt: 5
  Not much replay value for me, because (like I said before) you can't play as a mage since you're 
 forced to be a fighter.
  
  So here's my breakdown of the good and bad stuff:
  
  Good: fun hack-n-slash, good design of monsters and boss, huge overworld (which means a lot of 
 exploration) , quests actually are quite big.
  Bad: missing features, can't become a mage (or just barely) , missing sounds or delayed, quests 
 are simple and monotonous. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: roadtoady
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Graphics were acceptable in general, but some of the graphical glitches, even with the Collector's 
 Edition were noticeable (smashed crates continuing to hover in mid air after being smashed...) , 
 items stuck on the sides of walls, etc. The controls were really poor, one had no selection ability 
 over items/chests/locks that were in close proximity to each other. Targeting of opponents was 
 totally non-existent, you were stuck w/ the one that was selected for you. Too much random clicking 
 and not enough though into this one. Even on the Easy setting, died way too many times, and the 
 game reload feature was way too slow. This piece of software rapidly became a chore rather than 
 a diversion for one's free time relaxation. Item management in the Invetory area was very iffy, 
 as to what it was, where it was, and whether or not I was able keep/use it. I guess a nice a feature 
 was the ability to cusomize the character as it advanced, but I sure did not see too much results 
 of the advancement, too often the same effects occurred even though I had put advancement points 
 into the right categories. Not recommended except for the hardcore mouse-clicker set, and then 
 also to those perhaps with a small masochistic streak. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poton
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 28, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  Its a good game concept and if your reading char 1968 don't post bad reviews if i games not like 
 "WoW" i'll love it even more.
  
  Anyway I was suprised i missed this since i used to play Dungeons siege alot, i'll sum up the good 
 points and the bad points of the game for you.
  
  Good, the character development is quite unique and i grew fond of it, its a good game repetative 
 but what can u expect its a hack and slash :)
  
  Bad the game had some glitches but the patch seem to sort "some" things out. Not enough people 
 play it and i wasn't too keen on some the graphics even for the date it came out. The worlds also 
 too under developed its a real shame cause i like the game and it had real potential maybe a better 
 sequal? Hopefully
  
  Overall, i'll definately be following up the sequal and hope it has what dungeon lords currently 
 lacks
  its a shame i'm going to have to say its probably not worth getting, just another undeveloped game 
 that had potiental to be much more =\ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: char1968
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 27, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  ok i was at walmart when i got this i was gonna get call of duty 1 and then i saw this it looked 
 kinda cool a little like world of warcraft.
  boy was i wrong this is nothing like it all you do is run around with everyone wanting to rip out 
 your gutts its so dumb sure it was in the 10 $ section but it should be in the in the 10 cent section 
 its horrible i hate it i would recommened buying a hunk of tar you'd have tons more fun watching 
 it decay. its dull and boring you may's well sit in front of a shut off tv. the graphics are ok 
 not good and not bad wepons are weak like plastic swords the talking is horrible the peoples mouth 
 dont even open!!! so dont buy you'll be happy. if you buy you'll reget it 10000000000000000000000 
 00000000000000000 000000000000% so stay away!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Logfloater
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  I had an absolute blast with Dungeon Lords. Although this review is based on the "Collector's Edition," 
 it seems that many of the bugs with the intial release were worked out with a number of patches.
 
  
  It is understandable to be frustrated or downright disappointed with an unfinished release, and 
 DL certainly falls into that category. But in my 15 or so years of game buying experience, I can 
 without a doubt say that I have yet to play a bug-free game. In fact, even the best games require 
 a number of patches to fix unforseen problems. If one bases their opinions of games solely on bugs, 
 then that person must not be much of a gamer since there isn't a PC game in history without them.
 
  
  Dungeon Lords is a great amalgam of Action, Adventure, and RPG. I enjoy all three genres, but have 
 never seen them combined so well. The story is interesting, if cliche. That really doesn't bother 
 me, since the "save the world" formula is tried and true. Sometimes when designers try to be too 
 original it just doesn't feel right and therefore doesn't work.
  
  The interface is perhaps the most unique aspect of the game, requiring two hands to play just like 
 most Action games. The world is expansive, although "containerized" a bit, if you will, unlike 
 games such as Morrowind. I mean, there were very distinctive boundaries. There are a number of 
 fearsome creatures to battle, and even the peons have a tendency to swarm and do some damage if 
 you're not careful.
  
  I do have a few complaints, though. The combat system is annoying at times, and some encounters 
 can be inhumanly difficult without the right skills or equipment. The quest log is very poor and 
 gives few details for direction. In fact, you almost need to go old school for many quests by jotting 
 down some important points in certain NPC conversations. Some of the puzzles are difficult to figure 
 out as well and I consulted the walkthrough guide a number of times. 
  
  Overall, however, this was one of the more enjoyable gaming experiences I've had in a while. I 
 found the Collector's Edition in a resale store for $10, so I certainly got more than my money's 
 worth. I would recommend you try to find a used copy, although it is certainly worth full retail 
 to me.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 11, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Lords is not the kind of game you've been saving up for and waiting FOREVER! It is the 
 kind of game not worth 40 dollars ONLY because of its numerous amounts of glitches. Dungeon Lords 
 is a very basic Action Role-Playing game. Nothing special. 
  
  There is a huge world for you to explore, which is fun, actually. The dungeons, such as the first 
 one are very unforgiving and challenging. 
  
  You probably will die a lot in this game, sadly. After you die a million times, you no longer lose 
 experience or items, your character is just some weak guy who can't beat any monster that comes 
 up to you. By the way, monsters do suddenly pop up out of nowhere in this game, which is annoying 
 to me.
  
  I' m not sure if I should recommend this game or not because I feel it was not worth the 40 dollars 
 I paid for. If you want this game, go ahead and buy the 30 dollar Gothic and Dungeon Lords collection. 
 Now that is worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Olzme
Rating: 1.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so being the fan of RPG games, this game caught my eye. The back of the game mentioned numerous 
 quests, weapons, dungeons, towns, and monsters.
  
  It however, did not mention the horrible sound, gameplay, lag, and bugs.
  
  When you first 
 start the game (assuming you have Collector's Edition) , it seems as normal as an RPG can get. Decent 
 Graphics and realistic forest sounds, but then as I got into a fight with a group of bats, I knew 
 something was wrong. The weapons in the game are not in the slightest unique except the appearence. 
 You click, you slash. In your stats page, you can use your exp points to add more slashes in your 
 combo. Or, you can whip out your ranged weapon and fling daggers or shoot arrows at your monster 
 from an edge for half an hour till it drop dead. Don't worry, you can't run out {0. o) .
  
  ....
  
  This making the combat VERY repetitive.
  
  The monsters in the game spawn randomly 
 (you have an option for them to spawn EXTREMELY often, or just plain often) but they slow down 
 your game and are really annyoing since it takes 1 minute just for them to load up, freezing your 
 game every time they show up.
  
  Choosing to play as a mage or Celestrial mage is impossible, as you will need to use spells from 
 spell books. The trouble is, once you use a spell, you will need to wait an hour before you can 
 use it again.
  
  ...
  
  Making all aspects of combat in this game repetitive.
  
  But the worst part is, that is actually the best part of Dungeon Lords.
  
  You don't do anything 
 in the game except talk to NPCs and fight monsters.
  
  Even the NPC dialogue is messed up; many of the options you choose to say aren't implanted. Many 
 of the options that DO work sound like they were obviously recorded at different times in different 
 places (which is, indeed true)
  
  Every part of this game is horrible and filled with bugs.
  
  Bland Storyline, no journal of 
 some sort to keep track of quests. Empty forests that seem to run on forever.
  
  Even jumping in the game is poorly done. Jumping and then passing the ledge and then waiting until 
 you start coming down is how you climb ledges (similar to Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone) .
 
  Also Occasionally falling through the ground and ending up in a green spaced Oblivion, forcing 
 you to reload a previous game ( the game does not feature a auto save NOR a quicksave )
  
  Oh, and did I mention it takes 7 minutes for you to load a saved game?
  
  Save yourself the 
 time and money. Do NOT buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: data2161
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  i love the game. it is one of the best RPG's that i have ever played in my life. i love the ability 
 to control and advance my characters skills and stats to my liking to create a more interesting 
 and complex game. the monsters are great fun and the weapons are just out of this world. but most 
 of all my most favorite part is visual effects and the graphics used to bring all of the action 
 and the spells to life. the only thing that i did not like in the game is that you dont get a 
 full list of the neither spells and what items make what. it would have been so great if dream 
 caster could have just included that so that those of us that like to use them would not have to 
 guess at the mixtures or look on-line and waste valuable game time. but over all it is an A+ rated 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vsivertsen
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 5:01 am PT
Review:  Characters have very limited dialogue. Houses are completely lacking furniture and the quests are 
 very simple with no depth. Overall it can keep you busy for some hours, but due to lack of depth, 
 I didn't feel the urge to play it like I do with many other role-playing games. The game also had 
 some serious bugs that also put the game down.
  
  A later patch fixed some of the furniture problems, but by far not all.
  
  My overall feeling 
 is that the game could have been great if the developers had spent more time fine-tuning it and 
 making the world more alive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shervinv
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  As you've read others have thrashed this game for being shipped full of bugs. I waited till the 
 collector's edition went on sale and started really getting into it a few weeks ago. It's a really 
 wonderful game and I'm really enjoying it. The graphics are good enough at higher resolutions. 
 The sound isn't the best... the footsteps actually sound annoying, and the rats are way too loud 
 and squealy, but no biggie. The character advancement system is unique, you choose to spend points 
 upgrading various skills or character stats, and they seem well balanced and fun to play with. 
 You have enough variety in your choices to make it worth playing through a second time with different 
 characters. The combat system is pretty well done... one of few games that you can actually plan 
 out offensive and defensive moves during a fight with multiple opponents. The main complaint about 
 the game is the lack of life in the game environment... they didn't bother having realistic looking 
 characters in the cities, and even in the collector's edition the places look dead. But again, 
 not a big deal. There are some bugs remaining with monster moves... monsters can get stuck in areas 
 and they'll just stand there and take a beating till you kill them, but that doesn't happen often 
 and it doesn't hang the game. I've had to big bugs that interfere with playing. For a game that 
 you can pick up for $10 now, I wouldn't even think about picking it up, it's well worth the price 
 and you'll enjoy playing it. I'd like to see the game developers try again and hire some more staff 
 next time and finish the game properly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ButnMashr
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 31, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  D. W. Bradley who the heck is he? I never knew who he was but every time I see his name I know, 
 he knows RPG. This is pretty hard too get into at first but than its just simple rpg something 
 different from the rest, it also has hack n' slash game play mechanics into it, so it don't require 
 a lot of brains. Game takes a whole lot of patience especially when it comes too running around 
 and fighting random mobs (that pauses your computer for a few seconds before battling them) . Other 
 than that. It has multi player but not a whole lot of community. Download v1.4 too get the best 
 out of this game cause it's buggy from the box.
  
  When it comes too simple no brainier rpg this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeElohm
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 27, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I noticed is there is no journal in this game to track quests. The Mooongate system 
 requires you to go into a pretty hairy area that I haven't even gotten near, yet, because of all 
 the dragons flying around. This means a lot of endless running back and forth between the two first 
 towns until you realize you should just get a spiral notebook and jot the quests and directions 
 down. Mind you, the main review is right, the directions given are usually pretty obtuse meaning 
 you'll get lost or frustrated by the limited wildeness environments that have forced edges to guide 
 you around but usually just wind up getting in the way when some NPC says 'You'll find this West 
 of Arindell and they don
  t mention to get west you have to go far north first. Oh yeah and there's another dragon waiting 
 to nail you or a horde of twenty fire goblins and you're just level 5. Fortunately the AI on the 
 Dragons and larger creatures suck. If you position yourself in a gateway formed by two trees and 
 get the creature just on the other side, it'll stay there while you sidestep the fireballs and 
 spend about 15-20 minutes killing it with throwing daggers. The reward for your grind is like 163k 
 XP. This sort of grind makes this -not- for the casual gamer. I spent eight bucks for it at Wal 
 Mart and after completing my Marauder quest and not being able to turn it in? It makes me wonder 
 if it wasn't overpriced. But I'll keep slamming through it until I can grab some of the better 
 titles soon coming out. Think of this like a beefed up Diablo2 that has a little bit of plot but 
 doesn't quite work right and you can decide if you really want to shell out more than a fiver for 
 this thing. I feel sorry for those folks who paid $40 on its release. After about a month I'lll 
 do the same thing to it that I do to the free AOL disks occassionally mailed two me. I'll stick 
 them in themicrowave for two seconds to etchs the surface and see the purple lightening (Any more 
 than two seconds and you risk the disk exploding) and then turning them into coasters for the table. 
 Eight bucks isn't too much to pay for some pretty cool etched techno coasters is it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MassacreV
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 23, 2007 2:27 am PT
Review:  This game is hardcore, and for hardcore gamers only. It is not a Lan Party Game i lied. It is quite 
 a fun game , but jesus, they needed to work abit on multiplayer capabilities. And to fix the Hall 
 of Lords. LAN IT ALL THE TIME, see how far you can get before the game glitches. i thought i would 
 like to regen my spells at a nice fireplace, but the game insisted that the fireplace was infact, 
 not a fireplace, but actually Frybone's House! WTF-MATE! It was worth the 10$ and is fun for single 
 player if you are tired of Diablo 2 like i was. But sadly there are afew glitches, givei t a try 
 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CooperTeam
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 20, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  First, before I begin, the review I give is about the Collector's Edition, not the original version. 
 Gamespot apparently hasn't played the Collector's Edition version of this game. It fixes a LOT 
 of problems that the original had. Plus, the CE (Collector's Edition) has a lot of updated and 
 NEW features not found in the original version, such as new skills, new abilities, new maps, and 
 new quests. You will know it's the CE version because it comes in a tin box (Yes, I said TIN box, 
 not a cardboard box) with the words COLLECTOR'S EDITION right on there. I do not know what the 
 original version box looks like so I can't say what else is different.
  
  GRAPHICS
  =========
  The graphics are fantastic. The views give the idea that you really are in a forest, 
 a town, or in a dungeon. The interface display is very well set up. Even the inventory and character 
 display is very nicely done. The monsters are also well designed and detailed. Zombies, skeletons, 
 worms, wolves, even living trees all look freakish and well suited. I will say, you will have tons 
 of fun fighting fire-breathing DRAKES. The environment looks are just outstanding. Rocks, trees, 
 grass, even building walls all look very well designed and give off every detail. And wow, you 
 should see how they did the looks of the spells. The magical abilities are very nicely detailed. 
 (You should see how the lightning bolt and fireball look) And lets not forget the day &amp; night 
 simulation. the programmers even spaired no expence on the design of the weapons and armour. The 
 only thing that might get you is that some how, water is not flat. Somehow the programmers didn't 
 take into effect that water shouldn't have hills or plateaus. (No, the water doesn't have waves 
 or tides, it is hills and plateau sahped) Other than that, you will be very pleased with the graphical 
 design of the game.
  
  CONTROL
  =========
  The controls are simple to use. arrow keys control strafing and forward/backward while the mouse 
 is used for aiming and direction and some action commands. Plus, conversation interface is very 
 straight forward, click on your response and off you go. Even the character developement system 
 is very easy to use. You will also love the kinds of classes and heraldries you can become, including 
 the following...
  
  Battlemage
  Deathlord
  Knight
  Ninja Lord
  Overlord
  Samurai
  Shadow Lord (Only found in CE version)
  Valkyrie
  War Witch
  Wizard
  
  Also, 
 what I do like is that, instead of using general spell points, the amount of spells is based on 
 how many arcane, runes, celestial spells you buy or find. Most magic is charged so you can regain 
 your spells back over time after use. There is quite a number of Arcane, Rune, Celestial, &amp; 
 Nether spells to use and master. Plus, there are tons of weapons to find or buy as well as armour, 
 artifacts, accessories, and magical trinkets. Plus, if you love Multi-player, this game has mulit-player 
 options to use. So you can play alone, or with friends.
  
  OVERALL
  ========
  I think you will be impressed with the CE version of this game. The only problem you might run 
 into is when the game generates random monsters. It has to load the monsters first causing lag 
 in the game, pretty much to a hault. It's a bit annoying at times, but it's not always that bad. 
 in the past 100+ hours I played this game, I have yet to ever see the game crash on me. So somethikng 
 to keep in mind when getting this game. Also, I do not recommend using the ALT-TAB to go back to 
 windows, that's the ONLY time the game will crash on you. This game has a lot to offer for anyone 
 who is into Adventure/RPG games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Osma7
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 17, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  First a disclaimer: When i played Dungeon Lords, I played the Collectors Edition, which started 
 with all the patches and then some, so many of the well known difficulties with the game (such 
 as no mapping) had been fixed already.
  
  Dungeon Lords is an incredibly mixed bag. For one, the game starts out hard, and ends up stupidly 
 easy, and even easier if you figure out a few of the little tricks to the game. In fact, to a great 
 extent, most of the game falls down to the little tricks, the things that you were not really supposed 
 to do, but almost have to do.
  
  A few examples of the broken game-play:
  -Fire drakes (the dragons of the game) are incredibly difficult to kill without high armor, fire 
 protection, a highly damaging weapon. Or, you could just stand off a bit and spend 20 min with 
 a bow and arrow. If you get the dragon stuck on a terrain fixture, you can strafe back and forth 
 to avoid his fireballs and shoot them to death with the smallest bow in the game (and the biggest 
 bow does only a few more points of damage) .
  -In many parts of the game, it is easier or faster to get around an area by simply finding one 
 of the sections of unclimbable mountains and walking up the side at an angle. In fact, in one quest 
 where there are 5-7 dragons guarding an area, the easiest way to kill them all is to walk on the 
 mountain top and shoot them (they wont respond if you don't get too close)
  -If you are willing to gamble your hard earned money, you can fight in an arena and kill a minotaur. 
 This minotaur is somewhat easy early on, and after killing it about 30 times you are so strong 
 it is a pushover, with good exp bonus every time you kill.
  -If you need more hard earned money, train your Honor. It is basiclly your charisma and the shopkeepers 
 will sell you at better prices. Since you get Honor for every quest, eventually you can sell for 
 more then you buy. -And finally, when you are done with one of the last quests, you get a reward 
 of a ok set of weapons, or a massively overpowered spell. If you sell the spell to the shop, you 
 can buy INFINITE copies of the spell (with your infinite money) and then cast the spell in every 
 battle for the rest of the game.
  -With few exceptions, you can kill every boss and sub-boss with a bow and arrow without taking 
 damage. You can be hit by a spell, but they will never hit you in melee combat because each boss 
 area has a section where you can stand and never get hit, such as at the top of a ladder (they 
 can't climb) or across a gap.
  -Oh and the Gamespot review was mistaken, it is very simple to be a mage in the game. In fact, 
 if you like, you can put away your weapon and almost never use it. All you have to do is use the 
 above tricks and buy 100 copies of every spell with your infinite money. Between all the spells 
 available and 50-100 copies of each spell, being a mage is a snap.
  
  The game is interesting, a challenge, and fun to play (once you turn the random encounters down 
 a bit.) . But only for the first half of the game. Once you get strong enough to actually kill the 
 monsters you are fighting, the game becomes a mindless process of getting through the next fight 
 so you can get on with the game. While it is fun to find that next powerful magical item, often 
 you don't have the skill to use it, or it is so strong that the monsters that were providing some 
 danger become child's play. Half of the best classes require skills to be raised so high that it 
 is a pain to reach, and then you get access to skills that are not worth the effort to gain the 
 class, and half the skills in the game are either useless, or only needed at low levels to function.
 
  
  Replay Value is very low. You might try it a second time, but doubtfully a third.
  
  Overall, I enjoyed playing the game.... once. It is fun to encounter an army of foes that is supposed 
 to be one of the major battles of the final chapter and kill them all in 5 castings of a spell. 
 It is a great laugh to have the evil mastermind say You have done well to come this far, but let 
 us see how you handle THIS! and you kill the monsters he throws in less then 10 seconds. But any 
 game that is so broken that would put you in the final battle with equipment that makes it last 
 less then 30 seconds is not well built, and needs quite a bit of work before being released as 
 the 5th version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyder_2006_04
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 1, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited when i first play Dungeon Lords but after 1 hour of gaming i understood that 
 this was an unfinished game. The game had an interesting story but the producton team was'nt able 
 to give game that ,, charm'' of Diablo or Oblivion. It's a shame that such a good idea resulted a 
 bad and boring game. The gameplay is just horibble and the sound is weak. The Ghraphics are prety 
 good but the bugs are something normal in this game. The game is also to hard for ,, ocasional'' 
 gamers. The fine thing is the customatization of the character ,there are a lot of things that you 
 can do with your characte: you can turn him in a lizzard if you want that but i don't suggest that, you 
 will have a lot of problem if you do that during the game. Bad game good idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jack_masters
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 30, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I'm very disappointed of the grade this game got, sure it has bugs ,even with the patches , sure 
 the graphics aren't like oblivions (thank ..... god or whatever) . The thing that makes this game 
 so good is the tech. requirements , i've got a really slow computer (256 mb ram ; 256 mb video 
 card , 1600 amd Sempron processor) looking at other RPG's with the similar tech requirements you 
 can definitely see the difference , the only game that can compete with this game is fable (the 
 music and the ..... fable like world give's you a great feeling , to bad it gives you that sensation 
 only once) . Take a good look at this game because this is one of the good ones , the experience 
 that it gives you is unique , it is in a league of it's own , nowadays games are made with graphic 
 innovations forgetting about the content of the game , a good example is Oblivion , sure it has 
 great ....... actually this game has fantastic graphics , but no good content to back it up , you 
 can play for hours defeating monsters that come out of random portals but eventually you wil get 
 bored. I give this game a 10 for gameplay a 9 for graphics a 9 for sound a 10 for value (deserves 
 a 12) For the great experience the this game gave i can only say: Dungeon Lords OWNS the RPG class. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whheiman
Rating: 5.1
Date: Nov 27, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  I started the game playing the demo off this site, which got me hooked, so I bought the special 
 edition with maps and such, looked great. The game was cool at first, then got very boring with 
 the same random monsters every turn. How many scorpions can one man kill? As for the graphics they 
 were ok, but soon I hit a bug that would not allow me to continue the game. I tried to help this 
 guy find his flask and it's no where on the left side of the map, yet I cannot get back into town 
 or move forward. So I quit and moved on to DDO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonykorea
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 26, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - 8 : Very fun game with lots of stuffs and quests, but has significant bugs.
  
  Graphic - 10 : One of best graphic I ever saw on RPG.
  
  Sound - 8 : remarkable sounds and 
 nice voiceactings. Value - 5 : Since there already is Marrowwind, this game remained to be a similar 
 with Marrowwind.
  
  Reviewer's tilt - 9 : One of best action RPG game I ever played.
  
  I have seen many reviews of games from gamespots, but several games were underappreciated. Another 
 example of these are :::::::
  
  Breed
  Chrome Specforce
  Driver 3
  Bad day LA
  Lineage 2
  
  I enjoyed these games very much, but gamespot doesn't listen to other people much! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tay_Esh
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 5, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  u can be fighter mage archer (not recomended they suck!!!) but just follow through with it upgrade 
 it and own tons of monsters all the while laughing with a friend beside u blasting then with lightning 
 (personal fav) or a cataclysm (best spell in the game... DEATH TO ALL) or owning with dual swords 
 (anouther personal fav) !!!!!!!! im presently a adept celestial stargazer theif enchantress and 
 my friend is trying to get mage battle mage warlock enchantress warwitch we own every thing spent 
 like 2 hours killing elves then 15 mins top killing all the dragons (not a single death) then like 
 anougher hour on moon beasts and now we are so good that when we play a deathmatch we die at the 
 same time witch is about .4 seconds lol!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScottAdams
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 12, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Wow... this game is literally 75% running. Run to Fargove. Run to Ulm. Run to Arindale. Then run 
 back to Fargrove. Repeat. It gets very tedious, very quickly.
  
  Running is common in RPGs, but this is tough to bear. At least in the Elderscrolls games you have 
 things to look at or do along the way. But Dungeon Lords... it's just running.
  
  I can see where this may have been an interesting game in card/dice form or whatever (although 
 I have never played that type of game) -- but it clearly did not translate well to the PC.
  
  Good idea... bad realization/development.
  
  UPDATE: I just got deeper into the "Shadow 
 Realm" on this game, and my new advice is to not buy this thing. For some reason, this FPS has 
 suddenly decided to add in ridiculously difficult jumping puzzles and such -- things that can take 
 50 or 60 attempts to complete. Being that there is not QUICK SAVE or QUICK LOAD abilities, this 
 becomes INSANELY tedious.
  
  Do yourself a favor, and buy a more mature product -- something that isn't as buggy and randomly 
 tedious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReijMan
Rating: 5.1
Date: Aug 25, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Like most RPG's the game starts promissing with a nice intro-movie. Its a really catchy ambiance 
 they give you. After creating a character you start in a forests. Withing 10 minutes you find out 
 the [shift] key is to use objects, which is something very odd.. Since there is no reaching in-game 
 help of setting reviewer its quiet annoying. All such bad things, in the game overrules the  
 by far. On normal settings, respawning groups of bats and rats drive you nuts. Inventory filters 
 don't work, minimap is useless and its almost impossible to navigate in cities. I tried to finish 
 this game 3 times. 2 of them were multiplayer. All 3 times we got stuck due to NPC's dont dropping 
 items, quest doors don't open or chest staying locked. I think this is a VERY bad thing. Also an 
 irritating thing is that there is no quick-load/save buttons. The game forgets your quick-keys 
 and map-history, so if you load and forget to reset your potionshotkeys you die within the minute. 
 To load exit the game and restart the multiplayergame, load the savegame, select character etc 
 :S
  Without doubt this game has a lot of potential, but they have to hire some professional developpers 
 for sure. This kind of releases cannt be taken seriously. Happy Gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 2.9
Date: Aug 3, 2006 1:00 am PT
Review:  When Dungeon Lords was first released it was a mess, and extremely unfinished and a year later 
 with 5 patches, its still barely finished. Huge bugs and unbalances ruin what could have been a 
 great game instead its something best to leave on the shelves.
  
  Fighting is a bit of swing and miss affair, sometimes its pretty interesting whilst most other 
 times its just plain annoying with too much swinging and hope for the best. Character development 
 at first class looks like it could be interesting but unfortuntely certain unbalances forces the 
 player (after several game restarts) to always choose certain paths which limits the game somewhat.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlphaLeviathan
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 20, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  When first starting to play this game, It felt like the game was; in fact made solely by D. W. Bradley. 
 But as you progress and get past the first couple of quests it begins to come together and make 
 a good game.
  
  The 3d model animations tend to leave a lot to the imagination, and the fighting style is rather 
 clumsy. But, once you get past these minor obstacles Dungeon Lords can offer you a great role playing 
 environment. An immerse leveling up system, and plenty of quests for you to do. As well as a pretty 
 interesting main storyline.
  
  I wouldn't suggest this game unless you find it in the bargain bin, as It does have a lot of bugs 
 and issues. But if you find it for cheap and need a nice game to pass the time, i'd suggest you 
 pick it up.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathmaster9000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Lords combines RPG and fighting action in a story shrouded in mystery, surprise, and betrayal. 
 Customize your own character from a variety of races and class specializations, and then journey 
 through an enchanted land of ancient castles, dark forests, and dungeon lairs. In either single-player 
 quests or multiplayer group sessions, you'll brave armies of diabolical foes in real-time combat, 
 using an arsenal of attack and defense combo moves. Battles feature a vast selection of weaponry, 
 magic spells, and powerful artifacts.
  
  Although this game had a "Rough Start" with the glitches, the v1.3 & v1.4 updates (that are free 
 on the Official Website of Dungeon Lords) fix that. This game does have a Learning Curve of about 
 6-8 hours, but once you get the hang of it, you start to like it more and more. It is "Highly Addictive" 
 
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Value: 9/10
  
  ***Overall I would give it: 8.8***
  
  Dungeon Lords is great fun to play. By letting players 
 customize their Characters to a high degree, the developers have given a world of possibilities 
 to the players. The Graphics and the Sound, are both good, not outstanding, but still good. If 
 you want a solid game that combines fun, excitement, flexibility, and fast-paced action, take a 
 good look at Dungeon Lords. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OpalDragon
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 22, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  I so much wanted to love this game, I bought it the week that it (originally) came out. After playing 
 with the beta, I was certain that some of the glaring errors and missing content would have been 
 fixed. They were not. I was even willing to over-look, these errors (the missing mini-map even 
 mentioned in the spotty documentation, the bug in the inventory system, the fact that monsters 
 popped to fast and aggro-ed from a fair distance away) , but when I find out that the game had been 
 patched but was only available as a "Platinum" edition and not free to people who previously purchased 
 the game, I thought the heck with it.
  
  Mr Bradley you have lost a once loyal fan. I will never buy another one of your games. And this 
 goes for Dreamcatcher Interactive and Heuristic Park. Good bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidi1234
Rating: 5
Date: May 21, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  I sincerely expected more from this game when i saw the preview. I expected a good RPG that would 
 keep me on for days like Gothic did. You can imagine the letdown.
  
  The graphics are not that bad, and the game does not ask really much from your computer, the sounds 
 are decent although the music is quite inexistent. The real problem is the huuge number of bugs 
 the game has, ranging from doors that don't open to NPC's that dont say what they should.
  
  Although presented with a wide number of class and race choices at the begining, don't be fooled 
 they are only for show because you will inevitably get to hackin and slashin no matter what class 
 you are ( spells are too ineffective and take really long to recharge)
  
  On the brighter side of the game is the coop multiplayer. If you have two computers in one place 
 and a buddy to play with it will entertain you for some time. Provided you can laugh at the series 
 of bugs and quirks that the game throws at you ( seeing your friend run around with an arrow in 
 his behind is quite fun ) . But eaven this is not enough to keep you seated untill the end. Eventually 
 the game will bore you with endless swarms of monsters and even more mouse clicks that hurt your 
 ears.
  
  I borrowed the game from a friend and i suggest you to do the same.
  It's not really worth the money, its too long and too boring to finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbygr
Rating: 1
Date: May 9, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely horrible.
  
  First of all, the weapons are pathetic. I almost developed carpel tunnel syndrome from clicking 
 my mouse thousands of times to even begin to kill enemies.
  
  The weapons are weak, the aiming system is pathetic. The game generates enemies - thousands of 
 them - almost all of the time.
  
  There is no exploring. All you do is click the mouse madly with pathetic weapons and an unbalanced 
 combat system only to end up dead.
  
  The graphics are pathetic. The quests are boring - and you need a pen and paper to write down tasks. 
 There is no music. 
  
  I have the collectors edition, folks and it it absolutely abysmal. This is the worst game purchase 
 that I've made in over 15 years of gaming.
  
  It is a complete rip off and I'll be glad to exchange it at ebgames towards ANYTHING else.
  
 
  Please, do yourself a favor - do NOT purchase this game. Games like this are the reason for piracy. 
 Whoever designed this was lazy, incompetent and a complete idiot.
  
  I cannot say enough bad things about this trash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeidenMark
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 28, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  Story : Ok , there is nothing stupid about it. 
  
  Open-ended ?? : There are choices you have to choose. ( Guild choosing , A little dialogue options) 
 Nevertheless , It will not affect the game much. (Just a small fish in the ocean) 
  
  Gameplay : My score stands firmly in the gameplay. Yeah with a 1.4 patch installed , you will have 
 a "mini map" to look at , bringing the game from 1.5 to8.0. (wandering aimlessly without map is 
 really unbearable) 
  
  The game is very challenging , it is very hard in the "just right" way. 
  It is not tradition 
 moron Hack and Slash likes Diablo , in which you just have to "left click" and "right click" and 
 your level goes up in 5 minutes.
  Playing Dungeon lords , you have to use W A S D , you have to block your enemy' 's attack if you 
 want to stay alive, you have to spend your experience points wisely because experience points are 
 really hard to come by.
  
  Downward : 
  Even with a "map" , you could still get lost even you are in town -_-" what else can you expect 
 when you are in the world map?? hahaha
  
  There is no music!! ( Bug ?? , not sure) 
  
  Quest's information is so ambiguous that you don't know what you should do and where you should 
 go. ( You an consult walkthrough anyway) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kueiyen
Rating: 3.9
Date: Apr 26, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Well, I guess if you really want a big disappointment, you should tried this game. The game offers 
 horrible graphic that looks like games made in 4 years ago. The cinema movie looks terrible like 
 games in the 1999. The control is horrible, there is no aiming for the direction of your attack. 
 you simply hoping to get lucky if you hit any. And most of the time you always receive cheap hit 
 from enemies. The music.... what can I say... there are hardly any variety of scores.... so basically 
 all you hear is the enviroment sounds. And most weird thing is that if you press space bar..... you 
 see your character jump .... like frog. I not joking he/she does leap into the middle of the air 
 like a frog. I never seem such ugly jump in my life. 
  I think you might be better off if your try classic games like Elder Scroll III or fable where 
 the 3rd person perspective and control are far more better.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhofmeister
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 24, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  First off, I choose the Very Hard Difficulty rating only because I had to pick something and I 
 thought the fighting system is really bad.
  
  Having only played the demo, perhaps my opinion may be a little distorted, but I can't remember 
 attempting to play a worse slash'n'hack game than this. The actual story line, quests, etc. may 
 all be well and good, but the fighting system is simply the worst. Getting caught standing on top 
 of things, not being able to move at all while fighting, getting my butt smacked by Sewer Slime 
 of all things!! Terrible response time, no real control over targeting, having my ranged attacks 
 be almost useless... it took over 100 arrows, shurikens and spells to kill that #%@&*# Ogre Troll 
 thing from a safe distance. That's just ridiculous!!
  
  However, opening the treasure chests was fun. I enjoyed the challenge of finding the right device 
 at the right moment. But, they ruined that by making lock picking a one-time effort, at least at 
 the ONE door in the demo that allowed me to lock pick. One try and the door was jammed, not to 
 be opened again anytime soon. Oh well, its only the demo...
  
  And, of course, there's always the chance that I just suck..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dagoth2
Rating: 4.2
Date: Apr 24, 2006 1:01 am PT
Review:  What was D. W Bradley thinking when they released this, did they think it would sell a lot of copys 
 if they rushed it out into stores. I Brought from EB Games for $89.95, i shouldn't of brought cause 
 i could of used the money to buy a way better game.
  
  Gameplay 5/10
  The first time i played this, i thought it was good but i was wrong. They don't have a auto-map 
 when you first start and the only way to get it is with the update. So i was stuck in the sewers 
 at the start for a hour trying to find the way out. There isn't a big variety of Guild Quests. 
 The Guild Quests are really boring. The only way to get somewhere was the Moonbridges. There were 
 no horses to get around faster which there should of been.
  
  Graphics 5/10
  The Graphics on the characters are good but then the rest of the enviroment looks plain. Did they 
 think making the characters have good graphics make the players forget about the rest of the enviroment.
 
  
  Sound 3/10
  The only music in this game is at the main menu and that's only 1 song. There is sounds in the 
 enviroment like birds chirping and creatures when they attack you but thats about it.
  
  Value 3/10
  Don't rent or buy unless you like every rpg game made 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric1000
Rating: 4.1
Date: Apr 15, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  With Dungeon Lords Bradley has turned away from what he does best and what he is known for, old 
 school RPG's with obscure puzzles and turn based combat ( Wizardry Series ) in favour of pretty 
 visuals and fast paced real time combat aimed directly at the 10 year old console junkies, which 
 pretty much is like Elvis joining a string quartet and having his mouth sown shut. Dungeon lords 
 is disappointing from the ground up and gets no better as you progress through the game, in fact 
 it soon becomes a chore just to load the thing up.
  
  If you like console games and have hands shaped through many hours into the perfect receptacles 
 for an X-box controller then you may just enjoy this game, if however you are a fan of RPG's or 
 other DW. Bradley games then give it a miss and spend your money elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marsp
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  I played the game last November. And I think I'm going to play it again. The thing I find very 
 attractive in this game is the many hours you need to complete a simple quest. We are talking about 
 dungeons and in this game the dungeons are huge with a lot of creatures be spawned again and again. 
 For example you get into a dungeon in order to fulfill a quest and there you have to figure out 
 how to recover the quest item and find a way out and to do that you have to kill many creatures 
 (they are spawned all the time) . How to do that ?? Play the game to find it out..
  General Dungeon Lords is an action-adventure rpg. The graphics are satisfying and it could be better 
 (character's appearence could be better) . Moreover there not specific items in the chest and if 
 you make a mistake and have to load back the game then it's not for sure that you would find the 
 same things in the same chest. Something that matches better in multiplayers game (I didn't play 
 it in multiplayer yet) . Now as far the sound was good enough. 
  For me is a very good game. The bad is that you have to be patient and ready to spent a lot of 
 time playing it. Morover the built up of the character when he is leveling up could be better.
 
  As far the bugs I played it with the patch. Without the map the game is unplayable. 
  Personally I believe that is a worth playing game for those that are experienced with adventure 
 games and furthermore are fans of RPG and Action games. 
  Something last it was the first time that a player was lef t hand (Your character will carry his 
 sword in his left hand) :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reyveign
Rating: 2.4
Date: Mar 17, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Lords, with its initial release, was a horrible excuse of a game, with its too numerous 
 to number bugs, and a waste of time multiplayer system... let me put it this way, if Dungeon Lords 
 was a dart attempting to land on the center of the dart board, it would be flying across the room 
 into the eye of the drunken fool in the corner. 
  
  Even now, after the release of version 1.4 for the original version, the game still bugs to the 
 point where I'm unable to play, and multiplayer games are completelyh nonexistent. At best, the 
 most multiplayer games I would find were two, and even then the games closed out almost right when 
 I joined the lobby. 
  
  Apparently there is even a collectors edition, and by the way I hear, the only thing thats worth 
 getting that one for is the fancy box. It seems that people that own the Collector's edition CANNOT 
 and WILL NOT be able to play with people that own the original. Just don't play the game, don't 
 waste time with it, its hands down not worth anybodys time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slasher9000
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 15, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  When I started playing Dungeon Lords I had great expectations, diving head first into the action 
 it wasnt too long before I discovered the first of many very, VERY annoying problems of a incomplete 
 game. The WORST has to be the fact that theres NO MAP in Fargrove. After two days of aimlessly 
 wandering around and completing a few city quests I just got tired of the bugs and annoying goblin 
 giggles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ribicaman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 12, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Very interesting. This game kept me playing for like two and a half weeks and its still quite unique 
 in a way. The graphics are quite good but the sound need more work. Im suprised by the lack of 
 multiplayer support. I mean come on! Once I played online and I did not kill 10 goblins and I found 
 like 10 cheaters. But the game definetely has some good parts. Like the time when I was playing 
 as a dwarf and I was playing online. Me 2 more dwarfs and an elf. Pretty fun if you ask me. At 
 one moment we charge into 7 jungle spiders while the elf gives us supporting fire. Nice... The 
 sound is most of the time more , less OK, but sometimes it sucks. Like when You engage goblins 
 they laugh in a irritating way.
  Anyway the game is suprising at i think it should not get a bad grade. 
  Ribica out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuruChaz
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I didn't have much fun at all playing the original 1.0 verson of Dungeon Lords when it came out 
 in early 2005. In fact, I was disgusted by how broken the game was. I decided to give the game 
 a 2nd chance by purchasing the Collector's Edition that was released Feb 2006. I have to say that 
 I am glad they finally got this game together and released something that is actually fun and somewhat 
 addicting to play. Multiplayer isn't half bad either but the only problem is that there aren't 
 enough online players yet due to the bad press of the original 1.0 version. That unfortunate because 
 the CE 1.5 is almost like a whole different and functional game. 
  
  The areas you explore have been redesigned with more detail. There are more quests, spells, items, 
 and places to visit than there was in the original. If you didn't like the original release of 
 this game, I highly recommend you try this new CE version... and I don't say this lightly. Remember, 
 I'm someone who didn't like the original release at all. Now, I need to go check the multiplayer 
 servers again... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saeed_lp_69
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 9, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Lords is a new breed of epic Fantasy RPG, a unique combination of RPG and Fighter game 
 action in full 3D, featuring a deep storyline shrouded in mystery, surprise, and betrayal. Dungeon 
 Lords is loaded with quests, personal missions, extensive skills and special abilities for customizing 
 your own character hero from a variety of races and multiple class specializations, as you journey 
 through an enchanted land of ancient castles, dark forests, and dungeon lairs braving an army of 
 diabolical foes in real time action packed combat to uncover the secrets lying hidden within the 
 depths of an evolving storyline. Dungeon Lords can be played either single-player stand alone, 
 or in multi-player group sessions.
  
  The great wizard, Galdryn of the Meadows, has been slain by a deadly conspiracy within the Circle 
 of Mages. His chief ally, Lord Davenmor, now struggles to save his kingdom from the dark forces 
 of the conspiracy and the onslaught of Lord Barrowgrim's army of marauders. Lord Davenmor has promised 
 his daughter's hand in marriage to Lord Barrowgrim to quell the invasion, but her heart belongs 
 to another and after learning of her father's pledge, she has vanished. Sensing treachery, Lord 
 Barrowgrim has sent his army once more to destroy Lord Davenmor and raze the kingdom. Thus begins 
 Dungeon Lords, Cry of the Kingdom Cracked, a tale of Love, Hate, Betrayal, Revenge, Honor, and 
 Evil... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xslayerxpac2
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 31, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Potential. Thats what this game has, and lots of it. If a lot of the things that this game is lacking 
 in terms of features were implemented at the original 1.0 release, there would be a lot more happy 
 gamers.
  
  CONS:
  The game itself is a large 3rd person hack-and-slash action RPG which succeeds in providing hours 
 of entertainment after you've downloaded patch 1.1, then 1.3, then the German 1.4 and finally the 
 German to English for patch 1.4. The Demo for Dungeon Lords is what im assuming to be version 1.0, 
 and I played the demo and now I own version 1.3 retail. So with that said, in v1.0 the game basically 
 lacks an automap, making it frustratingly difficult to navigate throughout the game world. Aside 
 from the random, rare encounter of a civilian or guard in the starting town of Fargrove, the towns 
 are empty and lacking any detail that you would see in even the most bland of RPG's. Going into 
 the armorer's shop I thought there might be a few suits of armor displayed and maybe a shield and 
 some swords mounted on the walls or something... but no. A few random tables, which were empty 
 might I add, were placed in the weapons and armor shop. Apparently the elves sleep on the floor 
 or something, because I purchased an inn key from the innkeeper in the Elven village, and they 
 don't have anything in the rooms. Nothing. There is a little fireplace looking thing inside each 
 room, theres even a light-source in each fireplace, but no fire or logs or anything, just a little 
 12 foot by 12 foot room with nothing inside it but the floor. The Elven village weapons shop is 
 worse, even though it's title is "The Hall of Weapons", making it seem like a huge emporium of 
 weaponry and armor. You walk in and it's a huge room with some pillars inside it, and nothing inside 
 to indicate that it's a weapon shop, with even less detail than Fargrove's weapon shop. There are 
 loads of doors in Fargrove which seemingly do nothing, although they are labeled as "Door Plain" 
 or something like that. The game also lacks a sufficient journal or quest log. When you open your 
 journal, it gives you mild details as to what your current tasks are in a little transparent box 
 at the top of the screen. On top of that, it will not update that box even after you've finished 
 some quests. If you have a quest to talk to a certain NPC, the 'quest log' will tell you where 
 to go and who to talk to, but after you've talked to that NPC, the log won't tell you the next 
 step in the quest, basically forcing you to write it down with a pen and paper, or remember it 
 yourself. This is only the case with some quests, though others actually did work. Some sort of 
 breath bar should be implamented so you don't start to drown while your under water. There is no 
 way to customize your character's face or hairstyle or anything else in any version from 1.0 to 
 1.3.
  
  The sound quality is crap. Most of the NPC's long monologues have a voice over, but they are extremely 
 soft and you have to turn the volume up a lot to hear it. Most of the sound files are low quality, 
 with a lot of static and repetition.
  
  As far as bugs, i havent encountered anything major. Once in a while I'd see a monster inside a 
 wall or a tree or something, but other than that, I havent had any game-stopping issues. The game 
 seems to pause for a quick half a second before a group of monsters spawn in a random location 
 close to your proximity, making it easy to determine if you're about to be attacked. Also, some 
 of the items that have PRO Fire or PRO Ice and some other PRO's don't actually do anything. For 
 example, i found a "Shield of the Dragon" in one of the chests in the drake lair. The shield supposedly 
 makes you immune to fire, and half immune to cold and magic, but when the shield was equipped onto 
 my character, my resistances to those 3 elements failed to go up at all, and I could see it in 
 battle (fire still damaged me, a lot) .
  
  The character advancement system seems thourough, although it only proves useful and progressive 
 to advance your character into a melee class, making the games different types of characters extremely 
 unbalanced. You can deal out quite a bit of damage using spells, but in the longer battles with 
 bosses and other large creatures, spells will eventually run out and you'll have to let them recharge, 
 leaving you no choice but to run from battle if you're a magic class. Dont even try to make an 
 archer, because the bows do almost no damage, and it will take you forever to kill even a mediocre 
 monster, even though you have infinate arrows.
  
  PROS:
  In terms of good things about the game, there are none unless you download the version 1.4 German 
 patch and convert it to English. This will fix the majority of the issues described above, adding 
 character customization, and a bit more detail into the interior places of cities, as well as fixing 
 SOME of the bugs and defects an automap was implemented in version 1.3 (finally) . The game actually 
 has a very detailed environment. The cities are a little more detailed with v1.4, but not too much 
 more. Not too much stuff to do outside the cities other than killing random monsters that you encounter 
 at a pre-set interval of time, but the textures are nice and detailed, and I enjoyed exploring 
 the outdoor environments.
  
  The melee combat system is excellent, more realistic than in any other RPG I've played to date. 
 You can move around to dodge swings, you can block with your shield at the press of a button, and 
 the shield will actually lose its durability quicker depending on what weapon it's being struck 
 by (realistic) . If an enemy is blocking your attack, you can quickly move around him to strike 
 him from behind, or use a slashing method while spinning around to hit him and get past his shield 
 defenses. You can leap into combat and swing on your way down, making you do more damage. You can 
 also do front and side rolls, as well as backflips if your athletics skill is high enough, as well 
 as side-jumps.
  
  SUMMARY:
  Basically, the game is alright after a 1.4 German to English patch. There are still those random 
 quirks and petty annoyances, but if you're a true RPG fan you'll look past them and realize the 
 games fine points. The game basically came out weak and ended up average. All the people who gave 
 this game a low, low rating should install the 1.4 update in English and re-play it, as I'm sure 
 they'll have a much better experience. All in all, those of you looking for a really good RPG to 
 spend your future time in should wait til March 20th when Oblivion comes out. *drool*
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shalock
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jan 16, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  First of all, i hate that the game developers think that a RPG is determined because you have a 
 character sheet, IT IS NOT THE ESENCE OF A RPG!!! The esence of a RPG its the development of a 
 personality and the action and consequence in the taking of decitions, which of course, leaves 
 out of the genre theis Dungeon Lords...
  
  In the field of action, the fact that you have to fight with never ending hordes of monsters dont 
 qualifies for the genre, it has a very primitive combat system, once again let down the magician 
 clase, and you have to be VERY powerful to win a combat without fleeing, which it wouldnt a bad 
 incentive if the game was a little decent...
  
  It has average graphics and terrible music and sounds, and has a very bad quest system, and a large 
 map that would be a fine entertainment if didnt feel that it have no sense...
  
  I would be a great game if that people wouldve finished it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vampiregoat69
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about a game that seems to have more bugs than the amazon forest. The game looks 
 great but their seems to be many problems with it, dang where do I start? 
  
  1. When you gather items on the ground say 20 long swords and have them in your inventory and want 
 to sell them to a shop. When you click on it, it gives the option to sell quantity and you can 
 move the slider. OH but wait you have to sell each one at a time since for some stupid reason it 
 does not bundle them. (minor problem)
  
  2. I entered the trials of the ancients to finish the quest I ended up locked in a room full of 
 spirits attacking me and a mage that stood high up casting fireballs. I defeated all of them including 
 spending an hour on the mage just to find out that their is no way out orf the room at all. The 
 only way out is the way you come in but is blocked by a gate. MMMMM interesting bug so I decide 
 to go to their web page for help.
  
  3. Seems that you can't click on support or anything but Buy Now. Interesting they come out with 
 a game that is full of bugs, no support on web page, put out a 1.3 patch that seems to be pointless 
 and obviously do not think it is important to play test a game before it hits the public, can we 
 say GREED?
  
  4. Seems that sometimes the voices cut out and sounds like they are being muffled by a pillow over 
 the mouth so I have to exit the game.
  
  I knew you boys and girls could say it. Over all this game is just not worth the money and do NOT 
 get me started on Multi play as I think it is lamer still. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irpagan
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  As of version 1.3 The good parts of Dungeon Lords first - Decent Graphics, not great but good. 
 A nice Character class system where a character can learn virually any skill. Interesting story-line 
 its fluid enough to allow for side quests without detracting from the main story. 
  
  The Bad - Starting with character generation; You can't customize the way your character looks. 
 Several of the races don't have female counter-parts.
  Gameplay; The world noticably slows when ever a "random" monster is to appear, warning you your 
 about to get ganked. Way too many "random" monster events, works out to like a check every 2 minutes. 
 Quickly becomes a hack-n-slash. When interacting with others unless head on audio does not operate 
 correctly. Randomly the audio will decide not play. Randomly the game crashes. No way to load a 
 save game without quitting and restarting. Noticable abscence of world sounds - walking through 
 the forest there should be sound not silence. walking through water and sludge there should be 
 sound, not silence etc. 
  
  Dungeon Lords has great potential, if all the bad was fixed. until then it's fun to hack-n-slashonce 
 in a while but quickly becomes annoying. If your trying to decide whether to buy Dungeon Lords 
 or Dungeon Siege II, I'll make it easy Dungeon Siege II did it better although had Dungeon Lords 
 performed to its capability it would have blown DS2 out of the water. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spongebob53186
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jan 8, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  this game sucks............. no npcs....... i played with the 1.4 german to english patch and it 
 still sucks.................... no furniture.... why is that a big deal...... cause in the starting 
 town they had some bookcases and a couple beds and stuff and then i get to arindale and apparently 
 they elfs sleep on floors never read and never sit or eat................ no autosave........ i have 
 to exit the game back to the main menu just to load up a game....... this game sucks so bad i cant 
 believe it.................. and then they have the audacity to announce a collectors edition................ so 
 now you have to buy the game twice if you want what should have been released the first time...... i 
 hope those lazy bums lose their shirts over this pathetic excuse for a game......... if you want 
 to see what else is wrong with the game just visit the official forums........... they have pages 
 of crap that is wrong with this .... gggrrrr... im so mad ............. had to get this off my chest........ WASTE 
 OF MONEY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgalt
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  If you like a CRPG with an old school feel (think Ultima Underworld with great new graphics and 
 sound- showing my age!) , but fantastic graphics and sound. It has everything you want in a CRPG. 
 A great character system with lots of skills, spells, and a total of 5 character classes (2 lvl 
 1, 2 lvl 2, and 1 lvl 3 class) . The story is even interesting and much of the dialogue is well 
 done and some of the set combats and boss fights are very well done. My only complaints about this 
 game is the large amount of time it takes to walk from place to place before you get the moonstones 
 (allows you teleport between areas) , and the fact that the combat (especially the really tough 
 combats) can have a very arcadish feel. This may not bother some of the younger players who like 
 the console style arcade combat, but I still prefer old-style turn-based combat in CRPG and strategy 
 games, however I realize that is a dying breed (although Civ4 is a nice exception) . However, even 
 with the arcadish combat, I found the game surprisingly enjoyable from start to finish. This game 
 may not grab you in the first 5 minutes, but for many if not most of you this game will grow on 
 you and really grab you as you continue to play the game. I got hooked about 2 hours into the game 
 and couldn't stop playing it until I finished it.
  
  For those of you who are thinking of buying the game, wait for the Collector's Edition as it will 
 have the latest patch 1.4 plus extra content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kocur
Rating: 5.1
Date: Dec 20, 2005 1:10 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for an epic masterpiece like Gothic II, Neverwinter Nights or the recent Fable, 
 with Dungeon Lords you've chosen the wrong title.
  I played this game already fixed with the 1.4 patch, so it was not buggy after all and it ran solid 
 and smoothly.
  
  The intro promises a tale of passion and betrayal, but all you experience is hacking and slashing 
 tons of monsters. I have to admit, it made fun the first two hours and after it became too repetitive. 
 There is no real story behind and you'll never get identified with your own character. All you 
 have to do is to go and kill some tough opponent for plenty of experience. Because killing is (unfortunately) 
 the only way of earning experience and the only way to advance. So if you need to level up and 
 boost yourself first, because some of the quest opponents may be too strong just now, you have 
 to run around the area for many hours, wait for random encounters - and kill and kill and kill...
 
  
  Like already mentioned by another reader, the RPG elements are a joke. In the whole city of Fargrove 
 which looks everywhere the same, you meet not more than 10 people and can talk just to 5 of them. 
 Also you'll encounter some absurdities, which could be tolerable in the early Bard's Tale series, 
 but not in a game from 2005. For example seer Augustus is going to die durging all the game but 
 he doesn't finally, although he is already considered as "dead", he remains alive preparing to 
 die and whinning about all the time. Or some commander of a legion who you should meet - you find 
 only a single person with three empty tents, of course without any signs of a legion. That lools 
 pretty ridiculous.
  Another annoyng fact I consider the absence of any objects you could freely (should...) interact 
 with: flowers, roots, mushrooms, rocks, planks, coins, etc - you can find them only on dead bodies 
 or in the crates (or buy in the stores) and they'll disappear soon, if you don't pick them quickly. 
 But their absence makes the game feel pretty "empty" and sterile, you never see something lying 
 around you could pick or examine.
  
  If you're looking for a simplicistic game in the style of early Might and Magic or Wizardry series 
 full of random fights, runnings around and won't mess with a story, you may like it. The action 
 may enjoy. But if you're looking for an epos with a logical tale and picturesque quests, avoid 
 it definitely. Better get Fable or wait for Neverwinter Nights II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hydras808
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 6, 2005 9:21 am PT
Review:  This is yet another game that isn't finished at release. There's a lot of bugs and the most outrageous 
 one is that the devs added the option to customize your characters appearence but you can't chnage 
 it. I mean the options are all there but you can't change anything.
  At first this game seems alright. The combat is okay though it quickly gets repetive.
  It's first 
 when you get to the first "town" that you realise how much this game sucks. Seriously there's about 
 50 houses or somthing in the town and you can enter about 6 of them, and there are no NPC houses! 
 Just stores and that kind of stuff. And did I mention there's about 10 people in this town. Plus 
 the King of course.
  And when you enter the town you'll notice this extremly annoying sound. It sounds like 10 retarded 
 baboons are singing "Holy Night" while 10 others are strangeling cats. And it's really load.
  After some investigation you'll find out that it's a captivated troll that's groaning and a guy 
 tells you not upset it. Okay. Sure. But you can't get the damn thing to shut up! So after 10 minutes 
 you've had enough and you'll have to kill it. Lol.
  Okay and the story is lousy cliche. I personally don't have a problem with cliche but this is lousy 
 cliche.
  And then you get to this elf town or whatever and theres about 5 houses and bleh then you turn 
 of the game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 5, 2005 9:32 am PT
Review:  I'm sure Dungeon Lords has had several gamers fuming ever since they purchased the game and before 
 patch 1.3 was released. I read my share of nasty comments about it, but I was still intrigued. 
 It looked like an interesting game with very nice graphics, and I still wanted to play it regardless 
 of all the comments about bugs.
  
  The first thing I was told after receiving my copy of Dungeon Lords was "don't forget to download 
 the latest patch". I didn't forget, but the patch seemed to have done nothing. Changing the resolution 
 made the intro screen pull up to the top left corner of the screen leaving a black area filling 
 the rest of the screen and the menu screens would flicker when I tried loading a game. The Junk 
 inventory which was supposed to hold duplicate items was constantly empty and things were being 
 discarded if I picked them up. Some character customization options weren't clickable, the map 
 didn't work, monsters were disappearing or going through walls, NPC's weren't giving out the quest 
 items or key conversations, and there was this Curio Shop where I could keep reselling my lockpicks 
 for money without losing a single one. 
  
  As nosy as I am, I had to snoop around the game folders (this is usually how I break things, trying 
 to fix them) and eventually found the problem. The patch downloaded to a separate folder, instead 
 of replacing the older files like it should have. So after manually moving everything to the right 
 folder, I tested it again and was I ever happy!
  
  Ok, still some character customization options wouldn't show up, I was still unable to open certain 
 chest and some monsters still enjoyed partly hiding in walls, but the rest was fixed. The map made 
 everything so much easier, considering that before having it, my awesome sense of direction got 
 me lost for 25 minutes before finding the town gates. Still, it would be nice to see the map as 
 a whole, instead of just a portion of it.
  
  While playing Dungeon Lords I got a similar feeling to that when I used to play Neverwinter Nights. 
 Except this looked way better. In fact, it's a bit like playing an MMO made especially for you, 
 if that makes sense. That's the best way I can describe it.
  
  The game at first has some very wacky controls, took me a while to get used to even after customizing 
 my own keyboard settings. After a while - and some deaths - I got the hang of the combat and spell 
 system. It's very entertaining to move around slashing things and casting magic missile or freezing 
 goblins in place, especially because the animations for the attacks and spell effects are very 
 well done.
  
  I like that I don't need to wait to level up to upgrade my stats. You do level up when your experience 
 bar is full, but since you are accumulating experience points as you kill things, you can exchange 
 them at any time for a skill or stat increase, assuming you have enough to "purchase" the feature 
 you want.
  
  There is a lot of story to be found and an insane amount of quests to do. Several guilds will offer 
 you tasks so that you can join them, so from each of the 4 starting classes (warrior, priest, thief 
 and mage) there will be 2 sub-classes, with the advantage of unlocking 2 more if you play a female 
 character, by doing the Sisterhood quest. You can advance your character by completing any four 
 of these quests (provided you meet the stat requirements) and gain their respective attributes, 
 and later develop them into a higher version of themselves. 
  
  Let's say you are an Adept and joined the Celestial Order. You get the option to become a Celestial, 
 a Paladin or a Monk. If you become a Paladin, you will gain the Heavy Armor, Heavy Shield and Heavy 
 Weapon skills. A Paladin can then advance by becoming a Crusader when the character's stats are 
 high enough for the "promotion".
  
  Certain quests let you pick a Heraldry badge as a reward. Each piece of Heraldry becomes a permanent 
 bonus (for example, completing the House of Dragon gives you the option to pick a 10% fire resistance 
 bonus among others) .
  
  Another feature that I find the game lacks is a detailed quest log. There's a little log that shows 
 you the basic goals, but then it either stops showing the next steps or keeps some that you have 
 already done. Upon completion of a certain task, it won't tell you to go back to the person who 
 gave you the quest to claim your reward. In some cases, you know enough to progress but then wander 
 lost for a while looking for clues. 
  
  The environments are really beautiful. It's worth stopping to look around and check the detail 
 on the grass, trees, wall and floor textures. It's especially worth stopping at the elven village 
 of Arindale, which is reminiscent of Rivendell.
  
  The monsters are pretty cool. I mean, you have your standard giant bats, giant rats and giant spiders 
 that happen to jump and lunge at you - and make me jump in the process - but it wouldn't be an 
 RPG without them, would it? But then there's an amazing spectre, some huge headless guys with axes, 
 stinky slime blobs, goblins, a sort of treants, talking rock heads, trolls, dragons, nagas and 
 scorpions that have so much detail put into them that it was easy for me to get distracted admiring 
 instead of killing them.
  
  More impressive was the dragon that snuck up on me. How exactly does a dragon sneak up on you, 
 I'm not sure (tip-toeing?) but I turned a corner and there it was, spitting fireballs at me from 
 behind some trees. My most exciting moment was trying to steal a dragon egg from a nest, on a mountain 
 side populated by these fire drakes. Died a ton of times getting stuck in the rocky hills and being 
 turned into BBQ meat, but I got out with the egg!
  
  Dungeon Lords has a lot to keep you entertained for a quite a while, especially when it comes to 
 the multiplayer option. Do you have a couple of friends who play it? Schedule a day and make a 
 LAN party, it doesn't get better than that. Well, actually, yes, it could get better, since there's 
 no way to save the character progress for an online game.
  
  Dungeon Lords had me right from the intro movie and menu screen music. They're both very epic, 
 for lack of better words. And so is the adventure. It's a shame to know that this title came out 
 with several faults, disappointing those who purchased it at launch. But there is still time to 
 turn it into an even better game. 
  
  Except for a roaming lady with a man's voice in the town of Fargrove and some minor bugs which 
 should be addressed in future patches, Dungeon Lords is a really good hack-and-slash with a great 
 story, lots of questing, several character advancement options and gorgeous graphics.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=dungeonlords 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnCahgNeetoh
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 23, 2005 7:30 am PT
Review:  This happens to be one of those games with loads of potential that never accomplishes anything 
 great.
  
  In terms of graphical capability it is pretty good. Nothing that stands out or leaves any sort 
 of lasting impression. But the envrionments are incredibly large and vast. The first town is very 
 large with lots of things to do while roaming around. The other two towns don't offer anything 
 great in terms of the overall map of it.
  
  As for gameplay, this is pretty much a hack-n-slash title. The fighting can get rather repetative 
 at times. But it still remains to be a bit fun. As for plot, it was pretty good for a 3rd person 
 RPG. Although nothing that will leave you breathless as in Soul Reaver 2 or even Final Fantasy 
 VII. 
  
  The exp system is quite nice. I think it offers one of the stronger points of the game, for the 
 purpose of it being different than any of the other game I have played. Such as, levels are practically 
 useless. You get exp points for killing something, and you just save them up and increase an attribute 
 or a skill. For every "level" you gain, you get like 25,000 extra points. That may seem like a 
 lot, but increasing high level skills will cost around 1.5 MILLION points and up, so it's not a 
 huge bonus. It makes the concepts of "levels" useless, and just urges you to just keep hacking 
 and slashing. Also, it's not like a D&D game where you get exp for completeing a quest, so this 
 just once again MAKES you kill thigns for EXP. This makes it feel more of an action game than an 
 actual RPG.
  
  The real problems with this game lie on how incomplete it is. There are locked dungeons that you 
 just know that were meant to be a part of the game. People mention side quests that never happen. 
 There are a whole slew of bugs that just infest this title. There are also skills that you can 
 have that never get used in the game, and some skills are only used a little bit. Such as "dual 
 wield medium weapons." out of the hundreds of weapons you have, you can ONLY dual wield (in terms 
 of medium weapons) a rusty axe (think: one of the weakest weapons in the game) and then some other 
 medium weapon regardless of how strong/weak. The best combo is one of the weakest medium weapons 
 plus the best one. So, you can not have a say the first and second best medium weapons and hack 
 your way to victory. These little things really bring the environment of the game down... big time.
 
  
  One thing that it seems to be lacking is a large musical score. This is a game where you don't 
 need the disc to play, so of course I never used it. This could be like the original Half Life, 
 you can play with no disc, but there is no soundtrack to the game this way. Since I NEVER played 
 the game with the disc in the drive, I do NOT know if this is the case. Although when I did play 
 it, there was hardly any music to the game. This can make the trips where you are forced to walk 
 long distance seem even more boring than they already are. 
  
  This game seems to be nothing more than a Gothic wanna-be. It really does try to be this open, 
 expanded world full of quests and adventure, but falls short on every level, even if the fall is 
 minute. If you are seriously curious about this game, make sure to get it cheap. Also, MAKE SURE 
 YOU INSTALL THE LATEST PATCH. If you play a version PRIOR to 1.3 the mini map feature is NOT included... this 
 means that you will have little to no idea where you are in the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 18, 2005 11:22 am PT
Review:  Dungeon lords is the worst RPG game i have played in this year. From beginning to the ending it's 
 just full of bugs. There is no quick save or quick load option and you have to quit to the main 
 manu to load a
  game during play. But at first look it looks promising - good graphics, attibute upgrading system, lots 
 of quest, new types of enemies all these could make this a great game. But the gameplay and the bugs 
 let it down.
  Even it has no map in its first realease. The area sometimes seems to be confusing. Single player 
 campaign is large enough to play for 20+ hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwilson32
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 12, 2005 9:07 am PT
Review:  The only thing I have to say about this game, aside from it's empty and boring world, is that the 
 publisher also published two of the worst games in gaming history. BATTLECRUISER MILLENNIUM - Gold 
 Edition and UNIVERSAL COMBAT. If I had taken the time to research DreamCatcher and saw those two 
 games on their list I would not have even considered buying DUNGEON LORDS. If they could continually 
 publish games from known "bad developers" then we have no business buying games from them.
  
  On the bright side, as soon as I start making crap games, I know I will have a sure deal soliciting 
 DreamCatcher to be my publisher! =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serial007
Rating: 5.1
Date: Nov 10, 2005 7:21 am PT
Review:  This game had me inspired to play, several playable races and character classes, potential to multi-class 
 different schools of magic, basically all the right indigents, but it fails to make it work. (Kind 
 of like a cake that does rise)
  
  The audio is ok, but the voice acting is horrible, graphics are not great but not poor either (lots 
 of clipping) , and the game play is kind of run. 
  
  Lots of running from point A to point B quest. 
  
  The real problem is the crashes. This game 
 crashes often. So much so that you need to save before and starting and finishing quests for fear 
 of losing your progress. 
  
  Another problem is the game doesnt seem to be balanced towards any of the thief or ranger classes 
 and seem focused on only on the Fighter/ Mage classes.
  
  Multiplayer is completely wrong, very laggy and tough to co-ordinate where people are and what 
 they are doing.
  
  Nice try but not worth the price (or the effort) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deralict
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 14, 2005 3:38 pm PT
Review:  I played the game to the end once out of the box. Now I'm playing a second time through with the 
 new patch 1.3. The play was good to start with - the patch adds the automap, fixes some quest issues, 
 adds some spells. It still leaves the game unfinished, but not in ways that effect how fun to play 
 this game is. 
  I hear all those folks who are upset because the game is unfinished. It clearly is. But this is 
 a fun playable game even with its faults. 
  OK, so I can't change my character's hair. I don't particularly care about that. What *do* I care 
 about with regard to my character? How it plays. 
  For instance, you have 10 races/gender options to choose from. What race or gender you choose changes 
 the way the game plays and how the character develops. 
  Next, you have 4 starting class choices. You have points to spend to customize your character's 
 attributes and skill sets. These affect the play. The play is the thing. 
  OK, like I said, it is still obviously unfinished form the original design, so some of the spells 
 don't work yet. Most do, and a few were added with the new patch. Even with some spells AWOL, there 
 is a lot of remaining magic to play with: there are 4 different kinds of magic. They may be called 
 schools but they are not like other games' "schools." Instead each features magic of entirely different 
 kinds, which work differently, recharge or are created differently and play differently. Each magic 
 is unique - the spells are not duplicated between magic types. Mastering one kind is fun. But wait! 
 there are 3 more (now what would you pay?) . This diversity of magic systems makes for the most 
 satisfying and complex magic play I have yet encountered in a CRPG. It also makes for great tactical 
 spell-combat. Honestly, I would like to have the few promised-but-undelivered spells, but I don't 
 miss them. 
  I read a review where someone said the dungeons did not get put in. Sorry, but wrong!! There are 
 great big beautiful multilevel multi-themed dungeons, including one that takes days to get through. 
 Much, maybe most, of the game is dungeon based, if you count towers, castles, sewers and mazes 
 as "dungeons." 
  The chest trap puzzles are fun, and they scale with difficulty in an interesting way. It is possible 
 to untrap a chest above your current skill level, but it is hard and requires concentration and 
 dexterity. 
  The classes have three tiers. Where you might be a warrior to start and a warrior to finish in 
 another game, in this one you get to be five classes by the end of the game. 2 base classes, 2 
 elite classes and one super-elite class. There are literally dozens of combinations. My new character, 
 this second time, is pursuing a battlemage ninja style career. That means he is a heavily armored 
 magic specialist that in melee combat fights hand to hand, martial arts style, and uses thrown 
 weapons (shurikin) . This second game plays a lot differently than it did my first time through. 
 A new, previously unknown, area opened up, there are new quests, new skills, new combat choices. 
 I love that! There are so many possible combinations - I'm already thinking about how I might develop 
 a character to play through again after I finish this game.
  The inventory is fixed now and you can hold and sell the excess equipment that you acquire. Speaking 
 of equipment there is a ton of it - armor, swords, bows, shuriken, spears, knives, axes, rings, 
 belts, necklaces, on and on with this or that variation or magic effect. 
  Most role-playing games when you get to a level you get some points to spend on skills or attributes. 
 In this game, you earn points from winning each combat encounter and you can spend your points 
 whenever you want. Immediately, if you like. It's like hundreds of mini-level-ups. 
  In addition to the combat related points you also get extra points when crossing to a new level. 
 There are plenty of "regular" level-ups too. By the end of the game my character was level 46 and 
 just as tough and powerful as you would expect.
  What about skills? There are a lot of them. 30 or so are available to an individual player-character, 
 which ones are available depend primarily on class choices. There are almost 50 overall in the 
 game. Some open up when you win your way into an elite class. Some open up when you get to a certain 
 point in other skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: astr0creep
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 12, 2005 7:25 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Lords has received some of the nastiest reviews I have ever seen. However it does have 
 some things going for it like, strangely, lasting appeal.
  I played the demo. Well, I tried. It was unplayable with bad controls and LOTS of bugs. I gave 
 it about 5-10 minutes tops. I figured it was bad marketing but I did not notice this game was coming 
 out of Dreamcatcher Interactive, one if not THE worst game publisher EVER! 
  Since Painkiller was pretty good though, I gave Dungeon Lords a shot but not before fully patching 
 it. There is just too great a shortage of RPGs lately to miss any of them, even one from Dreamcatcher.
 
  
  I was pleasantly surprised. At first, flashbacks from the demo scared me a bit but I continued 
 playing. Exploring the wilderness a little, bashing goblin and undead skulls was fun and I did 
 not mind the flawed combat too much. I gained one or two levels and headed for Fargrove, cleared 
 the sewers and entered the city, explored it and I am now ready to continue with the first quest 
 of the main story. 
  
  I find Dungeon Lords addictive. The XP bar filling up slowly just pushes me to make more kills, 
 like Diablo or Dungeon Siege. The character gains points and the player can upgrade him/her at 
 any time which I think is great. The more points the player uses to upgrade a certain skill, the 
 more skills are unlocked and the leveling system seems quite deep and customizability also seems 
 infinite, at least for character development. Thats the kind of RPG D. W. Bradley makes, deep on 
 character developement, something every RPG should be filled to the gills with. 
  
  Gameplay basically comes down to making your way through dungeons and forests, killing almost everything 
 that moves. There are some puzzles involved but not much. The combat, which makes up most of the 
 gameplay, is difficult to get used to with the controls being the culprit here. The character turns 
 around too slowly and some of the moves advertised do not work. The best thing to do is stay in 
 a corner or doorway and block-attack. A real click-fest.
  
  Graphically, well, textures are very flat and there is a specular effect on everything, even my 
 Dwarf's hair. Weird. Like most people, I find the environment very empty, devoid of charm or personality. 
 The devs should've taken some lessons from Bethesda to add more furniture and decorations to the 
 houses and buildings, more people in the streets, etc. Dungeon Lords looks incomplete but everything 
 that is there works, once patched... 
  
  Sounds will be familliar to anyone who has played Wizards & Warriors. Because they are the same, 
 reused. Music is nowhere to be found and the voice-overs are not very good either, although I have 
 heard much worse in better high profile games. 
  
  Dungeon Lords gives me the impression that Heuristic Park simply reused the engine from Wizards 
 & Warriors with updated textures. Anyone who actually finished W&W will be happy to read these 
 words and by continuing to play this game, I am hoping similar feelings will surface. W&W is one 
 of my favorites, despite its bugs...
  
  Dungeon Lords is obviously unfinished, with some severe lack of polish. I can only assume Heuristic 
 park was rushed by it's demon worshipping publisher, since beneath its rusty hood lies a very good 
 RPG worth patching ASAP. Although Dungeon Lords' severe flaws cannot garner it the score it deserves, 
 I must still recommend it in these times of RTS and MMO overloaded gaming, especially if you are 
 a fan of D. W. Bradley (Wizards and Warriors) . Wait for a major price drop though... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadlyRamon
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 27, 2005 6:43 pm PT
Review:  I just finished the game after about 2 weeks of playing, and I must say that it wasn't quite as 
 bad as what many others had reported. 
  Granted, I began the game using the 1.3 patch, and couldn't conceive of possessing enough patience 
 to play it without version 1.3's indispensable automap feature. I was disappointed by the not-yet-included-but-promised 
 character customization features for the face and hairstyle, but for the most part that wasn't 
 too bad, as my character wore a helmet most of the time anyway, and you never see his face except 
 when he turns around to jeer at you, an automatic process that occurs way too frequently.
  I bought the game spontaneously as I noticed D. W. Bradley's name on the box while browsing the 
 software aisle at Walmart, and I've loved previous games of his, but it turns out that this game 
 was rather underinspired in light of Bradley's Wizards & Warriors and Wizardry 7. Dungeon Lords's 
 storyline seems like an afterthought to the game, something communicated in patience-trying and 
 longwinded NPC lectures, but fortunately the action more than compensates for the tedious text. 
 
  Early in the game, it seems like the way you move your mouse as you attack affects the way you 
 swing your melee weapon, but after an hour or two it seems like that made little to no difference 
 in the outcome of my fights, so I simply paid no attention to how I swung my weapon and instead 
 just crazily clicked like I was reliving a 1997 Diablo fest. Investing points into the applicable 
 combat skills is far more relevant to combat proficiency than is choosing to thrust, swing, or 
 hack your melee weapon.
  I'm playing on a soon to be upgraded Geforce FX 5200 card, and despite that the game had consistently 
 smooth frame rates booth outdoors and especially indoors. I found the graphics aesthetically pleasing, 
 if not particularly extraordinary, but they certainly got the point across without requiring any 
 infusion of imagination to supplement them, except in the sparsely furnished hotel rooms and shops 
 of course. 
  Given how many people are quite vocal in their condemnation of the game, I had apprehension concerning 
 the game's stability, yet I'm happy to report that only once did the game crash on me, and never 
 did I end up getting stuck in any of the dungeons despite worries when I seemed hopelessly lost 
 in some maze and was on the brink of restoring an hours-old savegame. A little Googling for some 
 clue or walkthrough eventually set be back on the right track, so while the game gets very linear 
 at times in that respect, at least such seemingly hopeless predicaments can in fact be successfully 
 navigated through. There are also a few arcade puzzles that require you to jump at precisely the 
 right moment onto a series of moving and stationary platforms, and while those were certainly frustrating 
 for this 33 year-old armchair veteran, they weren't exceedingly so. 
  Altogether, I'd say the game, however unfinished it remains, is a satisfying action/CRPG hybrid. 
 I don't really miss the disabled identify and repair features, especially since that means that 
 all items are already identified and all of them suffer at most just superficial damage that doesn't 
 seem to affect their effectiveness in the least. The ending was a bit disappointing, but at least 
 it spared us the boredom of another excessively verbose NPC congratulation. I look forward to any 
 expansion scenarios that might crop up should the game's fortunes improve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falco1029
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 9, 2005 12:14 am PT
Review:  Before I begin, I am going to say that I am reviewing version 1.3. So lack of "the bugs ruin it" 
 comments are justified, since many bugs are fixed in this version. I suppose the bets way to review 
 this is to break it down into the categories:
  
  
  Gameplay- By version 1.3, most game hurting bugs are fixed, a mapping feature is added (so you 
 dont have to constantly loo kat the paper map) , and the quests are fixed (as far as I can tell) . 
 So thus, gameplay isnt hurt at all by bugs anymore. Because of this, you can enjoy the great gameplay 
 with no problems. Basically, the plot behind the game isnt very original, an evil empire is out 
 to destroy a weaker one, and only you can save him. But it does go a bit deeper. You need to play 
 it to see what I mean. 
  
  The combat system is great, catering to both button mashers and skilled users. Several different 
 melee attacks, ability to switch between melee, magic, and ranged, plus easy blocking, and other 
 such things make a well balanced easy to use interface. And that's good, considering you'll not 
 take 5 steps before being swarmed by enemies. If you dont want to fight, just run, most enemies 
 wont be able to catch up, and if you get to a town, guards will make quick work of them. 
  
  The quest system is ok, but the journal really hurts it. Basically, you get a quick glance 
 at what you need to know, and that isnt always enough. Thankfully, it tells you who gave the quest 
 to you so you can go ask them about it again (in most cases) . One bad thing is that there are very 
 few people around towns and such, and the few that there are arent very friendly. Basically, only 
 quest-involved characters interact with you. Or bandits, but that's a very different interaction.
 
  
  The difficulty system is kind of onn the hard side. If you dont want to be swarmed, you can move 
 the counter in options to the left, and set it on less encounters, but then you wont have the experience 
 for a boss. Likewise, if you try moving it to the right for more experience, unless you carry a 
 plethora of healing potions or spells, you'll die and lose some stat points instead of gaining 
 them.
  
  Graphics- At first glance, you'll think they are wonderful. The character models are very well 
 done, though armor is mostly textured on. The weapons are beautiful, and the spell effects are 
 spectacular. But then, you enter a magic shop, and see a TEXTURED book shelf, with a TEXTURED candle 
 on it. It makes you want to be sick. if they had taken a few more months to work on levels instead 
 of just pasting on a drawing, I could easily see myself giving the graphics a ten.
  
  Sound- Not much to say. It was very good. Spells, weapon clashes, monster sounds, talking, and 
 the like are all very well done, with very few shortcomings. 
  
  Value-Nice long game, with some guild side quests, and a couple others, and it's a nice long main 
 quest if you go through at a steady pace. Though you cant just kill everyone if you're bored, which 
 hurts realism, so that loses pints. There are also some boring points, or times where you can get 
 stuck easily, and might need a walk-through.
  
  Tilt- Very actiony and fun, which would get it a ten, but the lack of realism and the lackluster 
 towns make it lose a point.
  
  Bottom line is, this game is perfect for action-rpg lovers, though not something that everyone 
 will find appealing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gon2Long
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 13, 2005 12:50 am PT
Review:  I don't know about anyone else butt, I have had nothing but trouble out of this game. I would not 
 reccomend this game to anyone. I bought the game, it would not load. I contacted Dreamcatcher, 
 they said that they had not heard of a simular problem and to return the game, I did. I get the 
 game home and it has the same problem. I give up. If you buy an R. P. G. this year make sure it is 
 not this one. This is the problem as i see it. First off you go spend your hard earned money purchasing 
 a game. You get home, open it up and find out it don't work. Now because you opened it, the store 
 will not do anything but exchange it for the same title. So of course that's what you do. Only 
 to get it home and find out you pretty much have been ripped off (once again) for 40.00 Bucks. 
 Thievery I think so. but apperantly legal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrednajasobaka
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 8, 2005 5:14 am PT
Review:  Games released these days are rarely finished product. Most of the times developers release patches 
 and fixes long after the game is released and sold in stores. This is more or less acceptable practice 
 in the industry but in case of Dungeon Lords there are simply too many bugs and missing features 
 to pass it as acceptable. While missing features like lack of furniture in the buildings or certain 
 skills not working might cause some annoyance, the quest bugs can significantly hamper your play, 
 or even grind it to a complete halt.
  At one point if you save the game you'll get stuck in a room. In another, NPC character necessary 
 for progression with main quest is disappears. Those are the major bugs I encountered, there are 
 few more in the side quests.
  Yet despite those shortcomings I found fun in fighting hordes of creatures in dark dungeons. In 
 it's basic goal to be dungeon-crawl RPG this game delivers. I also enjoyed solving dungeon puzzles, 
 they provide nice break from very intense battles with numerous foes.
  
  The graphics are nice but nothing extraordinary. It would have been if this game was released last 
 year, as I suspect was the developer's plan. 
  There are some people on the forums that reported stability issues with this game, but I never 
 experienced any on my system. In fact, while playing this game for over 20 hours I never had one 
 instance of crash or significant deterioration in performance. 
  
  Overall, I'd recommend this game only to most hard-core RPG fans, who don't mind some serious bugs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chetwebb
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 4, 2005 7:08 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, the game was released before it was ready. It alludes to maps that aren't there, 
 equipment repair for equipment that never breaks, and custom character enhancements that simply 
 do not exist. In short Dreamcather misrepresents what the game will do. Dreamcatcher is a dishonest 
 publisher that gamers should be wary of. I for one will be cautious about all future releases.
 
  
  Nonetheless, the game has it's moments. It is a big game with much to do. The quests are a solid 
 part of the back story and while not overly innovative they feel like something the character might 
 be confronted with in a real situation. Building your character is fun. The system is unique although 
 it is poorly explained in the documentation. Some missions are short and others are long enhancing 
 the variety of the gameplay. Sometimes you can accomplish multiple objective at the same time. 
 This of course depends on how patient you have been in your explorations.
  
  On occasion, if you are smart enough, you can take out a monster that far exceeds your ability 
 to do so. When this happens you will get a mass of experience points that can quantum leap the 
 growth of your character. There is much satisfaction when you accomplish such a feat. I did this 
 fairly early in the game with a dragon and as a result had a significant advantage over the regular 
 monsters in that section of the game.
  
  The combat can be fun, particularly when you begin to develop your skills. The thieving system 
 is a kick and occasionally you can open a difficult chest that far exceeds your ability. The magic 
 system seems a bit complex but does have it's moments. 
  
  You have a lot of different choices for character development and you get to make those choices 
 often. The more you kill things the quicker you can grow your character. In the end you can produce 
 a totally unique individual that suits your style of play.
  
  Basically, Dungeon Lords could have been a great game but is not. The ideas behind the game are 
 good but the development of the game is incomplete. Dreamcatcher is not an ethical company and 
 should be treated according. If your willing to put up with the described shortcomings the game 
 can be fun. However, do not attempt to play it without downloading the patch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royboy2100
Rating: 2.2
Date: Jun 2, 2005 5:01 pm PT
Review:  If Blizzard would have made a remake of Diablo, they may do something like Dungeon Lords. I have 
 to admitt, Dungeon Lord was fun, but that was about it. The storyline and characters were just 
 flat boring but thats not the whole issue here. The issue is, the game is pretty much an early 
 beta of the supposed final version all of us were supposed to get. Loads of missing features such 
 as charactor customization, auto map, and a map. Even in the help tip box where it says to press 
 M for map, there is nothing there. Game bugs add more problem which ranges from poor AI, bugged 
 objective like meeting this person and doesn't progress, and missions that even though you completed, 
 the game still thinks you haven't completed it yet. Another poor feature is the graphics and models 
 in the game. Character would stand there like a tree, waters look like an ice rink, and enviroment 
 would just be so empty. An example of that is going into a hotel room and seeing nothing in there. 
 Uhh, wheres the bed then. Calling this game an uncomplete game is just an insult to any incomplete 
 game. Other then that, don't touch it. Leave it at the store shelf and get Diablo 1 and 2 instead. 
 Believe me, you'll be happy with it more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliasgames
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 27, 2005 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Graphically this game would have been very good 3 years ago. The physics of the game is awful. 
 The sound effects are simplistic. Gameplay is good and intuitive.
  
  The storyline is incomplete. There are no in game logs so have a pencil and paper at hand. You 
 may want to keep some graph paper on hand to draw a map as there is no automap even though the 
 option exists in the keyboard options. Add to the mix some bugs as far as npcs, doors and gates 
 being stuck make this game a true displeasure to play. Considering the fact that this is not freeware 
 a class action law suit might be on hand for the publishers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seneardon
Rating: 7
Date: May 11, 2005 4:17 am PT
Review:  Although there is a glimmer of something good in this lump, the game bears the hallmark of a promising 
 title that was starved for funds and shoveled into a box to entrap the unwarry. What the hell is 
 wrong with Dreamcatcher? Every game I have bought that they have handled bears the stunted features 
 of a whipped and abused puppy. No matter how promising a title, or sound the underlying mechanics, 
 once dreamcatcher is involved the project goes to feces. This game bears the tell-tale sighns of 
 this shovelware publishers abuse. 1. Game isnt finished shoveled out the door in a beta state. 
 Dreamcatcher is building quite a reputation for forcing games out before they are done, for violating 
 contracts, and for not giving a poopy for the consumers. 2. ... well most of the horrible problems 
 any dreamcatcher game suffers can be explained by #1. 
  
  This publisher seriously needs to be investigated under the RICO act, for fraud on the consumer. 
 And no matter how desperate for money, no small devs should sighn with this bandit outfit. Unless 
 you Derik Smart, then you just deserve each other lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guapsrocks
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 10, 2005 2:43 pm PT
Review:  So after playing the demo I posted a message in the forums about how bad the demo was and I got 
 poked at because I said the game was just 'ok". 
  
  I recommend you read the forums about the numerous bugs before you decide to buy.
  1. No character 
 features
  2. Broken map features (yes I know its a skill but its still broken)
  3. Memory Leaks when NPCs are loading in other areas. You almost always know when your going to 
 be attacked because your system will pause a few mins before they actually attack you.
  4. Voice over problems. 
  5. Quests dont update in your journal.
  6. Basically you can only 
 play in 800x600. When you change resolutions and reload from a saved game you get a shrunken screen. 
 Someone previously described as a picture in a picture effect. 
  .... just to name a few...
  
  Aside from the bugs I have had fun playing the game. I really 
 havent hit any game stopping bugs, but I have read reviews of many other users that have. I guess 
 game play bugs are like Russian Roulette, you take your chances.
  
  The graphics are not that bad, aside from the bugs i mentioned, but there is a huge lack of content. 
 The cities are almost barren of people.
  
  I did however like the character advancement system. You have alot of flexability on where you 
 put your stats as you gain levels... 
  There are lots of items in the game to feed your inventory, but opening chests is rather scripted 
 because almost everytime I open a chest I get attached by a random NPC mob.
  
  This game is in serious need of a patch to not only fix broken features but FINISH some of them 
 as well.
  
  Hopefully if they survive the flurry of software returns .... and we'll get an expansion pack adding 
 more content which should have been included in the first release.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottchen
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 9, 2005 8:30 pm PT
Review:  This game at first seems... kinda bad because changing resolution requires restarting of the game, 
 and then the menu is still stuck at 800x600 resolution. Character creation is pretty simple, but 
 too bad you cannot customize your character's appearance at all.
  
  Okay so you get to the game, first a help menu pops up which is really helpful. Then time for the 
 random encounters... endless random encounters... and in the beginning your character really sucks. 
 Then comes my biggest complaint about this game, NO MAP! NO MAP! NO MAP! NO MAP! You don't get 
 a map!! in an HUGE RPG game, and NO MAP! It's too easy to get lost even in cities, not to mention 
 the countryside, i get so afraid when i have to leave the trail, which you have to do once in a 
 while.
  
  The combat systems in this game is decent, controls are very good and easy to remember. Another 
 huge problem is collision detection, it's so f*cking annoying to get stuck behind a coffin or just 
 in the middle of a bridge. The quest log isn't detailed enough, and finished quests don't go away.
 
  
  So this game could be fun if you could go through all the frustrations without going insane, this 
 game isn't finished, a 100mb+ patch is needed to fix ALL the problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Targzissian
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 9, 2005 2:18 pm PT
Review:  This is an early review as I have only been playing for a couple of days so far. I havent yet 
 tried multiplayer. The game version is 1.0.
  
  Pro: The game is playable in up to 2048 x 1536, and runs smoothly at that resolution (using a 256 
 MB ATI Radeon 9800 XT from late 2003) , although the menu screens do not display correctly in such 
 high resolutions. Combat is enjoyable with a decent variety of well-rendered monsters and weapons. 
 The graphics are good with fairly detailed models and textures. The variety of races to choose 
 from include human, dwarf, elf, zaur (reptilian humanoid fantasy archetype) , urgoth (basically 
 an orc) and a couple of others unique to the game. There are appropriate environmental sound effects. 
 Exploration is nonlinear like a true RPG (not merely a Dungeon Siege style "follow the yellow brick 
 road") . There are suitable quests and dialog with townsfolk. The voice acting for voiced dialog 
 is better than many RPGs. Character advancement is enjoyable. One earns advancement points as one 
 kills monsters and does not have to wait to level up in order to spend them on attributes and combat 
 abilities. The game seems to be stable. I have yet to see it crash or lock up.
  
  Con: The game lacks polish. Interaction between the character and objects in the environment is 
 limited (ability to walk through solid objects like stacks of crates in some cases) . One cannot 
 move or manipulate objects such as pieces of broken crates. There are situations in which the character 
 should be splashing through water on the dungeon floor, but instead is kicking up dust as he goes, 
 with the sound of footsteps on dry ground. The problem of visible mismatches between the position 
 of the character and that of walls and floors is worse than in most modern RPGs, with frequent 
 examples of weapons and limbs passing through walls, or the character appearing to hover above 
 the ground as he walks along the side of a dungeon corridor. Camera controls are limited (Ultima 
 9 allowed one to view the action from more different perspectives, and to zoom in and out further 
 and examine ones character model and his environment more freely) . Boring skies for a modern RPG. 
 There are only a few nondescript clouds to see in the sky. I have yet to see any stars at night 
 or real sunlight during the day. In fact, I havent noticed any real day-night cycle or weather 
 in the game. Whereas many other modern RPGs have beautiful sunrises and sunsets, this game seems 
 to be set in perpetual twilight. Death consists of merely collapsing to the ground, at which point 
 one is still free to rotate ones corpse 360 degrees. In order to continue after dying one simply 
 reloads a saved game. Inventory management is fairly simple and streamlined, but could be better 
 (for example, your character should automatically replace a damaged shield with a new shield of 
 the same type when he finds it on the corpse of a fallen enemy) . The navigational AI for NPCs is 
 imperfect, as I saw one character get momentarily stuck on a piece of furniture while he was trying 
 to lead me somewhere, and I had to give him a push to get him going in the right direction.
  
  Overall the game is fairly enjoyable. Combat is its strong point. But the game lacks polish 
 and detailed interaction with the environment. I think D. W. Bradley did a good job given an obviously 
 limited budget and development team. In retrospect Im glad the game was delayed from its previously 
 scheduled 2004 release date. But I would have preferred more polish. Hopefully if the game does 
 well they will have a bigger budget and larger development team to do a more polished sequel in 
 a couple of years, as this game does have a number of shortcomings. The game is worth playing, 
 but not as good as I had hoped it would be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Larenel
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 8, 2005 11:48 pm PT
Review:  DreamCatcher!
  
  You morons.
  
  First you release an "Official Demo" that is so bad that the fans label it "Only a pre-alpha" and 
 hope that the endless criticism will be deflected. Then you follow it up with a retail release 
 that confirms every intelligent gamer's worst fears - it really WAS 'Official'. 
  
  Fact: you have released this game in a seriously unfinished state. It doesn't even measure up to 
 the claims of your own manual! (No customisation of characters; no auto-map; no .... Oh, I can't 
 be bothered to go on) . You are a business that promotes a promise of interactive entertainment. 
 In this case you simply lied to make money. Sure, there will be patches. But you've sold a lie. 
 On this I judge your integrity. My respects go to those who conceived the ideas and worked hard 
 to implement them. 
  
  There is a myth that, due to the complexity of designing computer games (and crpg's in particular) , 
 they cannot be produced without significant bugs. Tell that to the mechanical engineers who designed 
 the latest gorge-spanning bridge upon whose calculations your life depends. 
  
  DreamCatcher - to you this whole process is a money-making game, not a profession.
  
  PS 
 
  I have a 'Four-seasons' pizza for sale. The base is sorted but you'll need to give me the cash 
 to find out if I've added all the toppings I promised. 
  Interested?
  
  PPS
  Your employees have produced something potentially special. Are you professional enough to see 
 it through?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: omino
Rating: 1.9
Date: May 8, 2005 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I will not waste more time on this review then was obviously put in this game. NOT A COMPLETED 
 PRODUCT. Shame on them for releasing this. The beginning character setup program does not even 
 work all the way. You can not physically alter your characters appearance. Now considering that 
 this is one of the first things that you have to do how did this get overlooked. Obviously it was 
 not overlooked they just did not take the time to get it to work. In the short time that I played 
 this (more like fought with this) My computer crashed three times, my character actually got stuck 
 on a rock, and all the sound just stopped. Completed quests aren't even deleted from your to do 
 list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oni
Rating: 4
Date: May 8, 2005 11:22 am PT
Review:  Amazing. Simply amazing how game companies can get away with releasing products that obviously 
 arent ready. Okay let me get my rants out of the way. The game comes with a CD key, but you dont 
 even use it when installing it. Whats the point? Oh yeah did I forget to mention you wont need 
 the CD to play this game? So no worries if you need to make a copy of the game :p 
  
  Okay so Im at the Character Creation" screen right? I see buttons that say Face "Hair Color 
 Skin Tone etc  but guess what, you cant even do that. So forget trying to use any of the extra 
 features, because its all grayed out in game. Another one of my fav is when the Quest Log doesnt 
 update after youve completed a quest. Gee thanks.
  
  Well, theres more stuff butt I have a headache from playing/dealing with it so Ill move on. This 
 game is in dire need of an update/patch.
  
  Bugs, Bugs and More Bugs! I could go on all night from all the bugs IVE found .. For example the 
 one where the Game crashes when attacking a large group of enemies in the slums. The game starts 
 acting as if it was tabbed out and then I get a Windows crash dialog with a "don't send" button. 
 Greeeeat! From sound cutting in and out to system locks when creating a character or just trying 
 to quit the game, Dungeon Lords is one big MESS! 
  
  Ive beta tested games that ran smoother then this. So I pretty much consider this a Beta that 
 Im lucky to participate in and it only cost me 40 bucks.
  
  Im not even going to justify this review with my opinions about game play, graphics, sound and 
 performance because this game is a BETA. Do you hear me Dream Catcher? Your game is not read for 
 distribution into the masses.
  
  I apologize if Im hard on this game. Its just that this has happened so many times. I buy a game, 
 it needs a patch. Its pretty frustrating and I feel like a big imbecile for dolling out the cash 
 for things that are supposed to bring me enjoyment, not unbridled stress.
  
  Until this game gets a HUGE update and everything, and I mean everything gets fixed, my score will 
 not change.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hercufles
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 29, 2005 3:21 pm PT
Review:  First thing i want to say, that i am a big rpg fan on paper and on computer and i always dreamed 
 of a crpg to be just like prpg till i came to the area scrolls serie but that is another story, 
 dungeon lords on paper is a very good idea. I was fasinated by its big envioment and the fantasy 
 setting came up i stood there defending from random attacks wich is good you keep on battlin minions 
 and even the character generattion process was good, but then the horror came i slewed a couple 
 of monsters i saw they dropped stuff then the first question came how do i pick this up i tried 
 all and a feeling of frustration came up a lot of healing potions lying around, but i wanted to 
 give another try when id did i saw that i had to use the shift key so i went on playing after a 
 while i saw you can cast spellens but the next frustation comes out how do i cancel it, 
  
  I hope they chang it in the full version the controls are very fraustrated and it made me to quit 
 the demo version. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
