-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dungeon Siege
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/dungeonsiege/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 10, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.5, 61 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 3,559 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Gas Powered Games
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Mar 31, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Its polished interface, accessible gameplay, and exceptional graphics make Dungeon Siege a first-rate 
 action RPG. 

 When Chris Taylor left Cavedog Entertainment after the release of the acclaimed real-time strategy 
 game Total Annihilation, many gamers were surprised to learn that he would temporarily abandon 
 the strategy genre in order to create a role-playing game. In spite of the shift in genre, the 
 resulting game -- Dungeon Siege -- has a lot in common with Total Annihilation. Both feature excellent 
 graphics, an accessible interface, capable AI, and varied environments. Dungeon Siege, like Total 
 Annihilation, isn't the most novel game, but it is one of most polished games of its type.     
       Dungeon Siege's huge, seamless environments are always attractive.    

  Dungeon Siege is essentially a party-based Diablo that imports some of the interface features of 
 real-time strategy games in order to allow you to easily control multiple characters. It's a hybrid 
 of action and role-playing that consists of an almost constant stream of quickly resolved battles 
 and a flexible but simple skill-based character development system. The setting is a very generic 
 medieval fantasy world, and the game's bland and forgettable story is limited to an almost completely 
 linear trek to dispatch various threats. Chris Taylor and his team of developers have essentially 
 followed the same blueprint they used when creating Total Annihilation, GameSpot's 1997 Game of 
 the Year. They paid only superficial heed to creating an involving plot and instead focused their 
 creative efforts on making an accessible game that is great looking, easy to control, and fast 
 paced. Dungeon Siege has all those attributes, and it's particularly notable for the quality of 
 its graphics.   

  Dungeon Siege features wonderfully detailed and varied environments. The 3D game engine's most 
 distinctive characteristic is its ability to effectively depict geography of varying heights. While 
 the topography of most gaming worlds is limited to flat terrain occasionally disrupted by slowly 
 rising hills, Dungeon Siege routinely features intimidating cliffs and teetering bridges over seemingly 
 bottomless abysses. The dangers the chaotic landscapes imply are illusory, since your characters 
 are essentially glued to the ground and can never actually fall, and even creatures that appear 
 to be flying essentially just hover slightly above the ground. As in the Myth games, you can take 
 advantage of higher ground to loft arrows and ranged spells at hapless foes perched beneath your 
 party, and there are even explosive weapons and spells with effects that greatly resemble the Molotov 
 cocktails hurled by Myth's dwarven bombardiers. Dungeon Siege's physics system may be less robust 
 than that of the Myth games, but its inclusion adds some tactical complexity, and it is consistently 
 satisfying to watch your characters rain explosives on foes that are positionally disadvantaged. 
   

  In addition to its use of heights to great effect, Dungeon Siege's graphics engine is capable of 
 rendering some amazingly varied environments. During the course of the game, your characters will 
 travel through forests crowded with gently swaying trees, icy caverns, beaches infested with hovering 
 gulls, and arid desert landscapes. As the game's name implies, there are also a number of dungeons 
 and caves to explore, and the engine allows for seamless transitions into subterranean environments. 
 It also never needs to halt the gameplay in order to load new areas. The lighting, shadows, and 
 weapon and spell effects all look great, and there's lots of nice attention to detail, such as 
 the rippling water effects that appear when your characters trudge through pools of water.   

 
  The characters and monsters are even more graphically detailed than the environments. Each weapon 
 and armor type is distinctive and visible on your characters when equipped, and many magical items 
 have their own individualized appearance. The 3D characters and monsters are so detailed that it 
 appears as if you're playing with sculpted miniatures. By pausing the game, you can freeze spell 
 effects and missile weapons in midair to get a detailed look at any ongoing action. Dungeon Siege 
 offers as much graphical eye candy as any isometric-perspective game to date. It also sounds excellent, 
 combining an ambient orchestral score by now-famous Total Annihilation composer Jeremy Soule with 
 plenty of appropriate sound effects.   

  The game is very linear, although there are a few ancillary areas and dungeons to explore. You 
 can backtrack, but there's little incentive to do so, since monsters don't respawn and dialogue 
 with non-player characters doesn't change in response to events. In order to allow you to maintain 
 situational awareness, objects like trees become transparent near your party members, and you can 
 easily alter the isometric perspective by rotating, raising, or lowering your viewpoint. Despite 
 that flexibility, trees and some environmental effects like snow and rain still sometimes make 
 it difficult to see much of the area surrounding your characters. However, in those circumstances, 
 you can rely upon the game's capable automap, which clearly identifies all nearby creatures and 
 items and allows you to zoom in your viewpoint to essentially play the game from a top-down perspective. 
           Prepare to fight huge monsters, as well as hordes of smaller ones.    

  The character development system is simple and intuitive and features only four skills and three 
 core attributes. Your characters develop their abilities to use melee or ranged weapons, or to 
 cast combat or nature magic spells, based upon the frequency of use of those skills. For example, 
 a character who starts using a bow will gradually develop proficiency with ranged weapons, while 
 a character who prefers casting fireballs will gradually become adept at using combat magic. A 
 character's core attributes are similarly derived from the use of those basic skills, so archers 
 will gain dexterity, melee fighters will augment their strength, and spellcasters will increase 
 in intelligence. It's a character development system that lacks the depth, and inherent replayability, 
 of more complex skill-tree development systems, like the one used by Diablo II. But the advantage 
 of Dungeon Siege's system is that it allows players to just play the game in the manner of their 
 own choosing and let their characters naturally develop the skills needed to accommodate that playing 
 style.   

  Since Dungeon Siege is party-based, you'll likely sample characters skilled in each of the abilities 
 during the course of playing the game. Unfortunately, these skills are not well balanced. Nature 
 magic, in particular, is much more difficult to rapidly develop compared with the other three skills, 
 since there's an early shortage of effective spells. Characters specializing in nature spells won't 
 get as many opportunities to meaningfully contribute early on in the game, other than by casting 
 healing spells, which by their nature are only useful some time after combat has commenced. It's 
 accordingly difficult to sufficiently develop a character's nature magic ability to allow that 
 character to cast the more formidable spells that become available at higher skill levels. That's 
 less relevant during the single-player game, since even a nature mage with half the experience 
 of the rest of your characters will usually be adequate to keep the rest of your party healed, 
 but it's frustrating to play as such a weak character in multiplayer games, where you're limited 
 to controlling a single character.    

 In the single-player game you can control up to eight party members, and while you can elect to 
 directly control all of them, they can contribute effectively with minimal supervision. You can 
 individually set how aggressively each character will pursue foes, how they select targets, and 
 when they will initiate combat. There are various formations you can adopt for your party, although 
 their effect upon gameplay is minimal, since your characters can't be hurt by friendly fire. The 
 interface allows you to easily and intuitively adjust the camera angle, pick up treasure, switch 
 weapons, access inventory screens for any or all party members, or essentially accomplish any objective 
 with a couple of mouse clicks. Vulnerable party members, such as the pack mules you can purchase 
 to lug hoards of loot, will retreat from danger, and spellcasters with healing spells equipped 
 will automatically aid their wounded peers. You can pause the game at any time in order to take 
 greater control over the actions of your characters, but well equipped parties are capable of overcoming 
 most foes relatively independently. It's an elegant and always manageable interface that allows 
 players to assume as much control over their party members as they desire.           Some of the 
 more intimidating monsters are really impressive.    

  There are only a couple of minor problems that mar the otherwise flawless interface. There's no 
 way to just keep your party moving in your chosen direction, so you have to keep clicking on your 
 next destination. That simple omission makes moving around less convenient than it could be in 
 the single-player game and cumbersome when playing an online multiplayer game in which lag can 
 prevent the game from immediately recognizing your commands. A second problem with the interface 
 is that there are only four active slots for weapons or spells for each character, and they are 
 reserved for one melee weapon, one ranged weapon, and two spells. Once you specialize a character 
 in a particular ability, you're unlikely to want to frequently access items relating to the other 
 abilities, so the active slots unrelated to your primary ability are effectively wasted. You can 
 pause the game at any time to access other items (or issue commands) , but combat is so frequent 
 that you're unlikely to want to regularly fiddle with your preset spells or items. Only having 
 convenient access to a pair of spells results, in practice, in your spellcasters only ever using 
 two spells from the dozens eventually available. Still, the interface is generally excellent.  

  In addition to the single-player campaign, which can be played in cooperative multiplayer mode, 
 there's also a separate gaming world designed primarily for multiplayer sessions. You can play 
 that setting solo by just starting a multiplayer game alone, but you're only able to play one character 
 in multiplayer games. As a result of that restriction, the game plays quite differently, since 
 you don't have access to a pack mule and are likely to be less tolerant of the disparity in the 
 relative utility of the different class abilities. Since you can't "autoshare" loot and experience 
 points, it's frustrating to be burdened with a character that's incapable of getting a fair share 
 of the conquests. Exacerbating those problems, multiplayer games can quickly devolve into frenzied 
 sessions where everyone is trying to kill as many monsters as possible without working together 
 in any meaningful way.   

  Furthermore, there are a great number of spells designed to strengthen your characters, weaken 
 opponents, or summon creatures in the single-player game that become far less useful when you are 
 required to focus your attention on a single character in the multiplayer game. The game's controls 
 seem very susceptible to online lag, and the resulting delays in recognizing commands can make 
 the game exasperating. Since you use a single click to both move and attack enemies, delays in 
 recognizing commands can cause your character to move instead of attacking as intended or vice 
 versa. Ultimately, because the game had to be designed to be playable when you are controlling 
 a party of characters, the simple and streamlined controls mean that the game is at its least interesting 
 when you're controlling only one character. Still, the multiplayer version of the game has potential, 
 since you can set up team-based battles and the developers intend to facilitate the creation of 
 additional player-created modifications and content.           The gameplay is simple, but Dungeon 
 Siege is fun ride.    

  There's a huge variety of monster types in the game, most of which have their own unique character 
 models. Since the gameplay primarily revolves around dispatching hordes of enemies, enemy behavior 
 is relatively simplistic. Most monsters will simply charge your party when approached, stopping 
 to attack as soon as they are in range, although some enemies will also retreat when threatened. 
 There are a few science-fiction elements scattered throughout the game that are incongruent with 
 the medieval fantasy setting, but since the game doesn't have an involving story or setting to 
 begin with, few gamers are likely to be upset with such heterogeneity. Even though there is such 
 a wide mix of monsters, the constant battles still get repetitive, and advancing through some of 
 the game's dungeon crawls can become tedious. Nevertheless, all the various environments you'll 
 traverse and enemies you'll face will keep you interested. One distinguishing feature of the battles 
 is their scale, since near the end of the game you'll frequently be forced to overcome virtual 
 armies of enemies.   

  While its party-based gameplay is a little more tactical and less frantic than that of other action 
 RPG titles like Nox and the Diablo games, Dungeon Siege still plays very similarly to those games. 
 It's a fast-paced hack-and-slash game, so if you're looking for a deeper role-playing game or one 
 in which the primary goal isn't to liberate excessive quantities of loot from its owners, then 
 Dungeon Siege isn't really for you. But its polished interface, accessible gameplay, and exceptional 
 graphics make Dungeon Siege a first-rate action RPG.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (76 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 4:19 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege is a game published by Microsoft game studios and its exceptionally good features, 
 graphics, and gameplay make it one of the best RPGs ever made.
  
  Firt of all, the script is just a pleasure, as monsters, enemies and magic objects are continusly 
 revealed making the game a great adventure.
  
  In the game you are a simple farmer who tries to liberate your lands by the claws of powerful beasts. 
 The environments of the game are also impessive and very well-made. The gameplay is very simpe, 
 but still great fun.
  
  Another good feature is that you can team up with your friends and make a party with them. The 
 good news is that when someone who belongs to the team (except you) can be revived anytime when 
 you have a health potion to use it for the sake of the party.
  
  Another fantastic features are the graphics, which are top, and the sound or music, composed by 
 Jeremy Soul.
  
  But the best feature is arguably the multiplayer, where you can set up another character, level 
 him up, team up with other players on-line or just exchange items with them and dodge awesome attacks 
 against fearsome monsters.
  
  Dungeon Siege is a great game to play and will surely leave you with open mouth! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiredscotty
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  You know those guys in high school who would hang out in the library and play Dungeons and Dragons, 
 or Magic the Gathering, or something equally similar and nerdy? (I'm guessing that more than half 
 of you reading this were those kind of guys.) Well, those are the kind of guys I felt like as I 
 was playing Dungeon Siege. I felt like a pimply, nerdy, low-self-esteem dweeb who couldn't get 
 a date if I offered money... and you know what? I accepted it.
  
  I accepted it because I had fun playing this game. A lot of fun. For those of you who don't know, 
 Dungeon Siege is an RPG dungeon crawler. It's basically Gauntlet with leveling up aspects to it. 
 But it does it in a really cool way. Yes you level up with ridiculous numbers. Yes you have to 
 know the difference between magic and melee. And yes, you you have to figure out what things like 
 "Strength", "Dexterity", and "Intelligence" mean in the context of the game... so already you are 
 delving into a world of geekdom from which you may never recover. But it's okay. Why? Because once 
 you start playing you end up getting so lost in the world that you don't care anymore. 
  
  The game starts out with you picking what kind of person you are. I started out as a hot female 
 redhead farmer... see, already 10 on the geekometer. Then I was told that I needed to save the ancient 
 kingdom... this story was another big item on the geek checklist. The story isn't that great... just 
 your typical dragon-fare with those horrible covers with a hot chick in a brass bra that you find 
 in the dark corner of any bookstore. It's plain and simple and it really is just enough to get 
 you going. 
  
  But once you get going is when the fun starts. It's pretty much a hack and slash kind of game. 
 Run up to an enemy, pound him to a pulp, and recover your health with a magical potion if you need 
 to. But what's cool is all the goodies the bad guys drop. You can choose what you want to pick 
 up and put it in your inventory. And everything that is dropped is an actual item. You'll see those 
 pretty boots you've been waiting 10 levels for... not just an icon... but actual pretty boots.
  
  The world looks great too! You'll run through forests, caves, swamps and a castle. All of which 
 look top notch. It will certainly satisfy your nerd nerve.
  
  And as you run through the world you'll encounter a ton of different enemies. Ghosts. Skeletons. 
 Dragons. Creatures. Goblins. You name it. And in order to beat up all these guys, you have to get 
 a team... that's where other characters come in.
  
  You'll encounter a bunch of characters on the way. And you can choose whether or not you want them 
 to join you or not. Some will join for free, other greedy jerks want money. But all of them can 
 help out in one way or another. 
  
  The great thing about all the characters is that you need to treat them just as deeply and delicately 
 as you do your main character. You have to choose all their equipment, make sure they have what 
 they need, make sure their weapon is useful, and make sure they don't die.
  
  By this time you are so engulfed in the damn game that you don't realize that you haven't been 
 to work in 3 days, that you haven't gone to the bathroom in 4 days, and that you haven't shaved 
 or showered in a week. Your pets will probably be dead and your loved ones will most likely have 
 left you by the time you figure out what you have become... one of those guys in high school you 
 swore you would never turn into. You look around at your empty, filthy apartment... pizza boxes 
 everywhere... soda cans toppling over on your desk... and a smell that would send any creature with 
 a nose howling as it runs away. 
  
  And the sad thing is, you just shrug your shoulders and go on playing... because you need to swap 
 your equipment around within your team and you just need 10,387 more gold to get that Tusk Helm 
 that will up your defense +2. 
  
  My god... what have I become? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owl_of_minerva
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege suffers from the typical affliction of most action RPGs after Diablo. For anyone 
 under the age of 15, point and click game-play could very well be the summit of what their overstimulated 
 adolescent attention spans are capable of. Otherwise, I quickly grew annoyed with bashing yet another 
 wave of enemies emerging from the bushes. While playing as a warrior and archer is usually mindless, 
 being a spellcaster does little to alleviate the monotony. Whoever devised the spellbook interface 
 managed to make the most annoying system possible. You can only have two spells readied to cast, 
 so if you want to switch for a spell that you only need to use once, you need to continually go 
 into the inventory to switch the spells around. Maddening. 
  I would compare action RPGs, and by extension most MMORPGs, to virtual re-workings of 'The Game 
 of Life' - simply replace a bourgeois home with lots of woodland and dungeons, family with party 
 members, jobs with classes, and away you go on a materialistic and ideologically questionable quest, 
 to battle for God, glory, and gold against evil and depraved foes. Give me Dungeon Keeper or the 
 moral ambiguity of Planescape: Torment any day. 
  Yet another razed stock medieval town in *another* stock medieval world. And, wait for it, you're 
 a farmer who might just save the kingdom. 
  Yes, the plot is terrible. The atmosphere is also lacking, compared to the inimitable original 
 Diablo. The dungeons you lay siege to are boring at best - mines, caverns, crypts, ice caves, etc. 
 Diablo had an inverted Platonic progression from the 'normalcy' of the Gothic town to the increasingly 
 horrific and lurid Hellish Truth lying underneath in the bowels of the Cave, a journey to rival 
 Dante's Inferno. The game was masterfully designed, compared to which Dungeon Siege is woeful in 
 comparison. However, where Dungeon Siege redeems itself is some of the cosmetic improvements it 
 makes to the tried and true formula. You can have a pack-mule lug your stuff around in this one... hurrah. 
 What improvements again?
  It's good enough as a bit of mindless entertainment, though this raises the question as to why 
 most or all fantasy RPGS are a vaguely exoticised exercise in replaying the lives we live in the 
 actual world. Do we all simply lust for power and goods? Is fantasy simply another reflection of 
 the gross inadequacy of Western society? Dungeon Siege leads me to incline towards a pessimistic 
 response. Thankfully, Dungeon Siege is not the last word in the storied world of PC RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sholva666
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  The game is quite boring there's no denying that. You've seen all this before many many times only 
 with much better graphics, story, characters, game play, you-name-it. One thing kept bugging me 
 the whole time. You can't get poisoned at all. What's that all about? Poisoning is essential for 
 an action rpg if you ask me. Skill development was OK. You get better at a skill by using it. That 
 goes without saying. The lack of skill wasn't OK. Only four skills! What were they thinking? The 
 donkey was pretty good innovation to haul excess stuff to the next shop. Leaving valuable stuff 
 behind is not an option! (for me at least)
  
  The bottom line is: Think twice before buying and even then don't do it. It's a waste of good money. 
 There are tons of better action rpgs out there. Buy one of them instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Justiciero
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2008 2:44 am PT
Review:  I have the original Dungeon Siege and i played it at least three times. One with mixed party, one 
 alone and one with all archers and the main character was a knight. Never ended that last one and 
 never played again.
  
  I don't mean it is a bad game but is a game to play two or three times and then you get all it 
 has to offer.
  
  It has good graphics, great engine, good history, enough characters (you can change characters 
 for new ones in your party even half an hour to end the game) , good music (the main theme is fantastic) , 
 good amount of spells (although like in most games you end using only a few of them) , and a good 
 inventory system.
  
  The inventory is something i want do discuss apart. I am addict to rpg games and i really appreciate 
 a good inventory. Dungeon Siege has a good space to carry things for yourself and for your party 
 members and you can see how it affects to change pieces or armor, rings, weapons, etc. So you can 
 improve yourself fast and easy, and see the changes during gameplay.
  
  I would like to see a Ultima VII - The Black Gate remake with Dungeon Siege engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidprime4ev
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely mediocre. There's no better way to describe it. Servicable graphics, but 
 overwhelmingly bland art direction. Generic, generic, generic. Generic fantasy setting, generic 
 characters, generic quests, generic gameplay, boring and poorly-designed skill system, all wrapped 
 up in a far too easy campaign. You enter dark passage. Your AI makes short work of anything that 
 moves. You move to an identical room. Repeat. Repeat. Repeat. Do not buy this game. It's an brilliant 
 example of how to make a nice-ish game engine, then not actually include a game. A rip-off at any 
 price that has more than one digit. Avoid like the plague, and go play Psychonauts to see what 
 you're missing out on. THERE'S a fantastic, charming and interesting, if occasionally flawed game, 
 worthy of your time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingmoonraiser
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Great for its time. If you remember back to when this game came out, we were used to buggy group 
 rpg games like Baldurs Gate and a plethora of others I cannot recall at the moment. This one was 
 intuitive, user friendly and fairly bug free. It was nothing original to the world of gaming, but 
 it raised the bar. I wonder if my graphics card can handle this now....
  
  
  Video Game Porn As graphics get better, who cannot help but notice that the female lead in most 
 of our video games has a great ass. It all startred with Lara Croft, who was so pixelated, that 
 mentioning it was a little embarassing. Now, especially with HD, gamers of all ages can apprecitate 
 the gratuitous tang that comes with our video games nowadays. So I propose that the next evolution 
 of video games will be Video Game Porn, or VGP as I will be the first to coin this phrase. I cannot 
 wait for the corny plots and bad music.... oh wait video games already have that.
  
  Don't fear the reaper..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  With so many Diablo clones popping up it is hard to wade through the ones worth playing and the 
 ones worth throwing away. One of these clones is Dungeon Siege, which takes on a life of it's own 
 and stands out from the other selections. Why might it stand out you may ask? With a combination 
 of great story telling, unique game play and beautiful environments you will find allot to love 
 about this action RPG.
  
  Dungeon Siege was a game created by veteran developer Chris Taylor. You may remember a little smash 
 hit that he did back in the late 1990's called Total Annihilation, which was the first RTS game 
 to use 3D. With Chris and his team's experience making games, you are going to find that he knows 
 much about breaking the mold. The game play of DS is fast, fun and very customizable. You are presented 
 with a sandbox of options to create almost any type of character your heart desires. Traditional 
 levels are replaced by skills and attribute leveling. All you have to do is go out and practice 
 something to get better at it, making for a semi-realistic level system that reminds me of Ultima 
 Online. 
  
  The story and environments stand out in DS. There are plenty of different weather effects that 
 keep the experience fresh. Travel starts out on a small farm and quickly leads to other worthy 
 contenders such as snow covered mountains, deep mines and traditional dungeons. It is not the best 
 looking game by today's standards but it still holds it's own for the age. Story is well done and 
 you will find many side quests to undertake that will keep you busy for hours. 
  
  Multiplayer is where this game starts to shine and if you can get a competent group of people together 
 it can be all the better. Your party can take on different roles such as tanks, dps, healers and 
 such to bring a true multiplayer D&D experience in the form of a action rpg. It would of been nice 
 to have different races for multiplayer mode that had pluses and negatives to attributes to change 
 things up. You do get to pick from different skins such as dwarves and humans but that is about 
 it. Still you are going to get allot of entertainment out of not only the single player but multiplayer 
 portion of the game.
  
  Dungeon Siege is a great addition to any action RPG'ers library. There are many customizable options 
 to endure that make the game a real treat to play over and over. If you can find a good group of 
 folks to play the multiplayer session you will tack on quite a few hours past the single player 
 game. Chris Taylor has turned a clone into a great game that is loads of fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozanimal
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 11, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  The Krug, lopish, human-like creatures with think-wits and strong arms, ravaged your village in 
 the Kingdom of Ehb. The Krug have been increasingly aggressive in recent memory, stoked by some 
 unknown and unseen evil. No longer can you work the farm without fear of reprisal from the beasts. 
 Your trowel in hand, you lock the door of your meager home and step forward to stop the Krug in 
 whatever way might be necessary.
  
  Dungeon Siege is an action role-playing game, meaning you will be able to level-up, hack-and-slash, 
 equip new weapons and/or learn spells, and take a long journey of discovery to ward evil. Dungeon 
 Siege does not pretend to be original or unique. You follow your character in a three-dimensional, 
 three-quarter adjustable overhead view through the Kingdom of Ehb. Your character can learn magic, 
 archery, or melee combat, which will determine their ability to equip certain weapons and armor, 
 gain health, and the like.
  
  Along the way your young farmer avatar will meet many residents of Ehb. Some will agree to come 
 along on your journey for reasons of revenge or justice, while others will come along for a small 
 fee. Deciding who to add and who to let go when your party becomes full will be often be a difficult 
 decision balancing character strengths and weaknesses. Each party member is capable of carrying 
 a certain amount of goods, and typically specializes in one of the areas your own character specializes 
 in, such as nature magic or fighting.
  
  Dungeon Siege is about journeying through the land of Ehb and immersing yourself in its environment, 
 which is easily as diverse as the mythical land of Middle-Earth. You will travel from lush forests 
 through beautiful snowy mountains and canyons to beaches and underground mines. Indeed, some of 
 the regions of Ehb rival those of Rohan, Moria, or the Shire. Your journey is extremely linear, 
 you cannot get lost, and exploration would equate to about a city block from your path at any given 
 time. But do not mistake the narrow trails for a lack of content, as the visuals are impressive 
 even five years on, with snow falling daintily and water bubbling along in quiet brooks.
  
  Gas Powered Games overlooked no detail; characters and creatures are highly detailed even at the 
 closest visual setting. Equipped armor and weapons appear on your characters, magical staffs crackle 
 with power and crossbows load bolts before firing. Enemies are suitably impressive as well, wielding 
 their own weapons or intrinsic magics. Indeed, Dungeon Siege is a video game monstrous compendium 
 covering everything from Beholders to Goblins and the Undead. Battles between the party and creatures 
 of Ehb will take many forms, including being overwhelmed by numbers and encountering enormous bosses.
 
  
  The frenetic pace of battle, casting spells, and tromping through swamps and badlands is impressively 
 scored with a heroic and sometimes foreboding classical score, setting the mood. Swords clang, 
 footsteps echo in dark hallways, evil creatures cry out, and magical fire rings through the forests. 
 Non-player characters are also voiced with intensity, with greedy merchants sounding just as you 
 would expect them, and murderous bandits emitting jaded notes of disgust.
  
  The party itself is easy and intuitive to control right down to camera movements and aiming. For 
 the most part, a few simple clicks will have the party moving in the right direction or concentrating 
 fire on the appropriate enemy. Managing treasure and equipment is straightforward, though there 
 is so much plunder to be had that the player might add a mule to the party to carry it all. The 
 mule cannot attack - at least not well - but it holds twice the booty of any character, allowing 
 for some rewarding trips through the lands of Ehb.
  
  Dungeon Siege is not a challenging game; players need only equip the latest weapons and armor and 
 set the party to heal appropriately to win most battles. Micromanaging is certainly not essential 
 to victory. However, somewhere along the way the player will likely find themselves feeling as 
 if they, too, have traveled through a kingdom rich in detail and long in history. What the game 
 lacks in originality it makes up for in simple execution and brilliant style.
  
  --------------------
  This review does not cover the multiplayer aspect of Dungeon Siege 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OrkHammer007
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 9, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  (Disclosure: I played this with Legends of Aranna installed, so your experience may differ from 
 mine.)
  
  Dungeon Siege is a hybrid of real-time strategy and role-playing games, and incorporates just enough 
 of both to be thoroughly enjoyable. The action is nearly non-stop: enemies hit you from all sides 
 almost the moment you start the game. As you progress along the linear path to the obligatory boss 
 fight at the end, you gather incredibly powerful (and imaginative) weapons and armor, and new heroes 
 join with you to help you fill in the gaps in your own strengths.
  
  Some of the powers you gain as you go allow you to summon temporary allies (such as creatures and 
 magical orbs) to further boost your strength and skills.
  
  Where this game lacks, however, are the linear travel (there really isn't a side path; while the 
 path itself is wide, it is pretty straight) and heavily watered-down character development. Where 
 most RPGs implement complex skill trees and universally-applied experience points, DS uses a much 
 simpler approach: use a skill enough, it levels up. With 4 separate skills (melee, ranged, combat 
 magic, and nature magic) , it's relatively newcomer-friendly; however, it also somewhat separates 
 you from any attachment you may have to your character.
  
  Weaknesses aside, however, Dungeon Siege is an excellent game; I highly recommend it for anyone 
 who likes RPGs and RTSs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaClaw345
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 31, 2007 12:16 am PT
Review:  The woods are crawling with all manner of beasts  wolves, Cyclops, giant flying insects and little 
 beasties that fire magic at your party. In the crypts and tombs, spiders and giant worms attack 
 in wave after wave. The swamps are infested with swimming and hungry life forms including dragon-like 
 creatures. The Droog erupt from the sands near the Cliffs of Fire with an almost mindless need 
 to attack.
  
  Yep, its rough being a hero.
  
  Dungeon Siege, from Gas-Powered Games and Microsoft, is a dungeon crawl that combines the role-playing 
 genre with a touch of real-time strategy  but just a touch. In forums, this program is being talked 
 about as a rival to Diablo II, but that is somewhat off base. Dungeon Siege may be a hack-and-slash 
 RPG, and it may run along the tired lines of only you can save the kingdom from the evil that 
 threatens it, but this is a game that sports elements of a variety of RPG games (like Diablo and 
 Icewind Dale or Baldurs Gate) though in a style that is its own.
  
  As the storyline goes, the eastern empire was crumbling and in its dying throes, the 10th Legion 
 withdrew to the west and founded the Kingdom of Ehb. It became a model land of prosperity of peace. 
 But something is afoot. Your avatar is a farmer working the fields when an old friend, mortally 
 wounded, stumbles across the bridge into your land. Old Norick tells you that the Krug (a brutish 
 race) is on the attack, something has stirred them up and perhaps the goblins are behind it. Your 
 job is to get to Stonebridge to spread the word.
  
  Starting with little, you begin the trek, fighting, collecting arms and leveling your character 
 up. You will need to go through the Crypt of Sacred Blood before you can arrive at your destination. 
 But once you arrive in Stonebridge, you will have a full inventory, and coins in your pocket. You 
 will have the opportunity to add, not one, but up to four members (including a pack mule to carry 
 all your booty) to your team. You will likely need it  the way grows more hazardous as you receive 
 quest after quest, all leading your party through 14 main lands, as well as numerous byways.
  
  Each party can hold up to eight characters, and you can arrange the troupe in formations, as 
 well as move positions around. Should you have a sorcerer who is strong in nature magic, you can 
 put him or her near the back of the group and have them constantly (as long as the mana holds out) 
 cast healing winds during the battles so you dont have to gulp healing potions. And if you do 
 buy that pack mule, having it lead the simple formation is not a good idea.
  
  If you run across another mercenary offering you his or her services, for a price (of course) , 
 you can dismiss team members and add to your hearts content. Party members level up in strength, 
 dexterity and intelligence (most weaponry and armor require certain levels in these categories 
 in order to be used) , as well as in four combat areas  melee and ranged weapons, combat and nature 
 magic. In the case of the latter, you will need to have a spell book, and the spells in it in order 
 to cast magic. Spells are categorized by the casters level in one of the two disciplines.
  
  The control elements of this game are very simple, and should be intuitive to those who have 
 played this type of game before. The game features a point-and-click style of mouse control with 
 the cursor changing to indicate which non-playing characters (NPCs, controlled by the computers 
 AI, or artificial intelligence) you can interact with and which characters you need to battle. 
 It will also change across the landscape to show game players which levers need to be turned, what 
 can be picked up, et cetera.
  
  The games sound is very good. The musical soundtrack is wonderful and suits the mood of the game. 
 It seemingly changes for each of the 14 main areas of the game. There are effects to accompany 
 the combat and spells, death screams or the general utterances of the creatures you encounter, 
 narration and voice work for some of the characters within the story.
  
  The gameplay is seamless as you transition from one area of the map to another. This game is set 
 up in chapters, each with an accompanying cutscene and plot revelation. Replayability seems to 
 be a bit of an issue. Once you clear out a boss and/or dungeon, it stays that way for a long time. 
 But the game does have a variety of difficulty levels and a dungeon/scene editor is in the works 
 (it will be a download from the games Web site when available) so players can create their own 
 caverns of mayhem.
  
  All that brings us to the graphical quality of the program 
  
  This game is magnificent. It is three-dimensional with incredibly rendered environments. The animation 
 is smooth and the camera will let you zoom way in to the action. While characters never seem to 
 lack, or need to replenish, ammunition for ranged weapons, you can zoom in and watch as your party 
 launches arrows into a creature, and actually see the arrows sprout from the enemys hide. Some 
 of them, like the mechanized goblin warriors, begin to look like pin cushions or chia pets before 
 they die.
  
  There are a variety of weapons, from magical glowing swords or axes that deliver more than just 
 a penetrating blow, to dragon miniguns (think of them as chainguns) , grenade launchers and flamethrowers 
 and lightning guns. Some of these are not your usual array of fantasy world weapons, but can be 
 effective against the right enemies.
  
  Overall, though, this game is a joy for the eye.
  
  If there are any idiosyncracies that deter from the game, they come when trying to group a 
 team tighter to get on moving platforms. There is even a fall-away trap in the swamp that may take 
 only a few members of your party because the formation grouping is too loose.
  
  Dungeon Siege is wonderfully entertaining and addictive. The plot may be old hat, but until a storyteller 
 comes up with something more creative than a heros struggle against an evil force threatening 
 the land, game players are going to have to re-travel the familiar game outline. But this game 
 succeeds on several levels.
  
  Dungeon Siege is the type of game that RPGers will be able to immerse themselves in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 24, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  If you're comparing this to Diablo II, then it has a tad too many weak areas such as poor character 
 developments, simplistic combat system and slightly draggy pacing. However, if you're a hack'n'slash 
 fan looking for a new game to get into quickly, then Dungeon Siege is your choice. In this case, 
 it offers a party-based system to suit your Baldur's Gate-meet-Diablo gaming experience.
  
  One flaw in the level-up system is the lack of diversity and choices, which means that once you 
 have a character who's a melee fighter, you better stick to that throughout the rest of the game 
 cos multi-class just makes your character weak in the later part of the campaign when you can't 
 meet the heavy requirements of better weapons. Furthermore, leveling up here isn't fun as everything 
 is just automatic and you can't assign any skill points yourself.
  
  The linear level design is also slightly boring since it's often a narrow direct path with the 
 occasional split tracks due to the few side quests. But on the other hand, it still does offer 
 a challenge with very competitively strong enemies who are always on par with your characters' 
 levels (all the more reason why you can't multi-class) .
  
  The 3D graphics are fine, with a level of detail much like Neverwinter Nights, complete with 360 
 degree rotations. Sound effects are cool with that extra impact of dungeon doors and gates to suit 
 the title of the game.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomNationwide
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 21, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege is remarkable in its effort to create a story, provide numerous loot, and give players 
 a memorable Multiplayer experience. Add in the mod communities and you have a very special game 
 that far surpasses even the most basic aspirations of a RPG. Set in the lands of Aranna you begin 
 as an unnamed farmer who's world was thrown into chaos and village destroyed and you must now save 
 the world . Without revealing the plot itself the whole game pushes you towards a heroic effort 
 and provides you with a very nice cast of characters to join your merry band of heroes in an effort 
 to end the Krug Invasion and find out who or what is behind this uprising. Rife with Armor, Weapons, 
 and Magic you set about on your campaigns by exploring dungeon after dungeon and forest after forest 
 on your way to the ultimate conclusion. Many games have tried to provide this type of fun experience 
 with middling levels of success and failed utterly. DS delivers what the player expects. The one 
 thing missing here is a narrative gameplay element to the Multiplayer functions. Only the person 
 speaking to quest givers hears the story elements. Aside from this, the game is an excellent event. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggamer25
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 5, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  This game is actually a really good game even though i have to admit that it does get repetitive. 
 What you do is you have to go around and do a bunch of quests sort of by killing off the krug. 
 This game is very addicting and it is an enjoyable experience. But this game is not very violent 
 which is good for the younger players. But when i say violent i mean like bloody gorey violent 
 but there is a lot of fighting. Probably nothing that you havent seen before. Well just in general 
 this is actually a great game. There is nothing really more to say about it other than you can 
 choose to be melee, range, nature or combat magic. The higher level you get the better items you 
 can use. There is only one problem with this and that is that you can only carry a max of 9,999,999 
 gold and i reach that limit all the time and there are some things that cost over 2 million alone 
 so they should definently let you carry more than that. Well that is really it on this game oh 
 and i forgot but the graphics are actually quite good on this game for a change. Plus the difficulty 
 on this game is just right if you know what you are doing decently but if you dont know what you 
 are doing then this game can actually be very hard. But it can also be fairly easy if you know 
 where to go and you are a high level and you know exactly what you are doing like me for instance. 
 My advice would be find the best armor and if you are playing multiplayer make sure that it is 
 not man vs man if you are playing with someone that is a higher level than you especially if they 
 are a higher level than you by a lot. Plus if you want to get really good defense items quickly 
 then be a melee person plus they can also get really good attack items. The only flaw with this 
 though is that you can miss a lot and it is not always the fastest way to attack things. If you 
 want fast attack powerful weapons and medium defense then you want to be a range because they can 
 use distance and power but when enemies have the chance to get up close then you are in a lot of 
 trouble. But if you want to be someone that is strong with long range attacks but has terrible 
 defense until you get to a much higher level then you want to be a mage, Plus you can heal yourself 
 with your mage so the defense thing doesnt really take too much of a toll when you get to be higher 
 levels. The only down side to this other than the defense thing is that your mana or magic points 
 drop very quickly so you need to bring lots of mana potions with you. But when you are a higher 
 level it actually might not even matter if you dont have mana potions or not because the higher 
 level you are and the more mana you have the quicker it regains and the same goes with health. 
 But when you are a mage your health is always going to be low unless you have items that increase 
 the total amount of health you had. Well that reallly is basically it on this game and i know that 
 this is a very long game but it is a heck of a lot of fun. Look for more game reviews by me on 
 gamespot if you liked this one. The graphics i have to admit are not great for now but when it 
 was made like 5 years ago these graphics were outstanding. This game all in all is nearly a perfect 
 game in every way possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 12, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  Was given to me as a gift. After installation and initial startup, I spent the first thirty minutes 
 just walking around town enjoying the graphics. It was nice to see the developers actually took 
 the time to render the little things like NPCs and buildings.
  It didnt take me long to learn the mechanics of combat. It seemed so seamless like watching a 
 good CGI movie. The interface wasnt too cumbersome.
  I like the fact that the main character can be trained to be different classes not just set in 
 one direction.
  One of the few gripes I have about this game is a bit too linear even though there is plenty of 
 content, it tends to push you in the right direction after every area. Even though I didnt play 
 the multiplayer too much, I didnt like any of items and skills gained through multi player was 
 brought back to my single player.
  Overall is a great RPG and good game to have.
  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wackys
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  Ok..... I am a Hack and Slash fan I admit
  
  Pluses: many many many items to buy; big gameworld; great story; great graphics; great sound; many side 
 quests that are cool and sometimes rewarding; is fun to play
  
  Minuses: a bit too long; some voice acting; annoiyng swamp level
  
  I played this game a long 
 time ago and at that time i was amazed - just like now. This is one of the most great RPG's Man 
 Kind can create.
  
  The gameplay is Hack and Slash - and i like hack and slash cause they never get booring. Many secret 
 items that if you find em you will keep em a long time. The graphics are amazing even to this day 
 by my standards. The sounds are amazing. The game has much replay ability because of those secret 
 items. Overall the game is a masterpiece and deserves a look by anyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panush
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2006 5:14 am PT
Review:  Okay, ive played alot of RPG's, Diablo, Arcanum, Savage and many many more, but still, nothing 
 beats this. I first played this game when i bought it, back in 03, i installed it, and within 1 
 minute of gameplay, if not 10 seconds, i was completely hooked, i had never played a game more 
 fun than this. Okay, i know you people agree that this game is pretty old, soon it'll be 5 years 
 old, but the graphics in this game still beats a couple of game that came out later, like vice 
 city, where graphs were terrible, and gta 3, also terrible, and not to mention Lord of the rings, 
 some of you people might not agree, but thats what i think. However, back to the game. The atmosphere 
 and nature is so realistic, its like walking into a real world, if only this game would have been 
 ultimate reality, that woulda been so cool. The gameplay rocks too, the learning curve is about 
 10-20 minutes tops, which gives you more time to experience the game than to try to find ways to 
 play it properly, which by the way can be quite annoying in some games. There are hundreds of weapons, 
 lots of spells and potions, and the fighting system is better than most RPG games, like Savage 
 and Arcanum, where fighting is terrible and disgusting. You can customize your own character, choose 
 his class during the game, or why not practice everything, creating the ultimate warrior you know 
 ;) my favourites are wizard and warrior. But that doesent mean that archer is a bad choice, its 
 up to you people. I recommend everyone to buy this game, if you're a fan of great RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 15, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  This game was a lot of fun, but was by no means perfect. It really is a great blend of action RPG 
 and real time strategy. There are moments were it really shines and finds it's own foot outside 
 either, and there are times when you can really feel the flaws of both.
  
  From a purely action RPG perspective, it was a mind-numbing hack and slash bloodbath. After about 
 two-thirds of the way through the game, I really wanted to start chewing my foot off from the tedium. 
 All action RPG's do that to me, but this one was particularly bad near the end. I finished it, 
 and didn't regret it though, but I don't think I could play it again. From a strategy perspective, 
 there were pathfinding issues and dumb AI issues. I really wanted strangle my party members sometimes. 
 Also, inventory management was a pain in the neck.
  
  Having multiple characters gives the game a lot of depth a normal action RPG wouldn't have. If 
 it weren't for the overwhelming SAMENESS and linearity of the game, it would have been a lot better. 
 The game gorgeous. The environments really draw you in. The character system was arcane and restricting, 
 but it didn't matter much in the end. If you just pick a path (magic, fighting, archery) , stick 
 to it, don't worry about diversifying your character and just focus on smashing skulls, it's fun 
 enough.
  
  It could have been so much more, but what it was, was pretty fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonic14
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 25, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I played this gme fo a week... I was inprest ! the gameplay was great. i enjoyed the big party's 
 and the function to control wheree are they going and what spells are they using a. s. t the most 
 useful thing in the game is the mule... you can store more and more stuff there. thats great becous 
 you dont have to carry many things in you bag... The big and interetingly designed dungeons and 
 mazes were very impresive. I enjoyed the long walks thro them. the grafics was just fine. the gamplay 
 was great and I am all thumbs up for this game....
  It is an instant clasical with only one minus.... it was the forest maze part... I hated it... 
 So I cant tell you anything anymore so I say you have to play it to believ me... I say it's a great 
 game! Enjoy
  
  P. S I am sorry for my grammer... I dont have time to recheck and correct it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herviross_2
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 8, 2006 6:24 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege is the first game of the self-titled series, and its definitely the best. You take 
 the control of a hero and travel him/her through the mystical land of Ehb.
  The plotline is good with some minor twists hear and there, but nothing great to capture any gamer. 
 Graphically, the game seemed decent, but could have improved in character expressions and its development. 
 Some of the monsters and heroes look very odd in the game. The sound on the other hand was better, 
 and personally, the best aspect of Dungeon Siege. Try to avoid this game if youre not into RPG 
 and long quests. The game could have had better characters and some more gameplay elements in it, 
 rather than just exploring dungeons. The game tends to get a bit repetitive half way through the 
 game, and may lead to gamers just quitting the game due to lack of substance in the game.
  All in all, Dungeon Siege is just about an average game which could have easily excelled if it 
 had more content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razzavatar
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2006 3:46 am PT
Review:  I like action RPG games and this game was super fun. Very smooth graphics and awesome sound effects. 
 I recommend this game if you like action RPG games.
  
  I like action RPG games and this game was super fun. Very smooth graphics and awesome sound effects. 
 I recommend this game if you like action RPG games.
  
  I like action RPG games and this game was super fun. Very smooth graphics and awesome sound effects. 
 I recommend this game if you like action RPG games.
  
  I like action RPG games and this game was super fun. Very smooth graphics and awesome sound effects. 
 I recommend this game if you like action RPG games.
  
  I like action RPG games and this game was super fun. Very smooth graphics and awesome sound effects. 
 I recommend this game if you like action RPG games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Melodium
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 7, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I first played the demo and within the first 10 minutes I was hooked. This game is not overladen 
 with rules and key compnents to understand before actually getting the jist of the game. Right 
 from the start you are just immersed into the game play. The lush views and sounds of the landscape 
 make the atmosphere feel real serene. The graphics are maybe alittle dated now but still eye catching 
 non the same. Gameplay is easy to understand but when controlling several characters it can get 
 alittle tricky like Baldurs Gate but It gets easier the longer you work with it, not a flaw with 
 the game just something that takes practice on the players part. I highly recommend this game especially 
 if you are considering an RPG for your first time or don't want too many rules and long winded 
 dialog to bring your game down, as I said before easy fun just not too easy on challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkaddict1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 29, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  I love hack-n-slash RPG's, and Dungeon Seige is one of the best. It has everything a good RPG should 
 have, an epic storyline, sweet loot, millions of swarming enemies to kill, and a deep customization 
 of stats.
  My favorite piece of the game is the stat-building system. It is very similar to FF2; as you use 
 a weapon often, your stats continually build for that one skill, say bow-and-arrow. The graphics 
 are splendid, bright and colorful and very detailed. The characters are fun to watch and manipulate.
 
  The story and vast and takes you all the way around Aranna, up to the big bad guy. Dungeons are 
 sprawling and last for hours. Coming out alive gives you a good sense of satisfaction.
  I have a few complaints, though. I have played through twice, now, and noticed that the amount 
 of loot you aquire becomes almost annoying. Most of the treasure is useless and not worth keeping. 
 By the middle of the game, you have so much money you don't know what to do with it.
  My other complaint is the repetitiveness of battles. Before your characters get new skills, or 
 you aquire new characters altogether, the game gets a little boring in the interim. THis mars an 
 almost perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandpiper121PP
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 5, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  I remember wandering thru the local computer store, just looking around for something new to play 
 and then coming over to a demo of this game on a computer. At first I thought it was just a new 
 PS2 game and I just walked by. Then I turned around and saw it was infact a PC game and took a 
 2nd look at the screen. My whole gaming world changed at that point. Normally I play FPS but this 
 had graphics unlike I had ever seen for it's time. The world was huge and there was so much to 
 the game. It was one of the only games I have ever paid full price for when it first came out and 
 still love it to this day.
  The game play is awesome in the fact that you are out to defend your village against the evil overlord 
 who is trying to take over your world from hell. You, the hero, can be either Male or Female and 
 have a variety of clothes, hair and other objects to add to your character. Then you can choose 
 to be a Melee Fighter, Archer, Mage, or a combonation of all three. As you progress thru the game 
 you build up skill points in whatever path of the fighter style you choose and then can aquire 
 new weapons and skills. You can also along your journey have people with different or same skills 
 join your party to help in the filght. You control the settings for how everybody in your party 
 fights and how they work together. You can have pack mules to carry all the stuff that you find 
 and then sell or keep as you get to each new town.
  The graphics in this game are just awesome and breathtaking as well. The detail of the world is 
 just overwhelmling as are the details of each character you fight as you as well. They really made 
 the game have the overall look stay equally balanced. The texture and lighting are equally showed 
 off in this game and not just standard as you might see in most games. As you hack away on creatures 
 and things you see pieces fly off and blood go everywhere. Some of the best graphics I have ever 
 seen are in this game from every detail.
  The sounds are equally as great as the graphics. If you have a surround sound card you are in for 
 a real treat. I remember fighing in the dungeon and some of my party ran down the hall and fought 
 others as I found by myself. You couid hear the clanking of the armor and weapons in the distance 
 like you were really there. I became louder as you approached just like in real life. Every little 
 thing you do from walking in water to across a wooden bridge is amplified to sound very real The 
 gameplay is not short either in that you have alot of ground to cover in this game. I did like 
 that you can save whenever you like in this game. Being the game can take some time to complete 
 this was a huge plus. You can also save multiple different peoples games as well, so you and your 
 family can each play on their own speed and their own way. I have played this game several different 
 ways. Sometimes just me, sometimes everybody was an archer, mix and match, the choice is yours 
 and it can make the game different everytime. There are only 3 skill levels, easy, medium and hard. 
 Hard mode is Very Tough! It is possible to do by yourselt but will take alot of skill and work. 
 Online play is also avaliable to those who want ot have that experience with their friends!
  In conclusion, this game is well worth it to add to any collection. It being the first of the series 
 is the best and will be long loved by gamers for along time to come. If you love games with awesome 
 graphics and a great storyline, huge world to explore.... this is the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poton
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 14, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege is a decent game, which is incredably long with both a single player and multiplayer 
 game world! (both which can be played online or over lan with up to 8 friends) Definately one of 
 the best rpg's of its time but the gameplay and graphics are now a bit outdated, after playing 
 Dungeon Siege 2 i've realised that the better more fun DS 2 gameplay was it came with a cost of 
 less content items and areas to hack through. If you really want to see what the hype is about 
 the game you should probably play it online with friends and get to fairly high lvl. Though I thought 
 the game had okay single player, its alot nicer to lvl up with your friends and on your own, get 
 some items then pvp them =P. Definately worth trying if you have some time and want to play on 
 lan with your friends but unless you're goin to play alot i'd recomend getting dungeon siege 2 
 simply cause the updated controls feel alot better. The games combat is decent but for melee classes 
 requires little attention, however it can be quite fun if you play on lan and kill some hard monsters 
 far in between the large variety of towns. If you're looking for a large rpg with alot of lvling 
 to do and tons of items and aren't too bothered about the simple combat you'll love dungeon siege. 
 I'd recomend reapers fast xp 1000 after you've reached about 80 otherwise it takes forever to lvl 
 up. If not 80ish i'd definatly recomend it when your in the 100's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  dugeon siege is a midevil set game it starts out like the knigdom is in ruins and u have to save 
 ur own kingdom from some horible creatures and stuff. there are many quests u can do to get money 
 and stuff but it easier just to kill all the monsters u can see. there are 1 to 150 levels that 
 you can rise by killing all the monsters that you can see and takes a very long time. you can also 
 control up to 7 or 8 characters at a time. there are lots of many weapons spells bows swords ect 
 in the game. the final boss is tough but if you are an expert you can beat him easily. some amour 
 only pops up a certain time when you play and is rare in single player. the multiplayer servers 
 you can kill other players for there invintory and money. plus theres more better armour spells 
 swords and bow there. if you want the best armour i tell you to cheat alot till you got alot of 
 money and then buy all the best things that you can see or start your own mini server up and have 
 all the best items lying around you to be the best. overall dugeon siege is the best for medevil 
 play so get today. signing offf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btindall
Rating: 7.6
Date: Sep 4, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the easiest RPG's to pick up and play that I've ever tried. I enjoyed the various 
 tactical challenges presented at various points along the way. It was important to have a balanced 
 party.
  
  Unfortunately, there is not much of a story here, and the characters are undeveloped and uninteresting. 
 Although you have 7 party members with you, they do not interact. Conversation from people you 
 meet along the way is irrelevant. It's these shortcomings which make the game seem repetitive and 
 uninteresting in the latter part, and there aren't enough tactical challenges to redeem it.
  
  Still, on the whole, I can recommend it, for smooth gameplay and good graphics which don't 
 require a high-end system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rynn21
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege is about a lone farm girl who must take on the forces of evil in order to save her 
 empire and it's king from total ruin...
  You start off choosing your playing character's name and his/her character looks. The you start 
 the game, anf immediately you cant stop playing it. The games graphics are oddly remarkable, and 
 the gameplay moves along rather smoothly. Even the music and sound effects make you feel like your 
 right there in the game. As you continue along the paths and dungeons you come across villages 
 where you can buy new supplies, gear, and even pack animals to carry your extra luggage. In the 
 end, you are the true heroine of the empire and it's civilians. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 13, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  When I first played dungeon Siege I was surprised at how easy it was to play. Same as Diablo with 
 a 3d feel and no load times. The character animations were smooth and went together very well. 
 I enjoyed the voice acting and the story line since it was simple and easy to follow. The build 
 your own character as you play idea was different for me to experience and while different, I found 
 it a little frustrating too since it took a long time to build up things like nature magic unless 
 you were constantly casting heal all the time.
  
  The no load time feature was cool to experience. I was also quite interesting how once you finished 
 the game you were allowed to travel as far back through the levels as you wanted. Unfortunately 
 the monsters don't repopulate so if they are dead then they are dead forever.
  
  Fun game but it just got repetitive after 15 hours of play. Nice choice of weapons and armor. Thank 
 god for donkeys too since you would never had been able to haul around all the extra weapons and 
 stuff you could collect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebelILL
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 9, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege is a huge leap forward in the Hack and Slash-dungeon crawler genre much like the 
 Diablo series. 
  
  Gameplay: You start the game by customizing your character as you wish and then begin the actual 
 game. Dungeon Siege is an action based RPG with lots and lots and lots of combat. It differentiates 
 itself from other games in the genre in the way that the player builds up there character. Instead 
 of choosing a specific character class to play with you level up depending on what you fight with. 
 There are four disciplines in Dungeon Siege. Melee, Ranged, Nature magic and Combat magic. If you 
 use a weapon you gain experience in Melee, if you use a bow you gain experience in ranged, and 
 depending on what spells you use (Either combat or nature) thats what you gain experience in. 
 
  Another concept in Dungeon siege is that instead of controlling one character you control up to 
 eight. Once you have a party going you can incorporate plenty of strategy into the game. Dungeon 
 Siege allows you to choose which formations to use and also the rules of engagement of your 
 characters. Dungeon Siege is a lot like a hybrid between RPG and RTS style gameplay. However one 
 of the biggest flaws in Dungeon Siege is that the combat is way to automated. If you click on an 
 enemy to attack, your party runs forward and attacks: but the player has little control. This leaves 
 the game feeling very repetitive once you play it for a long time.
  Multi player is also great but has a few flaws. One of the annoying things about it is that you 
 can only import one single player character into multiplayer at a time. So you cannot play online 
 and use your whole party. 
  
  Graphics: Dungeon Siege has great looking 3D graphics. The player is in full control of the camera 
 and can change the angles at will. However the characters themselves tend to look a little flawed 
 at times. 
  
  Sound: Very good. The music is very well made and fits the setting of the game perfectly. Value: 
 Dungeon siege is a great game that has many great and memorable experiences in it. 
  
  9.1/10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 1, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  The lineage of this game is striking as it combines two previous games on the market: Diablo II 
 and Black & White. Roots to Diablo II are obvious in the magic item system, the equipment storage 
 for players and the inevitable selling and buying of equipment in towns along the way. Also taken 
 from Diablo II is most of the magic system developed in the original DII and Lord of Destruction 
 expansion. Dungeon Siege takes the best of the spells then adds a plethora of new ones and divides 
 them up into Nature and Combat magic. As this game is level based it IS possible to have a character 
 skilled in both, but not highly proficient in either. 
  
  Black & White was one of the first games to offer a highly immersive 3D graphics engine to go along 
 with its god-view game play. This basically consists of texture mapping on 3D models, which include 
 the characters. In Dungeon Siege the viewing is more limited to the characters involved and it 
 is possible to set viewing angle constraints so that the player isn't stuck looking at black space 
 behind walls and underground (for the most part) . You control the horizontal. You control the vertical. 
 And by moving your cursor around the edges you can pan left, right, up and down to get the best 
 viewing angle on the action possible. 
  
  All of this is nothing without a good character engine to go along with it. In this part of the 
 realm Dungeon Siege does not falter as it offers one of the most easy to use systems for gaming 
 advancement around. Each character has four active slots for interacting with the world: melee 
 weapon, distance weapon, and 2 spell slots out of a spell book. What ever is active is what that 
 character uses in combat and that skill and stats associated with it (Strength, Dexterity, Intelligence, 
 Health and Mana) increase according to whatever the next level of that skill gets the player. And 
 it is possible, and even probable that the starting player will try out all of these, including 
 permutations, to complete the first quest. 
  
  This character advancement concept is one that I have been waiting for a long time in the computer 
 RPG realm as it more accurately reflects how players in analog RPGs want to play characters. Multi-class 
 characters have always been a favorite of players (particularly fighter/magic-user combos) to help 
 fill in weak spots of a group during heavy combat. Dungeon Siege may not be the first to address 
 this concept, but it certainly has done it well! By allowing players to quickly change slots for 
 active skills, it is very possible to build up characters that can shift a bit from specialty to 
 specialty and disregard the concept of a character 'class' (as it was known in D&D and many other 
 games since including Diablo II) . Finally, in each of the active areas there are many types of 
 weapons and spells to draw upon during the game. The melee folks can use weapon and shield or two 
 handed weapons depending upon what they can equip and use. Ranged weapons go from bows and crossbows, 
 to exotic things as lightning casters, dragon miniguns, flame-throwers and grenade launchers! And 
 spells generally line up along the fire/combat spells and the lightning/nature spells, with various 
 summonings, healings, and area effect spells in both categories. 
  
  Also a character need not 'go it alone'. In solo play it is possible to form up groups of Non-Player 
 Characters (NPCs) around the main character. Thus you can hire folks to just do melee, just do 
 distance weapons, and just do either or both types of spell areas. And this then brings up the 
 fact that the group can act like a group with a group leader (usually a melee combatant) and the 
 rest of the group taking up formation behind/around that leader. And general combat directions 
 for the group allow the player to choose how they fight from: Holding Fire to Attack Freely, Stand 
 Ground to Move Freely and Target Closest, Target Weakest, Target Strongest. The player can change 
 these options on a situational basis to allow characters to just run amok to keeping them tightly 
 grouped to concentrate capabilities on one or two targets in a larger melee. 
  
  And do you get to do a lot of combat! From the initial 'poor farmer having to alert everyone to 
 the evil encroaching on the land' genre, you get to be the humble farmer which will have to save 
 the land from the encroaching evil. You start with only a few weapons to choose from, mainly farm 
 implements, a very rusted shield and a couple of spells. As you move down the path (the path is 
 the guide to the linear story line) you encounter lots of critters, beasts, evil doers and have 
 quests thrust upon you. All of this in a rich and lavishly presented world of mountains, trees, 
 undergrowth and haze in the distance. As a player you can learn to observe enemy areas in a distance 
 and see guard patterns. It is possible to sneak up, and sometimes around, large encampments, but 
 as any good fantasy RPG player will tell you: that is where the goodies are! But it is very handy 
 to knock out half of the guard force first, before trying to take on the rest of the camp... 
 
  
  And even though the storyline is depressingly linear, the areas that one has to move through are 
 decidedly rich and varied. From temperate forest to underground environs to a rather large swamp, 
 this setup has just about everything including moving platforms, elevators and offers the opportunity 
 to hire extras along the way. So what isn't there to like about Dungeon Siege? 
  
  Well, first off the story line is linear. So much so that it is nearly impossible to move off of 
 the path of the story to investigate things out of order. One of the joys of early RPGs is that 
 you basically ran across quests in a haphazard fashion and only some few were actually connected 
 together to make a coherent story line. Players played in a world, not in 'living story'. Unfortunately 
 the industry has decided that people want to play a part in a movie and not be a character in a 
 world, so the rich game play of combat has taken over the concept of being a person in a world. 
 I would just, once, like to be able to visit another town off the path of the narrative just to 
 see what is going on there. For some reason, in the world of Dungeon Siege, the only commerce between 
 towns is that along a single path... 
  
  Secondly this game could have learned something from Diablo/Diablo II both of which feature town 
 portals to the last town visited and the second featuring Way Points to move between settings in 
 act or to previous settings in previous acts. Once I had to move back through an entire act to 
 get something I didn't get the first time through, and even when using the 'megamap' to move around, 
 the rate of movement is still limited to that of the characters. That ate up half an hour to forty 
 five minutes, especially trying to get a large party onto a moving platform (there should be a 
 group command for 'bunch up as close as possible to the group leader' for this!) . In Diablo II 
 I could have just used a Way Point to quickly head back to that previous area and get what was 
 needed and then go back to the action. A BIG negative. 
  
  Third is storage. Every RPG features a backpack and alternative storage area (in the case of Dungeon 
 Siege a pack mule!! I haven't seen one of those since D&D!) , both of which are limited in scope. 
 In Diablo II one can just use a town portal spell to open up a gateway between that space and town, 
 sell of the junk, store the good stuff and get things repaired. In Dungeon Siege I often run out 
 of space for the entire party, pack mule included. There are times when I have seriously considered 
 dropping an extra fighter to get a second pack mule. But that would soon fill up too... 
  
  Fourth goes a bit with the second and that is replenishment of supplies. Luckily bows have an infinite 
 supply of arrows and no equipment ever gets damaged, so there is no reason to worry about those 
 (neither a plus nor minus in my book) . But there have been times when my party has run critically 
 short of healing and mana potions. The ability to resupply those from the last town would be MOST 
 handy. 
  
  Finally there are the rare times when a character gets into a tight space and almost no amount 
 of panning around gets you a view out in the open, thus necessitating a change of viewpoint to 
 another character. In the heat of a large battle this can be most disconcerting! If trees and other 
 such things can be made semi-transparent, the leas that could be done is to do that for walls and 
 such too. A very hazy view of a quickly moving battlefield is better than none at all. Yes, you 
 can pause the game to get that viewpoint changed, but it shouldn't be necessary. 
  
  This game can also be played online by registering a Microsoft Passport account or on a LAN with 
 other players. I haven't tried either as of yet. 
  
  My how things have changed since the days of line drawings and pictures of monsters popping up 
 on screen from the days of the original Wizardry! The future of the fantasy RPG genre is clear, 
 now: 3D perspective, the elimination of character classes to those devoted entirely towards skills 
 and abilities, a non-linear world where you try and solve quests (problems) whenever you come upon 
 them or realize that you have lots of work to do before you can even approach them, and, finally, 
 a magical transport system to take characters from place to place quickly. Just as Diablo was apparent 
 from the era of 'flat screen' RPGs blending with First Person Shooters, so is the future of RPGs 
 apparent from Dungeon Siege blending with other games in the genre. 
  
  A definite 'must buy' for those who like fantasy RPGs so that they can get a taste of what the 
 future holds and to see the beautiful worlds it portends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warnexus100
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 19, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  ok dungeon siege is a game where adventure takes a character to this journey to fight off evil. 
 I CANT WAIT FOR THE MOVIE COMING OUT IN 2007 (IN THE NAME OF THE KING) heres the link:
  http://en. wikipedia. org/wiki/Image: Inmkgame. jpg
  
  spells graphics are cool its time. during 
 2002 rpg style was just born to be good. the names of everything is nice and simple which is good 
 coz it gives the designer no hassle. i mean geez would u choose fireshot in dungeon siege or firaga 
 in final fantasy X? of course dungeon siege name. i mean zap is better than thundraga. ok im just 
 wanted to make a point or 2 here.
  
  story is good it has a lot of tragic scenario and you bascially hack through evil and venture different 
 places. the forest, dungeon, town thrashed by the enemy, mines, a snowy city, dragon tavern, king's 
 castle. theres more but i forgot basically every place u go is different. you meet new people in 
 different places such as the dungeon. you can choose to accept their help or decline. you travel 
 only. but its hard to survive which urges you to fight with friends. thats what also make this 
 game good. friendship is a vital key in this game. 
  
  weapons and spells kick ass!!! its cool seeing spells and shiny swords doing ur biddings. graphics 
 shooting everywhere. its amazing!
  
  ok the review is too long now. enjoy getting the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboote
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 10, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I am not prone to write reviews for mediocre games, but DS really made me grasp the virtual pen 
 for this short one.
  Receiving decent reviews across the boards, DS surprised me with an exceptionally high level of 
 mediocrity in most areas. I purchased it from the bargain bin at Ebay and played with the newest 
 patch, and I was very dissapointed. 
  While the graphics are not unpleasant, and must fairly be rated high considering that the game 
 is old, the pleasantness soon wears off as the tedius gameplay draws on. The gameplay itself beats 
 only Pool of Radiance for tediousness and lack of flavor in any RPG I actually purchased. Far inferior 
 to any of the halfway decent action RPGs out there (Baldur's Gate, Jagged Alliance 2, Arcanum, 
 etc.) , DS is a poor hack-and-slash with a miserable story. To make matters worse, the game is packaged 
 with poor voice acting, incredibly melodramatic, so that I was not able to identify with any of 
 the characters, let alone my own. They all seemed so cookie-cutter. Even for a hack-and-slash, 
 there is better action elsewhere.
  I will not dwell further on the details -- there are some good reviews here and elsewhere which 
 give the full rundown. Suffice it to say that this game is, while certainly not garbage, a poor 
 lack of entertainment which does not deserve a fine rating it seems to universally have received. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOBucky
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 8, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is okay, but you start at point A and walk to point B. There aren't really very many 
 choices to make. It has some fun gameplay, but probably isn't worth paying the full price unless 
 you like plodding along a well-marked path.
  My standard disclaimer for the scoring below: I find these very difficult. Many games can be picked 
 up almost immediately but I continue to learn new things as long as I play. I dont keep track 
 of how many hours I play. Finally, I dont pay much attention to the graphics or sound unless they 
 annoy me or get in my way, so I never know how to score them. Unless elsewise discussed in this 
 review, these things need to be kept in mind when judging how I score the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon_Crusher
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 29, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  It's a amazing game even being a little of a copy from DiabloII, but still the story is great, 
 the graphics are to cry for... and the combat sequences are beautifull !!!
  The story begins in a farm that ia attacked, the Hero pull them back but is family is dead, so... 
 he starts to find a shelter ( in the way of the story happens, and you kill a 2 or 3... enemies.
 
  The good of this game is that the scenario never repeats it self!!!
  you begin in the woods, the you pass to caves, swamps, goblin caves, cities, mountains....
  There 
 are lots of enemies, spells , armors, and your hero can became any tip of caracter: sorceress, 
 swordsman, rogue.... or you can always make allies that he helps or pay them to be on your side 
 and make this campaign whit him... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtJcoo
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Gas Powered Games has been introduced to the gaming world with a bang. Anyone who is interested 
 in expansive worlds, swords/shields, magical spells, bows and arrows, or epic adventures should 
 play Dungeon Siege. Lush forests, creepy dungeons, magnificent castles, and no loading screens. 
 That is the definition of a perfect RPG setting. Complete character customization and many items 
 to collect blend to create the addictive aspect of the game, and the story keeps you coming back 
 for more. The game is superb all around, and easily compares to the best RPG's out there today!
 
  
  One of the best aspects of the game is the low requirements needed to play. Of course, the game 
 was produced in 2002, but any computer hardware made in 2002 can easily run the game with little 
 or no lag. And with the graphics in this game, that is awesome! Even by today's standards the graphics 
 in Dungeon Siege are good, and the item animation is very cool. Magical weapons shimmer with different 
 colors and styles depending on the magical properties of that item. A bow that does fire damage 
 actually shoots flaming arrows for instance. An ice sword sparkles with blue magic, and one of 
 the most impressive staves in the game, Merrick's Staff, has a fluctuating orb of fire on one end, 
 and a spike of fire on the other. Little things like this make the game a great one. Although there 
 are many different items to collect, the item stats to get repetitive. "+10 to Health" and "+5 
 to Defence" gets a little boring! The game is also lacking something introduced in Diablo II. Item 
 sets. I would spend countless more hours playing this game if I could collect sets!
  
  Dungeon Siege's gameplay puts a unique twist on what is considered to be traditional in action 
 RPG's. Instead of controlling one character throughout the game, you have an option of allowing 
 up to seven other characters join you on your quest, allowing you to create the ultimate fellowship. 
 Nature mages for healing, a combat mage or two for fighting, archers or crossbowmen for long range, 
 and some some melee characters to take the hits (and deliver some mighty hits of their own!) . If 
 you are more into having a smaller force of stronger characters, then do so, because characters 
 do not share experience in Dungeon Siege. Instead, each character levels up individually. So less 
 people in a party means more experience for your party members. Of course, then you don't have 
 as much firepower in quantity, so a happy medium might be the optimal. If you like collecting items, 
 maybe you will want a packmule to carry many more than any party member would be able to carry! 
 Its entirely up to you, and that is a sentence many people like to hear in a game review!
  
  Another aspect of Dungeon Siege that strays from the path of traditional action RPG's is the 
 fact that there are no character classes. Is that a good thing or a bad thing, you ask? Considering 
 that not having a character class allows you to create a very unique character, in appearance and 
 skills, and the fact that as you use certain skills, you gain titles that become your character 
 class in the game (ex. Ranger for a lower level archer) , then yes, it is a good thing. In multiplayer 
 you can even make a Dwarf or a Skeleton, with all the same skills and items available as any other 
 character out there.
  
  Speaking of multiplayer, Dungeon Siege has a few problems in that area. Said above, Dungeon Siege 
 has low PC requirements. Unfortunately, the same does not hold if you attempt to play with friends. 
 Each extra player in a game slows the game down dramatically, and eight players in a game is nearly 
 impossible on an older computer. Aside from that fact is Microsoft's attempt to create a free of 
 charge internet service that is unique to the game, much like Blizzard's Battle. net. Unfortunately, 
 Dungeon Siege's version is not nearly as accessible, with chatrooms being to inconvenient to be 
 used frequently, and a friends list that is very difficult to manage since you cannot be in a game 
 (where people tend to to make friends) to add or remove friends. Add this up with a poorly updated 
 news page, plus the lag of multiple players, and you have a poor multiplayer experience, although 
 the game is very fun to play on the multiplayer map, which is a very different map from the single 
 player map. In fact, it is an entirely new world, again with no loading screens, lush woods, etc. 
 It is almost like having two games in one! Unfortunately, you can only control one character at 
 a time in multiplayer. The game is *easily* modified too, so if you want to try something new, 
 there are many options out there for new maps, new stories, and of course, new spells and items! 
 This gives the game almost endless replay value. 
  
  Dungeon Siege is a unique, fun to play action RPG that allows players to be the "controlling force" 
 instead of a character itself. If you are a fan of any kind of magic and steel RPGs, or a person 
 who enjoys a good story or adventure, definitely check out Dungeon Siege. It is guaranteed to be 
 worth your while! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limewolf
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  This is a super hack and slash RPG game! There is not much in the way of story, but for once this 
 did not bother me, good graphics for a game of 2002 vintage. Basically you and your party run around 
 beating up enemies and levelling up - that is pretty much Dungeon Siege 1! However it's very addictive 
 and the scenery is excellent. It is very easy to get into.
  
  My recommendation is to get a copy of the expansion Legends of Aranna as that also includes the 
 first game. 
  
  I have spent a huge amount of time playing this game, highly recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merchitO
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is so smooth, so easy to play, so polished, that you could use it as screen-saver. When 
 surrounded by many foes, if your team is well balanced an equipped, you REALLY can leave the game 
 and come back a few minutes later, it will manage perfectly without your help. Yes, Dungeon Siege 
 doesn't really need you to be played.
  There are not many different monsters. The same ones come back later in the game, painted in a 
 different hue, with different strength and name. Landscape can be nicely done, though varies very 
 little.
  Items... Boy, you are literally overwhelmed with them. No surprise you need a donkey to help you 
 carrying along this useless junk.
  
  Sounds like a boring game... But is it? No. When I am playing it, I simply can't stop and have 
 to tear myself away from the screen to do something else. Why? Well, I guess Dungeon Siege acts 
 like a drug, it's very efficient at melting down your brain. Duh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brutalus7
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 6, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I was so pumped a few years ago when I heard about Dungeon Siege. I don't know why, but I just 
 saw the screens and thought "Wow! I need to have this game when it comes out!" To this day, it's 
 the only game besides Half-Life 2 that I've bought without knowing how it would be first. I wasn't 
 dissapointed. The graphics were gorgeous for their day, and the game was long, even if the story 
 was a little weak. Having auto-attacks in an RPG was a first, and so was the Packmule concept. 
 I also really enjoyed the "Goblin Inventors" part of the game, the machines they had were a lot 
 of fun.
  
  I only have a couple problems with the game. It was very linear, and you couldn't really say no 
 to a quest, or yes to any side-quests. Although I liked not having to click my hand off, I would 
 have liked a little more in-depth system for combat. I didn't really like not being able to get 
 spell or ranged ability while using melee weapons, or not gaining attributes to my discretion, 
 but it made for smooth gameplay, at least. A little more freedom would have been nice, and added 
 the replay-factor for me, but overall, a great game if you like Diablo or other such action-RPG's. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShotGunBunny
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 1, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  When i first played DS i was eager to get into my brand new, good looking Diablo clone, the scenery 
 was great, the opening was pretty good, mostly due to the aforementioned scenery and music. 
  
  The game isn't hard to get into to, and you'll get the hang of it in mere seconds.
  You simply 
 click the ground where you want to go or the enemy you want to attack and behold, your character 
 goes there/kills that. the simplicity will later turn against you, though.
  
  So after a while of playing you get to see some amazing sites, like hundreds of enemies throwing 
 stuff at you from high cliffs while you're traveling through the valley below, the distances between 
 towns and the beauty of the areas give a real feel of a journey, which is something i've never 
 really felt before.
  
  However, the developer didn't seem to notice their masterpiece in this area and decided to make 
 more then half of the game play in dark, empty and boring dungeons. 
  This, after a few decent hours of playing, will be the start of the eternal boredom. As mentioned 
 before, you click an enemy, you char attacks and keeps hitting until it drops and them moves on 
 to the next enemy without you ever having to interfere until there's no more enemies in the area, 
 you sometimes need to press "H" for a potion, but that's it.
  
  So after a while the game looks like this: watching you char hack into enemies with WAY too much 
 HP but way too little strenght to actually be a threat in boring, dark dungeons/caves/whatever, 
 even the outside areas turn into dense forests which make it look pretty much the same as the dungeons.
 
  Besides that, the story doesn't actually get going until the end of the game, which means you 
 first need to grind to thousands of monsters and dozens of pale areas.
  
  Multiplayer can get you hooked a bit longer though, whoop up the difficulty, bring some friends 
 and try to explore the hardest areas with chars that aren't meant for that area, because the multiplayer 
 world has a lot more freedom in terms of places to go and paths to take, which makes it a lot more 
 interesting then the SP campaign. But after a while this gets just as boring as SP, especially 
 after you mop up that 50 million HP boss who didn't even scratch you.
  
  In the end, DS is a major failure, the game simply fails to entertain because you don't actually 
 do anything besides selecting an enemy and drinking a potion every now and then.
  It's very sad to see that the beautiful areas and the sense of adventure fade away behind this 
 simple but major fault. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoWuulf
Rating: 1.1
Date: Apr 18, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  I'm beginning to think that all games made by Microsoft are in someway reflective on Bill Gates 
 efforts to succeed in the computer biz. I am tired of playing Microsoft games that pit me against 
 impossible odds, with my success depending on moving inch by inch through the game. Dungeon Siege 
 isn't the first of this kind; Age of Empires, and the rest of the Age series are similar. 
  
  By the time you get to the end of the first chapter, you have not acquired enough stats to 
 even think about buying stronger weapons and armor, and barely enough gold to buy what potions 
 and spells you think you might need. It's not even a question of not acquiring enough through any 
 actions of your own, either. There are not enough monsters to kill that will give you what you 
 need, not to mention being over-run by groups of monsters (which is what I meant by moving along 
 inch by inch) . The only way to move along safely is to save often - like, after every battle.
 
  
  The fighting formations are rather harrowing, too. Getting the right character to do the right 
 thing proved tedious and downright annoying; not to mention using potions in battle. By the time 
 you get the screen to come up to use one, your character is already dead. The best way I found 
 to beat this problem is to bring it up just before you battle, and keep it up. But then you miss 
 the battle sequence because you have an item screen covering it up.
  
  AAAAAARGH! That is what I felt like playing this game. If you are an RPG fan, my suggestion is 
 to avoid this one altogether. There are many out there that deserve your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob_rulz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  GOOD: Engaging combat; massive world to explore; vast array of environments; generally good graphics; 
 pack mule allows you to carry many items
  BAD: Cliched storyline; combat becomes repetitive hack-and-slash; lacks originality; little depth 
 to character classes and advancements; becomes too difficult near the end
  
  Dungeon Siege is a massive, combat-oriented RPG game that has many redeeming qualities, but the 
 lack of polishing of other features significantly drags it down.
  
  When you first start playing Dungeon Siege, it is a wonder to behold, with a massive world to explore, 
 fast-paced and frequent combat, and attractive graphics that hold up even by today's standards. 
 While it's generally apparent from the beginning that the storyline is uninspired and cliched (peasant 
 farmer takes up arms against invading enemy) , the storyline is hardly what you'll be focusing on.
 
  
  Also near the beginning, however, one of the major problems of the game is introduced. There are 
 only four classes to choose from (nature mage, combat mage, archer, and melee fighter) , and three 
 attributes (intelligence, strength, agility; someone correct me if I'm wrong, that's what I remember) . 
 As you continue playing through the game and pick up party members (and there are plenty to choose 
 from) , the game begins to drag down and become repetitive. The persistent combat offers little 
 variety and becomes repetitive and increasingly more difficult. In addition, it is evident that 
 melee fighters are much more useful than any of the other classes. Archers are only useful for 
 their range; they are significantly less powerful than melee fighters. Mages can be powerful when 
 fully developed, but it takes a ridiculous amount of work to reach that level.
  
  By the end of the game, all the same tricks are used over and over again as they just throw hoardes 
 and hoardes of units at you, and the game becomes nearly impossible to beat. There are limited 
 health potions by the end of the game, and I found it hard just to keep my characters alive, and 
 while the game is generally linear and easy to follow, at some points I got completely lost. There 
 is one feature I'm glad they have, though, and that's the ability to buy a pack mule which carries 
 many of your items for you, allowing you to carry many more items than a normal RPG.
  
  However, one of the major redeeming qualities of this game is the massive world that you have to 
 explore. There are many side caverns to gain items from and an impressive variety of environments, 
 ranging from festering swamps, sprawling mountainsides, forests, frozen expanses of snow, dungeons 
 (and I have to give credit to them for creating more interesting dungeons than most RPGs have) , 
 and rolling plains.
  
  So, while Dungeon Siege starts off fun and fast-paced, and has an excellent and varied world to 
 explore, it eventually bogs down into repetitive hack-and-slash combat that features little depth, 
 unbalanced classes, virtually no storyline, and fights against ridiculous odds, making the game 
 especially difficult towards the end. Not recommended by me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 9469
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  this game is very interesting and really fun to play,
  its got great stat system and party play and ther is a huge range of equipment ranging from spells 
 to bows, you can even get enchanted items.
  the baatle system is abit dissapointing as its a runescape like clicking controlls. which gets 
 boring after a while.
  the world is amazing with great graphics, u really do somtimes sit back and look at the scenery 
 (how do they do it) . this game has a wide range of quests, but somtimes it takes to long to get 
 through dungeons, your there for ages slaughtering hundreds of monsters and it gets a bit tireing. 
 at first this game is very addictive, but the shine soon rubs away after you have played this game 
 for a few days. i recommend borrowing it or hiring it before you make an devotion to buying this 
 game. i reccomend giving it ago.
  the multiplayer is massive, there is so much to do and its free! this game is worth it just for 
 the internet.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ellrodt49
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 11, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  This game has good graphics (though now a few years old) , good variety of environments, okay character 
 and monster rendering and animations, and it gives you your money's worth in terms of the time 
 required to complete the game.
  
  But it is only for players who like plenty of easy combat. That's really all this game is - repetitive, 
 easy combat in which the player is more of a spectator than a participant.
  
  Here's a summary of how the game unfolds: walk a ways along the path or dungeon, encounter a group 
 of monsters, coax them to come after your party one-or-two at a time, kill them, take the loot, 
 heal or resurrect any characters as required, micro-adjust your inventory; now walk a little further, 
 encounter a group of the same or similar monsters, coax them to come after your party one-or-two 
 at a time, kill them, take the loot, heal or resurrect any characters as required, micro-manage 
 your inventory; now walk a little futher..... well, you get the idea. And then finally (and mercifully) 
 you come to the end of each area/environment, encounter a "boss" monster, kill the boss, take the 
 loot, heal or resurrect any characters as required, micro-adjust your inventory, then move on to 
 the next pretty region/environment and repeat the process all over again ad-nauseum for perhaps 
 fifty or sixty hours or more.
  
  The game is just mind-numbingly repetitive. Just endless rounds of unchallenging hack-and slash 
 combat. There are essentially no puzzles to solve, no NPC interaction beyond buying and selling 
 or quest giving (and the quests are extremely unimaginative) . Just combat. Period. And you really 
 don't have to do anything during the combat. Just click on a monster and then sit back and watch 
 (you might have to keep an eye on your life and manna levels during the fight, and sometimes you 
 might have to retreat a little to regroup, but that's about it) .
  
  To be fair, there are lots of people who like these kinds of Diablo clones in which the satisfaction 
 comes in ripping your way through endless waves of beasties from beginning to end. If that's your 
 cup of tea, you'll enjoy this game. And I make no judgements on those who like those kinds of games. 
 I guess hack-and-slash games are a legitimate category of role-playing games. But if, like me, 
 you prefer multi-dimensional RPGs that have truly immersive stories, a mix of quests, puzzles, 
 and action, meaningful NPC interaction, and a sense of really identifying with your character (isn't 
 that what role-playing is, by definition?) , this is most definitely not the game for you.
  
  In summary, this game is pretty and long, but in my opinion it is so mind-numbingly easy , 
 linear, repetitive, one dimensional, and unimaginative that it can only be described as falling 
 miserably short of what a good role-playing game should be.
  
  In the final analysis, this long-term veteran of CRPGs (I've been playing them for over twenty 
 years , and I've played so many I can't remember them all) found this game to be unsatisfying and 
 ultimately boring. My final lingering impression is that I wasted my time with this game. But at 
 least I learned a lesson - no more Diablo clones for me, no matter how pretty or long they might 
 be! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 5.4
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:44 am PT
Review:  This game is original but for me it's kind of always the same. 
  
  All the spell are the same. A fireball or a lightning bolt may look different on screen but they 
 have the same effect, so in reality it plays the same. The strategic depth of this title is minimal 
 and the role playing element is very faint. 
  
  The leveling is different and original, but for me it's not flexible enough. It make sense but 
 for a reason I'm not quite sure of, It didn't catch up with me. 
  
  It's a Diablo game with a little bit more of the role play elements. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekki17
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Before you read any farther, let me tell you that this is not the game for you if you want deep 
 stories and combat. The story is passable, but you could go through the game and ignore it completely. 
 You're not missing anything. Also, the combat is just point and click, like Diablo. This is no 
 FF VII. 
  
  But, if you want some quick, easy, hack and slash combat, you need to buy this game.
  
  Gameplay- 
 Diablo-esque, but with a party. Long excursions through dark dungeons, switching to the newest, 
 best weapon every minute or so, and the soothing *click! clickclick! click!* of the mouse. Not 
 too complex, but still addictive and fun.
  
  Graphics- Good. Spell effects are sufficiently sparkly, and the characters look OK. Small amounts 
 of slowdown occur when a lot of action is taking place onscreen, but it's not too horrendous.
 
  
  Sound- Not terrible, just not memorable. A lot of clangs and roars and hisses. Not much to comment 
 on. Voice acting is a little hammy (and cockney XD) , but still adequate.
  
  Overall, it's an easy title, that's just fun enough to keep you playing, to get to the next awesome 
 weapon, or the next larger-than-life monster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Levoth
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege is a very good game made by Microsoft and Gas Powered Games. The game is just too 
 impressive , it is like Diablo with a totally different engine and many different features. 
  
  The game first impressive thing is the its graphics which are rather good than Diablo's graphics. 
 All the things are so interesting, the water, the enemeis , the magics , the design of the heroes 
 , the lights and everything are very well designed. 
  Other good stuff in the graphics is the equipments. Every equipment is shown into the hero's body. 
 Boots , armors, robes , swords and other kinds of things are very detailed , you can build many 
 unique characters. 
  The gameplay is very simple , you can make everything using the mouse but there are many hotkeys 
 too. The camera is free, you can zoom , reduce zoom , rotate it in 360 and choose from where you 
 want to see your hero. Attacking enemies is very simple you just click at it and them it starts 
 attacking. 
  The sounds are good too, yet they could be better. It gets very boring hear that generic voice 
 of the NPCs everytime... But the other aspects are really good. The musics are very intuitive , 
 you can get inside a battle easily because of the musics of the game... Rains and thunders, water, 
 everything have a different and realistic sound effect.
  But the game victory is in its Multiplayer game. You can spend ours playing with your character 
 and making parties , fighting in wars and descovering new areas of Aranna. 
  
  Dungeon Siege is a very good game for every RPG Fan... Recommended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 15, 2006 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege is a good game. The game has it moments. I mean the single palyer is fine, I mean 
 exploring a huge world in the game. This game has a huge varierty of weapons, spells, levels and 
 armor, espesically the enemies, there are tons of enemies. But this game does feel like you already 
 played a rpg like this. If you are an RPG fan than this game has all the absolute basic rpg things 
 you would expect from dungeon siege. Although the great fights you have in the game can get insane 
 and fun. Dungeon Siege is fun but you can find a better and more interesting rpg game then this. 
 Although online has pretty ridiculous hacks. I mean you can easily cheat on the game and become 
 maximum level in the game online... no problem. So the multiplayer could be fun... if there were 
 no hacks. If you like rpg like diablo or something, then you can buy this game for like $10. But 
 then again if you have diablo... why spend the money if you already have a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: getchasome
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 31, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  I have always had a thing for PC rpg's, so when I saw this, I decided to try it.
  The gameplay itself is different from most RPG's. Some example might be Unlimited arrows, no poison, 
 no "I don't like you so you don't get good prices on items", etc.
  
  The backgrounds are well detailed, and while the graphics themselves aren't cutting edge, they're 
 no bad at all.
  
  The Gameplay is quick-paced, and this game is good for the casual gamer, and this might be good 
 if you want to get into RPG's one step at a time.
  
  Overall, i'd say this is a fun game and a great addition to any gamer's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 31, 2006 6:04 am PT
Review:  Well, I'll tell you what isn't deep: 
  
  Dungeon Siege. 
  
  I'll tell you what else Dungeon Siege isn't. It isn't, in any way WHATSOEVER, associated with the 
 sieging of dungeons. It isn't really an action game as reflexes are a minimal. It isn't relaly 
 a strategy game as thinking is a minimal. RPG? Well, maybe it tries, but the characters have as 
 much personality as my wall. So what does that make this game? 
  
  Almost nothing pretty much, and that's where the beauty comes in. You throw your guys into a formation, 
 perhaps press a button every now and then to switch between healing and destructive spells, then 
 click on a group of monsters, zoom in, and sit back as fireballs and lightning bolts and sparkling 
 axes and flashing bows and war and war and fighting and screaming and explosions and beauty and 
 fighting and... 
  
  Simple and entertaining, that's what it is. Sometimes you just need a break from all that thinking, 
 all that planning and sweating and beating people on the street because your character didn't level 
 up that day or what not. Sometimes you just need to sit back and watch as your little army runs 
 around in what looks and feels like a movie as they jump in from battle to battle on beautiful 
 landscapes before fishing through an ocean of loot for that next best weapon or armor. 
  
  Is that to say the lack of a good story helps the entertainment and simplicity of this game? No, 
 not at all. In fact, it is quite possibly the most generic, unoriginal, and pathetic story I have 
 ever seen in a game, and even if the combat is rather simple and laid back, that doesn't mean it 
 can't be rewarding as well by giving something deeper in the character developement than the skill 
 level needed to wear that next pair of gloves or cast that next flashy spell. In fact, once they 
 join your group, your characters don't even talk. 
  
  The graphics and sound are so professionally done that you don't need to look at the cover to tell 
 it was made by a giant like Microsoft. The voice acting and narration is rather... well, corny 
 and generic, but the music is quite nice. 
  
  The game is unfortunately as linear as a game could get. I doubt the world is even a world so much 
 as just a straight line with some cities thrown in here and there. The NPCs are also very boring 
 and uninteractive, you just click on them and hear what they have to say. But I guess that's why 
 depth punches this game in the nose and leaves it with an nice big bloody stain. But ignore that 
 nose, and the game is, without a doubt, quite beatiful. 
  
  So overall, I would recommend it. Where other games are long and frustrating, this game is a breath 
 of fresh simple air. Where other games sacrifice graphics and sound for gameplay and concept, this 
 game sacrifices just about everything for the eye candy that other games seem to be lacking. However, 
 if you're looking for a real good game that you could keep on your shelf with a love-struck sigh 
 every time your gaze passes over it, ignore it and pray that its sequal will fill in the blanks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battousai188
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 29, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Keeping this review short, Dungeon Siege does not really offer anything new to the hack and slash 
 medium paced RPG, but does offer a nice face lift on graphics for the genre, and some fun and interesting 
 gameplay. Dungeon Siege on the other hand made it's debut just short of the wave of massive online 
 RPGs to now dominate the market for this market, unfortunately this game does not offer a whole 
 lot when it comes to interesting and addicting online play. 
  
  Overall:
  Beautiful graphics, sound control, and fun gameplay. Unfortunately lacks addicting online gameplay 
 like it's predicesor Diablo II, as well as good replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w4rgasm
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 4, 2006 11:23 pm PT
Review:  The game features a great story with stunning graphics (for its time) , and an honorable game set-up; 
 featuring an 8 character party that you may control. Though i found the lack of classes disappointing, 
 the leveling system was superb enough to keep me playing. Pack mules were a nice add to store spare 
 cargo.
  
  The single player mode was truly the highlight of this game. Players could spend a good 20 hours 
 from start to finish, and many more on side-quests, and other difficulties. The battling was a 
 bit of a let down, as you could only have access to melee, a bow, and 2 magic skills at once. It 
 was a hassle to cycle through these skills, and it didn't feel smooth as I switched from one skill 
 to the next. I usually kept to simplistic battling; only using a handful of my skills, so i wouldn't 
 get stressed out in cycling. The 8 group party was great though. Players can easily scan through 
 their party and select certain skills and spells to cast from multiple party members. The party 
 arrangements were easy to manage and made fighting with your party rewarding.
  
  My major gripe was the multiplayer. I did not feel that I was getting everything I could from it. 
 With only one character to use, I could no longer skim through my party to cast multiple spells, 
 instead I had to rely on my one character to use everything; from healing to damage to melee to 
 ranged. And as we all know, that just seemed more like a hassle than fun.
  
  Overall this game is worth the buy for any RPG fan, but don't expect much from the multiplayer. 
 Players will receive a bunch of playing time in the single-player, so the game isn't worthless 
 in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yuxiaobi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Overall, a solid game that will certainly help kill the hours and easily will keep a player up 
 into the wee hours. Let's cover the good first:
  
  The Good:
  1. The graphics are superb especially when compared to such games as Diablo II.
  2. Love the 
 flexibility and choices you have in building your party.
  3. The character development is AWESOME! You can take any character and develop him or her as an 
 archer, warrior, mage, healer, etc. I have tried to games in which the main character was a mage 
 and the second an archer.
  4. The combat system took me some time to learn, but once i got it down my party was liquid in 
 motion. Very smooth. It was very easy to develop each character along a specialized line and then 
 once I put the party in combat it was almost too easy.
  5. Wide range of items that allowed customized looks.
  6. Pack mules were great to take along 
 for the gamers (such as myself that pick up everything!)
  7. I thought the overhead map was a great tool to manuever my party in tight places. Also a great 
 tool to gather them if they scattered.
  8. I liked th different formations you could put your party in.
  
  The Bad:
  1. Pack mules 
 are stupid. They run from one combat only to end up engaging another group of monsters you weren't 
 ready for. Arrgh!!
  2. Movement for individual characters to could be especially frustrating in tight spaces. For example, 
 the sections of the mines where you had to load all your party onto a moving platform. That took 
 some time to get down because they would want to follow each other and you had to switch to individual 
 mode and guide each character separately.
  3. Overall, the game is great, but by the time I was to the third chapter. (about a 1/3 of the 
 way through the game) I had already determined who was what and what I would do in combat situations. 
 Although the game remained fun it became far too predictable. The same attacks and defenses over 
 and over.
  4. Some of the in game lore is hokey. Like the super donkey that saved the miners and has a statue. 
 
  
  I would still recommend this game to anyone, but with the caveat that he or she isn't going to 
 find anything innovative about the game. This good game really doesn't take you to a new level, 
 but you'll feel good playing it anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 11:30 am PT
Review:  Immensive gameplay ever played on PC, i was hooked up playing this game, with so much storylines 
 and missions to take care of.
  
  There was plenty of Group Combats, which you could control a party of up to 8 adventurers or even 
 join 7 of friends in multi-player.
  
  Lots of Fierce actions, killing your enemies with lots of wepons and spells of your choice.
  
 
  Get hold of a beast and get him/her to carry your Heavy Load.
  Fine mighty wepons, magic, health etc.
  
  And the Amazing fantasy worlds you have to enjoy 
 on your travels, with breath taking landscapes and horrfic dungeons.
  
  Enjoy your self.
  
  Make sure your blood is burning with rage to kill on the battle field, lose the temptation 
 for a second, lose your life to them.!
  
  Awaken your soul to this game.
  
  *Not Finished* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sskkmiller
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 12:14 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my favorite PC games of all time. It is very fun and addictive right off of the 
 bat. It has a cool fighting engine that tended to get a little repetitive but killed things nonetheless. 
 Also, this game had some good length to it. It might not be the best of its kind but it is certainly 
 up an excellent addition to the genre. If you like games with blood, gore, action, adventure, and 
 thousands of enemies hurling themselves at you while you fight them off with a party specializing 
 in archery, melee and magic, then this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raynor
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 4:34 am PT
Review:  It's been a while since I played this game. I remember that I thought the graphics were beautiful. 
 But the gameplay left very much to be desired. At first, I thought it was really neat how you gained 
 experience in one of the three areas through continued use of those type of skills:
  
  Melee Combat
  Ranged Combat
  Magic
  
  But it turned out to be just too cumbersome and wasn't 
 fun to manage.
  
  I remember reaching a point in the game where I was getting slaughtered by the monsters. My characters 
 just kept dying on me. I thought I had worked pretty hard to put together a balanced team. But 
 I just kept dying and dying and dying.
  
  At the time, it seemed like the game would target my heavy hitting magic users so that they would 
 die first. Without their support, my front-line troops would die as well.
  
  I recall that the beasties were anachronistic. They seemed to look like robots.
  
  Another 
 one of the big problems with the game was its linear nature. With each new area, you would start 
 at some path, meander around for quite a bit and then end up in the next dungeon equivalent. It 
 just felt unnatural.
  
  The other problem was that you just couldn't teleport back to town with your loot. Typically, what 
 makes a game like Diablo 1, 2 or NeverWinter Nights fun is converting that captured loot into ever 
 better equipment. But if you can't carry more than a small percentage of the loot with you, then 
 it can be very frustrating. In DS, there wasn't any way to get back to town. So, you just had to 
 forge on ahead to the next town. I guess that is more realistic. But after playing those other 
 game, I just didn't have fun playing Dungeon Siege. 
  
  I never finished this game. I finished NeverWinter Nights but didn't play it again. I've played 
 Diablo 1 and 2 through several times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 16, 2005 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon siege is a great RPG game. Many new game play styles can be found in this game. First of 
 all - you can directly control up to 8 different players or party members and it is possible to 
 switch between them in no time. So you can collect lots of inventory items, there is even pack mule 
 in the game. Another interesting is the levelling up. There are 4 types of skills and these skills 
 increase as you use the associative weapon that mean melee weapon for melee skill. The game posses 
 a huge amount of spells and combat system of the game is nice. You can easily swith from melee to 
 spells or range weapon during battles. The single player campaign is just correct length. You have 
 to spent 30+ hours to finish the game, though sometimes it seems that i am wandering in the same 
 place. Graphics are looks amazing in high resolution. The main story behind the game is also strong. 
 Numbers of quests are not great. Though you have to kill enormous amount of enemies and travel 
 great distance in order to finish the game. And the last things that just irritate me are the game's 
 camera. but it's not a big issue. Overall a game to remember for long times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GCrocksPS
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 14, 2005 9:48 am PT
Review:  It just goes to show that even a boring young farmer can become a great warrior. Immerse yourself 
 in dungeon siege!
  I'm going to go right into it. The graphics, fuzzy when you're close up, are excellent at the righ 
 distance away. There are virtually no linear or prerendered backgrounds, and everything is new 
 from the moment you go over that bridge. The krug and your character are finely detailed, and everything 
 looks authentic. 
  The sound, depending on where you are, changes immediately with absolutely no pause in between, 
 and even though sometimes there is no music ( which is a good thing) it adds to suspense and atmosphere.
 
  The gameplay is superb, the plot deep, dark and twisted. You can imagine yourself there, and that 
 is what sets this apart from most games. Although some elments may look and feel wrong, you soon 
 realise it's what the game designers wanted you to think, and that in turn leads to a mind blowing 
 carnage filled thriller.
  A brilliant game, and you have no excuse to not buy it. 
  Go on... go slash the life out of some pug faced thing with a MASSIVE pitchfork or a HUGE steel 
 claymore.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yukapi_Wurumi
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 5, 2005 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege is a good game, and quite addicting (to me anyway) . I prefer it to the others similar 
 to it that I have played because it grabs my interest more, and has a more charming look and feel 
 to it. It also doesn't use women in skimpy outfits as a cheap attraction. Characters are logically 
 clothed, though many outfits are interesting and fun. It's not excessively gory, there's blood, 
 but nothing ridiculous.
  
  You can choose from several appearances for your character and name them. You start out as a simple 
 farmer, when you hear that the vile Krug have returned to plague your peaceful kingdom like they 
 did long ago. You set out to inform and aid others, and along the way acquire several party members, 
 optionally, with many to choose from throughout the game. There are ridiculous amounts of spoils, so 
 acquiring equipment is no hard task. You can also have a pack mule in your party to hold items. 
 
  
  You can have different party members proficient in one or more of 4 areas. They are melee, ranged, 
 combat magic and nature magic. There are also 3 attributes determined by which of the 4 they use 
 and how much they use them: Strength, Dexterity, and Intelligence. These determine which spells 
 they can cast and what equipment they can equip. 
  
  Party members can act singly or as a group. The battle system is auto-attack, but you can tell 
 the characters not to engage unless told to do so, to engage if attacked, or to engage freely, 
 and change their formation. 
  Health and Mana Potions are easy to use. If you have them in everyone's inventory, you can just 
 click on 2 buttons and every targeted party member that needs it will take a second to drink it 
 and go back to fighting.
  
  Difficulty-wise, there are difficulty modes so you can set that to whatever is challenging enough 
 for you. However, the dungeons and other large areas can be a pain to navigate. I consider myself 
 fairy thorough, but I missed some important things because the dungeons are so huge and tangled 
 and confusing. So if you aren't the type with enough patience to backtrack to find stuff you missed 
 occasionally, this may not be the game for you.
  
  Like I said before, it's addicting, and more fun than others that seem to overemphasize death and 
 doom and gloom. The graphics may not be the best out there, but camera angling is fairly easy, 
 and obstacles like trees disappear if your characters are past them so that you can keep a distance 
 and still see what's happening. I find the soundtrack rather lacking, the music gets quite boring 
 when you're playing for 5 hours.
  
  Overall, I think that if you like strategic combat games, you will probably like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erikempire
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 1, 2005 5:32 pm PT
Review:  I have played both Diablo II and Dungeon Siege and out of two DS is the more entertaining adventure 
 game. DS has a huge, wonderfully, detailed always changing world that will always keep you interested. 
 Also with hundreds of different weapon, armor, and spell selections to hack, slash, and zap hundreds 
 of different monsters, the type of game-play is always changing. The characters are always evolving 
 in to more powerful units, whether your party is big or small. Much better than square, boring, 
 Diablo. Try it for yourself , and you'll see why Dungeon Siege is completely wipes out Diablo II. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aniaml4890
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 31, 2005 11:50 am PT
Review:  This is a somewhat entertaining, but mindless game. Treat it as such and it will be somewhat enjoyable.
 
  
  It's classified as an action-rpg, but there's very little rpg feel to it. There's almost no story 
 and no character development. 90% of the game consists soley of hacking away at monsters away from 
 anything resembling civilization and NPCs. At one part of the game you go for nearly 10 hours straight 
 and only see one NCP.
  
  When you are hacking away at monsters it's tough to know if you're close to ending a segment of 
 monster killing or not. Boss fights aren't exactly exciting and a couple bosses are almost impossible 
 to kill.
  
  Another annoying part of this game is leveling your character. The way it's setup is that there 
 are four different classes you can work towards. They are melee, range, chaos, and nature. Nature 
 and chaos are the magic classes. As you gain experience you gain skill levels in your class based 
 on your chosen method of attack. Whichever your primary class is determines how your character 
 stats increase. Whichever class level is highest is your primary class which directs your stat 
 leveling. Therefore, if you have a 25 level melee character that you want to be a hybrid of a melee 
 and nature magic user, you have to level up your nature class until it's above the melee class 
 before you can gain substantial intelligence levels. This makes it incredibly hard to create a 
 hybrid character. However, it's almost impossible not to create hybrids. Characters who are soley 
 magicians have extremely low hitpoints. Once you reach about halfway through the game your mages 
 die all the time. This becomes really really annoying and can sometimes cost you the entire battle. 
 Therefore you are almost forced to level everyone up as melee characters to increase their strength 
 which increases intelligence the most until you are 1/3 or 1/2 the way through the game. Gaining 
 experience isn't an easy task either. There really isn't enough experience to gain. Therefore you 
 have to siphon exp off monster mages who spawn creatures. You've gotta kill at least 300 extrea 
 monsters to be near strong enough to progress in the game. It's a ridiculous system.
  
  Yet another annoyance is the mules in this game. You have to have at least 3 mules to carry around 
 all the crap you pick up. Otherwise you won't have near enough gold to fully equip your crew with 
 the best stuff. However, mules die easily and always run around when the enemy approaches. This 
 makes them tough to track down sometimes while they are dying. Therefore, you are forced to clear 
 out areas before proceeding. This means you have to move two parties instead of one which is such 
 a freak'n waste of time.
  
  The interface of the gameplay is actually pretty good. The camera angle smoothly rotates with mouse 
 location and you can zoom in and out easily. Hotkeys allow you to bring up specified weapon selections 
 or parties with ease. Selling or buying items is quick with a ctrl-click option. Also, picking 
 up items is very easy since there's a hotkey to command your party to automatically pick up stuff 
 in view. I suppose this technology comes at a cost, cause this game crashes a lot.
  
  I only finished about 2/3 of this game. I would've completed it, but it (ver. 1.11) kept crashing 
 and crashing. I've no will left to finish this already inferior rpg. I'm not sure how to fix the 
 crashing since I've seen so many people report the same problem. I've a year-old system with an 
 ATI x800GTO video card. I can't think of any reason it would crash. The crashes about every 1-2 
 hours. Sometimes they don't happen at all. About a third of the time it happens when I try to save, 
 so there's almost no way around the crashes. The last ten times I've played this game I've had 
 about five or six crashes total. I loast about a half an hour a piece from each crash.
  
  In conclusion, for such a weak rpg, no matter how nice the UI is, this game is too unstable to 
 be playable. I would suggest that people not even bother trying it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowGryphon
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 21, 2005 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Let me state, for the record, I am an FPS player first and foremost.
  Having said that, I have to admit that Dungeon siege is not a bad little game.
  I had dabbled 
 with Diablo in the past and found it rather uninteresting and uninspiring, so why would DS be different.
 
  Well, for me, it has alot to do with the donkeys. I like the fact that I am not hobbled in any 
 way by the limit of what I can carry, so exploring is much more fun.
  But this IS still a dungeon crawl, and it can get a little boring for me (I also play Guild Wars 
 and that has grown VERY boring for me after creating and beating the game with 2 characters) .
 
  
  But, all in all, graphically it's a very pretty and play-wise it's a great time waster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 18, 2005 6:09 pm PT
Review:  If you liked Dungeon Siege I you will love the new one. If you thought the first one was fair you 
 will like this one better.
  
  I played through DS 1 and found that it was wanting in character development and depth of story. 
 Not so with DS II, it is far better. The combat is better and the skill tree adds greatly to the 
 game. The teleporter takes some of the tediousness out and returning to familiar surrounds various 
 times increases the emotional involvement with the game world. 
  
  Multi-player is much better than the original.
  
  
  This game does not seem to stress a reasonable 
 gaming system. I have tried it on my high end (DIY OC Etc.) gaming rig with all settings maxed 
 as well as a mid level gaming rig and it runs fine on both.
  
  For those that like the action/RPG genre I highly recommend this game. If you like the pure RPG 
 genre DS II will certainly hold you over for the next few months. If all you do is play shooters 
 however than pass.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: patente101
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 18, 2005 12:58 pm PT
Review:  This game was supposed to be a Diablo-Killer. Is it ? Well if it had a better multiplayer and a 
 more polished gameplay, it would be.
  
  DS plays pretty well, but sometimes some of my playable characters just won't attack, even if attacked. 
 I dunno, maybe I need a patch or something, but it was very annoying.
  
  Dungeon Siege is beautiful. The Jade Gargoyles look as if they were made of real stone and the 
 spiders scared me (a little) the first time I saw them.
  
  The game have some pretty good musics, but the sound effects are even better. All the monsters 
 sound real and dialogs are well spoken. It's well woth the 9 I gave it.
  
  The quest is lenghty, filled with sidequests and you characters can evolve in many different ways.
 
  
  All in all, DS is a classic hack&slash filled with cool ideas (pack mules!) and with superior graphics. 
 Play it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoRay31
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 23, 2005 4:12 am PT
Review:  There's nothing spectacular about Dungeon Siege, especially at the time of this writing but, when 
 released it was a fun, interesting and immersive game that seemed to blend Gauntlet with squad 
 based combat. 
  
  Nothing about the game is awe inspiring or spectacular; however, marching around and finding items, 
 equipping characters with items accentuating their skills, and defeating increasingly difficult 
 enemies is fun, if not all that challenging. While the game space is not vast, it is fairly large 
 and the single player game keeps you focused on missions in a less than linear, non-regimented 
 way. Fans of the Fantasy RPG genre will likely enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 28, 2005 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Normally, I could care less about how good of graphics a game has, yet Dungeon Siege's are simply 
 amazing. Staves have a nice whirling effect, and spells are great as well. 
  
  I admit, it is basically a hack and slash, or cast two spells repetitevly, nor does it have a very 
 good story. However, there are plenty of mods out for you to enjoy that add quite a bit to the 
 game in all areas, for those who are inclinded to find them. 
  
  Now the thing I found most fun about this game, was the ability to mod it. I was amazed at just 
 how much you could do: make your own spells and effects, own weapons with their own effects, etc... 
 
  
  There are numerous major sieglets out, and around 10 many more in the works (sieglets being new 
 worlds to take an existing characters or start a new character in to adventure through) . There 
 are also hundreds of mods out doing as little as adding a few weapons or spells to the games, or 
 as far as adding new classes to the game. 
  
  For those looking to get into the modding scene, I havn't found any game easier to get involved 
 than Dungeon Siege. There's a very helpful community out there along with many tools to work with. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefting_kill
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 24, 2005 4:42 am PT
Review:  If you aren't looking for a long game, but that can the your life away if you wanted to, here you 
 go. Dungeon Siege has to be my favorite RPG ever developed. The storyline is great, the multi player 
 and single player experiences are just so addicting and fun it will waste hours of your life.
 
  
  The game play is very solid, and simple. Click on your opponent and he will attack, kind of like 
 an RTS, but you have a system to strengthen your player make him more powerful in skills with a 
 Bow, Sword, or Magic. There are hoards of enemies and they are very tough, sometimes. There are 
 many weapon, spells, and bow and arrows to strengthen your character with it's just fun. Your skill 
 for each weapon has to be up to a certain level in order to use the stronger weapons with restricts 
 a bit, in a good way. The storyline lasts long and will keep you addicted for hours and hours, 
 although sometimes you wonder what is going on in the storyline but you get over it for the sheer 
 fact of how many things you can do in the world of dungeon Siege. You will get characters to follow 
 your lead, such as dwarves, mages, and archers. Also the multi player is very fun you can have 
 you and a group of your friends go through the game in co-op who might have a ten times higher 
 level then you and sometimes it sucks. The A. I. is very superbly done, all your campanions will 
 follow your every foot step if you need them to or just want to be a big crowd. So the gameplay 
 is on the level of perfect and will surprise you once you get into the game. 10/10
  
  The graphics are really quite good they have a full scale world and you can backtrack the entire 
 world they have created. This games envirement has a lot of detail and little things that just 
 amaze you, but the character models disappoint me, but you don't notice that until a little close-up 
 happens in the cut scenes. The water effects are very well done and also a joy to look at, your 
 armor looks great when it is on, same with the weapons they just do it so well done you don't want 
 to stop looking at your character. The game also has a bunch of good effects when it comes to explosions, 
 and magic effects rock on solid. There is a graphics designer thing called Gmax that you can find 
 at www. discreet. com and if you download Gmax you can create your own levels skins, or designs its 
 really well done, and also free. The graphics are polished, and very well done and deserve its 
 rating. 9/10
  
  The sound is amazing, with your beautiful music surrounding you at all times as you go through 
 the ready world awaiting your rescue. The music is just so phenomenal that my ears can't get enough. 
 The sword sounds are a little stale and do the most impressive work, neither does the voice acting. 
 But your enemies make good grunting noises and will come at you with a force. The envirements seem 
 to be highly detailed, with birds in the back round and the animals, also with the add in with 
 the composed music will just blow you away. There are minor glitches that have happened to me, 
 there was a slowdown in the sound when I was in battle but it went back into place after awhile. 
 Well the sound is amazingly well done with phenomenal music and great surrounding sounds that make 
 you feel more into the game. 9/10
  
  The weakest part of this game is the value. One it will end fast, very fast, plus it is an easy 
 game, although you can set it on harder difficulties, but still it all ends very fast. The biggest 
 part of the value is how many different weapons, armor, spells, and how huge the world is just 
 makes the value much better. but if you want a fun game go buy and I guarantee you will have one 
 of the best times in an RPG you haven't had in along time. 
  
  Overall, the game play is unique and I really enjoyed it. The graphics are awesome with a few slow 
 downs and has some issues with the models. The sound is epic and vast, with its musical score and 
 its unpleasant voice acting. I say you go buy it and have a good time, it is a great game and I 
 plan to keep on playing it till the second one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StormRaider31
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 10, 2005 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Even though Im just now writing a review I bought this game when it first came out and have Luvd 
 it ever since. I luv the no load times between zones, I luv the fighting, I luv the background 
 music, I LUV the Graphics. Once I cleared out an area I'd spend time just looking around. Still 
 do. I liked the books it added an additional quest feature and if I wanted the info I could read 
 it and if not I didnt. I also liked not having to walk up to that many people in order to get 
 necessary info or quests. I LUV the skill development system. Simple and straight forward if you 
 use the skill you develop in it and if you don't you dont thats reality. I really found it refreshing 
 not to have to choose what I wanted to be at the beginning of the game and being completely stuck 
 with it. I also liked being able to choose to wear what ever kind of armor or carry what ever kind 
 of weapon as long as I was strong enough or skilled enough to use it that's reality. I liked being 
 able to turn the blood off but leave the dismemberment on. Its been almost 2 years now and for 
 me Dungeon Siege is still a pleasure to play. However, I really would have liked a target strongest 
 command. I also would have liked to have played the on-line game map, off-line. Im just not into 
 on-line play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nictipoloi
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 7, 2004 5:17 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that can become a classic, 'cause it has all the elements that make a great rpg: 
 a lot of customization of the main character, a lot of magic items, a lot of spells, a lot of weapons 
 and armours, a lot of charms and potions... but on the downside, the sum of the parts its not so 
 great. If you are a veteran for this kind of games, after a while you 'll suffer the "been there, 
 done that" syndrome. 
  This is a good game, and in my humble opinion, this is a very good starting point for someone with 
 desire for starting with rpg, but little time. The SAVE feature works just fine, and you can uset 
 anywhere.
  The graphics are right, not the best, not the worst, and, even if sometimes the walls and archs 
 block your line of sight, this is not the rule. The sound is right, but nothing else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randar23rhenn
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 24, 2004 5:20 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege has some really good concepts in it. It is a great hack and slash with some innovative 
 gameplay. The only major problem is that it can basically play itself for you.
  
  Gameplay: Dungeon Siege is a mixed bag. While the various weapons, armor, etc. to collect -as well 
 as multiple sidequests and characters- give you some great options... battling enemies is a major 
 bore. Once your character is attacked he immediately runs up and starts hacking away at the enemy... 
 usually you can beat just about anything in this manner, there is almost no strategy involved at 
 all. The battle system almost kills this game, as it does everything on its own- but what saves 
 this game from mediocrisy is the fact that it has some very cool innovations. 
  
  The main innovation is the skill system. Your character develops proficiency based on what you 
 use with him/her. If all you do is melee your way through the game, your character will build up 
 a huge melee skill and become a walking tank, while in the same way, if you only use nature magic, 
 your character will become a healing madman/woman. It is truly a joy to be able to customize your 
 character to your needs this way, and thie ambition is readily visible in this design. If only 
 the battle system had been so ambitious with itself, this game could have achieved near perfection 
 in gameplay.
  
  Graphics: some of the best graphics to be seen on the PC for the time, though now they are about 
 average (however I judge games by the time period they came out) ... by today's standards the graphics 
 would be around a 7.
  
  Sound: The repetitive sound of whatever your character does to attack gets exceedingly annoying, 
 and the lack of enough music really brings this score down. I hope Microsoft fixes this issue in 
 the sequel.
  
  Value: This game is around 20 hours long, and has some moderate replay value. It is fun enough 
 to want to play through at least two times, and that helps the value, but it also needs more meat 
 in it to be a superb value.
  
  Tilt: Dungeon Siege is a great game that is deserving of the upcoming sequel- if the problems with 
 the original can be fixed, I believe the sequel will achieve the superb status the original could 
 not reach. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 8, 2004 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege attempts to be a Diablo2 with 3D graphics but the gameplay is so simplified it insults 
 the intelligence of anyone who plays it. Diablo 2 with the add-on at least allowed for a level 
 of difficulty to challenge just about anyone. Here with Dungeon Siege one almost feels the game 
 is playing itself and you are just watching.
  
  Leveling up isn't as fun as it could be because everything is done for you. 
  
  The graphic 
 engine is surprisingly blurry and low-res even at the highest resolution settings. Blurry bitmaps 
 are everywhere and there just aren't anough polygons to any object or enemy to make the game feel 
 immersive. Everything is too blocky for a game made in 2003.
  
  Whoever made this game for Microsoft should not be allowed to make more PC games. It defines what 
 a "mediocre game" is. Microsoft, read my review!
  
  Gamers would do best to play something better like Knights of the Republic. That game isn't perfect, 
 but the combat is fun and the story-line is often good. Baldur's Gate is 2D but again, it blows 
 Dungeon Siege out of the water.
  
  This game is a stinker. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2004 12:39 am PT
Review:  This is one of my Favorite games and will always be! I used to hate RPG's, they bored me.... but 
 then i played the demo of this... and that changed my mind. Microsoft games did such a great job 
 on this game, it truely is amazing. This game kept me hooked in for hours and hours. The story 
 keeps you into the game, and tryin to build your character higher and higher is fun. The Graphics 
 are very nice, and have all the fancy little things in it. THe sound, The music is amazing!!, and 
 very well done. The sounds themselves are very well done. I suggest this game to anyone, even if 
 your not a RPG fan, this game will make you one!. And it even comes with the expansion now, which 
 adds to the greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BJ1947
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 26, 2004 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege is a well designed and thought out RPG and I enjoyed playing it. However, the party 
 system was a bit difficult to manage during heavy battle sequences, and there was an apparent bias 
 on the game designers' part toward making the gamer's personal character a warrior type, rather 
 than a magic user. Magic is available for use by all party members, but it was difficult to get 
 my stats up to a sufficiently high level in magic, because of the temptation to use weapons in 
 melee and long range fighting. Magic stats simply don't rise fast enough to make a really stunning 
 magician or wizard out of the gamer's character. They DO rise fairly rapidly for NPC's in the gamer's 
 party. The mule was a really nice surprise and a useful adjunct to the war party, but it should 
 not have forced a choice of mule vs. human party member -- a difficult choice at best to make. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeyondZork
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 9, 2004 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This game sets a standard for graphics in RPGs. It is beautiful, accomplished, and truely amazing. 
 The environments are gorgeous, the monsters and characters highly detailed, the weapons and "dress 
 up" of your characters is delightful, and the combat is intense. The audio is also well fit and 
 immersive.
  The gameplay is tight and efficient, and all in all the framework for this game is IDEAL for a 
 terrific RPG. Ultimately, though, the game falls just short of reaching that goal.
  While Microsoft had all the resources necessary to create a beautiful RPG, and ended up doing just 
 that, no amount of money can write a good Fantasy RPG. It has to be inspired, and in order to do 
 that a writer has to have a love for RPGs. This is where they fell short.
  This graphics engine is the one I had dreamed would one day bring us a Baldur's Gate title, or 
 a Wizardry title, or a throw back D&D campaign. It is beautiful 3D, with the ability to rotate 
 the camera and zoom in and out. It is similar to NWN but even that game falls short of creating 
 a truely inspired campaign experience.
  Take the original Baldur's Gate, stick it in this game engine, and you'll have a 10.0 the best 
 game ever created.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dylsdad
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 12, 2004 11:21 am PT
Review:  Ok threshhold, Your saying this game sucks and not giving any reasons? This isnt the review for grand 
 theft auto 3. AND you say that the pc version of grand theft auto three sucks because you cant save 
 any where? Just by saying that you are saying The WHOLE resedent evil series sucks also! I hate Dum 
 little kids like you. If you want to say a game stinks. Give reasons. Grand theft auto 3 SUCKS because 
 all you do is kill innocent people and steal stuff, How fun.
  
  Back to the matter at hand, This is a great game! The quests are fun, The plot is very good, And the 
 graphics blow me away, This is a fairly old game. I was looking threw my games and came across it, I 
 popped it in and installed it. After a while I was playing a great game. I am also playing never 
 winter nights and i must say they are both very very good. I shun all who Dont like this Great game.
 
  
  Kudos Dungeon Seige, Kudos
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 5, 2003 10:58 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Siege is a simple hack-and-slash game, like a 3D version of Diablo. It is a good game to 
 pick up for maybe a half hour or hour at a time and mess around with for a while, but it gets dull 
 before too long. This is not to say that it is not a quality title. The game looks very good and 
 has a great ambient musical score. However, it is about as shallow as you can get, mind-numbingly 
 repetitive, and unoriginal in lots of ways
  
  You will probably like the game the best when you start to play it. The atmospheres look gorgeous, 
 and you can jump right in and start hack away. The characters and monsters in the game look very 
 good, have good animation, and they show lots of detail. When you don a different set of armor 
 or a new helmet, you can see the difference in your character on the screen, even if it was a small 
 change. Combat is about the only part of the visuals that is not excellent. The spell effects and 
 fighting animations are kind of average. Neverwinter Nights has a better 3D combat engine, and 
 so does Warcraft 3 (which is incredible) .
  
  This game is very easy to pick up and play. The interface is logically designed, and it is obvious 
 that it was play tested extensively. However, its hard to not get bored with this game after a 
 half-hour. Dungeon Siege is mind-numbingly repetitive, both in terms of areas that you visit, and 
 enemies that you fight. One dungeon early in the game drags on endlessly, as you fight wave after 
 wave after wave of skeleton warriors, skeleton archers, and spiders. The sides of every room are 
 adorned with chests that can be broken open to reveal 13 gold pieces or your 20th pair of leather 
 gloves. Every area in the game looks good perhaps when you first enter it, and then wears out its 
 welcome long before you exit.
  
  The character development system is overly simplified, and its not very satisfying. There are 
 only four basic skills, and three basic attributes, and there arent any cool abilities. Level-ups 
 come slowly, which wouldnt necessarily be a problem, except that little of significance seems 
 to happen when you gain a level. Its not like the Dungeons and Dragons system, where you can sense 
 your characters getting more powerful after gaining just a couple of levels. Dungeon Siege doesnt 
 have that feel, which might be why it is not an addictive game. I have gotten quite a bit in to 
 the game, but I cant really get myself to finish it.
  
  There are a lot of role-playing games that are better than Dungeon Siege. Divine Divinity, in particular, 
 has the depth and story of a great RPG to go along with the hack-and-slash entertainment. Dungeon 
 Siege might have been good when 3D engines in RPG's were new, but now it's just boring. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
