-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dungeon Keeper
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/dungeonkeeper/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  9, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.2, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 1,366 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Bullfrog Prod.
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Jun 26, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A rich strategy game that is both intuitive and challenging, both innovative and polished. 

 
 Bullfrog is back. Forget for a second all the talk about Molyneux's exodus. Forget for a moment 
 the lukewarm offerings like Gene Wars and Theme Hospital. Forget also the recurring delays and 
 disappointments in Dungeon Keeper's creation. It's a rich strategy game that is both intuitive 
 and challenging, both innovative and polished.   

 You're the bad guy looking to protect your hard-earned gold and resources from the repetitive incursions 
 of irritating do-gooders and rival keepers. Fortunately, you'll have plenty of tools at your fingertips 
 to help keep the enemy vermin out and your own vermin happy. You will build lairs for them to live 
 in, hatcheries to feed them, and training rooms to hone their skills. More advanced rooms like 
 libraries, workshops, prisons, and graveyards will help you attract new minions and research and 
 manufacture new structures as you confine, and confuse, your enemies in your newly constructed 
 palace of pain.  

 As in any enterprise, it's often hard to find good help when you need it. Warlocks are great at 
 researching new spells, but become very destructive when bored. Dragons are fantastic combatants 
 and researchers but quickly become annoyed when you can't pay them. Horned Reapers, your greatest 
 weapons against humanity, can also be extremely... difficult. Keeping all of your monsters working 
 and fighting efficiently against the enemy and not against each other can be the most trying aspect 
 of this game, and only the most clever and patient of keepers stands a chance.  

 The best thing about Dungeon Keeper is that it presents you with all of these problems in a very 
 entertaining, very addictive format. Like X-COM and Civilization before it, Dungeon Keeper uses 
 research to keep you interested by promising more rooms, more spells, and more monsters to help 
 you as the game continues. Gameplay never stagnates as each level becomes increasingly difficult, 
 throwing curves in the form of tougher foes, less room to build, fewer resources to mine, or combinations 
 of the three. Multiple character animations add to this flavor, delivering a different response 
 when you throw a warlock into the torture chamber than when you throw in a bile demon. Fans of 
 variety will also quickly notice that all of the action can be viewed from almost any angle, including 
 a first-person "in the creature" view that changes depending on the monster being possessed at 
 the time.  

 Dungeon Keeper does suffer from its share of problems. Combat is a little bit too simple, and basically 
 revolves around you picking up a load of monsters and dropping them in front of your enemies - 
 probably not exactly what tactics and strategy experts are looking for. Like your employees in 
 Theme Hospital, your monsters can get upset for no apparent reason, and it's often hard to keep 
 them happy (until later levels when you have access to the temple) . And finally, net play often 
 slows to a crawl unless every player involved switches over to low-res mode.  

 None of these problems keeps Dungeon Keeper from being among the best games released so far this 
 year, and any fan of real-time strategy or classic fantasy role-playing games should run right 
 out and buy this game. Hopefully, this is the new face of Bullfrog... now bring on the new Populous! 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (33 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TheyCallMeTsch
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2009 11:49 am PT
Review:  In Dungeon Keeper you play as a dungeon keeper. Pretty simple aye?
  Using your mouse, you control your own dungeon and the creatures inside and destroy anything and 
 everything else in your realm. There are a large variety of creatures, traps, spells, you name 
 it, to add into your dungeon. Using imps, dig through the ground to find gold for your treasure 
 room and dig out rooms for your monsters to live in, train in, eat in, ect.
  
  You won't always be the only Dungeon Keeper either, so there are times when you need to teach rival 
 dungeon keepers where they belong. Or if the Lord of the Land and the other "heroes" get a little 
 uppity, let your monsters take care of them. Or, drop them into your torture chamber and slap them 
 around a bit. Don't let them into the heart of you dungeon though, that's where your heart is also!
 
  
  I can easily recommend this game to anyone and everyone everywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colonel_here
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Keeper has been hailed as a revolutionary game and so it is. It has done something new 
 for computer gaming industry.
  The fantasy gaming has been born out of the desire of to immerse into the works of J. R. Tolkien 
 and other fantasy writers. And so the Dungeons and Dragons was born, and than it expanded to the 
 computers. As Mat Barton's Dungeons and Desktops points out the role of Dungeon Master from Dungeons 
 and Dragons is given to the player in Dungeon Keeper. This is the first time something like that 
 is attempted before the role of Dungeon Master has been played by the computer. In difference with 
 Dungeons and Dragons where Dungeon Master is neutral in Dungeon Keeper the player is evil and bent 
 on destroying heroes that go to his dungeon for the dungeon crawl. And it is truly a dungeon crawl 
 for the computer controlled heroes who go thought the dungeon to vanquish great evil as it usually 
 is or one can interpret the dungeon heart that looks like some kind of magical precious item as 
 that orb that appears at the end of the dungeon in the dungeon crawl. In addition, the same classes 
 are seen as in Dungeons and Dragons: Thieve Warrior/Knight, Barbarian, and Wizard with races being 
 elves, humans and dwarves. 
  The concept of the game drew a lot of popularity because it appeals to the wants of players that 
 looked for a chance to play for evil were tired of good triumphing all the time. The game tries 
 not to give the evil side any reason to make the player understand why Dungeon Keeper is evil. 
 He just is and that what makes it great. The player doesn't see himself being right in what he 
 dose as Dungeon Keeper, all the actions are evil.
  And so let's first look at the content that comes with the game. There is short story that is amusing 
 to read and nicely written with the spirit of the game. Than there is a manual that is made to 
 look like the book from Middle Ages. The manual is long and through and explains all the game and 
 everything present there. It details the rooms of the dungeons, the creatures and the heroes as 
 well as the spells that the Dungeon Keeper can use and those that the creatures and heroes could 
 use. There is an error in the manual with regards to cave in spell ability to create land on the 
 water, I tried it and it doesn't work. However, reading the manual is not essential as the game 
 has its own tutorial missions that do a great job of teaching about the game. 
  Now to the game itself, there are plenty of good things in the game itself. The graphics (and I 
 don't mean the quality as this is old game) are great, each creature has its own graphics for variety 
 of situations, from when they are fighting, working, being tortured or picked up. All of them have 
 unique first person view when they are possessed by the player. This is another good thing about 
 the game the variety of ways to interact with the creatures and the environment. Ability to possess 
 the creatures changes the game to different level and allows admiring the dungeon from the first 
 person view. Here is the second plus is the look of the dungeon. It does look like one with some 
 dimly lit corridors (when you are in first person) and each room has distinctive decoration to 
 it. The cursor adjusts to the environment and often presents itself as devilish looking hand which 
 is nice. The dungeon shakes as the keeper lays the rooms is another interesting add on. There something 
 else needs to be noted, whether intentionally or not the game puts your dungeon keeper in red while 
 the enemy dungeon keeper is blue and the heroes are white. This is interesting change from the 
 default arrangement of the strategy games where often the default colour for the player is blue 
 and the enemy is red. Whether this arrangement is due to the effects of the Cold War on the industry 
 (NATO = blue, Warsaw Pact = red) .
  The sound is also good as each creature has distinct sound and there sound for when the player 
 builds the rooms. Additional sound effects also add to the game experience. There is advisor's 
 voice that sounds right as the advisor should be. Exactly who is this advisor is hard to say but 
 I would take creative license to call him the devil sitting on the players shoulder. The music 
 soundtrack I did not notice, and I am not sure if it was there. However it is not really needed.
 
  The gameplay itself is great as it changes the approach to the strategy game. The units arrive 
 themselves without the need to build them, just build proper rooms. They have to be persuaded to 
 train but they will choose to do that and can choose to do something else. Of course, the creatures 
 that are trained and so have higher level are better fighters. The creatures need sleep and food 
 and have their own schedule and ask for money. The question remains as to what they do with it. 
 Some creatures appear differently through the transformation process of the dead in the graveyard, 
 prisoners in the prison or torture victims in the torture room. In addition, there is possibility 
 to attract creatures to join from the enemy's side. Finally temple allows generating new creatures 
 as well as receiving certain bonuses through sacrifices done there to the dark gods. 
  However, the creatures do have mood swings and they also do not like some other creatures, this 
 adds to the game as the player has to manage these creatures to prevent them from killing each 
 other. Also worthy of the notice is the unique characters of the creatures are reflected by the 
 fact that they have distinct names. The manufacture of items such as doors and traps is done through 
 the workshop where the creatures choose to work, so are the spells and rooms are researched by 
 the use of the library where the creatures choose to research. This is all gives the game a very 
 different character.
  Another small thing to add is the fact that each room has a flag that indicates the efficiency 
 of the room in performing its job, how full is it and how much it has health to resist being converted 
 by the enemy. This is additional perk as the game allows player to capture enemy rooms.
  I also would like to point out the ease with which one can cast spells here in the busy fight. 
 The spells are cast by pointing at creature icon and casting the spell rather than aiming in the 
 game world. That option is also available.
  Than there is the great story that the single player campaign follows. The player sees a lush land 
 of green with blue seas and blue sky. However, this supposed to disgust the evil dungeon keeper 
 and every land that is conquered turns into barren earth with lava flow. The more is conquered 
 the more things change, seas change colour so does the sky. Each mission is accompanied by before 
 and after messages that describe what was the land before and how it transformed thanks to the 
 player. The story advances beautifully and has allusions to the Ultima game by calling the grand 
 good hero avatar and giving him the same image as the he has in Ultima.
  The ending cinematic for the campaign is done nicely with the same dark humour as the rest of the 
 game.
  Finally, the game has hidden levels and bonus level last one appears during the full moon. There 
 are also plenty of other Easter eggs that the player would love.
  Well the game has some bad things as well. The first thing I would like to point out is the computer 
 A. I. assistant that is given to the player that supposed to make the player's life easier but in 
 my opinion makes it harder due to inadequate A. I. The same goes for the computer enemy A. I. The 
 difficulty is only added by the starting conditions and the restrictions on the human player. The 
 traps that are present in the game look a lot alike and so are hard to distinguish. The second 
 part is that is the traps and doors can't be requested and build at will by the creatures. Of course, 
 if there is too many of them in the workshop remaining than the creatures complain about the lack 
 of room to work. 
  Finally the spells and the possession mode are not as useful to the player as many spells could 
 only be cast over one's territory. And possession doesn't add enough to the game to make the action 
 worth the time.
  The game has also major flaw, which is lack of skirmish mode against computer in single player. 
 The campaign is the only thing available which after is done could mean the end of interest in 
 the game as even though there are bonus hidden levels they do not add drastically to the game.
 
  Another minor flaw is the fact that opening cinematic does not much the game entirely as the alarm 
 trap doesn't look like that in the game. So is the entrance that the hero uses looks like a castle 
 rather than the entrance to the dungeon that heroes use in the game. However this problem was common 
 in those days as cinematic was often made before game was finalised.
  One thing that is left unanswered is what exactly Dungeon Keeper is; there are numerous mentions 
 in the game to Dungeon Keeper as physical entity. Enemy Keepers even promise to feed Dungeon Keeper's 
 corpse to their minions, but Dungeon Keeper physically is nowhere to be found. Same goes for his 
 advisor. 
  Of course, than there is realism (believability of the game world) problems. There appears to be 
 no explanations for how it is possible to hold up the ceiling on the large rooms that Dungeon Keeper 
 builds, nor real explanation for how Bile Demon moves around with no legs and skinny arms. How 
 come chicken eggs pop out of the soil is also unexplained. The hero entrances just look too weird 
 in comparison to the portals used by the creatures. Than there are also snow levels, there is no 
 explanation about how the snow got under ground or how come it is not melting when it is next to 
 lava flow. I understand this is fantasy game how for a player to become immersed into the game 
 the fantasy must be believable. There is also lack of explanation about how do the creatures get 
 outside to destroy the world as it is described by the voice of mentor.
  Overall this game is great and accomplishes a lot of things. It fulfills the role of being entertaining 
 and in addition it is also is able to pass on the message of how hard it is to be the evil guy 
 and how hard it is to manage different people with egos, likes and dislikes and to satisfy their 
 needs at the same time. In terms of the improvements the game could make is the number one being 
 ability to get some money back out of the creatures because on many maps the gold is finite resource 
 and creatures ask to be paid more and more.
  The other thing that would be great is ability to order doors and traps that the player needs than 
 just wait for them to be manufactured. 
  Finally a better creature management and grouping system for combat system would also be great 
 as it would help to move the creatures to the battlefield more effectively. This means also the 
 ability to pick up more than 8 objects and ability to determine exactly what the creatures are 
 doing as research; manufacturing and training are shown on the creature list by the same icon. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomu
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  For years, I didn't play Dungeon Keeper. Mainly because I didn't like the whole idea of an RTS/RPG/Management 
 sim. It sounded like it was trying to be too many things at once, and generally that doesn't turn 
 out well.
  
  Whoa boy, did I miss out on something great. I was perusing through my friends old game collection, 
 and he had a copy of DK Gold and DK2 lying around that he said he never used anymore, and since 
 I had been looking for just about anything new to play he let me take them. I settled down and 
 started my first dungeon. I did not sleep that night. I clocked in 12 hours, each new dungeon the 
 game threw at me just got better and better and better. Why had I avoided this game for over 10 
 years? I'll never know.
  
  It IS an RTS/RPG/SIM game, but it does all 3 things perfectly. The challenge is perfect, too. It 
 knows how to increase the difficulty without becoming frustrating. I found myself having more and 
 more fun as harder and harder dungeons were given to me by the game. Then, I ran out. That was 
 a sad moment... oh well, on to the Deeper Dungeons. Deeper Dungeons is a bit more frustrating, 
 but I STILL had fun. It provided the quick fix I needed to expand my gameplay. I then played through 
 them all another time but changing my play to get better scores. When I was done with that, I downloaded 
 an editor and made my own dungeons.. I'm still not sick of the game, but now it's time to move 
 on... to Dungeon Keeper 2!
  
  It has been YEARS since a game has gripped me as tight as Dungeon Keeper, and I wish I had discovered 
 this game before. I'm sure that if I had known how great it was then, I'd still be playing it 10 
 years later. Oh well, I still have another 10 years! This is easily the best hybrid style game 
 I have ever played, and its easily the best Sim game I have ever played. I plead that Lionhead 
 Studios, the new incarnation of Bullfrog, gets the rights back for a DK3. 
  
  Evil is good... evil is very, very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mickeyminime
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  When my dad bought his first PC, he had a disc that came free with it. it had a few demo's and 
 dungeon keeper was one of them. at first i thought it looked rubbish. but it wasnt. a year later 
 or so, i bought the origional Dungeon Keeper. i must have been 6years old and still play it and 
 im now 20. the amount of times i played it, it still works. the first 4 levels may look like nothing, 
 but when you reach the 5th, the first time you encounter another keeper, just like you. its time 
 to stock your fridges and call work that you are feeling ill. the game became very addictive after 
 that level. you could build a dungeon, lay deadly traps, control an army of vast creatures, take 
 and tourcher the enemy or even convert them. research spells, mine gold and annoy or realy drive 
 your rival keeper nuts when you lead his army in to a trap. the more keepers there are, the more 
 interesting it will be. the game becomes very easy when you play it loads of times. you know every 
 secret, every passage, every trick in the book. watch your suroundings because what you do will 
 either let you win... or lose. they have a great selection of spells and creatures in the game. 
 i have 3 dungeon keeper games, the origional, DK Gold which has the origional and deeper dungeons 
 and finaly the DK2 which sadly was not as good as i had hoped. The map editor is good, create or 
 edit the origional maps. get avators to enter you portal to join your cause. have all rooms on 
 the first level etc. there are billions of games, 95% of them are dreadful, 4% are great and the 
 last 1& are just brilliant. Dungeon Keeper is the last 1%, it rocks and will always rock for generations 
 to come..... ITS GOOD TO BE BAD!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechosenone007
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  The game has 20 levels of excitement and blood, great game, you get to control every monster on 
 your team, and make your very own Dungeons with the help of Imps! Great game if you like Mythical 
 monsters! Use different magic spells, use your creatures powers to defeat and own other enemy dungeons. 
 The game is so addicting you will be on it FOREVER! I was, you will! Also get to have VERY large 
 battles with the enemies. I say it is the best game EVER FOR THE PC! I rate it a 10/10, because 
 of the great gameplay, also a tiny bit of comedy. I just love the way giant beetles and flies can 
 kill 10 humans, thats the stuff that is great about this game! If you dont like this game, there 
 is honestly something wrong with you! Just a few more words: BUY IT, PLAY IT, LOVE IT! Great game. 
 Recomend! SEE YA LATER! ; ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Octaaf7
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  I really never played a games that is better then this 1
  I hope EA makes DK 3 soon:)
  hmmm oke I just simply keep talking about how awesome this game is!
  If EA is not going to make 
 Dungeon Keeper 3 I'm going to:)
  no JK but why doesn't they make DK3? I mean so manny people love this game. Look at every forum, 
 every one is very positive about this game!
  They were making DK3 a while ago but they canceld it... why? I don't know, but they really need 
 to go further with it!
  for me
  for you
  for everybody!
  
  Greettz Octaaf! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartharel
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  For a game made in 1997, its quite outstanding that im still finding it fun in 2007. The ultimate 
 rts god game bar nothing, after 10 years i have only ever found one glitch and that can quite easily 
 be avoided. (The glitch is using teleport whilst in possession whilst in a place not accassable 
 to the creatures lair - sometimes your creature just dissapears and never comes back)
  
  A long campaign with an evil yet humourous take on things means that you stay amused right up until 
 the end of level 20. unlike most of the other RTS's, you have to raise your minions into fabled 
 fighting machines, and you can have them do whatever you want, whether it be reserching spells, 
 building traps, being lazy or being tortured. such blindness loyalty lol...
  
  Having completed this game 10 years ago, i have been waiting eagerly for another of its type. dungeon 
 keeper 2 didnt match up to it, dungeon keeper 3 was cancelled, black and white was tedious after 
 a while etc. Although i would not recomment buying this now as it is so old and for gamers used 
 to state of the art graphics it would be bad, there is one game i really want and thats Overlord 
 on the 360. i can only hope it can come close to Dungoen keeper, if thats possible... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psp_coder
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  Not many people know that this was the last BullFrog game that Game-God Peter Molyneux Worked on. 
 And it really shows that he poured all his superb talent into this game. This game puts you in 
 the Shoes of The Dungeon keeper. And your job is 1) To Build a Healthy Dungeon, with plenty of 
 devious monsters
  
  2) To Hoard a Healthy Amount of Gold And
  
  3) To Dispose of all Would-be Heroes who Dare to dive into the dark, damp depths of Your Dungeon 
 to plunder your Gold.
  
  Well the Thing about this game is that it is Weird and freaky
  (But in a good way :) . The most engrossing feature of Dungeon Keeper is the ability to Possess 
 Your Monsters! Yes you See The World though whatever monster you have possessed. So for Example 
 if you possess a Wasp, then you will go into a First person view with a kaleidoscope screen, to 
 account for the bug eyes of the wasp!
  So in Short..... BUY THIS GAME!! You have NO Excuse not to, as it works on XP and with a bit of 
 tweaking it even works on Vista! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oils06mustang
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  Even though this game is old it's still one of my favorites. The game play is fun, and the hidden 
 items are still entertaining. It is unfortunate that Dungeon Keeper 2 did not keep the same style 
 of play. Just like Fallout 2 did, the style of graphics did not change, the play field just got 
 larger. Hope some one will continue this series and make an improvement over the first game in 
 graphics but not loose the players ability to explore. Expanding the playing grid will give the 
 player more opportunity to build a larger dungeon. Also, making the appearance of heros more often 
 and tougher would be an improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spurrv
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  The game has many strengths, for example the eternal hunt for gold which will destroy you if you 
 are too greedy. The torturechamber, now there's a great one. The monsters. The heroes. The spells. 
 The traps!
  
  All gooood stuff. Very fun to administer a slap on your boulder trap and utterly SLAY many enemies.
 
  
  The campaign is great, it doesn't get boring.
  
  Multiplayer is fun if you can find an opponent, which you probably won't.
  
  You can find this 
 game at many abandonware-sites and relive a great classic, if you have'nt played it... DO SO NOW. 
 this game is a MUST in the have played -pile.
  
  The graphics are crappy by todays standards, i can give you that. However, not really. Play and 
 you will see what i mean.
  
  The sound is the best ever, much sound, much fun, much evil.
  
  Ahhhh, have fun. Keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unshaken
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2007 3:17 am PT
Review:  Even though it's the year 2007, if I still had the game I would play it just for the heck of it. 
 For a game made a long time ago, this is a masterpiece. I'll never forget it, it's way more unique 
 than any of the other games that I've played.
  
  Difficulty: Gets harder as the game moves along, but through strategy and quick thinking you can 
 change the fate of your enemies.
  
  Gameplay: Addictive, fun, exciting, and most of all - an excellent replay value.
  
  Graphics 
 - Better than any game that came out in that year. Still OK for today's standards.
  
  Sound - Perfect, but there is no music! If only there was music...
  
  Overall - Excellent entertainment 
 and a good way to kill time!
  
  Best Feature - Instead of watching your creatures fight, you can target your own creature and control 
 it, using it's special abilities and doing more damage than it would normally do. Possessing the 
 warlock and the grim reaper (or whatever it's called) ROCKS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_reardant
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 28, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  Slapping your minions, hoarding gold and fighting the good guys who could ask for more?
  
  Dungeon keeper was surprisingly addictive, if only more games took the dungeon keeper view, many 
 games nowadays have the option to play as good or evil but the classics like dungeon keeper and 
 evil genius are just awesome, when I play a game I always want to play as the bad guys, or at least 
 have the option too. Dungeon keeper is the perfect game to flex your evil streak and slay some 
 chivalrous knights. The game does get increasingly more difficult I found but the forces of evil 
 have never been afraid of a little challenge, eh?
  
  Quite simply this is a perfect game for someone who enjoys an RTS and wants to play as the bad 
 guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 27, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  Who hasnt played Dungeon &amp; Dragons. In elementary school I was a fan. The endless books, the 
 maps, the lead figurines and of course the dice brought endless hours of imagination and fun. Even 
 at the small age, everyone wanted to be the one, the one who controlled it all, the one who got 
 to be name Dungeon Master (the DM) . Well this game everyone who plays is the DM. This game brings 
 such an interesting concept to gaming, as the player youre the one who designs, builds and operates 
 the Dungeon. The computer NPCs fight their way to the end. The game challenges you to put together 
 an adequate defense with monsters that have to co-exist with each other and not let those pesky 
 adventurers pass. Visually appealing, sometimes the game slowed down for me when there was too 
 many monsters and fighting going on especially in multi player on line play. The sounds are excellent 
 that not overdone. This game is one of a kind, adventure meet simcity and its done very well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 23, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Keeper For PC.
  
  Dungeon Keeper by Bullfrog boasts a new kind of gameplay ever. Normally, in war simulation games, 
 you play the goody side. Now, you are the baddie. Yes, finally, you can do whatever you want with 
 those little heroes that invade your precious underground home. You can torture them, starve them, 
 or just kill them straightaway. This is, Dungeon Keeper You are a dungeon keeper (makes sense, 
 else why is the game named that?) . Deep in the subterranean world, you look, out of a magical window, 
 at the green, beautiful lands of the realm of joy with a sickened expression on your face. Children, 
 happy. Bunnies hopping all over, free from worries. Gasp, people dying of old age and not plague, 
 disease or famine! This has got to go. With a wicked grin, you set off on your grand plans to make 
 the realm a smoking wasteland. War will be common place. Plague shall be universal. Ah..... yes.... the 
 sweet smell of rotting carcasses..... It just sends tingles down your spine, doesn't it, young 
 keeper? The story of the game roughly amounts to something like this. Considering that few games 
 ever let you be the bad guy, the story can be considered somewhat original. There is no overlying 
 quest: you basically go through every town and corrupt it. The game could have used a stronger 
 story, perhaps to corrupt a fair damsel (*wicked grin*) , but the desire to corrupt the realm will 
 have to suffice. The starting intro is wicked, though. It shows a knight trying to rob a dungeon, 
 and ends up being beheaded by the horned reaper. Yum.... fresh knight meat.... Gameplay : Dungeon 
 Keeper I promote new gameplay than any other game! Your creatures have a mind of their own, and 
 they will walk around the entire dungeon! When they are hungry, they will find your Hatchery, also 
 known as the canteen where fresh, lively chicks roam. They will also complain when they dont get 
 what they want, plus, they get money as well! Yes, money from YOU. They are working for you; do 
 you think you will get free labor? However, there are still your little faithful Imps that will 
 never betray you. Heck, they are made from YOU. Obviously they wont betray you, plus, these little 
 critters are fast, diligent and dont need survival needs. Graphics : Heres where Dungeon Keeper 
 totally slacks in. The graphics are pretty block-headed, and titles are square. However, they provide 
 average game play for the frequent gamer and dont hurt the eye a bit. It only so happens during 
 battle that the graphics seem to clip a bit and changes. Making it confusing, seriously. Other 
 than that, the chicks are clear, the Bile Demons are cool, and theres nothing much else. The best 
 part of Dungeon Keeper is able to possess your creatures! Now, you are IN the creature itself! 
 You can walk, move, and attack and cast your spells or special abilities! You can possess anything, 
 except your enemies. However, theres a slight disadvantage though. Because when you possess a 
 creature, you cant kill chicks and eat them. So, the creature may get extremely hungry after you 
 take a 3-D tour of your dungeon. One thing to note though, the map gets screwed after you de-possess 
 the enemy. Sound : Though the dungeon normally is filled with cranking noises of machines, Imps 
 screaming, humans yelp of agony, there are others as well. It gets extremely noisy during battles, 
 as yells and war cries could be heard. Lightning bolts zapping here and there, hacking and slashing 
 away. Really suits the atmosphere, I suppose. Goody heroes who get tortured under your order screams 
 as well, you can zoom in to take a look if you are that sadistic. But, thats what you get for 
 being the baddie, right? Dungeon Keeper is challenging, but not extremely hard. Because of this, 
 continuing the game is very addictive. Plus, you get to learn more about your creatures as you 
 advance; there are more heroes to torture and more Horned Reapers to find! Isnt that amazing? 
 This is a BUY for most war simulation lovers! Youll find a serious twist and youll get hours 
 and hours of fun game play! However, for war simulation haters, you could rent this game and try 
 it out. After trying it, and if you like it, get it obviously! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Termite551
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 22, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Keeper is a strange RTS in the sense that it makes you kill the Good guys and fight for 
 the Bad guys. The game is rather dark but very fun due to the grim and very good looking dungeons 
 you make, the creatures you will use to destroy the enemy, the great graphics (considering what 
 most games looked like at the time) and many other things. The Gameplay is superb. You start each 
 level with only your dungeon heart (the center of your dungeon, which if destroyed will bring about 
 your demise) and a few imps who will destroy rock and capture land to expand your dungeon. You 
 will make rooms on your captured land to attract, train, feed, rest etc the creatures that come into 
 your domain through the portals that you capture. The games currency is gold which your imps mine 
 at your will. Gold is used to cast spells, make rooms and pay your creatures when payday comes 
 around. every level has various objectives which when fullfiled you will proggress to the next 
 level to wreak havoc once more. The Graphics are also good. The game has a blend of 3d and 2d animation 
 which combines quite nicely. The dungeon itself is 3d, being fully zoomable and rotatable. The 
 creatures, certain objects and things are 2d but mix nicely with the 3d graphics. The sound is 
 great as well and gives your dungeon more gloomy character. Your Mentor is a over-polite voice 
 which will occasionally give insight on the situation and tell you what to do. Overall this is 
 a great game that any RTS fan, or any fan of games should try out for themselves. Termite551 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delpiero137
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Keeper is a game where you have to create your own kingdom to defeat all the good guys 
 with an army of different creatures. The creatures that can eneter your kingdom via portal are: 
 bile demons, dark mistress, troll, warlock,. In the game you have to build a series of rooms to 
 create your fortress. In each level you hsve to defeat the good guys to become the ruler of the 
 world. There are 150 lvls in the game and they are all wicked awesome! Whoever has the chance to 
 play the game play it! That is the best game in the world but the 2 isn't all it's cracked up to 
 be. So if you have a chance to buy it buy the 1 not the 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SIAIP
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 26, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  Finally you get a game that focus the evil way of life instead of the good, and with a nice humorous 
 twist. Dungeon Keeper was made before games became all about the graphics and not the gameplay. 
 It means you get a game that works incredibly well and are fun to play. The Al in the game is quite 
 good and if you buy Dungeon Keeper GOLD youll get Deeper Dungeons which even improves the AI. 
 The units in Dungeon Keeper are a bit bizarre but fun to watch. They are different kinds of needs 
 you have to satisfy or else our units will get furious, and leave your dungeon. You need to make 
 sure that your units, or creatures as they are called, has everything they need. Like a place to 
 sleep, to work out, to eat etc. which is challenging but additive and so much fun. Dungeon Keeper 
 GOLD gives you an editor that are a bit advanced, but the manual makes it easy to get around that. 
 Here you can do anything from level design to more serious scripting.
  
  Peter Molyneux has an ability to create a unique and solid environment that makes the game experience 
 superb. Unfortunately he has a tendency of making these great games into sequels, which are less 
 fun to play and strangely enough are much poorer than the 1st game. Why mess with perfection? Not 
 only did he do this with Dungeon Keeper 2, but also with Black and White 2. But there is no deny 
 that Dungeon Keeper should be tried by any real PC-Gamer. If you have nothing to do this weekend, 
 then pick up Dungeon Keeper GOLD. You dont need to pay full game-prize for it since it&acute; s 
 an older game (1997) , however the game provides a better game experience than must modern pc games. 
 And remember: It&acute; s good to be evil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamie15
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 2, 2006 4:47 am PT
Review:  Last weekend i was rummageing through my cuboard of old forggoten games when i discovered dungeon 
 keeper. I blew the dust off of the front of it to discover the horned reaper staring at me almost 
 tempting me to play it. Well it's safe to say that I gave into temptation put the disk in my pc 
 and started playing and I kept playing it for about 5 hours straight it was just like the first 
 time I played it and I loved it all over again. The dated graphics and annoying voice of your advisor 
 didn't really bother me as much as i thought because it is still agreat game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 26, 2006 5:04 am PT
Review:  Dungeon keeper, i paid a lot for it years ago and im still playing it.
  Dungeon keeper is definitely worth the price and the time.
  The game looks amazing, plays amazing 
 and runs amzazing.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Good singleplayer campaign with challenging levels, decent AI, very addictive due to the amount 
 of monsters and spells and stuff, multiplayer is fun to play.
  
  -Not a lot of strategy in this game, just drop your creatures in front of other creatures and watch 
 them fight.
  
  Graphics:
  +Good for a old game, runs extremely good, looks nice.
  good animation effects, no sudden crashes.
  FP view is nice.
  
  -When playing online lots 
 of lagging
  
  Sounds:
  +Nice sounds, cool enemy and monsters sounds, nice music.
  
  -Some stupid voices in some levels are really annoying
  
  Value:
  +Excellent value, Multiplayer 
 support, amazing campaign.
  
  -No comments
  
  Tilt:
  +Intro movie, Good first impresion, tutorials really help you, computer assistant.
  
  -Computer 
 assistant sucks
  
  Cya all, and have fun playing this game if you have it, if you dont have it then buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greena1983
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 4, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  I only wait for Dungeon keeper 3!!!!!!
  Tal vez uno de los mejores juegos q e jugado. Esta obra de arte malvada salio cuando todo el mundo 
 estaba atosigado con juegos n los q los chicos bonitos y buenos salvan el mundo. Gracias a Dios 
 El Disco ce rayo y ce rayo bien, No solo nos ponen en el papel de malos si no q n el de madre y 
 padre de las mas malvadas criaturas q hayamos vistos ,yo recuerdo q este juego era como tener una 
 familia feliz ( a su manera claro)
  La verdad con tanta tecnologia y avances en los graficos y juegos nose porque no ha salido la tercera 
 parte.......... Muy mal ah !!!!
  
  Este juego es tan imnovador como lo fue la saga de Warcraft , Por eso se merece una tercera parte 
 .
  
  Pepe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ernice
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2006 11:47 pm PT
Review:  despite the heaps of strategy games out there in the market today, Dungeon Keeper sets itself apart 
 from the rest with its innovative yet absorbing gameplay and simple mechanics.
  the minions in DK are all in all pretty fascinating, each with its own different set of attacks 
 and personality. the "buildings" offered to you for construction also range from the basic (lairs, 
 treasure room) to the outrageous (torture chambers, prisons) .
  what makes DK unique and extremely fun, is that it really makes you feel in total control of your 
 dungeon. the way its ran, the training and living conditions of your creatures. even feeding them 
 can put a little smile on your face. and the ability to attract and create those special minions 
 adds to the fun factor and longevity of the game.
  through it all, i'm pretty sure you will find something that makes it worth your while. be it a 
 quick and swift raid of your opponents or the slow and deadly torture of them all, the evil side 
 in you will surely be satisfied in every way possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 26, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  There have been very few simulations that allow the player to be an evil, ruthless tyrant. For 
 good reasons I'm sure. In 1997 the late Bullfrog Productions released what is arguably the greatest 
 "Evil Sim" to ever hit store shelves.
  
  In Dungeon Keeper you are... a Dungeon Keeper. The game doesn't pretend to tell an engaging story; 
 instead after starting a new game you are thrown into a dismal tower overlooking a peaceful looking 
 continent. Your goal? Well what does EVERY dark lord want? To conquer and corrupt the world! And 
 that is exactly what you do as you progress through the game's missions turning the peaceful looking 
 realms into dark, dreary death traps.
  
  DK allows you, the player, to craft a dungeon in each of the realms you must conquer. To do this 
 you always start out with a handful of magic based workers called "Imps" who are your dungeon's 
 work force, and the only creatures that won't turn on you. You must also claim a portal so that 
 creatures may join your dungeon's ranks. Of course, you must also support the creatures by building 
 a lair for them to nest in, as well as a hatchery for them to feed from. There are also other rooms 
 that are vital to your success such as training rooms, workshops, etc.
  
  In every realm your primary objective is to slay the Lord of the Realm. Sometimes there may also 
 be other requirements, but you always have to kill the Realm's master. There are of course random 
 adventurers who wander into your dungeon for one reason or another, and fortunately the combat 
 in DK is fairly straight forward. You can pick up creatures in your dungeon using the "Hand of 
 Evil", and drop them in front of an enemy if he is on your dungeon territory. Your creatures will 
 automatically engage the enemy. You have more than do-gooder heroes to worry about, though. Being 
 an evil Keeper, you have evil rivals with the same goal as you. Since there is no honor amongst 
 Keepers, you will often have to crush your rivals. All of the above can be made easier with magic 
 that you can get throughout the game; magic costs gold to use, but with it you can unleash powerful 
 lightning bolts, and possess your creatures and explore your dungeon from ground level.
  
  The graphics in Dungeon Keeper are decent. Characters are all 2D sprites, but the environments 
 in the primary isometric view, and possession view, are 3D and nicely detailed for the most part. 
 
  
  The audio in DK is nothing special, the music is somewhat of a techno-gothicish mix, and there's 
 barely any voice acting save your advisor blurting out random information, and the Lord of the 
 Realm taunting you when he enters your domain.
  
  If you ever wanted to play as the bad guy Dungeon Keeper is perfect. You can craft a dungeon, kill 
 heroes, and take over the world (well, a continent) all in one neat little package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redden06
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  amazing game, one of the first games i ever played, and trust me, i was hooked for the longest 
 time, the plot is just brilliant, its so much fun to play..... its alittle complex but you catch 
 on so quickly and it just sucks you in! it is alot of fun, graphics are great, sound is great, 
 the music is just so haunting and your creatures are so interesting, you never know whats gonna 
 show up next in your dungeon...... this game keeps you on your toes from the beginning to the end, 
 it gets harder and harder as you go on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hongkingkong
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 6, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  It isn't graphically stunning now but the gameplay is brilliant. It was followed by a disappointing 
 sequel which had better graphics but 'reinvented' the gameplay and ultimately ruined the franchise. 
 I am of course talking about Dungeon Keeper. If you have not played this game then you simply have 
 not lived. The game is set in a fantasy medieval era. Where the good peoplelive above ground, and 
 the evil creatures live in dungeons underground. The aim of the game is to tunnel through walls 
 using your worker imps, and build specailist rooms, attracting different types of creatures to 
 your dungeon. You have to work hard to maintain a ballance to pay your minions and train them up 
 to conquer rival keepers and the lord of the land. Here is a link to the Gamespot summary. Check 
 out the demo if you haven't seen it before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Saddler200
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  It's one of the best lookin games durring 1997, but the graphics does get kinda annoying, most 
 of the character models look pretty good, but still gets ugly at times.
  
  Sound:
  Everything sounds very very good, so i have nothing else to say.
  
  Gameplay:
  Its like being 
 the devil yourself u get to control almost everything in the game, but it does get fustrating if 
 u have a huge base so yah, but its too easy to beat some lvls, but there r some challenging ones 
 so im happy, oh and it might take awhile to learn everything.
  
  Value:
  Good value i guess lots of lvls to complete, but like i said its too easy and sometimes its way 
 too hard to beat, but still good value.
  
  Overall:
  This game is worth whatever it costs now, i donno i cant find it in stores so if u want to pick 
 it up then good for u, but if u dont, i dont care
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joezer3003
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Keeper was one of the first games I ever played, in fact, I think it was the first. I remember 
 playing it at my friends house, and then immediately going to the store and buying it. Although 
 the graphics arent the greatest, its a Bullfrog production, so the gameplay will make up for it. 
 And it does. You have over 20 rooms to build, each room, and combinations of these rooms attracts 
 different creatures to your dungeon. You then can train these creatures and crush the Lord of the 
 Lands army, or the enemy keeper. This formula starts off easy at first but it provides a great 
 challenge in the later stages. 
  Although this may get a bit repetitive near the final levels, it still remains relatively fresh, 
 due to the inifinte ways you can construct your dungeon. The creatures themselves are animated 
 quite well, and they each have their own unique was of doing things. The story is simple, but the 
 game is more gameplay driven than story driven. Unfortunately, that is one of Dungeon Keeper's 
 downfalls. There is no real story, except for crushing every opponent that comes at you. But thats 
 what makes it so cool and addictive. You, the evil lone rebel destroying all the innocent people. 
 
  The music, although not astounding, is very fitting for the scene. Because you are playing miles 
 beneath the surface, you have eerie music that really adds to the overall effect of the game. the 
 creature noises are excellent too. Even though its been a couple of years, I can still remember 
 clearly the sound of a bile demon as you slap him. 
  All in all, I would recommend this game to any strategy player, looking for something old school. 
 As well as conquering enemies, it is also a "city-builder" due to the fact that you have to build 
 up your dungeon, and make it "appealing" to your evil army of creatures. Good luck keeper, its 
 one hell of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drizzt_xx
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 1, 2006 3:27 am PT
Review:  Dungeon Keeper is a buried treasure that everyone should play. This game takes place in dark dungeons 
 were your mission is to turn all that is good into evil. You summon evil creatures to slay the 
 Heros from above. Though the graphics arent stunning the gameplay says it all. Dig 
 out rooms with your imps and build special rooms to attract different creatures. You can build 
 Lairs for your creatures to sleep in, a Hatchery which breeds chickens for your creatures to eat, 
 training rooms for you creatures to perfect the combat skills and abilities, and many other rooms 
 are available. I love the originality in this game its good to play at 12 at night because the 
 music is great, it makes you feel like your in the game. I give it a 95% 
  
  http://www. dunadan. net/drizzt/home. htm
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarrettJayjohn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I walked into my local Wal-Mart with $20 looking for a game to buy. I went to the PC games section 
 and looked for older games. I stumbled upon Dungeon Keeper and bought it for a mere $10. I took 
 it home, not expecting much, and realized what a great game it was. The gameplay is really what 
 set it apart, I had never played anything like it before. Dungeon Keeper is truely a revolutionary 
 game, though it does have a few downsides. The graphics aren't the best, but sufficient. The sound 
 is great, especially the narrarator, whose voice is dark and fits in with the title perfectly. 
 Don't expect to be playing Dungeon Keeper forever though, it's better to play more as a quick fix.
 
  
  All the elements go together to form a great, easy to pick up game. And even though it's a little 
 old, I'd suggest you pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGnintendoFAN
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 13, 2005 1:55 pm PT
Review:  This rather old dos/win 95 game is still getting played but why?
  
  This game is incredible, while it is not your standered stragety game is offers some solid gameplay 
 and interactivity, from using ur useless combat imps to dig gold and reinforce your dungeon to 
 the all-mighty horned reaper created by your sacrifice of creatures.
  
  There is so much stuff to do in here it is unbeliveable, from imprissining the enemy or your own 
 creatures and turning them into skeletings, putting an enemy in a torture chamber to reveal information, 
 steal gold and turn them into ghosts, spells such as lighting, turn a creature into a chickin, 
 create an avalanche, make a cave-in or even make traps like the rolling boulders and lava traps. 
 If your creatures just get unhappy put them in the temple and make them happy. Or send some hell 
 hound fire breathing dogs into the scavanger room and attract more enemies into your dungeon while 
 stealing some others.
  
  If you ever want to be part of a monster then your wish has come true, get a first person perspective 
 of your monstor and posses it. Even take control of enemy creatures by torturing it but make sure 
 you can do all this while keeping some of your own creaturs form fighting with each other either 
 becuase they are angry of becuase they are natural enemies such as spider and fly, Warlock and 
 vampire or what seems to be made up are Bile Demon and skeleton which doesent make much sense.
 
  
  Here's will try to stop you. This were stragety comes in, choose which enemies to attack and waht 
 to train. Training cost gold and some creaturs are more vulnarable than others, altough you just 
 have to drop them on the enemies heads it is something to think about. Nevertheless if you can 
 find Dungeon Keeper still in the shelves and your looking for a bargain, then you have come to 
 the right place.
  
  Writer's Comments:
  
  For thoose who complain about the graphics and reviewed this game in the 21st centuary, then remember 
 is was made in the past centuary in 1996 (released in 1997) and also consider that it was desinged 
 for windows 95 computers but also to be user freindly with dos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 20, 2005 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Well... Good And i mean good game. Gameplay is good like and RTS well i think its a RTS. Anyway 
 if you like Controling monsters and Building dungeons up then this game for for you. how ever if 
 you are the type of RTS Person who likes Super Graphics Then dont buy this game Cos when i mean 
 graphics I mean the monsters are here it comes....2D!!! so its not like your playing Command and 
 conquer Generals.. This has to be one of the most Strangist RTS i have ever played. So heres the 
 review.
  
  Gameplay: Dungeon keeper Is super for its uniqe Gameplay well lets face it its not like your playing 
 an RTS with tanks Its like RTS with Monsters and Supply Centers for Hatchery's. Can get hard at 
 times But thats only when you get so far. And its a fairly long game. So when ever you finish the 
 story you could go online. Thats is that theres anyone one. but it has a lot of things to 2. plus 
 the ai is good at times.
  
  Graphics: For some reason Walls are 3d on the game So why cant the Monsters i would say 75% Or 
 more of the game is 2d. But dont let the graphics turn this game down. what im trying to say is 
 that if you are the kind of gamer who like a good 3d RTS The please stay away from this. this is 
 a Real time Stratagy game what more than likely a 2d RTS fans would play. But Still the 2d Characters 
 move nicely and are pretty well animated too. so the graphics to me is just ok.
  
  Sound: sounds Is also nicely done Not to much of it and not to little. Its nothing to get Happy 
 about The sound is pretty standard for a game like this. Sound in some parts are clear and well 
 pleasent to here. the Sounds are very dark and Frighting. Well some times any way. 
  
  Value: I would get this game when ever you see it because its fun And you can play it when ever 
 its raining or dull outside Its good for online If theres anyone one so Great game and a game that 
 most Fans of any Real Time startagy games would like.
  
  I Think any one Should have this Fine RTS to there pile of Games since its got every thing to make 
 a Good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDWilliams05
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2005 5:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome, not because of the killer sound, which was repetive after a while. The graphics 
 as well weren't that hot, the characters could have been more life like if they were replaced with 
 geometric shapes. This game was and still is awesome due to the gameplay. The idea of the underworld 
 being a place to torture souls and defend your turf. The choices of characters were quite interesting 
 as well as the choices of torture were at times humorous. This game is a classic that no gamer 
 should be without. You can still find it in the bargin bin or on the 9.99 or less shelf. Find it 
 and get your hands on it, the gameplay and idea is worth the 10 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 28, 2005 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Dungeon Keeper is another highly original game from Bullfrog. Dungeon Keeper puts you in control 
 of your very own dungeon in which you can recruit minions to fight for you, and build rooms for 
 them to work out in and train, then finnaly destroy your enemy. 
  
  First off, the graphics are horrible (This game is old, though) . There's two seperate views, one 
 in which you can see your dungeon, and the other a first person view when you take control of one 
 of your minions. The graphics make controlling your creatures somewhat tedious since it's hard 
 to see exactly what your doing, and the dungeon view is somewhat hard to tell what your doing as 
 well. 
  
  The gameplay really makes up for the pathetic graphics though. There is only one resource but two 
 different types of mines. You can either mine gold spots which deplete eventually, or you can mine 
 gems which never run out. The resource gathering really could have used some work, but it's decent 
 enough. 
  
  There are numerous minions that will join your ranks after you build their corresponding room. 
 There's plenty of minions to keep you entertained, such as Wizards that can research spells, Trolls 
 which make items, you get the idea. You're creatures will walk about on their own doing what they 
 want, sleeping, eating, training, researching, etc... so you're dungeon is never a bore to watch. 
 
  
  There are just as many rooms for various different activities. There are blacksmith rooms which 
 can make items, training rooms where creatures can level, sleeping rooms, etc... There's plenty 
 for you to keep expanding and upgrading your dungeon. Blacksmith 'items' are things such as doors 
 and traps which can be placed in your hallways to regulate who enters what rooms and whatnot. 
 
  
  The most interesting concept is the fact that you can take control of any of your minions. Once 
 controlled, you can move anywhere around the map with them, and use any move they have. Most creatures 
 have about 3 different attacks, but some go even higher. Again, it's plenty to keep you entertained. 
 
  
  Now, you can't control your creatures directly besides the first person view, so if you hate not 
 having complete control in strategy games, Dungeon Keeper is probably not for you. For anyone else 
 though, Dungeon Keeper is great fun to be had, and can be found relativly cheap (usually in a double-pack 
 with Dungeon Keeper 2) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viperweasel
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2004 12:52 pm PT
Review:  dungeon keeper is a amazing game from start to finish, lots of levels and creatures to take care 
 of and kill all that stant in your way, learn new spells, like lighting and fireball, also the 
 are a great number of rooms to build to attract creatures to your dungeon, like graveyard, workshop, 
 and even a annx to attract hellhounds. Mine gold and gems to pay your creatures, rooms, and more. 
 fight other keepers in a race to face and destroy the avatar and his army of good. Fights in tunnels, 
 lakes, snow, ice, and lava, the game has amazing gameplay and sound, is really awsome when your army 
 of evil fights the good guys and destroy them, you may even summon the inase horned reaper (satan) 
 to go in and destroy a entire army on his own, (must be level 10) . 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
