-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Earth 2150
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/earth2150/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 20, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.9, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 380 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SSI
Developer: TopWare
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Jun 12, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Earth 2150's graphics are good, but ultimately it's the gameplay that will keep you coming back 
 for more. 

 The 3D real-time strategy genre has come into its own only relatively recently. Older games such 
 as Battlezone and Warzone 2100 showed that it was perfectly feasible to integrate the gameplay 
 of classic real-time strategy games into a 3D environment. But 3D real-time strategy games continue 
 to rapidly improve, and developer TopWare's Earth 2150 provides further evidence of this trend. 
   

  Earth 2150's plot might be improbable, but it sets up an interesting premise for the game: The 
 global market has disintegrated, and war has ravaged the land. Out of the ashes come three distinct 
 factions - the United Civilized States, the Eurasian Dynasty, and the Lunar Corporation. The United 
 Civilized States comprises a decadent society whose workforce - and army - consists solely of robots. 
 The Eurasian Dynasty founded its military technology on 20th-century Russian tanks and helicopters 
 that were scavenged after the Holocaust. The Lunar Corporation is a faction that colonized the 
 moon to avoid the impending disasters on Earth, and its technology surpasses that of the other 
 two factions. A series of nuclear attacks knocks Earth slightly out of orbit, enough so that it's 
 on a steady collision course with the sun. Time to get out. The goal of the game becomes a race 
 to mine enough resources to build an enormous evacuation ship and eventually colonize Mars. Unfortunately, 
 there are only enough resources for one faction to accomplish the task. Time to eliminate the competition. 
   

  You play through the single-player missions in Earth 2150 as one of the three factions. In the 
 single-player game, each side has a main base area that's safe from the enemy. Here, you can create 
 structures and units as you do in the mission scenarios, and everything stays in place for the 
 duration of the game. In fact, you can transfer extra resources and units back and forth between 
 your current mission and the main base. This makes it possible to salvage unused resources and 
 surviving units at the end of a mission. When a mission has ended, you can return to the main base 
 area, repair troops, manufacture troops, research new weapons, or allocate funds to the Mars evacuation 
 project before you head on to the next mission. The end-all goal is to get to Mars, and you're 
 updated periodically with messages on your fund-raising progress.   

  Earth 2150's graphics are quite good - for the most part. Smoke billows from power-plant chimneys, 
 mining vehicles pick up boxes and place them on moving conveyer belts, and rockets whoosh out and 
 explode with a glowing impact. Weather effects, such as snow, rain, and fog not only look great 
 but also have an effect on your various units, thus adding an additional element of strategy. Fortunately, 
 almost any combination of graphical features can be switched on or off to better accommodate your 
 hardware. With everything turned on, the game can get quite sluggish on slower systems. Another 
 downside to the graphics is that your units can be tough to differentiate at times, making quick 
 unit selection under fire somewhat daunting. Add fog effects, and ordering your units in battle 
 can become even more troublesome. But otherwise, Earth 2150's graphics are impressive. When you 
 zoom the camera in, you can pick out little details such as gun turrets mounted on buildings, mining 
 drills chugging up and down, and recoiling guns. Such graphic trimmings help make the game seem 
 more realistic.   

  Earth 2150 has a different look and style, depending on which faction you're commanding. There's 
 something for everybody: Each side has its own distinct set of units and its own research tree. 
 As new weaponry is developed, you use the unit-construction center to mix and match various chassis 
 with mounted equipment like cannons, machine guns, rocket launchers, grenade launchers, plasma 
 guns, lasers, repair mechanisms, and more. Individual buildings can also be outfitted with any 
 of the above to defend against invading enemies. The sheer number of upgrades and the variety of 
 weapons keep the gameplay interesting.    

 Earth 2150's graphics are good, but ultimately it's the gameplay that will keep you coming back 
 for more. Each side plays slightly differently, and you can solve each mission in a variety of 
 ways. Like many real-time strategy games, you begin each mission with a set number of resources 
 and units. Then it's up to you to seek out a resource field, set up a mining system, and accumulate 
 enough credits to build up your base and army. You can queue up several units to be built at a 
 single weapons production center. You can also queue up several technologies for research. The 
 progress meter on queued units or research starts and stops as money gets depleted, and then begins 
 again once you've acquired additional resources. This automation lets you build up an army while 
 you concentrate on other matters, such as building turrets or engaging the enemy.   

  You'll also have to account for many other elements during battle. For example, maybe a group of 
 enemy tanks has invaded your base, and it's taking out your power plants. You start raining rockets 
 on the group, and meanwhile, a group of choppers fly in to take out your ammo-supply crafts. Just 
 when you think you've canned the tanks, your ammo runs out, and you need to build more ammo suppliers. 
 But the one power plant fueling the vehicle production building has already been leveled. Earth 
 2150 is full of moments like these, and you're constantly compelled to retry missions to see if 
 you can save a few units here and a few resources there to take with you to the next scenario. 
 Everything you manage in the game is inextricably linked to everything else. Learning the relationships 
 between your units' various strengths and weaknesses and applying your own strategy to offset their 
 shortcomings are the most rewarding things about Earth 2150. In the end, good resource management 
 ensures success.   

  Because of the 3D environment and all the details you have to keep track of, Earth 2150's interface 
 takes some getting used to. In fact, those unaccustomed to real-time strategy games may find that 
 it makes Earth 2150 seem more like work than play. Fortunately, once you get the hang of the interface, 
 it's virtually transparent: The developers made learning all its many functions as painless as 
 possible. For one thing, the camera is easy to control. Scrolling, tilting, zooming, and rotating 
 are all accomplished by using the mouse. Clicking on a unit or building immediately brings up its 
 various properties in the console below, making adding defenses and editing unit behavior much 
 easier. Hitting the number-lock key pauses the game and lets you issue orders in the meantime. 
 Unpause the game, and the orders are carried out. The map function also works well, and it quickly 
 becomes an indispensable navigation tool. Yet another good feature in Earth 2150 is that you can 
 break the battle screen up into three parts, thus letting you keep track of three different areas 
 at the same time. But again, on slower systems, you'll probably just want to stick to one screen. 
   

  The sound in Earth 2150 could have been considerably better. The unit voice responses are pretty 
 similar among all the different units - in general, they lack character. Some of the voices are 
 even downright annoying. In addition, although the game is fully 3D, the sound effects don't help 
 your spatial orientation much, as the game's sound effects don't seem to grow louder as you get 
 closer to the action. Fortunately, Earth 2150's soundtrack makes up for a lot of its auditory shortcomings. 
 The soundtrack ranges from military snare-drum suites to ambient space largos, and the music is 
 different depending on which side you're playing. However, the cheesy action music that chimes 
 in during a battle might put some players off.   

  Fortunately, the game's multiplayer and skirmish modes are also good - they help reduce some of 
 the initial learning curve if you play against similarly experienced opponents, or against a computer 
 opponent set to a lower difficulty. Although the game's computer-controlled opponent is generally 
 effective, playing against a human opponent helps prove that Earth 2150's three sides are well 
 balanced against one another. Also, it's easy to get into a four-player game over the Microsoft 
 Gaming Zone.   

  Earth 2150 is a fun but complex game. Hard-core real-time strategy players should be able to figure 
 out the interface without much trouble, but on the other hand, more casual players will run the 
 risk of being alienated and frustrated. Ultimately, Earth 2150 delivers complex and challenging 
 gameplay - and even an absorbing story. It's a great 3D adaptation of traditional real-time strategy 
 gameplay.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: molokoplus
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  The Earth 2150 franchise has always lurked in the shadows of the Command & Conquer franchise, and 
 it's really a shame. Not to flame C&C, I love them and play them as well, but in my opinion Earth 
 2150 games are more immersive and enjoyable. 
  This is due to the fact that Earth 2150 games have more depth. There is research to do along a 
 robust research tree, branching into weapons, armor, and chassis types. There is resource allocation 
 to do, not just to build units, but to fuel your research to upgrade and develop new units and 
 to further the campaign goal of getting off the planet.
  The game play itself is much like any other RTS, but add things like ammunition depletion and you 
 find yourself thinking more like a real commander running operations in the field, logistics being 
 an area seldom touched upon in RTS games.
  You can customize both units and buildings with the fruits of your research, and with three distinct 
 factions you have many customizing options.
  You also get to play through some 50+ missions, a feat unheard of in latter day RTS games.
  You 
 get a full 3D environment with full camera views in any direction, and while the graphics are showing 
 their age they still compare favorably overall.
  Perhaps all this detail and layering of strategies is what held this game back, it just didn't 
 appeal to those who just want to build up armies and rush the enemy as quickly as possible.
  Earth 2150 is a more thoughtful game, as you need to think more realistically than one normally 
 does playing games of this genre, and so this is both it's strength and unfairly a weakness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SharpBladed
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  good story line in this series the great war somehow knocks the earth hearling towards the sun. 
 then ist a fight for the survival of humans. instead of working together the humans turn the remains 
 of the world into chaos. i have yet to play earth 2160 but the humans make it to mars and awakn 
 some aliens or marshans and begin another total all out war. i bought this game for $2.00 and i 
 assure any 1 who reads this that this game was worth it i just wish the story didnt end like all 
 great games. iv been playing this game about may b 4 years now and wen i get tired of it (not vey 
 often) i end up plying it like its another game that just came out. dont get me wrong im not a 
 nerd i have more of life than most people but i love to play this game mainly wen theres nothing 
 to do. this game is old now but still fun so play and enjoy MUAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fgfdfh
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 31, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  Earth  what i could say about 
 it?
  cool graphic! (in year 2000)
  great gameplay! (till now)
  try it, worth a 
  You'll pleased
  Earth  
 what i could say about it?
  cool graphic! (in year 2000)
  great gameplay! (till now)
  try it, worth a 
  You'll pleased
  Earth  
 what i could say about it?
  cool graphic! (in year 2000)
  great gameplay! (till now)
  try it, worth a 
  You'll pleased
  Earth  
 what i could say about it?
  cool graphic! (in year 2000)
  great gameplay! (till now)
  try it, worth a 
  You'll pleased
  Earth  
 what i could say about it?
  cool graphic! (in year 2000)
  great gameplay! (till now)
  try it, worth a 
  You'll pleased
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: net_mugger
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 15, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  Actually the Moon Project, this game has a lot of unique stuffs you can do. For beggining you choose 
 a faction. There are Lunar Corporation, United Civilised States and Eurasian Dinasty. On skirmish 
 you can choose for a computer to choose only between 2 of them so you can select it to be ED, UCS, 
 LC, NO LC, NO UCS or NO ED. For example my favorite of those is ED. Here you have units like tanks, 
 helicopters and ships. When you make a research you can choose of the categories: CHASSIS, WEPONRY, 
 AMMO, SHIELDS. At ED chassis you have a tech three. At the bottom is the Pamir Tank and the Siberia 
 or Taiga and at the top are Volga, Khruskev and Ural. At weaponry you have chaingun, ion cannon, 
 laser. And now you can make you unit on how you like. You take the Ural Tank for example and equip 
 it with 2 heavy laser subequiped with 2 lasers. And this would be a killing machine for any vehicle. 
 The graphics are good but it could have been much better. The good thing is that you can at least 
 rotate the camera and there is also nigh and day. At night you can choose to have light on or off 
 and if they are off you stealth increases enormously. So if you want to play this game I won't 
 advise you to buy it... just rent or download it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
