-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Earth 2160
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/earth2160/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cool gameplay that lets you design your own units.
 First-rate graphics engine for a strategy game.
 Skirmish and multiplayer modes offer lots of fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Campaign is badly paced and overstays its welcome.
 Terrible writing and voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 14, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.3, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 929 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Developer: Reality Pump
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Nov 16, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Earth 2160 features interesting gameplay and beautiful graphics, but it's dragged down by its badly 
 paced and terribly told campaign. 

  Earth 2160 is the latest game in a series that's flown a bit under the radar for some time now. 
 Though not as well known as Warcraft or Age of Empires, the Earth games have still managed to garner 
 a solid following thanks to some excellent gameplay mechanics, as well as graphics that have always 
 pushed the boundaries of technology. And, on the surface, Earth 2160 delivers the same. It has 
 a state-of-the-art graphics engine along with some great mechanics. However, all of that can't 
 quite overcome a badly told single-player campaign that overstays its welcome. Still, if you can 
 get over these flaws, there's a good game lurking in there.  

          Gorgeous graphics meet futuristic warfare in Earth 2160, the latest game in the popular 
 Earth series.     

  Picking up after the events of Earth 2150 and its expansions, Earth 2160 takes place on Mars and 
 the outer solar system, where the three surviving factions of humanity continue to battle for supremacy 
 and a new home. As always, the factions in Earth 2160 are quite distinct from one another. The 
 European Dynasty could probably be considered the most "conventional" of the three, as it has tanklike 
 units and builds sprawling, interconnected bases. The Lunar Corporation is an Amazon-like faction 
 headed up by women, and it relies on lots of hovercraft-like units and constructs towering, vertical 
 bases. Then there's the Union of Civilized States, a powerful, technologically advanced faction 
 that favors multilegged robotic units, as well as alienlike bases that "sprout" out of the ground. 
 And speaking of alienlike, there's a fourth new faction in the game, the aliens, which differ from 
 the human races because they don't research technology or build bases. Instead, the aliens have 
 the ability to clone themselves and mutate to powerful new forms.  

  Earth 2160 essentially improves on the formula established by its predecessors. This is a real-time 
 strategy game with a lot of depth, thanks to the ability to design your own units based on the 
 technology that you've researched. If you encounter an enemy that uses a lot of laser weaponry, 
 which cuts through your conventional armor like a hot knife through butter, then go back to the 
 lab and research reflective armor, redesign and churn out new and improved units, and take it to 
 the enemy. And considering the wide variety of chassis and parts to choose from, you can create 
 a huge number of unit types, from mobile antiaircraft batteries, lumbering artillery, and huge, 
 multiturreted tanks. What's even better is that the campaign features persistence, so the technology 
 that you research remains with you as you go farther in the game (there's no need to reinvent the 
 wheel every mission, like you do in most real-time strategy games) . Instead, you can research even 
 more-powerful technology, which can make your end units feel incredibly strong.  

          The ability to design units on the fly shakes up the game, as you always have to adapt 
 to your opponent's technology.     

  Unfortunately, while this style of gameplay is great for Earth 2160's skirmish modes, it ends up 
 feeling a bit frustrating in the campaigns. Earth 2160 tells the tale of how humanity finds and 
 fights for a distant new homeworld inhabited by the aliens. Structurally, the overarching story 
 is interesting, because each faction gets its own campaign, and the campaigns tie together in a 
 rather cool way. Or, at least, they would tie together in a cool way, if it weren't so badly hampered 
 by terrible writing and amateurish voice acting. We've heard Saturday morning cartoons that featured 
 better dialogue and delivery. It's almost painful at times to listen to. You can also tell that 
 Earth 2160 was originally produced in another language, because there are awkward pauses, as well 
 as plenty of moments when the poorly rendered characters speak, but no words come out of their 
 mouths, like a badly translated kung-fu film.  

  An even bigger issue is that Earth 2160 manages to bury its otherwise excellent gameplay mechanics 
 in a badly paced campaign that drags on for far too long. There are a lot of missions, considering 
 all four factions have their own campaigns. However, you'll quickly discover that most of them 
 require you to sit back and wait for things to develop. For instance, the research-and-adapt mechanic 
 will require you to constantly experiment with different unit types until you figure out the magic 
 combination. And even then, you'll often find yourself in a weary and grinding battle of attrition, 
 as another problem is that defenses are ridiculously overpowered. You have to slowly whittle away 
 your opponent's defenses with waves of units that take time to build. For example, trying to wipe 
 out an alien base can be a frustrating chore, as the aliens can crush most units within seconds. 
 The result is that the "shorter" missions may last more than an hour, while the longer missions 
 can take hours.  

  Because of this, it makes sense that Earth 2160 plays a lot better in the skirmish and multiplayer 
 modes, since the lackluster story or the preset mission objectives don't tie players down. Instead, 
 the goal is to simply pummel one another by adapting and building better units. (Not surprisingly, 
 skirmish mode was also a highlight of the Earth 2150 games.) It's a lot of fun researching your 
 way to the "uber" unit, building a dozen of them, and then unleashing them on the enemy. The game 
 can be downright cinematic at times, due to the beautiful graphics engine that makes lavish use 
 of advanced effects, such as per-pixel lighting, which gives vehicle headlights a realistic look 
 when they cut through the darkness. Earth 2160 easily holds its own with the best-looking strategy 
 games on the market. It's cool to zoom in and see some of the UCS units (which all look and move 
 like the animals they're named after) in action, or to see the alien cruisers pummel an enemy base 
 while point defense lasers shoot down enemy missiles. Though Earth 2160 lacks the sheer scale of 
 Earth 2150 (which let you build hundreds of units) , it makes up for it in graphical appeal. The 
 audio, aside from the bad voice acting, is about what you'd expect for the genre, though nothing 
 really stands out as memorable. The music swells dramatically, like you'd expect, though it's mainly 
 sonic wallpaper for the most part.  

          Earth 2160 has some great mechanics, but it's saddled with a campaign that overstays its 
 welcome.     

  Earth 2160 is a game that definitely has some strong ideas. The four factions are very different 
 from one another (and not just superficially different) . There's a lot of depth, and you can find 
 yourself continuously trying to outwit and outlast your opponents in the tech race by designing 
 units to counter whatever your opponent can come up with. If not for the frustrating single-player 
 campaign, Earth 2160 would be fantastic. Still, this is a fairly good strategy game, if you can 
 overcome its single-player woes.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (37 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: neonsuperstar
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 15, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  I have to admit that i tried Earth 2160 based mostly on its dangling carrot of innovative gameplay 
 elements. Designing your own unit sounded cool, as did 4 radically different races with different 
 styles of play. Coming from a longtime player of the seminal command and conquer series, along 
 with being a regular warcraft 3 player, i expected alot out of this unique take on an RTS. Especially 
 considering i was playing supreme commander at the same time, too. ... did i mention i still play 
 Starcraft? Well, nevermind...
  
  The first thing that came to my mind after close to 15 hours of play (spread over a week) when 
 i decided to review it was that Earth was not even remotely like any of those aforementioned games. 
 Sure, starcraft had 3 different races, but they were BALANCED. The reason most rts games avoid 
 having too varied races and units and whatever is that being a competitive game in a competitive 
 genre steeped in the lore of pro gaming, every single side, faction, unit and gameplay element 
 has to be perfectly balanced. It doesn't help to have four races. And when Earth's developers show 
 little talent in balancing even the basic relationship between static defense structures and mobile 
 units, one can only expect the game to go downhill from there. To sum this up, base defenses are 
 to most units what an abrams tank is to a kitten. Defenses are so ridiculously overpowered, relatively 
 cheap, quick to build and so friggin awesome that a whole fleet of T3 units attempting to breach 
 the base will often be destroyed in a matter of seconds. You would think this sort of balance issue 
 would lead people to turtle, and you are right, because the way resources are gathered requires 
 little forethought and precludes expanding. The core of competitive RTS play is expansion, but 
 when one stupid turret can defend a small mining outpost against ranks of units, its pretty much 
 better to just take a small slice of the map pie and amass units like a vacuum acquires dust.
 
  
  This wouldnt be so bad because the graphics are awesome and the gameplay is fun. Right? Well, right 
 and wrong. The graphics look good, although alot of units are poorly animated and stiff. The command 
 interface is clunky, confusing, and severely lacking. Complexity need not be confusing, as supreme 
 commander demonstrates via its fantastic implementation of a complex UI, but Earth is stuck with 
 this clunky old-fashioned abomination of a toolbar set that wouldnt look out of place in some esoteric 
 science program. Furthermore, while there is the option to change the default left-click order 
 to a blizzard style left-select right order one, right click also rotates the camera, whcih means 
 in the heat of battle one is not giving orders so much as he is fiddling with the camera and seeing 
 the massacre of his troops from funky angles.
  
  Last and probably least, the campaign is the most awkward and laboured experience i have ever experienced 
 in any RTS to date. The story is hogwash, with many parts of the campaign replete with unnecessary 
 sprinklings of crappy dialogue and retarded mission objectives. I would probably have thought better 
 of the game if it eschewed a campaign altogether (like sins of a solar empire) and just went all 
 out for a good single player skirmish experience.
  
  Ultimately, a waste of time. Whatever hype there is or was, don't buy it, unless you have a quirky 
 taste or a high tolerance for poorly made games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanvett
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  I didn't play Earth series before. And I first played it in early 2006. I don't know why gamespot. com 
 hates this game and gives it only a 7.3. Earth 2160 is an excellent RTS game. Earth 2160 should 
 at least get a 9 because it has great graphics, music and sound effects. The storyline and missions 
 are also good. The environment actually gives you feelings about what the future is like!
  
  It's a strange thing why this game is not popular. I think good players can understand what 
 game is good or bad, what game is fun or boring! I miss this game forever as the same as other games 
 I like! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkingfire
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  It couldve been the best game out there. Amazing graphics, a great prequel to build on, and an 
 established story. But it just didnt happen. Theres something missing. You can play it, and have 
 fun, but you dont feel like you took anything away from it. Its got great features, from the 
 unit customization, to the unique factions, to the amazing graphics. But it just seems like something 
 isnt entirely there.
  
  After thinking on it for a good long while, it hit me. Tactics. Every time I play, the game degenerates 
 into a mash of players building wildly variant units each with the differing armor types. The armies 
 collide, and boom, one side wins. Positioning is relatively unimportant, and neither is artillery. 
 The artillery in Earth 2150 was fearsome, and a sneak bomber attack could devastate your offensive. 
 This doesnt happen in Earth 2160. The game plays great, but the weapons are too similar to each 
 other, without the wider range of play options. So thats the negative, the pluses are numerous 
 though.
  
  There are some true creative gems in there. The ED walls, with turrets that can unlimber and move 
 along the length of the wall (and over gates, if they are closed) , are great. But here this is 
 hampered by the fact that the wall must start very close to your base. After that it can go anywhere, 
 it just has to start close. Why? I mean, I realize that stops an ED player from building walls 
 in his opponents base, but there has to be a better way than this strange restriction. LC base 
 is built on tiers, which is also rather innovative. In fact, this has been copied in games such 
 as Universe at War, and a few others. Earth 2160 almost nails it, but for some reason, selecting 
 the BOTTOM of the tower to attack, and thus destroying the entire tower, seems unpredictable at 
 best. Most of the time, units just attack the top.
  
  The LC super unit is rather wimpy as well, and takes a while to even understand how to use it. 
 Its a giant flying saucer type ship with a death ray. The problem is, it can only fire the weapon 
 in a line, starting from one point and ending at another. If you draw too long of a line, it doesnt 
 launch, but neither does it tell you this, it just does nothing.
  
  Flaws such as this hamper what could have been a truly amazing game into what it is, a great strategy 
 game, with amazing graphics, diverse units, a unique alien faction, but with some flaws that youll 
 need to visit the mod community to fix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malakogavlides
Rating: 3.3
Date: Apr 25, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  Are you joking?
  this game this many steps back from the last game of the series EARTH 2150 which was perfect and 
 many years far from its era.
  I mean where is the heat explosion from laser guns? (i m talking about the animation that showed 
 a unit getting red by the heat of laser and finally explode) in earth 2160 all the guns do the 
 same think. ED units are designed awfull. They are like child toys with ridiculus colors. All units 
 explode the same way ( no difference if its an airplane or a mech or a tank) Generally the animation 
 is awfull. The sound? the worst of all. All units in ED that i played have the same voice. I couldnt 
 bare play more than an hour..... I suggest try find the 2000s masterpiece that the 2006s crap. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alexmon
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 29, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great graphics, fun base-building and combat, neat unit customization tools, fun and 
 different multiplayer modes. Awsome
  
  The Bad: The campaigns are kind of lame and short, UI (User-Interface) gets cluttered sometimes, 
 and looks un-finished, not a lot of variety of maps (thank god for user-content!)
  
  The Ugly: Bland story and voice-acting, only Mars maps? I thought it was called Earth 2160, not 
 Mars 2160. The UI/HUD is messy. The soundtrack gets annoying
  
  The Pretty: Can't go wrong with $10! 4 different factions are unique, and have different play-styles. 
 Multi-player is addictive. I also suggest downloading the SuperStorm Mod, really great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLion_DWinston
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  I like this game the graphics are good the game play is good and the story lines with the factions 
 are good. I like the option where you can desgin your own verichical which I think should apper 
 in all RTS's. Ok there is some bits that could have been done better like the video dialog where 
 the person is talking they could have scinkrcronised it better. The sound of the game was good 
 the music was good as well. The Skirmish games are good and the fact they have worked on a patch 
 to handle mods better show that they now the game is good and are encuraging you to make your own 
 mod for the game which I say is a good idea. As game players minds are an amazing place for imagination. 
 So I have to say go by this game is its good and fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunslingerMan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Earth 2160 is the new installment in the Earth strategy franchise, it's not a bad Real-Time strategy 
 game, but it isn't great either . Earth isn't going to be a memorable Strategy game, and will most 
 likely be quickly forgotten , seeing at how the game plays out very similar to its competition 
 . Earth 2160 Takes place in mars, where four different factions are at war which each other for 
 control of the planet . You will be able to choose between 4 distinct factions The European Dynasty 
 which whom's campaign is the overall most enjoyable . With a nice variety in Vehicles, and infantry, 
 and base which is connectable, The Lunar Corporation some-what resembles amazon women, as it's 
 composed only of women . This faction has by far the worst campaign . Not by the fact that its 
 an only women faction, but more because of how complex and utterly frustrating it can get . The 
 Union of Civilized States, has a much futurustic look to it than all the other factions . It has 
 robots, enough said . And then finally The Aliens which is the new faction entry in the series 
 instead of building bases, or researching the aliens will just mutate which is refreshing although 
 looses most of it's value compared to other factions . To much of the games regard each faction 
 is very different from each other in terms of base structure, vehicles, and infantry . The premise 
 in Earth 2160's is as follows the humans are looking for a new home, so they must conquer the planet 
 which is already inhabited by aliens . The great thing about Earth however is that each faction 
 has it's own campaign which has it's own unique story . The problem with earth is that the way 
 that each campaign is set up doesn't make it an enjoyable game . Wave of wave of enemys will come 
 and attack your base without any reason whatsoever . For example the AI isn't the smartest thing 
 around knowing you have over 40 troops and 10 vehicles, the enemy will only send around 8 of it's 
 units to attack you, a minute later send 8 more it never gets anywhere, and overall makes the pace 
 of the game slow, although it works great in skirmish . The game suprisenly does pack alot of treats 
 . Researching will play an important key in the game after without researching you can't add more 
 powerful armor and weopons to your base and army . It lets you design and customize your units, 
 although the customization doesn't have alot of depth, there aren't alot of strategy games that 
 do it as well as Earth 2160 . It also has a wide variety of vehicles, units, and aircrafts . The 
 game does include a large amount of missions for each faction's campaign, but most of the missions 
 atleast 70% of them aren't interesting at all for instance playing a waiting game of waiting for 
 something to be researched . The better missions are at times more furstrating than fun, as the 
 breaking through enemy defenses are almost impossible to do at the first, second or even fourth 
 try . Although at it's best it can be ammusing to watch the big battles .
  
  Earth 2160 is by far one of the best looking games in it's genre . While up close the textures 
 are ugly, the over the top camera view more than shows how excellently georgeous Earth looks . 
 Character models, and environment effects are top notch, and the big maps only add more to it .
 
  
  The audio in Earth 2160 could have been done better . The music doesn't fit the tone of the game, 
 it applies more to big sc-fi movies, than it does to video games . Voice acting is terrible in 
 every way possible, only to be worsen by terrible writing . It ruins that which it is in, the campaign 
 . The explosions, and overall sound design is great however which is really sad because it the 
 game isn't going to be remembered for it's great sound design if not more for it's horrible voice 
 acting .
  
  Finally the multiplayer and skirmish are the really highlights of the game . The fact that the 
 game doesn't have to go with the down right linear and bad campaign instead the goal is to crush 
 your enemy by sending tons and tons of your units which makes the overall experience of the game 
 be movie like which really shows what the game could have been .
  
  Overall : Earth 2160 is a heavily flawed strategy game that what it lacks in the campaign it more 
 than makes up in the Skirmish and Multiplayer mode . It isn't the next Starcraft or anything near 
 close to it, but fans of the Earth series are still going to have a blast with the games overall 
 improved formula . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nexus_Master_X
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Ok, everyone, I have the game! Yay! I'll admit it right now, the Earth 21XX games campaigns, to 
 me, are just a long, time-consuming grind. I've never played through RTS campaigns well, never 
 finished them at any rate... heh. I played out that demo on my bro's computer (still need the video 
 card for mine) . My overall take on it is simple, the campaigns suck, the skirmish rocks. :) I'm 
 sure there are others who'd agree with me on that. A wiseman once said, The demo doesn't always 
 tell you how the game will play, but it can be a fair bet that if one sucks, the other will too. 
 I'd have to say that when it comes to a demo/game comparison, that wiseman has been right fairly 
 often. The ED still has my vote, the UCS is still problematic, and the LC still has more lights 
 than anyone will ever need. After all, you can only fit so many LEDs in a laser cannon! I like 
 the hero thing for the ED and others, though. That's the only upside I see for the campaigns. Kinda 
 adds a Command and Conquer Renegade touch to the campaigns on that aspect. Hrm... rifle or rocket 
 launcher? Time bomb or sniper rifle? So hard to pick... damn! That and the way you can evac the 
 pilots from trashed vehicles before they're lost, that's useful for veterancy transfers, a CnC 
 Generals aspect. Just making comparisons mind you, not saying you copied anyone or something like 
 that. :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madcatmrk2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 23, 2006 1:56 am PT
Review:  i first played Earth 2150 and i enjoyed it . i got the moon project -the second in the trilogy. 
 i loved the sheer amount of units you could make. unfortunately in earth 2160, it isnt near as 
 big as that, but makes up for it in detail of units, environments, sound, and a new faction.
  
  originally, there were three factions, the ED or the Eurasian Dynasty. take a guess where they 
 used to live on earth?. the LC or the lunar corperation. the UCS (my personal fav) they are the 
 united civilized states. and the new faction is the aliens or the inhabitants of mars
  
  as i said the campaign could be better it goes on longer than needed messing it up with horrible 
 voices with every one expet Major Falkner (ED) he at least sounded like he wasnt using a script... mainly 
 it was bad because it was obviously in another language to begin with...
  
  the multiplayer is fun witha few maps to choose, although it could use more. of course there is 
 an editor so you can make your own maps which i love to do
  
  but at some points during major battles the frame rate stayed so well that i actually sat back 
 and watched the beautiful EARTH 4 graphics engine do its thing. the units look amazing with serious 
 detail. zoom up close and you will see for yourself. especially the UCS units.
  
  the music is pretty good but not as good as the Moon Project i think. unit weapons sound amazing 
 as there are unique sounds for every weapon. voices suck. if you can, get it and maybe ill challenge 
 you to a match =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 9host
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2006 4:19 am PT
Review:  This game is good!
  
  I remember back in the days when I played earth2140, I just could not believe why this game wasn't 
 more popular. I loved the complexity and the endless strategic options.
  Same with earth2150 and 2160. I guess you either like it or you don't... I LOVE IT!
  
  Graphics 
 are great! Explosions and gunfire all have very nice fx. Buildings look realistic and are animated 
 nicely.
  
  Gameplay is the best to date imo. The unit creation is good fun, the base building is original 
 and different for every faction. 
  
  Sound is ok, nothing special, nothing bad...
  
  Well it comes down to the same conclusion I had a few years ago. Why the hell isn't this game more 
 popular?
  My guess is the complexity. And the fact that not everything is explained in a decent way. It's 
 an RTS for grownups imo :)
  
  well anywayz, try this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 28, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are crisp, and clean in this game. I guess the music is ok. The mechanics are strange 
 I do agree. It's a change from the ordinary. You can tell they were out to make something definitely 
 different. Takes a bit to get used to. I haven't played much, because of my long list of games, 
 but I seem to like this. The only thing I REALLY didn't like was the on line activation. Like me 
 I didn't have a connection, and couldn't play the game in it's full mode. How ridiculous. Oh the 
 price of this game was only $20. I guess you can't go wrong with that. Funny games that hit $20 
 end up being somewhat of ugly ducklings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Almorac
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 12, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  Overall this game is pretty good, it still takes "most" of those elements you loved out of the 
 older games that were pretty good. Your base-building and your custom vehicles of mayhem are all 
 still there. But, in comparison to older Earth titles, this game is just basically an OK sequel. 
 The music is ok, though repeated constantly, the same battle music and the same, "oh, just building 
 up and sitting here" music. The graphics are ok, but they don't match the feel of the game, it 
 feels almost too colorful in some ways not really like a new forsaken planet to battle on. The 
 sound effects are all for the most part pretty good, some of the new weapons in this game have 
 some questionable sounds, and appearances (x-ray) . So basically, it's an ok game, if your a hardcore 
 Earth fan who wants to play every Earth game out there, yea, buy it and continue the story, even 
 though it's lame and just doesn't seem to follow on the whole "No more Earth, need new home" at 
 some points. If your just a casual player, try the demo see if you like it, and if you don't, just 
 don't buy it. If this was the only Earth game then it would be better, but it just doesn't carry 
 the weight of it's older siblings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fallenwanderer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 27, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  I doubt everyone agrees with me but I sure miss being able to tunnel underground and I really miss 
 being able to dig trenches. Those were some of my favorite features in the 2150 trilogy. Not to 
 mention you don't have main bases anymore.
  
  Tunnels made for relatively safe passage from one base to another, not to mention being able to 
 pop up behind if not inside an enemy base.
  
  I loved being able to dig trenches and control where the enemy could bring its ground forces against 
 me, or even block ground forces from entering an area.
  
  Unfortunately the story line efficiently killed the main base. Although the story line was the 
 huge improvement over previous story lines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cablestein
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 21, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  I've been seeing screenshots and reviews of the "Earth ----" series for years now. It's always 
 been an intriguing curiosity seperate from other mainstream RTS's. It seems to have a strong fanbase 
 on its own.
  
  Now that Earth 2160 has been released, I thought I would give it a try.
  
  At the installation screen itself I was already dumb-founded about this game. What is with 
 that sorely chosen annoying music for this game? Is one of the developers trying to help his girlfriend 
 out by having her amateur music used in this game? Not only does she have a heavy german accent 
 trying to sing English, but the lyrics are incredibly cheesy. Sorry to say!
  
  After this, I was hoping that the music would only be for the installer... WRONG.
  
  So that's 
 the first sour thing I'll mention... the music, voice overs and sound effects in this game seem 
 pretty poor.
  
  Next up on the superficial chopping block... GRAPHICS. This is where the game and 3d engine shine... 
 this game is gorgeous. And is it ever a system hog as well. Nonetheless, dropping settings to minimum 
 still delivers high quality. Top marks for graphics.
  
  What is with the game interface? The entire in-game menu system is so strange, why did they do 
 it like that? Spend all this time on beauty graphics, and the interface is left as plain jane. 
 Also placement of buttons seems all wrong.
  
  Know what, I'm gonna stop here.
  
  6.5 out of 10... only because with a little patience, it could be enjoyable.
  
  One positive 
 thing I'll say: The "doorways" system for the building units is pretty cool. I suppose that's one 
 of the things that a true fan of the series appreciates... but it's not enough for me to spend 
 time and money on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac190075
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 14, 2006 3:13 am PT
Review:  Ok. So the campaign is a Starcraft copycat. Thats pretty obvious - also given the way the Aliens 
 mimic the Zerg. In spite of that this game isn't bad. If anything its good at the least. I played 
 the demos of the previous ones (Earth 2150 et al) and they were ok. This one, while not phenomenal, 
 is a step up from them for sure. 
  Now, about the campaign. I have seen other games with worse campaigns. What the heck are people 
 whining about? If anyone buys into the line that the campaign was just terrible then maybe you 
 shouldn't be reading reviews to begin with - and throw in this one as well. Of all the things to 
 criticize, slamming a campaign sounds too fishy, and it is. The campaign seemed fine to me - although 
 given the challenge you get playing it, I was cussing a lot, MUCH more than I ever have for any 
 other game. This is no cakewalk, guaranteed. Anyways, in my opinion, the criticism was unwarranted 
 and frankly, ridiculous. 
  The single player is the usual for any game. The soundtrack is fabulous. The startup of the game 
 dispenses with any extraneous cinematics. I would say its the opposite of SWAT 4 which has a million 
 different logos and cinematics just to get to the main menu. One thing though, the between mission 
 cinematics are long and very annoying for some missions. Come to think of it - maybe thats what 
 sites and people are complaining about. Either way, thats a dumb complaint. Since I am musing though, 
 to give you an idea - if Homeworld, Ground Control and this game could be combined in one - you'd 
 never need to buy any other strategy game again. Ok, enough rambling. Have fun if you get this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 9, 2006 2:55 am PT
Review:  Earth 2160 was a blast i just bought but the boxshot was different still thats not important the 
 gameplay that rocks since when ure heroes are able to change armor, weapons and all its more like 
 RPG
  
  Earth titles were great during the past few years and ever since i bought earth2140 it was bad 
 there were no skrimish all was mission and mission and mission and mission which is so boring and 
 there was nothing to do 
  
  now that ive gotten my new xp my earth2140 wasnt able to be played and i threw it away but i still 
 miss the old units when there were 20 century tanks and all but why talk about the old series when 
 the latest earth2160 but i still didnt finish all of the campain yet im still wondering is earth2160 
 the last episode of the earth series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chargerrich
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 7, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  Good - Great graphics, innovative and fresh gameplay. The ability to create your own units. Disctinct 
 factions make for a different playstyle and good replay value.
  
  Bad - Voice acting and pacing could use some work. Needs a random mp generator. One can only imagine 
 how good this game could be with a "top tier" budget.
  
  Overall - Very addictive and immersive game. You cannot deny that this game has standout features 
 that separate it from the competition. The ability to create your own units and makes for a challenging 
 game with excellent replay value.
  
  Despite the georgeous graphics the game plays well on a modest setup. Skirmish and multiplayer 
 modes are well done. While the game should have a random map generator which it does not, the world 
 editor will make the modding community happy.
  
  While the game obviously did not have the budget of many of it's competitors, the game is in many 
 ways better than AOE III and a worthy sequel to a series that has often flown under many gamers 
 radar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grinch123456
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 16, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  I'll start off with the gist of this review: don't spend any more than 20 bucks on this.
  
  As a happy jittery little boy who loves anything that can be played on a computer, I love RTS's 
 (and FPS's and other acronyms for genres) just the same: like children. Like children, I believe 
 games can be deemed "incorrigible" or impossible to control. This is an example of one such game. 
 
  
  By god this game has atrocious controls. They may even be worse than the standard controls on Fear! 
 Unless you spend a good hour reconfiguring and rebinding every key, you may as well toss this thing 
 into a pile somewhere. 
  
  The game has decent value if you actually like it enough to go online and play someone.
  
  
 No matter how much I dislike this game, it does look stunning. Beams and gunfire is sharp and the 
 buildings look like... good building, I suppose. There are trails and such things all over the 
 place along with beautifully rendered explosions. The only RTS games I'm aware of that can beat 
 these visuals are Ground Control II and Age of Empires III (both of which are better than this 
 game in every other way too) . Please do keep in mind I play on all max settings however on just 
 an X800GTO. If you have anything worse, it won't look much worse anyway.
  
  The sound is also great. Tank cannons sound like they can kill something. Gun fire sounds like 
 gun fire. Rockets sound excellent.
  
  No matter how great this game looks, the biggest problem is running it. The first time you do run 
 it, the game asks you to register it. I didn't want to. Now, I have to play in demo mode! I already 
 bought the game! What more do you wnat from me! 
  
  Alright, so, I TRIED to. I went to registration and tried to register by phone. Turns out, the 
 phone number doesn't exist. Great. I didn't have any connection to the internet. In 3 hours, when 
 I did, I tried to register but the game refused to connect. Eventually, I had to get a Bit Torrent 
 download of the game with a keygen on it. Now, I can actually play the game I bought! Yay! Woo 
 hoo! That's just dandy.
  
  The hassle of getting a sub-par game to work and then actually playing it was a waste of time, 
 money, and effort. If they make an Earth 2170, they better fix this steaming pile of waste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fungmi_gs
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 11, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  Ive been playing RTS games for a while now warcraft 3, earth 2150, command and conquer and homeworld 
 are amongst my favourites. You can imagine the excitement when I read about a sequel to earth 2150, 
 the graphics engine looked superb the game mechanics looked deep. If they could build upon the 
 solid foundations of earth 2150 surely we would be onto a winner. After a year of waiting I got 
 my copy of 2160 through the post, the moment of truth had arrived! However the first thing Id 
 noticed was the poor artwork on the packaging (Im from the UK, the US package is far better) , 
 but no problem the software itself should fair better.
  
  Earth 2160 consists of a long campaign, in fact a different campaign for each of the 4 factions 
 in the game, the usual options for multiplayer exist skirmish, LAN & internet play via earthnet. 
 The gameplay features that stand out when you first play 2160 are the large research tree & the 
 modular construction of units and building. This ultimately means thats is not a pick up and play 
 RTS, be prepared to invest a lot of time to get the most out of this product. What it does give 
 is plenty of scope to vary tactics and lots of depth, the four factions in the game differ significantly 
 in terms of technology, building and unit construction. In the case the of the Alien faction even 
 the way to construct units differs, this faction clones and mutates into other units.
  
  The first thing you notice about 2160 is the graphics, they are superb and everything you would 
 expect from a recent PC game. The engine is able to handle many units on screen and when you zoom 
 in close up none of the detail is lost. The lighting, use of shaders and scale are handled very 
 well and generally the look and feel of the interface is both clean and unobtrusive. The weakest 
 aspect of the graphics is the animation when compared to something like warhammer 40K.
  The interface itself could do with a little more streamlining and enhancement. For instance when 
 placing buildings there is need to re-select it in the construction palette or when requesting 
 vehicles to patrol an area there is no quick way to designate an area without waypoints. At times 
 though the interface is excellent, for instance the facility to assign vehicles under construction 
 to a specific group before hand, PIP display, first person mode (though really a novelty) and the 
 packages which allow predefined units to be built (though these cant be saved to the HD for later 
 use) .
  
  The sound in the game is average ranging from atmospheric music to some reasonable sound FX. Though 
 I wish it was a little bit more punchy and that they removed the vocals from what seems like a 
 euro pop track from the main menu. The speech used when a unit moved into action could also do 
 with a bit more character, this seemed like a step down from previous games.
  
  First of all the bad news, the campaign mode is actually the weakest part of the game, The voice 
 acting (In the UK version) is not great certainly when compared to titles like warcraft, though 
 its not as bad as some people would have you believe. The problem is that lip sync is terrible 
 in cut scenes, which are in turn poorly rendered by the in game engine (In fact the worst graphics 
 to be found in the game!) . None of this helps immerse you into the campaign, the story itself has 
 a good premise even if its been used before but it unfortunately plods along leaving you wondering 
 where the story telling aspect of the campaign went to. In fact many single play campaigns just 
 feel like your playing a skirmish game. The single player mode does as the hype says and gives 
 you many hours of gameplay but never really excites nor inspires. 
  
  The good news is that the multiplayer is a lot of fun, there is a lot of depth and the varied construction 
 for units and buildings allow for different tactics. Its not necessarily a game where the player 
 with the largest numbers wins, the nature of the game means you need to build units and equip weapons 
 that best counter your enemy. It unusually misses out on some standard features on multiplayer 
 like the ability to choose teams, start positions, ping the mini map and game rate setting. However 
 anyone wishing to play this game in multiplayer should consider downloading superstorm which is 
 an official mod that addresses some of the multiplayer shortfalls. The mod now comes with rebalancing 
 beta which everyone online uses, this is definitely a game in need of some rebalancing, your find 
 that a Alien faction left unattended is near invincible once they have their best units. On the 
 up side 2160 contains some interesting features for multiplayer load/save games (believe me games 
 can take hours) , allowing players to join a existing game online and allowing units/resources to 
 be given to your allies. However the multiplayer experience seems to lack some of the more stealthy 
 tactics that could be employed in games like command and conquer generals.
  
  Earth 2160 does seem like a job half done, perhaps more development time was required to smooth 
 the rough edges and flesh out the good ideas within 2160 of which there are many. Strangely tunnelling 
 that was in earth 2150 was removed, the hero units in the game are not as useful or developed as 
 hero units in the warcraft or warhammer 40K games, the weapons of mass destruction are not as destructive 
 as they are in games like command and conquer generals.
  
  This product shines in multiplayer where the game mechanics work best; dont expect it to be easy 
 to pick up though. Some people will consider the large research tree, modular construction as great 
 depth while others will be put off. 
  
  Though fun in multiplayer the one player element of the package is poor and some might say the 
 product itself lacks a soul, any modders out there should note that the SDK is not being openly 
 distributed at the moment. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 18, 2005 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Earth 2160 has the best graphics seen in an RTS to date, and oodles of game features will keep 
 you busy on the battlefield. There are many real-time strategy games out there, and this one has 
 what it takes to stand out in a over-crowded genre.
  
  The incredible visuals don't take a heavy toll on your machine. Explosions are vivid and the lighting 
 is extremely realistic, making this game a must have simply for its graphics. With the added zoom 
 function, you can get right into the thick of it without any loss in quality. You can see that 
 the models have a lot of detail when you zoom in all the way. Watching your rocket launcher units 
 create a rain of hellfire on the enemy is a devilishly enjoyable sight to behold.
  
  The ED faction consists of both men and women, the LC is all ladies, UCS is comprised of mech and 
 mechanicals, and the Aliens are, well, aliens. Each faction has its own specific technology and 
 advantages, and the buildings and units all look unique to their particular faction. There are 
 a great many structures to build and many types of units to create and customize. When researching 
 new technology, you are given the chance to create a new unit based off that technology. You can 
 create a unit with a specific chassis and a specific gun. The choice of weaponry is essential to 
 winning the game. Some weapons can only attack ground-based targets, others only air, some both. 
 It is up to you to decide what is best, based on what you know about your enemies. Researching 
 can take a while and can consume substantial amounts of resources, but it gives you an immense 
 advantage later on in the game. When you research one item, it unlocks other similar items to research 
 even further. The research tree is impressively large and can invoke serious customization, but 
 the process itself is always simple and clear to the player.
  
  The game's premise revolves around an old 21st century probe that has landed on a planet, and each 
 of the factions want it for the information it holds. In the single player campaign, you get to 
 play each of the four factions to see the story from the four different perspectives. The missions 
 are fairly standard: build a base, gather resources, build lots of units, kill enemies. The resources 
 you gather are water, crystal, and metal, and each faction gathers in its own way.
  
  One flaw we found with Earth 2160 has to do with the Alien faction. They are much too powerful, 
 and this makes their particular campaign far too easy - not to mention making them incredibly hard 
 to defeat when playing against them. The assigned hero of the Alien faction is disgustingly strong 
 and can defeat most enemy units in a single go. Other than that, though, the gameplay is fairly 
 solid. The other factions are well balanced, and their differences are pleasingly noticeable.
 
  
  The online play is expansive and has a lot to offer. The different multiplayer modes available 
 involve destroying enemy buildings, killing the enemy hero, a Cease-Fire Start, and Uncle Sam. 
 'Cease-Fire Start' means you can only attack after a certain time period has elapsed, thus preventing 
 early rushes and elongating the overall games. Uncle Sam is unique insofar as you get resources 
 supplied automatically.
  
  Earth 2160 is an RTS well worth checking out. It's definitely one of the better strategy titles 
 to hit the shelves in recent times, and it will keep fans of the genre happily occupied. The multiplayer 
 matches are suitably intense, and the single player campaign delivers everything in terms of both 
 expectation and intention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lazer1334
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 10, 2005 9:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. If you are a real RTS fan, you will love this game. The amount of gameplay 
 options are just... theres a lot. Lets just leave it at that. Designing the units isn't as complex 
 and in depth as I had hoped, but it still adds boat loads of gameplay and strategy. I've never 
 played a game with such varied and amazing levels of tactics before. The campaign is pretty good 
 in my opinion. I don't understand what the GS reviewer had a problem with, and overall the sounds 
 and voice acting is good. Skirmish mode is the bread and butter. But then again skirmish modes 
 are the only true mode in a REAL RTS. Campaigns are just for amusement.
  
  This game will make you think. So if you just like playing simple games where you don't have to 
 think, don't buy this, becuase you will never win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cvonsydow
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 10, 2005 8:07 am PT
Review:  I was a big fan of Earth2150, it revolutionized the RTS game. It was one of the first true 3D games 
 in the genre, units were completely customizeable, the races were fairly different, and the complexity 
 of the game's tactics allowed you to research many different weapons and even tunnel underground!
 
  
  Despite a nicely done graphical overhaul and finely tuned play mechanics for each side, the game, 
 on the surface anyway, seems much simpler. Away with are the engineering options (tunneling, ditches, 
 etc) and expansive research tree. The tunneling will not be missed, as it was clunky in 2150 and 
 was not used much. The research tree, upon further inspection, is actually very well done. Much 
 of the research in 2150 consisted of chassis and weapon upgrades, and the chassis upgrades have 
 been done away with in this version, which is not bad, it equates to a slimmed down tree that can 
 actually be well researched in multiplayer.
  
  Much complexity and tactics have been added as well. Infantry are a huge addition, with the ability 
 to capture buildings and enter vehicles. The tech trees, unit types, resource gathering, and even 
 building style is well varied over the 4 sides. Heroes and virtual agents (mercenaries) are a great 
 addition too, and can be customized with weapons, armor, and items.
  
  I do have a few complaints, though. The difference between buildings and units are vast in terms 
 of armor. While logical, it makes for awful gameplay when assaulting an enemy base. Your units 
 designed to tackle enemy units wil automatically target buildings as well, firing away and doing 
 little to no damage, all the while getting pummelled by the actual enemy units and base defenses. 
 Units will also go out of their way (with 'auto engage enemy' on) to attack enemy units, even through 
 an enemy defensive position. Keeping your friendlies out of range of enemy defenses while your 
 artillery kills it is a full time job, and often futile.
  
  Pathfinding is generally good, but like noted above, can be easily sidetracked. The soundtrack 
 is decent, but the voice acting is horrible, as in 2150. Along with that, the single player campaign 
 missions are varied, but not paced well, and the story could definitely use an actual professional 
 writer. Also in the campaign, an annoying even is anytime story elements insert themselves into 
 the middle of a mission. A window will pop up with various people talking and you lose control 
 of all your units, though the battle is still raging. I have lost whole task forces (or heroes) 
 through this mechanic due to the previously mentioned bad individual unit AI. The computer opponent 
 AI isn't much better.
  
  The multiplayer and skirmish is where it's at in this game, although even skirmish isn't up to 
 par. Without mods to the game, you cannot ally with a computer, and when you start a match, all 
 computers will be after you! This is a simple setup in the skirmish loading screen, and is pretty 
 standard nowadays, and is a mystery why it wasn't included out of the box.
  
  All in all, the sides are very well-balanced in terms of variety and playing styles, the research 
 and unit customization are well done, but technical problems prevent the play to be very smooth. 
 Nothing a few patches couldn't fix, however. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albone57
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 9, 2005 9:10 pm PT
Review:  As RTS games go this one has potential.
  Having the PIP window is quite handy I also
  Like the first person prospective. Its a nice 
  Feature to take a little boredom out of the 
 game
  Play. Im sure every one can agree that the dialog
  In campaign mode is atrocious. The phrase
  On the road again is very annoying.
  On the good 
 side I like the custom design 
  Screen for units and naming them. The dust
  Clouds that kick up around units are cool.
  Also the research tree is easy to follow.
  If only 
 the dialog was as good as WAR HAMMER 40K
  All in all Im enjoying the game and plan to finish it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aim-64C
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 4, 2005 9:55 pm PT
Review:  In the Middle of November, I was searching for mods or new goodies to edit my all-time favorite 
 game series - Command&Conquer, when I happened to notice an add in the side-bar that grabbed my 
 attention. Probably what caught me first was the blue-haired, CG woman (instinct is a powerful 
 marketing tool) , and something to the effect of "revolutionizing the RTS universe". Now this, I 
 had to see. After selecting what country I was from, I was presented with a decently laid out web 
 page with some in-game screenshots that were carefully chosen by the developers. I had to say they 
 looked stunning - models that were detailed enough to make a first-person or simulator out of, 
 and particle effects that rivaled those featured in Halo 2.
  
  It was then I decided to spend over $900 on a long-overdue new computer so that I could play this, 
 and a few other new games on the market. $900+ dollars, a few heart attacks (assembling the computer 
 from "scratch") , and update drivers later, I had only to wait for the release of this interesting 
 looking game... and make sure I didn't fail school.
  
  I decided to take a slight detour from my plan to download the demo - spending $55 on a game, only 
 to find out you hate it, is NOT a fun thing. The demo did a good job of leaving one hanging, and 
 gave you some time to fool around with building a base as the ED, and commanding units as the LC. 
 I didn't take much note of the graphics of the demo, or the audio - because my experience is that 
 these features are sacrificed in favor of download time. I will come back to this issue later.
 
  
  A week or so after the release of Earth 2160, I went to none other than Wal*Mart to see if they 
 were carrying it. While there I met up with a good friend of mine and we had a conversation about 
 many of the games and hardware (and lack thereof) in the Electronics Department at Wal*Mart. $55 
 and 2 hours later, I had my very own copy of Earth 2160. Logic told me I needed to go to bed after 
 a day at work... but why sleep when you can watch the pretty blue boxes go by on the installation 
 screen!? I opened the box and pulled out an instruction book that could easily be "War and Peace" 
 of the game world. It's close to half the weight of the box. Falling prey to stereotypes - the 
 instruction book gets set aside, and the CD labeled "CD 1" is fed into my computer. It all installs, 
 and whoopie - there's the icon on my desktop.
  
  As if just installing it was going to lessen my anxiety enough so I could sleep....... I had to 
 at LEAST do a skirmish battle! Double-clicking on the icon, I shift in anticipation of what this 
 game has to offer - not only for sheer gaming, but also as a host engine for a modification. The 
 animated logos start going by, and I hit ESC, instinctively, to cut right to the menu.... whether 
 it be my 64 bit Athlon processor, windows XP, the game, or what - I have no clue, but my computer 
 locked up and I had to do a full restart. 5 minutes and I've managed to crash it - sounds normal.
 
  
  Not repeating that same mistake, I let the logos go by. The menu loads in about the same time it 
 takes C&C Generals/Zero Hour's menu to load - which makes some sense since they've both got a battle 
 raging on in the background. I create my user name/account, and "enter the game", and go to skirmish.... 
 "You must activate your installation" ...... well that's nice.... At midnight, I'm hauling my computer 
 upstairs, where our internet connection is (I KNEW I should have gotten a router...) . After activating 
 my game, which I later found out I was warned of in the manual (which I didn't read....) , I hauled 
 my machine back downstairs into my room and started back over from square one.
  
  The rest is pretty much history - I've completed the campaign, as well as played my share of skirmish 
 battles.
  
  One of the first things you will notice is the graphics - even if you're using a lower-end graphics 
 card (that's an FX 6200 as far as this thing game is concerned) , the graphics are pretty darned 
 impressive. If you have the demo - the graphics you see there are pretty close to what is in the 
 full-version. The textures and models are all superb, especially for an RTS game. The characters 
 are even detailed well enough to be used in close-up cenemas, although I have noticed that the 
 voices seem to not match up with the model's movements (probably the speed of my graphics card) . 
 The terrain is gorgeous - smooth, and the textures blend together, almost as if you were playing 
 on some 3d snapshot of a planet. The water is also something else you will find very detailed. 
 The water effects alone are good enough to be used in first-person environments. 
  
  Another interesting aspect of the game is still somewhat of a mystery to me, but the models of 
 units will gradually take damage. Rather than a unit suddenly resembling a crumpled piece of swiss-cheese, 
 they gradually dent and discolor as they take damage. I still have yet to figure out if a model 
 damages based only on health, or if it is comprehensive (if the missile hits on its left side - 
 does only the left side dent?) . Either way, this is certainly a very welcome introduction. I'm 
 also impressed by the way the "walking" units traverse the terrain. Units bob, and appear to be 
 using an actual physics to determine how their leg/foot will move. Whether this is or not, I don't 
 know, but it's definately an improvement over the simple animations that were sped up or slowed 
 down.
  
  The down sides in graphics? There are some, beleive it or not. The obvious is that you need a higher 
 dollar graphics card to run many of the full features of the game. Another is that some of the 
 effects seem to be a bit buggy. The "sniper rifle", or some of the weapons using the same effect, 
 seems to fire in two directions at once - directly forward, and in the direction of the target. 
 This also seems to happen when the barrel of the unit firing the weapon is suddenly moved right 
 after firing - usually in the case of infantry. The weapon will appear to fire at the enemy, and 
 then again as the unit lowers/re-aims their weapon. It's nothing severe, but probably something 
 that can/should be worked out in a patch.
  
  The next general thing that you'll notice is the gameplay. If you're used to C&C - it'll take some 
 time to adjust. Each faction has its own tech tree, method of gathering resources, and different 
 uses for those resources. This means you have to keep pretty close tabs on who is harvesting what 
 and where. The method of gaining additional tech is also different from C&C; you can't just build 
 a building and suddenly get access to the psychotically powerful unit. You have to research the 
 technology and any upgrades that go along with it. Even then - you don't suddenly get the all-powerful 
 unit. To obtain the most effective unit, you must build your own. Rather than build hordes of tanks, 
 only to see them be taken out by a horde of rocket infantry - try building a horde of tanks with 
 a flamethrower addition, or a sniper rifle. You can customise your combat units to take advantage 
 of an enemy's weekness.
  
  The bases seem to reflect a more Starcraft-like approach. The LC us modules that fly in from a 
 mother-ship in orbit, whereas the ED build there base to look like a giant network of hamster-tubes. 
 The UCS use drones that todey about, repairing and constructing buildings; and the aliens use a 
 system of cloning and metamorphasis. It takes some time to get used to each faction's way of building 
 bases, and even more time to develop a good strategy for defense. Much depends on the resources 
 available, your enemy, and your location.
  
  Structual defenses will crush anyone who simply rushes in with a few dozen tanks. If you wish to 
 effectively destroy a base, you must use the long-range units that each side has, or create an 
 army of tanks with a weapon optimized for base destruction (such as the Magneto Grenade Launcher) . 
 For this reason, it is best to keep a mobile defense squad handy to take care of long-ranged offensives 
 before they obliterate your defenses. This system helps keep down on the classic, and often annoying 
 "rushes". If you're used to being able to rush your opponent, you might want to take some time 
 to develop a different strategy that you are comfortable with.
  
  Since we're talking about bases, we might as well talk about the AI of the game. The base and construction 
 AI seem pretty inteligent. I haven't noticed it build itself into a corner, ignore resources, or 
 even ignore key defense points. When you open up the map editor, you'll notice that there aren't 
 any "flags" or markers that need to exist for the AI - simply build a map and the AI does its thing 
 (Take that C&C Generals World Builder!!!) . The AI also adapts to your employed technology. If you're 
 using more energy weapons that armor piercing or chemical - it will adapt its units with an energy 
 shield (if available) , but if you're using chemical weapons it will forego the energy shield with 
 a repair bot and chemical armor. In these respects it is both predictable and formidable.
  
  The individual unit AI could use a little attention from the next patch, however. Units don't 
 seem to realize when they're being attacked from a long distance (something to exploit in the campaign) , 
 or when they are hitting the cliff, rather than their target. The movement AI also has difficulty 
 with cramped spaces, which is understandable... but not to this degree. It can become a fairly 
 laborous task to get a sizable army down the cliff and into open territory. This becomes especially 
 noticable when your anti-air units get stranded inside your base and your poorly armored anti-structure 
 units get caught by an enemy airforce. In C&C Generals - the graphics were rushed... in Earth 2160 
 I'm assuming the unit AI was rushed.
  
  One element of the game, which I cannot decide if I like or not, is the Virtual Agents. They appear 
 on y our interface, and ask for employment. Their price is based on a set wage, as well as their 
 experience with you. They don't like it if you get them "killed" - which can be surprisingly easy 
 to do. Logically, the poorer your reputation with them - the more you have to pay them, and the 
 more positive your reputation - the less you have to pay. There are some advantages to hiring agents 
 that offset the price of hiring them. Some agents reduce the cost of your research and/or construction, 
 aid in mining resources, and many can be given control over various functions such as mining, defense 
 upgrades, infantry movements, infantry construction, etc. This takes some getting used to - as 
 things will start changing without you giving the order.
  
  Note: The Virtual Agents keep track of your reputation through skirmish missions. Your reputation 
 carries over from skirmish mission to skirmish mission. However, the campaign and skirmish reputations 
 are separate of each other.
  
  The sound track of the game is excelent - admitably half of the reason I bought the game (the music 
 in the video on the home page was what got me - an orchestrated track rather than this rap/be-bop 
 bass-heavy .... stuff that has gripped the sound tracks of games recently) . The music seems to 
 rise and fall with the events of the game - although it could be the inverse, the events of the 
 game might be rising and falling due to the music (Ooo philosophy...) . There could be a little 
 bit more of a varried sound track, but it's one of the best tracks I've heard.
  
  The campaign is different than what I'm used to. Rather than playing as one side or another, winning 
 as either side (or, ultimately, one side always loses at the end, despite your effort) - you're 
 carried THROUGH the factions. The campaign continues, comprehensively, based on the previous campaign. 
 This is different - because no one side wins or loses, you're following the story of your characters. 
 Ironically - the experience of your characters does not transfer from campaign to campaign. This 
 is somewhat disapointing, but I'm sure there is a reason for this.
  
  Depending upon your gaming background, the learning curve for each faction can be from 2 hours 
 to a few weeks. How you take on your oponent depends greatly upon the environment and your opponent. 
 You can't simply set up a base with a bunch of guns, thinking you're safe. Nor can you send in 
 a horde of tanks or aircraft and expect to successfully bring down a base. The LC and ED have relatively 
 short learning curves and the Aliens have the largest due to their extremely unique method of construction. 
 The more you play, and the more variety you add to your combat environment and opponents, the faster 
 you'll learn.
  
  All-in-all - if you like the demo - you'll most likely like the game. As with most games - play 
 the demo or rent it first, before buying. I found the game well worth the money and worthy of most 
 the hype. I can't compare it to the previous Earth games, as I have played none. I also am not 
 certain if some of my reported errors are not caused by my own hardware, rather than the game's 
 programming. The most immersive feature for me is the customizable units - that alone can keep 
 me entertained for hours on-end.
  
  Keep in mind that the game is fairly different from many RTS games, and, thus, will require a lot 
 more effort on your part to master the features of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 2, 2005 11:11 am PT
Review:  Foreword..
  
  Im not going to lie; Im generally not a fan of arcade strategy games where 5 infantry men take 
 5 minutes to destroy a tank with their BULLETS while their own life is gradually reduced by the 
 direct hits of 75mm tank shells. Earth 2160 would be one such game. Yet it is my gamer duty to 
 write a quality review on this new third part of the Earth trilogy. Im also rather excited about 
 the fact that my review is in all probability going to be longer than the Gamespot review  
 One might wonder why Im so late with it and the answer is simply that I was playing it for so 
 long. So... many excuses for being late again and here we go
  
  The core
  
  In single player you take command of forces from four different factions over the course of four 
 different campaigns. Each campaign is part of a bigger story. And the story goes something like 
 this: the human factions, while fighting each other on Mars after an apocalyptic crisis on Earth 
 (fighting for questionable reasons I might add) , find an alien race as well as proof that theres 
 a place just like Earth somewhere beyond a special gate. Someone knows the coordinates to that 
 planet and the governments try to hide the planets existence. In the mean time, an evil scientist 
 grabs alien technology for himself and starts his own war. The campaigns flow gracefully into one 
 another. 
  
  Earth 2160 is a typical Real Time Strategy game. You start out small, find a source of materials 
 and energy, build different buildings and produce soldiers, tanks and aircraft to then annihilate 
 the enemy or defenses to protect your own base.
  
  During the campaign, after a mission you might be given a choice of which mission to initiate next. 
 That choice is meaningless since it doesnt affect your destiny in any way and youll have to accomplish 
 those other missions in any case. In fact, it distorts the storyline if you pick a latter mission 
 first. 
  
  The game is very hard for a commoner to get started with, essentially because there is no real 
 introduction mission, no manual or anything of that kind. There are but only these occasional tips 
 appearing in the upper part of the screen; Tips I would often miss anyway when Im occupied fighting 
 and/or building. For example it took me a couple of missions before I realized that I could capture 
 a building by sending my infantry inside of it. Such a steep learning curve doesnt spoil the game 
 though.
  
  Acting
  
  The acting is horrendous. At first I thought the story is just not too strong and then I thought 
 that it might be because of the bad translation from the other language that the game was originally 
 released in (the voice sometimes does not correspond with the articulation and that leaves weird 
 pauses) . So Im not sure why exactly but I know that after a while I couldnt stand it anymore 
 and had to skip all but the most important conversations. One might think Oh acting, wow! As if 
 its something to worry about.... Well, honestly, the story and therefore the acting takes a very 
 central place during the campaign. Conversations in game and cut scenes with conversations are 
 plentiful so it can get really annoying. And because it is bad the whole story starts to sound 
 somewhat childish.
  
  Unbalanced
  
  I found the campaign to be unbalanced. At times the missions are very easy and other times the 
 missions are near impossible, even when playing on the easiest of the difficulty levels! One time 
 I had to defend a compound and the enemy attacked with airborne units right after I ended my briefing. 
 I barely built a unit or two and had for most part just plain infantry at that point. 
  
  This also has to do with the fact that some factions are stronger than others. Out of the four 
 factions, to which I will refer as ED, LC, UCS and Aliens, the aliens can in the later stages build 
 craft and defenses that no other faction can possibly match. Likewise, the tanks and other craft 
 are having a hard time when put against base defenses. LC defenses have a very long range, something 
 I cant say about the ED defenses. All these unbalanced things pretty much mean that a victory 
 is often the matter of sending a galore of units to their death, hoping they will grab a little 
 more health from those defensive towers before the units pass away. While not very strategic, this 
 does cause for a fun looking action.
  
  The fact that youre forced to play the LC campaign to be able to play the 2 resting campaigns 
 doesnt prove popular with someone like me. What if one is not a chick and does not want to play 
 for a female community and listen to conversations about dyed hair? To finish the story you also 
 have to play for the alien side, obliterating humanity. While the aliens are really cool and powerful, 
 one might not want to be a bad guy. I never liked this approach in WarCraft 3 either however other 
 people might find this amusing since youre gradually shown full potential of each faction.
  
  One of a kind
  
  So whats original about Earth 2160? What makes it all more fun is that 
 the factions are very deferent from one another. While the basic idea is the same: find a source 
 of materials and start building more and more powerful units, the way the units and structures 
 are created is very different.
  
  The buildings of one faction are built one upon the other while other factions clone their units 
 to then mutate some of them into buildings.
  
  Another interesting feature is customizable vehicles. By that I mean that after conducting certain 
 research you can change armament on your units in order to fit the different sorts of enemies you 
 encounter.
  
  Something else Id like to note: theres a first person view incorporated into the game. Rather 
 shocked I was that the game made such little use of it! The developers have everything ready: the 
 HUD (a different one for each unit type!) , the choice of different weapons though inventory menu 
 (when playing for a hero) , the good graphics, the movement keysThere are even the missions for 
 just 1 person and the developers did not add a fire-at-will button!?
  
  Skirmish and multiplayer
  
  Plenty of maps are given for the skirmish and MP hustle. This is 
 probably why the game is worth buying in the first place since the campaign is somewhat weak. There 
 are four game modes for player to choose from. During the MP game its much like during the campaign 
 except that the player is offered several agents/heroes for hire instead of getting one standard 
 one. Theres nothing special to add about the multiplayer since it plays out just like a standard 
 Command & Conquer-type game. If you played one, you played them all. Theres just one annoying 
 part which torments some other RTS multiplayers as well and that is the ability of your foe (or 
 yourself) to hide a unit somewhere on the map, and even if you destroy the enemy base, the game 
 wont be over until you kill all of the enemy units.
  
  AI:
  
  While most of the time the AI is able to find its way from A to B and fight when required, I often 
 found some of my units getting stuck and running back and forth along the same little piece of 
 a cliff while they were being fired upon by enemy. Also while most of the units will choose one 
 road, some loose cannon unit will decide to go ALL the way around (of course stumbling upon a large 
 enemy force in the process) . This last one is actually a standard problem with all games. When 
 you drive your forces onto an enemy camp, they will often start attacking the wall or some other 
 insignificant structure while the enemy towers and tanks is what they really have to worry about. 
 
  
  Controls
  
  are a bit confusing. The button for selecting the units also functions as the button for moving 
 them as well as the button for boarding the ships and entering buildings. This occasionally causes 
 for unwanted choices. In the last several years I cant remember playing an RTS game that had the 
 select button and the move button as the same button. On the brighter side the controls are plentiful 
 as many key-binds are allowed.
  
  Overall bugs
  
  The original version of the game had a few bugs and some of those bugs even made it through several 
 official patches. An example would be: the flamethrower only kills one person at a time and only 
 starts bringing damage the second time you fire. In general bugs in Earth 2160 are not sufficient 
 enough to spoil the gameplay. 
  
  Visuals:
  
  I take my hat down to the developers on this one. The visuals in Earth 2160 are the best visuals 
 Ive ever seen in an RTS game. In fact, the game would look good even if it was a First Person 
 Shooter and you played from first person view perspective. You can clearly see the face of the 
 person. Theres a strong reliance on shadows and it reminded me Doom 3. I could watch the pretty 
 lava flow from volcanoes all day and the lasers and explosions are also very colorful. Furthermore, 
 there are night and day changes. The game even features a sky fully equipped with stars and moving 
 clouds. Hows that for a strategy game?!
  
  Not all is good with the animations however. Earth 2160 has an awkward clipping problem. Gunfire 
 clips through ground and soldiers when in loose formation tend to merge with one another. You think 
 you have just 2 soldiers left alive, then you move them and they instantly clone to become 4 soldiers. 
 Fun!
  
  The movement of characters during cut scenes is also rather odd. If some of you remember the space 
 sim X2 the animations there closely resemble these. As I remembered later the developer Deep Silver 
 is in fact the one who made both X2 and Earth 2160, so its not surprising.
  
  Sound:
  
  Well theres nothing wrong with it that I noticed. The game includes a full arrange of laser 
 fire, explosions, discharges, voices, engine sounds and all the usual stuff that you expect to 
 be there. The only problem here is part of the bigger problem described before about the cut scene 
 voices that are simply a bad act.
  
  The background music is chosen well and it dramatically swings between periods of exploration and 
 battle. Unfortunately its not very varied but it does the job. Personally I did not like the main 
 menu music but that might be just me. 
  
  Performance:
  
  As expected with any strategy game, Earth 2160 doesnt kill your system. However when taking into 
 account the intense visuals you have to expect that it will reach lower frames per second number 
 than other games of the same genre. The game was tested by me with graphic settings on maximum 
 on a 2GHz Pentium, 1GB RAM, Radeon 9600 machine and acted well during smaller build ups but was 
 slowing to 1 frame per second crawl during large battles.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Rather strange is that after so much bad comment I still give this game a high score. Welldespite 
 of its many flaws like bugs and a questionable campaign, the game still is in its essence an OK 
 strategy game with a few original ideas (like the interesting building system and the customizable 
 units) . Eventually it keeps its head above water with its good graphics. Earth 2160 should appeal 
 to an RTS fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swordlink
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 29, 2005 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Earth is a sci-fi real time strategy game set in Mars at the year 2160. There are four playable 
 factions, the Eurasian Dynasty, the Lunar Corporation, the United Civilized States, and the Aliens. 
 First off, let me say that this game is absolutely beautiful. The graphics are amazing; you can 
 even see the world as your units do in the first-person point of view.
  The gameplay and features are innovative and fun. Mechanical units, which make up every unit but 
 infantry, can all be customized with certain weapons, armor, engines, etc. Building bases are different 
 for every faction. For example, the ED build large, connected bases while the LC builds structures 
 on top of each other to form tall, towering bases. The UCS builds individual structures with upgrades 
 attached and the Aliens do not even build bases; rather, they clone their flying behemoths and 
 ground units. Effectiveness in combat is mainly determined by the technologies you research rather 
 than the number of units you make. You cannot win by making many units without getting upgrades. 
 Which leads me to my next point: the game is complicated and quite hard for newcomers. This isnt 
 a game youre naturally good at; it will take several hours to fully be able to become used to 
 the game.
  There is ONE bad thing about this game; the single-player campaign. Although a lot of the missions 
 are fun and increase your skill in multiplayer, the story is somewhat clich and the voice acting 
 isnt the greatest. However, Earth 2160s pros totally outweigh these cons.
  This is a great game for any RTS fan; its graphics are certainly a step up from most RTS games. 
 Think Starcraft combined with Command and Conquer: Generals (both great games!) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: samsalek
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2005 3:36 am PT
Review:  Well, to be honest! this game really disappointed me! It has better graphic and more features then 
 previous versions of course but it hasn't a good story for missions, lots of them have a same situation 
 with a bit different in mission! It's really hard to finish this game earnestly!
  It's better to lay in skirmish mode or multiplayer, you'll enjoy more to play with your fiend than 
 playing with boring missions!
  On of the game's good option is a new camera mode that you can see your army thorough your troops. 
 The graphic is pretty good and if you have a good graphic card that supports new features like 
 pixel shader 2.0 and ... you'll enjoy it a lot ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sos_lp
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 23, 2005 1:51 am PT
Review:  Pre-log!
  The game follows the "Earth 2150" series. It is more advanced and certainly better qualifies than 
 the two before it. What the game has to offer is a realistic world, massive graphics, and a great 
 set of environmental and general sounds to feed your needs!
  
  Graphics:
  The game has a really great strategy view to it, with really detailed 3D world and most importantly 
 great zooming ability for those needed spots! units are nicely created and rendered so you don 
 get one inside of the other when they are in groups! World detail specially the weather is a great 
 twist to the game. Apart from that the falling rocks which you can cause by shooting at a mountain 
 give it a more realistic feel.
  
  Sound:
  Well as this issue is always a concern with strategy games, they have tried to do a good job and 
 i can say they have done fairly well. You do not get stupid replies from your soldiers, the sound 
 does not cut-off because of a lightning or an explosion, and most importantly you get the feel 
 of the war with every aspect of the game having a distinct sound measurements, In level of sound, 
 quality, and position in battle... (such as damaged radio, aircraft noise or engines running)
  
  Game Play:
  The game play is allot of fun. You can mix and match units with different techs 
 which you research during the game in different levels. Of Course the main difficulty is that the 
 computer is always one step ahead! you get bio weapons they got bio armor, you get energy weapons 
 they got energy shields and so on.... But since that can not always continue in certain missions 
 you get the chance to research a few more techs so you some what take the upper hand! There are 
 allot of details put into the game play such as the great fog of war which i loved in this game. 
 when you move the camera away from your base the screen flickers as to your vision is not great 
 enough to see there. The further you move the flicking gets higher and higher until if you move 
 for about two complete screen cycles you cant see anything jus some dots and flickers. making silent 
 approaches and assassinations is just a great aspect to this strategy which is made off big units, 
 small armies, air and ground cover, with a main Capitan... (of course we should not forget the 
 bio-weapons and each faction's specific tech)
  
  Hint:
  You should certainly patch the game to 1.2 because that saves allot of the mistakes which would 
 have brought you down in the game.
  If you would like to get to know better this game or have a problem playing it, or you are new 
 to this form of strategy then you should play earth 2150 first or start with lower difficulty levels.
 
  
  Cost:
  For my part it is not much to pay for this game. A game which will certainly give you a new feel 
 to strategy and also will never tier you. Still i think people who want to start playing this game 
 for the first time and are not familiar with its aspects, should wait for it to cool down in price 
 then buy it.
  
  Multi-player:
  The game is a hell of a fun in multi mode. you get to Alie, and get a war going on with some 4-8 
 players. The computer does well so do not underestimate them. you got great maps to choose from 
 and i am sure you will be supplied by the creators of the game later on!
  
  + Points:
  * New kind of game play and strategy to lay down!
  * New ways of using the world around you!
 
  * Great 3D engine!
  * A nice story line with fairly good reasons for battle!
  
  - Points:
  * The computer sometime tends to think ahead of you.
  * If you do not own a good 
 sound card you might have sound 
  issues during the game such as stops, bad noise, no sound 
  and ...
  * It would have been better 
 to have put support for 64-bit addition 
  CPUs and drivers supplied as well!
  
  Overall:
  I for my part give it a 9 out of 10. Tho' for me this game is a perfect 10 because 
 I am a big fan of this sort strategy games specially the first 2 in the series! As a follow up 
 this game has lived to its standards and has done a better job than most sequels in line!
  
  I hope i have been some what of a help in describing this game!
  Keep track of my other contributions 
 i will try to update on this game and any other i have reviewed before.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sardus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 22, 2005 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Besides the bad voice overs during ingame movies I have found this game to be one of the best RTSs 
 I have played in a good long while. This game in my opinion is up in the high 8.0 range and certainly 
 deserves more than a 7.3. I guess some people get so hung up on the little things that they miss 
 all the good content. 
  
  So what if the mouths don't match their voices? This is an RTS, not a RPG. The storyline is awesome, 
 the graphics even better, and the gameplay is deep. 4 different factions with their own strategy... 
 this is a strategy gamers dream. Every new campain is like a brand new game all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceregulus
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I have no clue why this game only recieved a 7.3. The graphics were great, the gameplay was great, 
 the multiplayer was great. One of the drawbacks was that, when you go into the campaign, and you 
 rush everything, the objectives will not progress and you will be stuck on the first level. But 
 in a way, this is a good thing because it makes the player listen to what is going on before waving 
 it off and continuing the game. The auto saving was kind of annoying, but that is easily adjustable. 
 The sound sometimes skips, but that's like once every 10 hours or so, so it's not much of a bother. 
 The story line was slightly sketchy, but that was only due to the fact that I hadn't played Earth 
 2140 and 50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D5120
Rating: 6.4
Date: Nov 20, 2005 5:15 am PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong, I do enjoy this game, but I think its far too hyped up.
  
  The graphics are pretty crisp and the multi player kinda rocks, but the story line made me sleepy.
 
  
  Played Earth 2150 to death, and I probably will do with this, but only online, or lan games.
 
  
  I did enjoy the build your own unit section, but seen it all before, nothing really special about 
 this game, if your looking for something to fill the current RTS void then get this game, but dont 
 believe the hype, its only another RTS and doesnt really stand out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PauseButton
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2005 3:29 am PT
Review:  This game is excellent and I recommend it for most RTS fan.
  
  First off, the graphics are easily the best and nothing comes close right now. The resolution goes 
 up to 1600x1200; you will probably have to lower your details for the game to run smoothly. Right 
 now I have an old sub 2.0GHZ Pentium with a 4200TI NVIDIA graphics card, and I can run the game 
 at 1600x1200 on low detail level without any problems. Also, the screen shakes when theres a nice 
 big explosion.
  
  The story for this game is not bad. Its basically saying that in the future humanity may be divided 
 in to three factions: Those that give allegiance to a despotic government, a single powerful corporation, 
 or a society of the elite. For the campaigns, Ive only beaten the ED one so far, it pretty exciting 
 to me.
  
  The sound in this game is nothing special. The music is good and it is adaptive i. e. when you attack 
 or come under attack, the music changes.
  
  The game-play is excellent, and this is what really made me buy it. There are so many features 
 that I dont even know where to start. For one thing, you can customize your units, i. e. outfit 
 your tanks with either lasers or armor piercing rounds or give that helicopter shields and rockets, 
 etc. Everything also has a counter, but its not like some games where if your army doesnt perfectly 
 counter the other army you loose (otherwise it would be like Age of Empires, which is glorified 
 paper scissors rock) . Also, if you give the games interface a chance you will see that it is pretty 
 efficient and lets you manipulate things easily such that it could turn someone who is not an RTS 
 player in to an expert. For example, you can create an army, save it, give it a name (i. e. siege 
 force) , then later, all you have to do is click a button and it will create all the units to replicate 
 that army as many times as you want. One other thing I should mention is that each of the races 
 is VERY unique and it should keep the game fresh for a long time. 
  
  Like I said before, I recommend this for MOST RTS fans. Some people may not like it because it 
 does not resemble whatever they may be used to and those people will probably never want to deviate 
 from old formulas. Earth 2160 is different from say War Craft 3 or Age of Empires. You need both 
 micro manage skills and large army creating skills. In skirmishes, even if it looks like you're 
 loosing, keep your head cool and you can still manage to win. Also, the RTS genre may not be for 
 you, if all you do is play soccer games on your computer.
  
  Last thing, there are some problems like units that have auto-prone but they dont un-prone and 
 sometimes units will continue to attack something that is not attacking them while something else 
 is. Very minor, and nothing they cant patch. I have not faced any bugs or have had any crashes. 
 
  
  I mostly agree with Jason Ocampos review but I gave this game 9.0 because I consider graphics 
 and game-play much more important than other factors. I realize that nowadays games must be extremely 
 refined in all areas to get a 9.0 but Earth 2160 gives you a lot of gaming for the dollar and it 
 looks like a classic. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazybear79
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2005 2:58 am PT
Review:  Some aspects of the game were good but it was very much like 2150. The research tree was shortend 
 without alot of change to the weapons. The vehicles were ok with only a few of them being useful 
 as long as they were configured right. 
  
  The storyline was the hardest for me accept. It was pretty dry almost bordering on stupid. I wanted 
 to kill the main character after the second mission. It didn't really start getting good until 
 the end but you still have to play the other campaigns to get to it.
  
  All-in-all if you liked 2150 you should pick it up. If you're thinking about buying it because 
 of a trailer you saw looked cool then wait for the price to come down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lu_Shen
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 16, 2005 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Earth 2160 is the sequal to Earth 2150. Earth 2160 is a RTS game that takes place in a sci-fi setting. 
 The game features four races, The ED, LC, UCS, and a new race, the Aliens. Each race has a good mix 
 of land and air units with a good add of a few unique special weapons. The game has four campaigns, 
 one for each race. The LC and the Aliens campaigns must be unlocked by completeing the ED and UCS 
 campaigns first. 
  
  Perhaps the most obvious thing about Earth 2160 is it's amazing graphics engine. The effects of 
 lasers firing and missles shooting look really detailed. You start a game by building a main base 
 like any other RTS. But in Earth 2160 you can't simply keep building until you have the best unit 
 for your race. The game requires you to research different technologies. Things like Plasma Lasers, 
 Anti-Air Rockets, and Energy Resistence Armor, must be researched by using resources such as Metal 
 and Water. Each technology takes a number of minutes or seconds to research. As you research the 
 technologies, more units, buildings, and special weapons will become avaliable to you. Some say 
 that the research is too slow. And it is... If you have only ONE research station. If you have 
 multiple research stations then you can research multiple technologies and you will have your whole 
 tech tree researched in much less time then if you just had one.
  
  But in my opinion, the best feature of Earth 2160 is the custom unit design. Nearly all units in 
 the game, both air and ground, let you choose what weapon (s) , engine, and armor you can equip on 
 the ship. This feature allows you to balance your offense and defense to you're enemy. For example, 
 if you are using reflective armor, and an enemy is shooting you with an energy weapon. You will 
 take little damage. However, if he is attacking you with a chemical weapon. You will take alot 
 of damage due to the fact that you are wearing reflective armor instead of anti-chem armor. 
  
  The single player campaign isn't a very good strong point in this game. Often times I was bored 
 just waiting for something to happen. There is indeed many slow times in the single player campaign. 
 And there were alot of times that I got so bored I just quit for a while. The problem is that you 
 haft to wait for most things to happen. ie.. waiting for your commander to give you new orders.
 
  
  Multiplayer would haft to be the most fun in Earth 2160. multiplayer is intense and exciting because 
 you are facing a smarter opponent. The multiplayer is definitly a strong point. And provides hours 
 and hours of exciting multiplayer action that will last you a very long time.
  
  Final Word: If you're looking for a really good skirmish/multiplayer RTS game. Look no further 
 then Earth 2160. The skirmishes are fun, the Multiplayer is fun. And the features are really well 
 done.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dekou
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 16, 2005 11:59 am PT
Review:  Reviews can be surprising sometimes. Just a few days ago I read a review of Silent Hill 3 by PC 
 Gamer. They gave it 57%! The same with this game. It is simply underrated.
  
  I wasn't expecting much from this game because of the uninspired E2150 addons, so it was a shock 
 for me to see how good it actually is. This review was a bit of a shock, too.
  
  So, the campaign is lousy? Why? Too long? Since when is that a problem? Nowdays games are mostly 
 too short, so I guess a long campaign is a good thing, er? Bad voice acting? Don't know about that, 
 it isn't particulary great, but isn't the worst I have seen, either.
  
  The plot is much better then the average ones, and the missions are done very well, with some nice 
 scripting and objectives that usually aren't of "kill-'em-all" type.
  
  The music is mostly great. I didn't like the credits song, but well, does it really matter? Like 
 it was said in other reviews, the building system is great and the sides vary very much, even more 
 then in Warcraft.
  So, 7.3? Definitely not. This is probably one of the best strategy games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apenoot
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 15, 2005 3:58 pm PT
Review:  I lost my interest in RTS-es a while ago as all of them were starting to look like eachother in 
 terms of gameplay. However, this game proves to me that an RTS can still be fun. Definetly worth 
 more than a 7.3!
  
  First: why such a short review if there is so much to tell about the game? I could fill five pages 
 easily if I wanted to. 
  
  Second: things I don't agree with that are in the gamespot review:
  
  -Turrets being ridiculously 
 powerful: cool, finally you need to do more than building 50 tanks and crush the enemy. Besides, 
 they're not THAT overpowering. Maybe experiment a bit more with tactics next time!!!
  
  -Modular building is talked about as if it is standard. It's not, it's cool how ED build connector 
 pipes to well, connect, their buildings. They also have cool walls with magnetic rails on them. 
 On top of those rails, you can build a variety of moveable turrets. Awesome idea! LC can build 
 towers piece by piece so you get a cool base filled with skyscrapers. UCS can teleport small groups 
 of units around the map...
  
  -No superweapons! ED Ballistic missile can wipe out a single building, but it can be easily stopped 
 by building antimissile units (they also work against rockets from units) . LC has ripper, which 
 is incredibly tough UFO with powerful laser. It's also very slow so plenty of time to intercept 
 it. UCS can teleport around plasma bombs but they take some seconds to go off, in that time you 
 can destroy them. So no real superweapons to speak of, which is about time. It's finally about 
 strategy! 
  
  -Voice acting is not as bad as Gamespot might make you believe. It's not really good or anything 
 but it's decent.
  
  -Graphics: Me and Gamespot do agree here. Personally I think this game looks better than Age of 
 Empires 3
  
  -Missions being no fun: I do have fun with the missions!! But granted, skirmish and multiplay are 
 this games best point. But who cares wether you spend a 100 hours in missions or skirmish??? It 
 just means this game rocks!
  
  Overall I'd say this game is just a tiny bit short of being a true classic, but as always in the 
 Earth series this game is really underrated!! I just think it goes a little to deep for the more 
 simple RTS players amongst us. Guess you gotta love these kind of strategy games... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khanezhyray
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 15, 2005 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Wow I love this game. The single player is really fun, but the multiplayer just makes it what I 
 think a rival to being as good as Warcraft 3. Not quite as good in the long term, but the best 
 RTS to date right now. I will be playing this game for at least a year. I LOVE it!!! I could not 
 look for a better sequel to one of my favorite RTS's from a while back (Earth 2150) . Anyone who 
 liked that game will love this game! The game is just pure amazing. In my mind, there would have 
 been only a few things better they could have done to improve this game. Maybe change the music 
 but the voices weren't that bad, and the rest of the game defintely makes up for that! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
