-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Earth & Beyond
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/earthbeyond/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 10, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 8.2, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 247 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Westwood Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi Online...
Date:     Sep 2, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Earth & Beyond takes the standard high-fantasy formula of online role-playing games and replaces 
 the castles and swords with space stations and beam weapons. 

 Earth &amp; Beyond takes the standard high-fantasy formula of online role-playing games and replaces 
 the castles and swords with space stations and beam weapons. It isn't the first online role-playing 
 game to relocate to outer space (it was preceded by NetDevil's Jumpgate) , but it is the first to 
 do so without employing elements of space combat simulations. Earth &amp; Beyond takes the primary 
 mechanics of games like EverQuest and Dark Age of Camelot and transports them -- with some minor 
 but welcome changes -- to space. And while the setting is the game's most unique feature, it's also 
 the source of its problems. Some elements of the traditional online RPG just don't translate well 
 to the environment, and the most notable sacrifice is the sense of community among players. In 
 space, it seems, no one can hear you /yell.           You'll spend the majority of your time warping 
 from location to location.    

  The first few hours of Earth &amp; Beyond are the most enjoyable. The opening tutorial introduces 
 you to the interface and gives you a few simple missions to carry out so you can learn the primary 
 skills of your chosen class. There are six classes available, each of which puts varying emphases 
 on the combat, exploration, and trading specialties. Three of the classes are primarily fighters. 
 There's the terran enforcer, the jenquai defender, and the progen warrior. Terran tradesmen are 
 primarily traders and craftsmen, though at this stage in the game, they can be powerful fighters 
 as well. Jenquai explorers are the weakest fighters but have access to faster ship components. 
 The final class, the progen sentinel, is a hybrid of a warrior and explorer.   

  One of the most interesting mechanical differences between Earth &amp; Beyond and your typical 
 online RPG is the fact that experience can be gained in three different areas. You gain trade, 
 exploration, and combat experience independently, and you can access some of your class skills 
 only when you reach a certain level in a particular area. These three areas combined give you your 
 overall level, which also determines what sort of skills and components you can access.   

  It's a good system, and one that encourages you to experience everything the game has to offer. 
 With each new level, you gain skill points, and these can be distributed to improve your skills. 
 You will rise in level very quickly, but saving your skill points is a good idea. Later skills 
 require more points to access, so if you spend your points haphazardly early on in your character's 
 career, you'll find that your character may be well rounded, but not very strong in a needed area. 
   

  Earth &amp; Beyond is all about your character's talents. This game is not Wing Commander, and 
 its combat doesn't involve any simulation elements. Instead, fights are entirely dependent on your 
 character's abilities. You target an enemy, activate your guns, and hope you win. It's no more 
 a space combat simulation than Dark Age of Camelot is a sword-fighting simulation. Each class has 
 several unique skills that are useful during or directly following combat. For example, warriors 
 can use their shields as offensive beam weapons, explorers can fold space for a quick getaway, 
 and sentinels can jump-start ships that are dead in the vacuum.   

  Character death is handled in an interesting way in Earth &amp; Beyond. There is no traditional 
 experience penalty. That is, you don't lose acquired experience after being defeated. Instead, 
 you lose future experience. The "experience debt system," as it's called, takes 50 percent of any 
 experience you earn after dying and puts it toward paying back the debt. Once the debt is repaid, 
 you earn experience normally.           Gates are the primary means of travel between sectors. 
    

  Earth &amp; Beyond's combat is both safer and more interesting in groups, and joining with others 
 gives you significant bonuses. These bonuses depend on which classes the members of your group 
 belong to. For instance, tradesmen will increase the amount of money you receive when selling items, 
 defenders make it more likely that you'll land a critical hit, and warriors reduce the amount of 
 hull damage you'll sustain from enemy attacks. The bonuses don't make much sense, but they are 
 great incentives to seek out companions.   

  Unfortunately, getting an edge on your enemies in a fight is one of the only incentives to seek 
 out other players. Earth &amp; Beyond may be the first online RPG in which you can play solo for 
 as long as you care to. Unless you join a guild (of which there are many, and they seem to be constantly 
 recruiting) , you won't encounter many other people while playing Earth &amp; Beyond. There are 
 several reasons for this. For one, the space stations -- which allow you to leave your ship and walk 
 around -- are either completely deserted or so crowded that the lag is unbearable. The chat window 
 is unreadable at most reasonable resolutions. Most everyone just hangs out in the chat room for 
 new players, arguing about how the last update patch has ruined their character class, or discussing 
 various topics that don't really relate to the game. You can find help and answers to your questions, 
 but only if you're doggedly persistent.     

 And you don't actually fly around much in Earth &amp; Beyond. Instead, you plot a course on a navigational 
 map and warp to your location. As a result, most players you see will be warping past you, and 
 there's no real sense of discovering a group taking on a huge beast, or a low-level novice running 
 for his life. There's just players warping to and fro, delivering goods or seeking out monsters 
 to fight.           The planet surfaces are varied and good looking.    

  This "strangers warping in the night" problem isn't prevalent on planet surfaces. Warping isn't 
 allowed in these locations, so you'll encounter other players more frequently when flying closer 
 to solid ground. But even here, flying takes no skill on your part. There's no collision detection 
 whatsoever, so you can fly through nearly any solid object that isn't part of the landscape. The 
 no-warping restriction just makes traveling in these areas more dangerous and time-consuming.  

  And Earth &amp; Beyond doesn't need to be more time-consuming. Running trade routes can be immensely 
 repetitive, as you deliver goods from one locale to another, over and over, with very little excitement, 
 since warping makes you all but invulnerable during your travels. This problem is alleviated somewhat 
 once you can afford more-expensive, higher-end engines for your ship, but it's never a good sign 
 when you're considering taking on a certain mission and another player advises you to "bring a 
 book." Mining minerals from asteroids and gas clouds also gets repetitive quickly, but at least 
 there's a sense of danger as you wander into more-dangerous space and drop out of warp to check 
 out the local asteroid fields. These problems all plagued Jumpgate, but they were offset by that 
 game's sense of community, as players worked together to complete huge goals for their faction. 
   

  In Earth &amp; Beyond, one of the benefits of having other players around is that player-made goods 
 are superior to those provided by the computer-controlled merchants. There are several elements 
 involved in manufacturing goods. You first must analyze a component, which can often take several 
 attempts (and several destroyed originals) to succeed. You then must get the required ingredients, 
 either by purchasing them or building them. Once you have the needed elements, you can construct 
 an item. Each class can build a few different types of items, but tradesmen can build the most 
 types, and their work is usually the best. Once you get the hang of manufacturing, you can earn 
 a decent amount of cash and some trade experience, so long as you can find someone to buy your 
 wares.   

  Earth &amp; Beyond also offers other ways to earn money. You can take jobs from kiosks, which were 
 obviously inspired by the mission dispensers in Anarchy Online. You can't take many jobs, though. 
 Once you accept a mission, you'll have to wait 15 minutes until you can take another, but seeing 
 as how most low-level jobs will take you less time than this to complete, the job kiosk isn't a 
 very good choice for those looking to make a quick fortune.           Most of the space stations 
 will be overcrowded... or deserted.    

  In fact, you'll most likely earn the bulk of your experience, at least in the early hours, by exploring. 
 Earth &amp; Beyond is a really good-looking game, and it's really something the first time you 
 see Saturn and its rings or Jupiter and its moons. Dropping down to a planet surface is equally 
 enjoyable, and each planet surface looks unique enough to keep you searching out new areas. The 
 ships and characters look great as well, and the amount of customization the game allows for is 
 impressive. In contrast, the game's sound is adequate and certainly suitable for the game's futuristic 
 setting, but it's pretty unremarkable otherwise. Aside from the female character who asks for your 
 login information each time you play, the only real sound that will accompany your long and sometimes 
 lonely journeys through space will be ambient new age music and occasional warping and weapon-firing 
 sound effects, which are appropriate enough.   

  But while the novelty of exploration remains strong during extended play, the combat and trading 
 can both become repetitive. Though some of the creatures you'll encounter look very impressive, 
 there's just not really a sense of danger unless you're unlucky enough to be caught surrounded 
 by much more powerful foes and without any energy to warp to safety. And continually mining and 
 hauling goods back to space stations is exactly as fun as it sounds.   

  Because massively multiplayer online RPGs are continually evolving, Westwood will hopefully find 
 some means of making the game's trade and combat elements more interesting in the coming months. 
 And to its credit, the game does offer some interesting features that are new to online RPGs, most 
 notably the ability to gain experience and levels without ever fighting a single enemy. In its 
 current state, Earth &amp; Beyond is fun for a short while, and at least you'll have some great 
 sightseeing ahead of you before the game starts to lose its interest.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KRM398
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  For gods sake guys its been canceled for years... please say so, unless you know something we dont. 
 I was on the beta and played it for a while after that. It had the avatars walking through stations 
 and interacting that games say they cant do even now. I have asked several good games now to try 
 to copy the way the station detail and avatar movements were done then, but to no availle. It was 
 ahead of its time, and could have a good following if redone today. Obviously Westwood didnt think 
 so.. too bad. The game companies are always looking for something different to do, why not look 
 into the past and redo this, like Starcraft is being redone, or any of a long list of others, making 
 a comeback with better detail and new graphics. I would sugest a little better ship design this 
 time. They were a little odd, but solid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalionix
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  No Game to date is better than E&B. This game was ultimate. It was so good on the eyes also. Everything 
 about this game was great. Then EA bought out Westwood, and decided people didn't like it. For 
 some reason EA believes they determine who likes what despite what the people are saying. If you 
 want to find an MMO that is approaching the greatness of this perfectly orchestrated strand of 
 data, the you should check out Eve-online. With the next expansion they have coming Eve will be 
 just as great as E&B, if not better. E&B was vast and always had something new to do. Unlike games 
 as: World of Warcraft, and RF Online, where it's just the same old stuff non-stop. If for some 
 reason EA decides to give the people what they really want and bring tyhis game back, GET IT! Until 
 then play Eve-Online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KitKitty
Rating: 2.3
Date: Dec 16, 2005 1:21 am PT
Review:  In my life as a gamer, I have played ALOT of MMORPGs, World of Warcraft, Star wars galaxies, Ultima 
 Online, Guild Wars, Everquest, and even City of Heros, never once did I see, or even think it was 
 possible to have a Massive Multiplayer online Rpg be this bad. It was awful, words cant discribe 
 how awful, like playing a sucky space game only in a weird annoying boring bland Rpg form. I was 
 discusted I even payed for a month of playing *Guild wars was free and probably a thousand times 
 better then this and I didn't even think Guild wars was all that good*. If you want to play a massive 
 multiplayer game in a blank, open, boring, buggy world of lame fighting and targeting. If you like 
 wasting hours of your life staring at a shiny stupid space ship *you can't get a cool new better 
 looking one like you can in other space games* then get this game, you will love it. If not go 
 play any of the six games I listed at the top, You will have way more fun then you could ever squeeze 
 out of this Awful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BentSea
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 17, 2004 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Before I start officialy, heres a question for everybody. How do you review an MMORPG? Do you review 
 it on its merits and its peers as an Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game? Or do you 
 place it squarely among all other games and review it for the number of hours its good for? That 
 question should apear biased to whoever reads it, but there should be people who see either direction 
 biased because there are people who love MMORPGs and find them endlessly satisfying and there are 
 people who are only satisfied as long as they can quickly move from location to location and plot 
 device to plot device.
  
  Earth & Beyond is probably one of the last projects of Westwood Studios now that they are an official 
 property of Electronic Arts, which in a way is sad because they have produced so many products 
 that cater to so many genres of gamers that it is to be hoped that the history of ORIGIN does not 
 repeat itself. It is a Sci-Fi based MMORPG that applies diablo-esque gameplay to a space based 
 RPG and can be said to do so succesfuly, and even makes the game far more rewarding for single 
 player gaming than any other MMORPG to date with a rish series of flowing quests that introduce 
 the player to the environment before falling into the role of an average MMORPG.
  
  The basic game mechanics are so simple a five year old could play this game without earning a single 
 brain wrinkle. The only stats you choose are which of the six classes you play at the beginning 
 of the game elliminating the illustion that how strong or wise you are makes a huge difference 
 other than punishing people for being ignorant with distribution. All other decisions are completely 
 superficial, but VERY cool as characters in the game as well as your ship (be carefull as your ship 
 upgrades the secondary collors you choose will become far more prominant) are extremely customizable 
 rivaling even Bioware's Baldurs Gate and Never Winter Nights, and yet having no bearing on the 
 game other than making shure your character looks cool. There is absolutely no collision detection 
 and aside from landscape and most planets and moons you can fly through anything which is odd but 
 neccesarily fitting in a game which is desinged to apeal to those who neither care for nor hold 
 respect for l33t p1l0t sk1llz. Combat takes place much as in everquest where you select a target 
 aproach within range of your respective weapon and your character automaticaly targets trusting 
 to your skills and to the games meter for the targets combat difficulty meter to tell you your 
 chances of a succesful fight. Unlike previous MMO space based RPGs, well, the only one, they have 
 delt with the large empty spaces of the universe with warp drive so you can pilot from fight to 
 fight and task to task without spending excruciating lengths of time between targets and destinations 
 and later upgrades in the game such as wormhole for the Jenquait Explorers and faster engines will 
 shorten these distances even further. Bases provide places where you can be towed back to should 
 you be disabled by enemy fire and unable to find a friendly player to jumpstart your ship.
  
  Above and beyond all other games of its type, Earth and Beyond offers a deeper experience for 
 the beginning player as a long series of quests is offered to each player introducing them to their 
 role in the community with a large number of interactions with NPC's which are handled in a branching 
 conversation dialogues that sometimes will let you go through all the options over and over again 
 and sometimes will remember your choices and treat you acordingly for the duration of eternity 
 or in some cases your faction changes. Finaly more so than any other online RPG you can play solo 
 indefinitely, BUT the enjoyment from doing so greatly diminishes after the first 24 hours or so 
 although similar quests will occasionaly apear and suck you back into a sort of story making the 
 pure level up process which is identical to other games of its type fill like filler they are few 
 and far between and will quickly drop back leaving you with the feeling youve done something cool 
 but its back to playing EverQuest in space. For a traditional gamer Earth & Beyond will easily 
 fill up your first months subscription (which is free) with rewarding hours and thus justifying 
 the $44.95 price tag and with plenty of replay value as each of the six classes has the same introductory 
 depth.
  
  On a final note, E&B does seem to get one thing backwards, but I doubt if a large number of people 
 will notice it as it is strangely apropriate for space. The graphics are incredible, but all the 
 things worth looking at youll only see during your down time and even then you wont be paying much 
 attention as docking is handled automaticaly.... which is funny because you spend most of your 
 time in asteroid fields and empty space fighting or mining or traveling and you can hit the dock 
 button without even bothering to fly around outside the station before hand for a look... same 
 goes for most planets once you land on them, and the few where you have to fly around and can aprieciat 
 the landscape youll be all bitter because you don't want to look at it because it's stopping you 
 from getting where you need to be, namely, inside the station. Which, as I said before, is funny 
 that the places where you want to be and have stuff to do are some of the least attractive places 
 in the game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dremun
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2004 6:28 am PT
Review:  Well must admit that Im sorry to see this game go, as it will be ending in september, because this 
 is a good game, and one of kind that is for sure. I had loads of fun with this game and really 
 enjoyed it, the learning curve is is short but takes a while to really master but for an RPG Coop 
 game it is one hell of game this is one game that really brings all the players together when the 
 time calls for it. And yet you can play it solo as if you were in a single player game, it is the 
 best of both worlds, coop and single player and RPG, as you start off the levels come pretty fast, 
 but when you get to the higher levels, each level comes slower and and takes a lot more to get 
 a level. But it does make for a good challenage and lots of fun, this game has to be one of my 
 favorites for the PC, in all honesty it is really a very good game. get and play it while you can 
 and have fun. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
