-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Earth 2150: Lost Souls
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/earth2150lostsouls/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 13, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.2, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 120 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Zuxxez
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Sep 9, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Die-hard fans of the series and newcomers alike will find a lot to like in Earth 2150: Lost Souls. 
 

 Earth 2150: Lost Souls is the third game in the Earth 2150 series. The first two, Earth 2150 and 
 Earth 2150: The Moon Project, were great 3D real-time strategy games that were very deep and involving. 
 Lost Souls certainly follows its predecessors in that regard -- it's more like a stand-alone mission 
 pack than a true sequel. This is both good and bad. On the one hand, die-hard fans of the series 
 newcomers alike will find a lot to like in the game. But most anyone else would consider Earth 
 2150: Lost Souls to be essentially just a rehash.           Lost Souls is basically the same as 
 the previous two Earth 2150 games.    

 Lost Souls once again places you on a doomed Earth in the year 2150. Nuclear wars have knocked Earth 
 out of its orbit and into a collision course with the sun. Some of the planet's inhabitants were 
 able to escape to Mars in the previous two games, but a good number of people were left behind 
 to perish. Now three Earth factions are battling against each other and desperately trying to escape 
 before it's too late. All this boils down to some intense battles between the remnants of the Eurasian 
 Dynasty, the Lunar Corporation, and the United Civilized States.   

  Unlike in the previous two games, the campaigns in Lost Souls are tied together. You'll want to 
 go through them in order so you can get the complete story. A lot of the mission types are very 
 similar to the previous games' missions, though. You'll have to complete goals such as mine a certain 
 amount of minerals or defend a base for a given period of time. There are also a couple of seemingly 
 blatant discrepancies in the story line. In Earth 2150, you had only 180 game days to mine enough 
 resources to build an escape vessel before the planet is engulfed in flames. You had a sense of 
 urgency to complete missions so you could conserve what precious time you had left for future missions. 
 Since Lost Souls takes place after the events in the first two games, you'd imagine that you'd 
 be even more pressed for time, but the game doesn't even have a timer. Also, as the days unfolded 
 in the first game, the weather and environments changed. You started in blizzards and frozen landscapes, 
 which began to melt as water levels rose and Earth got closer to the sun. Eventually, the water 
 evaporated altogether to reveal a scorched landscape. So, in Lost Souls, you'd imagine that you'd 
 pick up at this stage of Earth's demise, but that's not the case.           You can build your 
 own custom units to counter enemy forces.    

 There are a few elements that make the Earth 2150 games so unique. First of all, you can design 
 your own units. You have several chassis, including land, sea, and air, that you can use to make 
 customized units suitable for different purposes. Depending on the faction and the chassis, you 
 can add shields and different types of weapons like rocket launchers and energy cannons. You can 
 then store the unit design, and it will appear in your construction menu for later use. You can 
 also give the unit behavioral orders when creating it. Second, you have a main base where you manage 
 your forces and choose missions. After you complete a mission, you can take any leftover units 
 and money to your main base for use in later scenarios. Since units gain experience and gradually 
 become more powerful, it's nice to be able to retain them for future use. You can also conduct 
 research in the game. Though, unlike in standard RTS games, where you are granted new units over 
 the course of a campaign, you actually have to research new chassis and weapons before you can 
 use them in Lost Souls. This is a major factor in multiplayer and skirmish games. You have to be 
 strategic in your research order -- if your opponent chooses to get energy-based weapons right away, 
 you'll want to research shields. Being caught off guard can be devastating to your forces.     
 

 The AI in the game is quite good. The computer opponent may not be the best strategic thinker, but 
 it will still be a challenge. Your units will try to avoid shooting each other and can auto-acquire 
 targets. The unit pathfinding is generally good, so you'll rarely have to micromanage them to get 
 to a destination. You'll sometimes experience issues when you have a large clump of units, however. 
 They'll try to get around each other once the first one stops, but they'll just end up circling 
 one another. It's not a major problem, but it's just annoying to see them endlessly dancing around. 
           Lost Souls is a great RTS game on its own merits...    

 Lost Souls uses the same 3D engine used in the other two Earth 2150 games. It is a great engine 
 for a 3D RTS game because of its good camera control and its high level of interaction between 
 the units and the environment. Anyone who has played a lot of 3D RTS games knows that sometimes 
 the camera can be such a disaster to control that it's better to just leave it alone. Luckily, 
 the camera in Lost Souls is very easy to control, and it lets you zoom, elevate, and rotate your 
 view. These functions are actually very useful in determining which weapons your opponents have 
 mounted onto their chassis.   

  The engine is also great for gameplay mechanics. You can speed up or slow down the game to help 
 you coordinate your attacks, which is especially useful when you're being attacked on several fronts. 
 There are even some mechanics designed to surprise and fool your enemy. There are night cycles 
 to set up ambushes in the dark, and you can have your repairers paint your units so they're the 
 same color as your opponent's units. While these ploys aren't that functional against computer 
 players, you'll find that they can be effective in multiplayer games if executed correctly. The 
 game treats the environment as a 3D landscape. Flying units will have to increase altitude to pass 
 over mountains, and hills will block weapon fire. In fact, any object will block fire. That means 
 your defenses will accidentally hit your own buildings with stray rockets if your base isn't designed 
 with that possibility in mind. Another interesting feature is the fact that destroyed units and 
 buildings remain on the battlefield as destroyed husks. While you can just run over destroyed units, 
 the charred remains of the larger buildings will become an obstacle until the remains are destroyed. 
 This can be a hindrance to both the attacker and defender, and usually you'll see the AI move in 
 to clear away its own destroyed buildings.   

  The engine's graphics are beginning to show their age, but the game definitely isn't unpleasant 
 to look at. Weapon effects like plasma bolts and shield deflections still look quite nice, and 
 you'll be satisfied with the good-looking explosions when you destroy something. You'll probably 
 enjoy fighting the United Civilized States just so you can see the huge, screen-jolting explosions 
 when you destroy nuclear reactors. But the graphics themselves are fairly bland, especially since 
 we're seeing them for the third time. The textures just aren't that impressive, and the units look 
 like they're made out of Lego blocks. It would have been nice to have had updated graphics, but 
 they are still acceptable when compared with those of current 3D RTS games.           ... but those 
 who've played Earth 2150 before may want to pass it up.    

 Another aspect of the series that hasn't changed in Lost Souls is the sound. The sounds of weapons 
 firing and explosions are decent, but the unit acknowledgements are still as hokey as ever. You'll 
 wish they had at least done something about the wretched voices of the Lunar Corporation faction. 
 Lost Souls also uses the same soundtrack found in the previous two games in the series. While the 
 soundtrack provides a very good orchestral backdrop for the game, it's disappointing that no new 
 tracks have been added.   

  Earth 2150: Lost Souls stands tall on its own merits. Its many options, long missions, and excellent 
 gameplay make it one of the best RTS games on the market. If you've already played previous Earth 
 2150 games, you won't find anything new here, but if you don't mind going through the same thing 
 again or you're just looking for a great RTS game, then look no further.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Nexus_Master_X
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Earth 2150: The Lost Souls is an RTS game taking place on a doomed Earth. I've been playing the 
 game for awhile now, as my other game, Earth 2160, isn't compatible with my video card. : ( This 
 game combines 5 things I wouldn't have expected: Low size, low requirements, good AI, good graphics 
 and good performance (frameratewise) . My personal preferance is to utilize a combination of subterrain 
 and naval units to annihilate my enemies, however, I see the benefit in land units so I compromise... 
 Caspians and Volgas anyone?
  Mix amphibious units with true naval units and some underground Earthquake generators and you have 
 something they can't stop no matter what! Too bad it only shines on them naval-style maps... Anyways, 
 it isn't too difficult, for the most part anyways... I suppose true difficulty ratings depend on 
 your faction of choice. The Lunar Corporation (LC) is the easiest, though a pain with them solar 
 panels n such. The Eurasian Dynasty (ED) would be the middle difficulty (to me) , good power supply, 
 lots of cannons and such. (kinda ammo intensive though) The United Civilized States (UCS) is a 
 pain! If you play these fools, build no more than 3 Harvesters per Refinery (2 land, 1 air or vice 
 versa) or be prepared to wait for that money longer than you expected. Their power grid is easy 
 enough to handle, and them Fortresses are excellent base defense. I held off and entire ED assault 
 force (ground and air) of about 2000 units or so, with 3 of them. :) 2 Heavy Plasma Cannons and 
 2 AA Plasma Cannons on each fort makes for a tough defense line. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
