-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: East Front II: The Russian Front
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/eastfront2therussianfront/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 20, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.1, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 35 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: TalonSoft
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Mar 31, 1999

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
East Front II is everything the original East Front should have been when it was released. It's 
 big, engrossing, enjoyable, and true to its board game roots. 

 Ignore the fact that there's a Roman numeral in the title. East Front II is not a sequel, but rather 
 a "gold" edition. Basically it's all the original East Front scenarios, the campaign disc, and 
 50 new scenarios upgraded with the advances found in West Front. Yes, that's right, Talonsoft has 
 gone the Sierra route and rereleased a game that originally suffered from severe bug infestation. 
 Yet even Sierra would at least have included a rebate if you already owned the original game, something 
 you won't find in East Front II's box. Instead, as a concession, you can order East Front II through 
 Talonsoft at a discounted price, but tough luck if you've already picked it up at a retailer - 
 you're stuck with full price.   

 So what's new in East Front II? Well, imagine all the improvements of West Front, applied to the 
 original East Front. This means better graphics such as contoured terrain features and vehicle 
 camouflage schemes, several optional rules such as armor facing, a linked campaign mode, and a 
 thick manual. Of course, everything you didn't like about West Front is still present, such as 
 the annoying supply rules (supply in a game where most scenarios represent an hour of real time? 
 Come on, at least make the rules optional!) . And oh yes, don't forget that 50 new scenarios have 
 been added. While veterans of the original East Front might have to take a long hard look into 
 their wallets, picking up East Front II is a no-brainer for green recruits.  

 If you're a newcomer to the world of computer wargaming, but grew up on board games, East Front 
 II plays a lot like Avalon Hill's Panzer Blitz or GDW's Blood and Thunder. Turns represent six 
 minutes, with most scenarios lasting from one hour to two hours of simulated time. A single unit 
 represents a platoon, with individual strength points equaling half an infantry squad, a full MG 
 team, an artillery piece, or a tank. The game is played out on a hex grid (each hex is 250 meters) 
 and conforms to the standard "side A moves and fights, then side B does the same" style of play. 
 Victory levels are derived from the control of certain hexes and the destruction of enemy forces 
 while preserving friendly forces.   

 Because East Front II is a computer game, technology eases some of the burdens found in board wargaming. 
 For example, true fog of war is possible without any convoluted double-blind system. The pain of 
 setting up hundreds of cardboard counters is eliminated, as is trying to recall dozens of arcane 
 rules and tables. The game is very user friendly, with plenty of online help, but most importantly 
 the control scheme is very intuitive. The basics can be mastered in a few minutes, and the manual 
 (weighing in at a nice 239 pages, and it even includes an index) does a good job of laying out 
 all the tables one could want.  

 The graphics are pleasing to the eye, with a choice of three 3D views and two 2D views. In the 3D 
 view the maps are laid out in an oblique manner, with terrain resembling that found in a diorama 
 and units looking like hand-painted die-cast miniatures. The only downside is the poor sense of 
 scale; tanks are as big as buildings, and the soldiers are all descendants of Paul Bunyon. The 
 2D view portrays the more traditional view found in board games, looking directly down on the terrain 
 with units represented by icons. Unlike The Operational Art of War, the 3D view is actually playable 
 and doesn't detract from the player's battlefield awareness.   

 One of the most impressive features of East Front II is simply the sheer size of the game. There 
 are 150 single scenarios, a random scenario generator, an editor for crafting your own scenarios, 
 and several campaign games. The dynamic campaign mode of the original is still present, but a linked 
 campaign mode has been added. In the linked mode, the scenarios follow a "tree," with the number 
 of scenarios you branch into depending entirely on how well you fare. If none of that is enough, 
 there's also the slew of multiplayer options to extend gameplay, including the ability of 16 players 
 to play over the Internet in one scenario! Imagine trying to get that many gamers together around 
 your kitchen table!  

 While there's something to be said for gaming against organic intelligence, another advantage of 
 computer wargaming is simply the ability to provide an opponent for you. Many wargames make up 
 for the lack of a decent AI by creating scenarios that are actually puzzles. In these puzzle scenarios, 
 good tactics are always overshadowed by trying to figure out the proper use of your units in the 
 situation. East Front II's artificial intelligence puts up a good fight, and because of that, the 
 scenarios are winnable by good strategy, not following a walk-through guide.   

 The biggest problem comes from the aforementioned supply rules that are totally out of place in 
 a tactical game. Considering the background most of the scenario designers have with board wargaming, 
 it seems strange that they allowed the supply rules to remain in the game. Some other problems 
 include the inability to cancel an artillery attack and the console style of saving in a campaign. 
 You can only save after a campaign scenario and never during the scenario. The rationale is to 
 prevent "cheating" by retrying a scenario until you get the best score. Not everyone who wants 
 to save during a campaign scenario is interested in cheating though; sometimes we just don't have 
 enough time to sit down for an entire session.   

 East Front II is everything the original East Front should have been when it was released. It's 
 big, engrossing, enjoyable, and true to its board game roots. It's just a shame that Talonsoft 
 would make it appear like it was a true sequel, and not including a rebate is just as shameful. 
 Still, East Front II is the best tactical level wargame to come out in a long time. If you have 
 the original game and the expansion CD, you'll have to decide if the new features are really worth 
 the money (and also take two points off the value score) . For the rest of the world, dress warmly 
 and expect to spend quite some time in those harsh Russian winters.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: destinys_martyr
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 11, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  EFII, along with its fellow campaign series games, has been no doubt the source of most of my computer 
 gaming experiences. I love RTS games always have, was an addicted fan of the Age of Empires series 
 and so forth, but there's still that element of knowledgeable skill needed (along with patience) 
 to play a game like EFII. It's definitely not for the instant gratification mouse clicking fest 
 RTS players that are now so common. It goes back to the board-game roots of war strategy and at 
 the same time incorporates a sense of modern fast pace strategy gaming. The multiplayer over TCP 
 or network is a blast if you set the time limits per turn to maybe 10 minutes, kind of like speed 
 chess. I recommend this game even today to players that are fans of turn-based strategy but never 
 got a chance to try any of Talonsoft's turn-based games (some of their other attempts at RTS and 
 the like were poor) . Will probably continue to play EFII, Rising Sun, West Front and Divided Ground 
 (now especially with the modern warfare cold war mods from theblitz. org) until there is either 
 a sequel to the engine or until I can no-longer play computer games.
  
  -mark 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harden007
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 29, 2004 4:59 am PT
Review:  This game was a lot of fun. I love that you can create a commander, name him (after yourself) , 
 choose a picture for him (there are lots to choose from) , and throughout the war your guy can earn 
 promotions and medels! I LOVE THIS FEATURE!!! On the flip side, if he's killed in battle then your 
 campaign ends (or so I remember) , so there's your motivation for not getting too close to the fighting. 
 Also, you can choose to play as just about any country; Germany, Russia, Romania, Hungary, Italy, 
 Finland, Poland, they're all here and with their own unique units and "create your general" options. 
 Just as impressive is the variety of different campaigns. It includes Poland, Finland, and several 
 options for the Russian war. I played as the Germans, and as such was able to choose the Army Group 
 my unit was in. I chose Armygruppe Centre, and my missions and battle fields adjusted. The actual 
 battles were decent, but nothing spectacular. It is a hex-map, turn-based system of play and seeing 
 that the game is made by Talonsoft, the battles could be a lot easier to play. Overall a good experience, 
 but none of my talonsoft games will install and play on my pc anymore, and I dont know whats up 
 with that, my loss. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
