-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Echelon: Wind Warriors
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/echelonwindwarriors/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 28, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.3
Critic Score: 6.5, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 48 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Encore Software, Inc.
Developer: Buka Entertainment
Genre: Futuristic Jet Sim
Date:     Feb 9, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Echelon: Wind Warriors isn't a bad game, so much as a mediocre and totally unambitious one. 

 
  Space sims and flight sims are both rarities on the PC these days. Echelon: Wind Warriors manages 
 to combine both genres, letting you hop into futuristic fighters and soar across planetary surfaces 
 while dogfighting and raining destruction on ground targets. This unusual blend of genres makes 
 Wind Warriors worth a look. When you look closely, though, you see that it's a simple retread of 
 the original Echelon, released back in 2001. The missions are new, but the gameplay and graphics 
 are nearly identical in all the essentials, making it feel like you're playing the same old game 
 taken out of a new box. Many of the problems that marred the original game rear their ugly heads 
 again, and new ones also pop up, making it hard to enjoy Wind Warriors' strengths.  

          Echelon: Wind Warriors is at its best when it skips right to the action.     

  Once 
 again, you play as a generic pilot fighting a generic enemy in a generic setting. A good game should 
 have some real emotional pull, making you hate your enemies, love your allies, and feel a real 
 sense of accomplishment when you've saved the day. You won't find those things in Wind Warriors. 
 When fighting through the game's 40 stand-alone and campaign missions, you feel like you're merely 
 zipping around and blasting stuff for the heck of it. Storytelling and world-building, such as 
 they are, mainly take place through dry, wordy text mission briefings. In-game radio chatter adds 
 a little ambience, though not the sort you'd like: A lot of it consists of your base commander 
 repeatedly and gratuitously cussing at you and your wingmen.  

  Just like the original Echelon, Wind Warriors puts you in the cockpit of various fighters, each 
 with unique max speed, maneuverability, and weapon mounts. Some ships are fast and nimble but limited 
 to a few weapons, while others lumber along like flying tanks. You can outfit your craft with various 
 rechargeable energy weapons, as well as machine guns, cannons, rockets, and guided missiles. (The 
 presence of guided missiles makes you wonder why these futuristic fighters mostly lack the sort 
 of countermeasures and stealth technology found on real fighters today -- quite an odd omission.) 

  Wind Warriors lets you control the fighters with various mouse arrangements or a joystick. We found 
 mouse control more trouble than it was worth; a joystick made flight and combat easier and added 
 a little immersion. Whichever way you control your ship, you'll see that the physics bear only 
 a passing relation to reality. Inertia, gravity, and drag all get a simplified treatment here. 
 That makes the flying accessible but shallow. You'll note, for example, that your ship will often 
 bounce off objects. Once, our fighter struck a mountainside, and instead of blowing up, it started 
 to fly backward at high speed into the stratosphere, as if it had rammed into a colossal rubber 
 band. Sometimes your craft will indeed explode on impact, but quite possibly at the hands of the 
 buggy autopilot feature that sometimes steers you into hills instead of over them.  

           A lone fighter heads into action.     

  On the bright side, the game's missions and 
 terrain are at least superficially varied. You'll race through treacherous canyons to avoid enemy 
 radar, roar over plains as ground units slug it out below, and get tangled in whirling dogfights. 
 If you want simple, fast action, you'll find it here. The missions start to blur together really 
 quickly, though. Also, Wind Warriors frequently makes a mess of letting you know exactly what you're 
 supposed to be doing and why. Mission briefings can be vague, and the constant barrage of radio 
 and text messages during flight can be distracting instead of helpful. It's surprising that Wind 
 Warriors doesn't include a feature found in so many games: a clear, accessible checklist that shows 
 you what specific objectives still need to be accomplished and where.  

  Even if you know what you're doing, missions can be a drag because of all the repetition, as well 
 as the downtime as you laboriously fly from one distant waypoint to the next. There's a time-compression 
 feature, but why should you have to turn it on all the time to avoid dozing off? You can't save 
 your progress during missions, either; one mistake, and it's back to square one. That omission 
 wears thin fast since many of the missions are too difficult and therefore become highly repetitive, 
 since they're scripted to play out the same way each time. As in the original Echelon, you'll also 
 find that your wingmen are of questionable use, just as apt to run into you as to kill the enemy. 
 (The developers seem to know this, poking fun at "dumb" AI in a bizarre remark on one briefing 
 screen.)  

  Fortunately, some of the independent missions outside of the campaign are straightforward deathmatch 
 free-for-alls where you respawn immediately after dying. These are the missions that highlight 
 Wind Warriors' strengths. There's little depth, but there is nonstop action, and there are plenty 
 of opportunities to try out numerous fighter and weapon combos. The game also sports multiplayer 
 for up to 48 players over a LAN or the Internet, though we could never connect to a server. It 
 seems that the US version of the game isn't compatible with the latest European versions at this 
 time.  

  It's a shame that Wind Warriors does little to update the presentation of the original Echelon, 
 basically recycling that game's graphics. A game about futuristic fighters and alien worlds just 
 begs for the deluxe graphics treatment, but what looked darn impressive in the original Echelon 
 three years ago looks only OK today. Many of the fighters again look generic, as does much of the 
 terrain, though the latter is at least fairly well detailed and boasts impressive view distances. 
 Weapons fire and explosions are brilliantly colored and dramatic, adding some much-needed flash 
 to the otherwise humdrum visuals.  

          Get ready for a lot of reading.     

  The audio is merely passable. All the radio messages are clear enough, though some of the accents 
 are pretty hokey. The dialogue itself is horrible: "The base is as blind as a liquored-up old lady"? 
 Engines and weapons often sound weak and flabby. The music, heard only on the menu screen, is downright 
 absurd: Imagine a Euro-techno version of the lounge jazz from No One Lives Forever. It boggles 
 the mind that such unsuitable music would be included in a sci-fi combat game.  

  It's hard to get enthusiastic about Echelon: Wind Warriors. It feels for all the world like a mission 
 pack for a decent but unexceptional 3-year-old game. Judging by the game box, though, an unsuspecting 
 buyer would assume it's a completely original, new game since no mention is made of the first Echelon. 
 Wind Warriors' dogfights can be a bit of fun, but its campaign is a bore, old problems remain, 
 new ones have arisen, and you won't find new features of real worth. Echelon: Wind Warriors isn't 
 a bad game, so much as a mediocre and totally unambitious one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Raiden_Kitsune
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  Wind Warriors has gotten some pretty mediocre reviews. I have to say, all the complaints most people 
 have about the game are valid enough, but there's one thing I disagree on. As flawed as the game 
 is, it's still extremely fun.
  
  I'm not going to go too much into the problems, because you can see them in any other review. The 
 storyline is mediocre, the AI and physics are (sometimes very) buggy., the graphics are dated, 
 the combat is a bit on the simplistic side, and it feels like an expansion to the original game 
 more than a sequel.
  
  So with all those issues, why am I defending the game? Because if you can get past them (and perhaps 
 some people never will; I can't be the only one that can, though) , Wind Warriors is one of the 
 more thrilling flight combat games out there.
  
  A lot of this resides in the aircraft and mission design. The number of flyable aircraft isn't 
 anything amazing (20 or so, I believe) , but the different types all fly very differently. Echelon's 
 mission designers used that fact very well to add a lot of variety to the missions, even the types 
 that might get stale otherwise. Your typical "stay at low altitude to avoid being seen" canyon 
 mission is a cake walk in a fighter, capable of low speed flight, hovering, and lateral movement. 
 Trying another later one in a high-speed interceptor with limited mobility, that falls out of the 
 sky if you cut the throttle too much, is an entirely different game. There are missions that require 
 the use of stealth craft (absolutely helpless if you do get found) , missions where you'll be vastly 
 outnumbered in a lightweight, underpowered Tempest fighter, and times to use the massive Jericho, 
 Armageddon, and Apocalypse assault craft. Even within a class, the differences between machines 
 make them all worth flying. The blazing fast Lightning and the outdated but tough and agile Spirit 
 are very different interceptors; the same applies to each machine in every other class. The weapons 
 aren't quite as varied; most are some variation on your basic machine gun or energy bolt thrower, 
 but still have enough differences to avoid feeling like clones of each other. They also help Echelon 
 to naturally reward more skilled, dedicated players. Anyone will be able to use the light weapons 
 like the pulse plasma cannon and machine guns well. The heavier guns can take a lot of practice 
 to use well, but are devastating in the hands of a practiced gunner.
  
  The missions themselves are often creative as well, and you rarely know exactly what's going to 
 happen in the mission (at least on your first time through) . There are some memorable battles in 
 the game that compare quite favorably to the better known flight games, and some excellent, very 
 tense moments, like being forced to battle in a suppression that shuts down all of your aircraft's 
 electronics, or quite a few other challenging scenarios. There are enough different kinds of objectives 
 that the game avoids that feeling that you're doing the same thing over and over again.
  
  
  The game -is- difficult, more so because of the lack of checkpoints, but an in-mission save 
 system would actually hurt this game. One of the challenges in the game is battlefield awareness. 
 A couple hits from the more powerful weapons will ruin your day very quickly, so you can't afford 
 to let enemies get shots in on you. If you fixate on one target, that little tank you blew off 
 as a non-issue will snipe you right out of the sky when you turn your back on it. While you're 
 chasing down an enemy bomber making his run on your base, you need to be very careful to make sure 
 his wingman aren't lining you up in their sights. Echelon has a rare, welcome sense of tension 
 to it because you know that you can't afford to make stupid mistakes, or your enemies are going 
 to capitalize on it, and you'll pay the price. Being able to just reload from a few moments prior 
 to your fatal mistake would detract significantly from that part of the experience. The only times 
 you'll ever get overly upset about replaying a mission is the unfortunately not particularly rare 
 scenario of completing a mission, and then having the AI Autopilot crash you into a mountain on 
 your way back home. As irritating as it may be, though, and I won't even attempt to defend the 
 game on that count, it's not that hard to avoid if you just keep an eye on the plane and turn autopilot 
 off if it starts to stray, instead of wandering off for a bathroom break and expecting to be on 
 the ground in one piece when you come back.
  
  In the end, though, the most important point that I haven't seen in any other review is that, quite 
 simply, the combat is just plain fun. For all of its bugs, the AI is usually quite competent, and 
 puts up enough of a fight to keep the battles interesting, and makes sure you keep on your toes. 
 The flight model is a long way short of being realistic, but strikes an excellent balance between 
 real-world physics and pure fun that makes sure dogfights and high-speed runs don't get old, even 
 if you end up replaying the same mission several times.
  
  Wind Warriors is definitely far from perfect game, especially on the technical side, but the non-stop, 
 intense action and variety in the missions and aircraft manage to surpass the problems and make 
 Wind Warriors well worth the time and money. Especially considering that you can probably find 
 it in a bargain bin for under $10 nowadays, I'd strongly urge anyone who enjoys flight action games 
 to ignore the bad reviews for once and give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazzn
Rating: 3.3
Date: Sep 3, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Okay... firstly, i got this game during a sale at a plaza near my house. Ya know the buy 2 get one 
 free bargain.... When i my eyes gazed upon this particular game, thoughts went through my mind. 
 I had not check up Gamespot yet by the way ( if i had.. i will not be writing this now) and now i 
 regret it. Packaging seemed interesting, with the 40 missions set attracting me to it. I was thinking... this 
 has 40 Missions! worth every penny~ When i reached home, i tore the cover apart and slot the disc 
 into my box and installed it. Opening scenes were smooth, nicely detailed and realistic. Looking 
 at that i thought i had spent my cash on good stuff. Moving on to the gameplay, i realise that 
 flight controls were difficult, there wasnt a crisp battle control that captivated me. ( yeaa you 
 probably think "wad the hell does this guy know abt flight sim?") but i can assure you that i have 
 played tons of sim games before this faithful day.
  
  This is one of the worst games ive played, I died twice at the starting mission and i lost all 
 interest in the game. If the controls were that pathetic enough to kill me twice and the thousands 
 of lasers that i shot were probably water pistols to the enemy, then why should you guys be bothered 
 with a game like this? I banged down on my mouse and held it there for like a minute, focusing 
 my fire power on the enemy in my sight and i could not shoot it down. Its stupid... i would have 
 felt much better piloting the simple control X-wing fighter in Starwars... Sounds were ugly... the 
 only way to know your objectives while flying is to read the subs that the voices say... at times, 
 3 or 4 people will be babbling and all the subs would appear at the top... so when your trying to 
 read your objectives, it gets cut off because some dumb ass is requesting permission to land. Music 
 = cheesy...
  Several other details turned me off during the play but its not worth shouting out here cause you 
 guys wont be that dumb to get this game..... right?
  
  anyways.. the bottom line is... STAY AWAY! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
