-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Echelon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/echelon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 23, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.3, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 67 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Bethesda Softworks
Developer: Buka Entertainment
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     May 16, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
In spite of its problems, Echelon does hit close enough to the mark to offer some fast and flashy, 
 but ultimately shallow, thrills. 

 Simulations with a science fiction theme haven't exactly been flying off the shelves in the last 
 couple of years, in spite of the buzz surrounding last year's Crimson Skies and MechWarrior 4. 
 And other than a few notable blips, hard-core flight sims have also largely disappeared off the 
 radar in the past year or so. Echelon, a futuristic air-combat game developed by Russia's Buka 
 Entertainment, combines elements from both science-fiction-themed games and traditional flight 
 simulations. Instead of skirmishes in deep space, you pilot futuristic aircraft over beautiful 
 alien worlds, battling both air and ground targets in fast-paced battles. Yet despite its promising 
 premise, a host of problems really hurts what could have been a fine game.           Echelon features 
 an impressive 3D engine...    

  Echelon's futuristic timeline begins with a massive civil war that throws the sprawling Galactic 
 Empire into chaos and eventual collapse. Peace is restored as the Galactic Federation is formed, 
 giving rise to a period of prosperity and expansion. As the Federation reaches outward to ever 
 more remote areas, it comes in contact with a race known as the Velians. When the Federation learns 
 of the Velians' null-t (null-transport) technology, it's quickly integrated into the economic fabric 
 of Federation life, allowing rapid transit and trade. Unbeknownst to the Federation, the null-t 
 stations are Trojan horses that quickly become nearly invincible bases of operation for the Velians 
 as they attack the Federation.   

  In the single-player missions, you take the role of a fresh cadet out to help save the Federation 
 from its new nemesis. That's not an uncommon scenario in a science fiction story, but when handled 
 with skill, it can be effective. However, in Echelon, there's little sense of involvement with 
 the story since you don't really get to know or care for any characters. Despite some beautiful 
 cutscenes, the gameworld isn't distinctive or memorable. You don't feel like you're fighting for 
 someone or something; you just fight because that's what the game is about.   

  The missions are scripted so that they largely play the same way each time. No matter what you 
 do, enemies will appear at the exact same time and place, or your wingmen will inexplicably rush 
 ahead just to get killed, leaving you alone against impossible odds. Some missions are outrageously 
 hard, while others are too easy, and a number of them include tediously long escort segments with 
 no action. Even with the time acceleration option activated, these missions still drag on. Such 
 flaws sharply reduce the game's overall sense of excitement and replay value.           ... and 
 interesting ship designs.    

  An anemic skirmish mode doesn't help much, though multiplayer can be exciting and offers deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, and a mode where you try to capture and hold ground bases. Unfortunately, the 
 only way to join a multiplayer game is to seek out and manually enter a server's IP address. Also, 
 the game will sometimes spawn your fighter right in front of a mountain, resulting in an unavoidable, 
 fiery wreck.   

  A series of tutorials does a good job of helping you master the numerous controls and the somewhat 
 unusual flight model. Many of the standard trappings of modern jet combat sims are present, such 
 as a HUD with a scrolling altimeter, an airspeed indicator, and a multifunction radar and targeting 
 system. The 14 flyable aircraft also handle somewhat like real planes, but with some major exceptions 
 that put the emphasis on action over realism. While some of the heavily armed ground attack craft 
 are relatively sluggish, many of the futuristic fighters can stop and turn on a dime, changing 
 attitude and airspeed with remarkable efficiency. Unlike a real plane, your craft's equivalent 
 of a rudder will turn the whole ship instead of just reorienting the nose along the same flight 
 path, resulting in even more maneuverability. At a dead stop, your ship can also hover. While you'll 
 bleed off airspeed during some inverted or high-g maneuvers, these don't stress the craft or pilot, 
 and stalls aren't an issue. Your fighter can be controlled with keyboard, mouse, or joystick, though 
 a joystick probably offers the easiest, most natural control.    

 What Echelon lacks in subtlety, it makes up for in action as you escort ships, engage fighter wings, 
 and rain rockets on tank columns and gun emplacements. You can stay focused on the flashy combat 
 thanks to the very relaxed flight model, limited damage effects, autopilot, and navigation waypoint 
 markers. Reminiscent of StarLancer or Crimson Skies, Echelon's dogfights are fast, swirling engagements 
 that don't require much getting used to. The emphasis is on quick, extremely low-altitude maneuvering 
 and blazing guns over careful attention to instruments or balancing of the forces that would act 
 on a real plane.           Some missions are much harder than others.    

  The enemy artificial intelligence puts up a decent fight, though you'll sometimes see fighters 
 blithely bouncing off cliff edges. Your wingmen will perform similar stupid stunts by smacking 
 into the back of you as you line up in formation for a return to base. Instead of reversing or 
 heading for cover, friendly tanks will continue directly toward known, vastly superior enemy forces -- with 
 predictably disastrous results.   

  Echelon does succeed admirably where many flight sims have had real problems: It smoothly renders 
 ultradetailed terrain and fighter graphics during high-speed dogfights. The mottled terrain looks 
 convincing; shimmering lakes reflect the sky; wispy clouds float by; and the sun glares off of 
 your canopy. Weapons effects are vivid too, thanks to dynamic lighting and little details like 
 ejecting shell casings and burning pieces of wreckage spewing from midair explosions. The ship 
 designs aren't as attractive as the scenery, but they're certainly above average. Unfortunately, 
 hardware compatibility problems can severely hurt the visuals. For instance, when using the popular 
 GeForce2-based video card with the latest official drivers and hardware transform-and-lighting 
 option enabled, you may find that the otherwise excellent graphics will become marred by horrible 
 clipping problems. Judging by the game's official forums, problems with video card compatibility, 
 AMD-K6 processors, and other hardware are fairly common.           Echelon can be fun in spite 
 of its problems.    

  The audio in Echelon doesn't match the quality of the visuals, but the in-mission sound effects 
 do a decent job of putting you into the role of fighter jock. Most of the weapons sound underpowered, 
 but the radio messages and warning voices and tones in your cockpit do manage to create a sense 
 of tension and urgency. The radio chatter can actually get a bit annoying, as your flight computer 
 incessantly reminds you, "Radio message received," in a robotic voice. The flood of messages can 
 also make it hard to keep track of updates to your mission assignments while you're engaged in 
 battle.   

  Echelon appears to be rushed and is hurt by a weak story, some poorly balanced and designed missions, 
 lack of a fully functional server browser, erratic AI, some hardware compatibility problems, and 
 some bugs. Typos and some poorly written or translated dialogue also mar the game. Still, the gorgeous 
 graphics are quite a sight, and the gameplay gives you a fairly enjoyableTop Gun  meets  Star 
 Warsexperience that straddles realism and arcade-style gameplay, while emphasizing the latter. 
 In aiming to meld the two, it doesn't quite get either right, and substance takes a backseat to 
 style. Nevertheless, Echelon does hit close enough to the mark to offer some fast and flashy, but 
 ultimately shallow, thrills.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: PCgamer4000BC
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 9, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  this is the game that got me into flight sims. You dont have to worry about take off or land or 
 stalling and running out of fuel. The HUD tells you were to shoot no matter where the targeted 
 craft is flying, so you dont have to be really experienced to shoot something. Also if you take 
 some damage but dont die, you can fly away from the battle because your ship automatically recharges 
 health. The training missions are exelant too. (They are the first few missions of the game, where 
 the commander tells you what buttons do what.)
  
  some downsides are that sometimes the enemy takes your HUD away, so that can be challanging. When 
 I said this game was noobie freindly, that does'nt mean its not hard. You just dont have to worry 
 about much of anything besides killing them / not getting killed. The story is a bit weak though, 
 it invlves the universe having a nuclear cataclysm and you are fighting over the few remaining 
 livable planets.
  
  A good game if you are wanting to try out flight sims, but if you play stuff like pacific fighters 
 or IL2, this is not a great game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
