-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Elite Warriors: Vietnam
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/elitewarriorsvietnam/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Handy radial squad-command menu.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Choppy frame rate.
 Friendly AI, but not very bright.
 Not enough variety in levels.
 Not really budget-priced.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  1, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 4.7, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 120 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Bold Games
Developer: Nfusion
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Mar 25, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Elite Warriors is a budget-priced tactical shooter that's neither especially tactical nor satisfyingly 
 action-packed. 

  Developer nFusion has carved something of a niche for itself by creating budget-priced tactical 
 shooters. It has bucked the budget-ware trend for cheap but lousy games, and the results have been 
 pretty good -- at least until Elite Warriors: Vietnam, a sorta-kinda sequel to 2003's Line of Sight: 
 Vietnam. Elite Warriors introduces some unusual gameplay elements that end up being completely 
 superfluous while drastically reducing the scope and variety of the core shooting action. The game 
 also reintroduces a few problems that nFusion seemed to have licked last time around. The result 
 is neither especially tactical nor satisfyingly action-packed.  

          The superfluous tactical map mode.     

  Ostensibly, the game is based on the literary 
 works of retired Major John L. Plaster U. S. A. R. His books detail what are now-declassified exploits 
 of the Studies and Observation Group, a shadowy joint armed forces organization that ran secret 
 operations into Laos, Cambodia, and North Vietnam. Apart from the lengthy mission-briefing text -- which 
 you can skip without missing anything important -- there isn't much to indicate that you're anything 
 other than an average grunt, humping it through the jungle with three of your buddies. For a game 
 that advertises its literary inspiration right on the front of the box, it's surprisingly free 
 of plot or even much context other than some war-themed factoids that appear during the loading 
 screens.  

  As in nFusion's previous titles, you command a squad of up to four soldiers, each of whom is rated 
 in several skill categories (such as stealth and a variety of weapon classes) that can be upgraded 
 between missions. You control one character at a time, though you can freely switch between them 
 at will. There are several basic commands that you can issue to the entire group. Instead of relying 
 solely on hotkeys for these commands, the game introduces a handy quick-select radial menu, which 
 is the only real improvement over the other titles in the series. There's also a new Brothers in 
 Arms-esque overhead view that temporarily positions the camera above your squad and permits you 
 to issue orders to members of the team individually. Inexplicably, the radial menu is disabled 
 in this mode, so you'll have to rely on hotkeys. This isn't much of a problem, however, since nothing 
 about the straightforward action inspires the use of this tactical camera. You'll use it in the 
 tutorial and then never bother with it again.  

  The single-player campaign is divided into eight missions, each of which takes maybe 45 minutes 
 to complete. Rather than go the traditional route of having each mission be a discrete level, the 
 game features an abstracted, RPG-like overhead map of the mission regions on which you plot a course 
 between various points of interest, such as supply drops, mission goals, and extraction points. 
 When your squad (represented by an icon) arrives at a point of interest, a level loads and the 
 shooter part kicks in.  

  As the squad slides between points of interest, random events occur and are reported in pop-up 
 dialog boxes. A squad member might sprain an ankle, slowing the entire group down; you might find 
 a secret stash of ammo; and then other times it will start to rain. Occasionally, you'll run across 
 an enemy patrol, at which point a level loads and you can either fight them or make a run for the 
 edge of the map. Each mission has a default set of waypoints, though you can also define your own. 
 As you move between waypoints, you can also set your movement speed from reckless to cautious. 

  The map mechanic is an interesting idea, but in practice it's completely extraneous. Though each 
 map features multiple extraction zones and supply drops, there's usually only one primary goal 
 area, and in every case the default waypoints are perfectly fine for completing the mission. There 
 simply isn't enough depth to either the maps or the available options to make this feature anything 
 more than an unnecessary nuisance.  

  The shooting action is pretty lackluster as well. The game abandons Line of Sight's focus on creeping 
 and sniping for more straightforward run-and-gun action. Line of Sight's enemies, who had a supernatural 
 ability to spot you from five miles away, have been replaced by guys with the subnormal tendency 
 to ignore you completely outside of two feet. Your squad has also been dumbed down. They frequently 
 get stuck on the landscape, a problem with earlier entries in the series that appeared to have 
 been fixed in Line of Sight. You can take control of a stuck soldier and move him manually, but 
 it's aggravating that you even have to.  

  The game's biggest failing is its almost complete lack of variety. Every level looks and plays 
 more or less identically. The main missions invariably involve trudging through featureless, interchangeable 
 expanses of jungle to blow up some stationary target. By the end of your tour, you'll never want 
 to see the color green again. This was a problem in Line of Sight as well, but it has gotten even 
 worse this time around. And though the dull visuals don't look appreciably better than those in 
 Line of Sight, the game is choppy even on decent hardware.  

          The actually pretty handy radial-command menu.     

  On top of everything else, the 
 game abandons some of Line of Sight's multiplayer options. Capture the flag and the objective-based 
 modes have been cut, leaving only free for all and team deathmatch. The four-player cooperative 
 mode is still supported, but the single-player game isn't compelling enough to make this option 
 very attractive.  

  nFusion's tactical shooter series reached its high point two titles ago with Deadly Dozen: Pacific 
 Theater. Though they share similar structures, none of that game's intensity or variety of content 
 managed to make it into Elite Warriors. Hopefully, nFusion will bounce back with its next title 
 or simply retire the series altogether.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: EddieDavis
Rating: 7.4
Date: Oct 23, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  OK, what this game does well, it does well. You feel as though you are out in the s**t, and the 
 danger of being surprised and overrun by the enemy is very real. It is not a run-n-gun fragfest. 
 Set-up and careful execution of your objective is key, and it is often a challenge, although not 
 an insurmountable one, just to figure out where enemy fire is coming from. It is graphically rich, 
 the squad A. I. is ok save for some pathfinding hassles, and the sound is really good. And you can 
 save whenever you want. Any game that doesn't let you do so inherently blows (or at least is fighting 
 an uphill battle) . Now that the good is out of the way, it's time for the bad. I was stopped in 
 my tracks by a bug that froze the framerate to a standstill after the FIRST MISSION!! Why are they 
 allowed to publish games with game-killing bugs? There oughta be a law.... perhaps the patch will 
 fix it up. Hopefully. Also, what is with the tactical map? Any reason for that? No. Not a big deal, 
 just annoying. The hit detection is also a bit poor. You can be right on top of an enemy and it'll 
 take half a clip to put him down, whereas they have an uncanny aim. Your squadmates don't fare 
 much better. The inventory management is unnecessarily complex, but along with most of the other 
 issues, once you get used to it, the game is a fun and unique experience. The other titles from 
 this development team are better, but do get it on the cheap if you're a shooter or an action fan. 
 I did, thought it was gonna suck, and was pleasantly surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssn560
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2005 4:10 am PT
Review:  Shame! under-rated reviews..
  
  This game, at its core is very fun and authentic.
  
  It has a overhead tactical map thing so you can command your men better. the ai is good for your 
 men. I don't understand how it got bad reviews. graphics are nice. Its very up to the vietnam war. 
 the missions are nice. everything is pretty cool. 
  
  gameplay- pretty authentic. the one shot kill thing is there. sure, the gun view for you reminds 
 you of rogue spear. and you cant aim with the rifles except the sniper ones. but you can call airstrikes 
 through a radio just like the any spec ops would. Planting a C4 is pretty cool. Let's not forget 
 the joy of sneaking upon your enemy and killing him. Or completing a mission with total stealth. 
 (yes, its possible for all your men to be brought to the exit zone alive.)
  
  Graphics- pretty good... not great but nice.
  
  sound- its fine
  
  Overall this game is 
 very fun and this deserves better.. plus it has high replay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guapsrocks
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 7, 2005 4:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is hardly worth 30 bucks! Way over priced for the obvious lack of programming that went 
 into the project.
  The game is board game and 3d game combined. Which would have been ok if either were done well.
 
  You start a mission by editing the map with selected waypoints and resupply drop areas. Then you 
 are able to advance the game as you watch your icons move via the waypoints you sent them. When 
 a random encounter happens you are transformed to the 3d mode where you are engaged by the enemy. 
 When the confrontation is over you are sent back to the map mode to continue.
  
  3d graphics are terrible. They used 10 year old technology. Basically its a Bitmap background with 
 2d vegetation. There are no solid objects in the game as in rocks or foliage to use for cover. 
 
  I found the missions repetitive and boring. 
  
  Dont pay more than $20 for this game! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
