-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Elite Forces: Navy SEALs
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/eliteforcesnavyseals/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 14, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.1
Critic Score: 4.2, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 5.0, 72 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: ValuSoft
Developer: Jarhead Games
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Jun 16, 2002
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Previous budget-priced shooters didn't set our expectations for Navy SEALs very high, but the game 
 undercuts even those standards. 

 Think of the glory of fighting the good fight in foreign lands as part of the Navy's well-trained 
 SEAL (Sea, Air, Land) soldiers. It's up to you to destroy critical data in a crashed top-secret 
 satellite, deactivate a nuclear warhead that's fallen into the wrong hands, and rescue prisoners 
 held by foreign powers. But if you spent a minute daydreaming about such adventures, you'd probably 
 find that more satisfying than playing ValuSoft's latest game, whose actual connection to the US 
 Navy's most elite unit is unfathomable. While ValuSoft proved with the recent Desert Rats that 
 it can publish enjoyable budget action games, Elite Forces: Navy SEALs falls back in line with 
 its previous poor-quality military-themed shooters, Vietnam 2 and WWII Iwo Jima. The game doesn't 
 even manage to match the production values of those previous efforts, compounding very minimalist 
 game audio with some technical problems.           Night vision turns everything green... and that's 
 basically it.    

 As a Navy SEAL, you might expect to exercise some special expertise, like diving or working in a 
 tightly knit team. But after you discard the box and get past the title screen, there's next to 
 nothing to let you know you're anything but an anonymous supersoldier. One of the short chunks 
 of text that serves to brief you on your missions suggests that stealth is a valid option. But 
 shortly after you run into an Iraqi soldier 10 feet into the first mission, it should become clear 
 that running and gunning is the best policy. Moreover, while your US weapons, a SOCOM, MP5SD, and 
 M4, are appropriately silenced or powerful, for most of the game, you're likely to wield the same 
 AK-47 that your enemies wield -- just because that's the only ammo to be found. The game's 10 levels 
 are grouped into three missions, and the game's one nod to realism is to provide US ammo only on 
 each initial deployment.   

  Considering recent international events, the appeal of the game could be assumed to be in combating 
 troops from two of the three nations dubbed a part of the "axis of evil": Iraq and North Korea. 
 The other mission takes place in Sarajevo. Clearly, your character is acting out the Navy's promise 
 to take you to distant lands. But after you clear the first few uniformly sandy, rocky, brown levels, 
 you really just have a series of unendingly dingy, dark nighttime maps to race through. If the 
 game's night vision did more than just turn everything a shade of green, it might have been easier 
 to see what's going on in the night maps. As it is, it's almost easier to locate enemies by the 
 muzzle flash and falling brass than suffer the perpetual green of night vision.   

  Navy SEALs doesn't promise to be more than a pure shooter, which would be absolutely fine if the 
 fighting were actually interesting. You usually encounter enemies one at a time in tight quarters 
 and gradually work your way up to three enemies at a time. Perhaps to ensure that you have plenty 
 of ammo, every enemy carries an AK-47. There are no hand grenades in the game, perhaps because 
 the physics required to have a grenade bounce off a 3D wall couldn't be incorporated. The M4 does 
 at least have its expected underbarrel grenade launcher, but there's little reason to use it since 
 you never see more than three enemies at once. A three-person patrol might be threatening, except 
 that the chance you'll be hit by enemy fire seems completely random -- on normal difficulty, you 
 can stand a few feet away as an enemy unloads a clip in your direction and come away unscathed. 
 But to guarantee your safety while running through the levels, you can use the advanced SEAL tactic 
 known as circle strafing.   

  Navy SEALs is extremely short. One level late in the game literally takes just a few minutes to 
 run through, and the whole game can be completed in less than three hours. But that doesn't mean 
 there aren't any real challenges on the way. The game's trickiest sequences occur in levels in 
 which the game's designers have hidden enemies in the dark corners of a room or behind doors that 
 are scripted to open. Fortunately, if you simply retreat into a hallway, the enemies will be obliging 
 enough to follow you out in single file. Head shots are effective, but even endless sprays from 
 the AK-47 work because of the endless supply of ammo that the game gives you.           The enemies 
 aren't all that smart either.    

 There are about two different looks for enemies per mission locale, but since they all act the same, 
 the game's only real variety comes when you face the occasional tank or helicopter. These serve 
 as stationary gun turrets that can't be damaged and are best avoided, except at one point late 
 in the game when you are forced to run a gauntlet surrounded by enemy vehicles that are delivering 
 heavy fire, which -- because there's no cover or tracers to make dodging more than a random affair -- makes 
 Medal of Honor: Allied Assault's Omaha Beach level seem like a cakewalk.   

  Before you can even try to enjoy Navy SEALs, you might have some technical hurdles to overcome. 
 When the game works properly, the game's LithTech-powered graphics run smoothly on average systems, 
 no doubt a positive effect of the extremely simple visuals. Although the game worked fine on the 
 first Windows XP system we tried it on, when we had occasion to try it on another, it refused to 
 run, freezing both at the game menu and in-game, and couldn't be coaxed to life even after some 
 modest troubleshooting efforts. We also found that -- despite explicit troubleshooting instructions 
 in the readme file -- the only way to get rid of major graphics glitches with ATI cards is to not 
 use an ATI card. There are fewer troubles to be had with the game's sound, but there's little in 
 the way of audio when things are working. Practically the only effects in the game are flat-sounding 
 gunshots and the sound of enemies falling to the ground. The budget for the game apparently didn't 
 allow for niceties like music or recorded speech for enemies.   

  ValuSoft's previous budget-priced shooters didn't set our expectations for Navy SEALs very high, 
 but the game undercuts even those standards, due mostly to the incredibly short single-player missions. 
 While the fact that it takes a quick evening's work to finish the game could give some a sense 
 of accomplishment, even those most interested in the adventure of Navy SEAL missions might lose 
 interest after the first door puzzle. The low production values and technical issues could be brushed 
 off as a side effect of the game's budget status, but a few decent low-priced PC action titles 
 have ruined that excuse. The area where the game does excel is its installer: It takes less than 
 a minute to install, and better still, it takes a mere 10 seconds to uninstall this uninspired 
 shooter.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Lone_Wolf23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  The reason i said very hard for a rating is because most players will lose in 5min. but if you 
 are a experienced player at FPS it is a mediocre game difficulty wise. and another reason it is 
 bad is it glitches insanely you run into a wall and like glitch back and forth. and the computer 
 camps they will stay in a corner forever!!!! with AK-47's witch makes it hard for beginners to 
 FPS gamers. but i find it easy because I'm a beast!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Also you cant go Rambo you need 
 to lean over corner or they will blast you because they camp.
  
  I think Elite Forces: Navy SEALs is a good game if you are a experienced FPS gamer so try it  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aryoshi
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jul 6, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Play as a navy seal, and you happen to go alone but usually isn't the Navy Seals supposed to be 
 in a group? Strange. Anyway, the gameplay is alright, it's practically impossible to sneak up on 
 anyone though you can. Controls are simple, like most of the time you can calibrate it to your 
 liking. It's the usual mouse/keyboard combo for most FPS games. The problem is, the levels are 
 long and hard, there isn't any multiplayer online mode, and there's a few flaws in this game and 
 glitches. Give it a shot if you really want to, otherwise don't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 19, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Any FPS fans who are familiar with the schlocky horrors of cut-rate gaming software should instantly 
 understand where Im coming from when I say that there is nothing entertaining or endearing about 
 Jarhead Games very first title. Even though I actually enjoyed the long-distance shooting galleries 
 of Marine Sharpshooter and must acknowledge the no-frills appeal of Army Ranger: Mogadishu, Navy 
 SEALs is a stunningly amateurish product that I dont think could improve even with more time in 
 development. The nasty sentiments that budget titles usually attract all apply to SEALs: tepid 
 sound effects and/or music (actually, the game tended toward complete silence throughout, with 
 the chittering pop of gunfire as the only means by which to confirm that my Audigy was still working, 
 that I hadnt suddenly gone deaf, or that I was even still awake) , crummy animation, enemy AI that 
 functions on a monocellular level, uninteresting level layouts, and a heavy malaise that stems 
 from the knowledge that good money was spent on something that wouldnt pass muster as the alpha 
 build for a fanfic mod designed by an eighth-grader.
  
  I typically consider myself as somewhat forgiving of the absence of high-octane razzmatazz in budget 
 titles (although, looking back through some of my past reviews for ValuSofts games, I often rate 
 them pretty low once I sit and think about their shortcomings a bit) , given that their development 
 is seemingly driven more by inspiration than technical prowess. I can appreciate what the games 
 designers wanted to do with a particular genre or style of play even if the end result falls short 
 of entertainment. I typically use budget games as a kind of palate cleanser between bigger, more 
 involving shooters. Navy SEALs was just plain boring, though, and left me feeling crabby and wasteful 
 of my free time. I cant even recommend this old title  assuming its still obtainable; ideally, 
 ValuSoft shipped any remaining copies off to the Alamogordo landfill by now  to anyone who loves 
 cheesy tripe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Qubit101
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 1:38 am PT
Review:  Alright. You are a navy seal on a secret operations in Iraq, Bosnia, and North Korea. Your part 
 of an elite SEAL team. No wait, corrrection. YOU ARE THE SEAL TEAM. Your character must be like 
 Captain America or something because this guy has taken some sort of super soldier serum. You basicly 
 take on the Iraqi army and Bosnia and North Korea all by your self!! No one finds out. There is 
 no music, no voices, to be real, there are few sounds in the game. i will list them.
  
  Heavy MG
  Tank
  Tank engine
  Helicopter
  Helicopter gun
  AK-47
  M4
  pistol
  MP5
 
  4 weapon reloads.
  
  There are 13 sounds in this game!!!!! The graphics are so bad that your eyes will burst into flames 
 and your face will turn into nuclear waste and the whole world will be forced into nuclear war. 
 And if that happens, may the sweet lord Jesus forbid that our SEALs operate like they do in this 
 game. I like budget shooter as much as the next guy, but this is insulting. As for the game developers, 
 they should be ashamed of themselves. They need to put guns to their head and without thought squeez 
 the trigger. But seriously, with some more sound, AI that is better and at least takes cover, menu 
 music, and more weapons, this would've been a great game with at least a 7.5. And believe it or 
 not, it would be cool if it had online multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: some_guy2345
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 16, 2005 11:25 am PT
Review:  Navy Seals is one of those bargain bin shooters that advertise tons of revolutionary features on 
 the box to grab a customer's attention but actually ends up being another by the numbers shooter.
 
  
  The graphics in this game are average. The textures are fairly plain and are repeated over and 
 over, and the models are very basic. It all feels like amateur work, but it is very acceptable. 
 The level design is better than expected, although sometimes it's confusing as to where you're 
 supposed to go. To help, though, there is a compass on your HUD pointing you in the general direction 
 of your objective. The sound is decent, but very lacking. All the weapons sound very convincing.
 
  
  The gameplay is paltry and standard -- go from points A to B to C and shoot everything that moves. 
 Quite a few levels also have time limits, and there are some escort missions. The enemies are quite 
 stupid. Sometimes they display a flash of brilliance such as taking cover but often they're too 
 stupid to notice that their buddy next to them got shot full of lead. The enemies are only dangerous 
 when they attack in large swarms. The weapons are standard realism fare, with the best weapon being 
 the M4 rifle mounted with a grenade launcher. You start with a preselected weapon -- you can't 
 choose -- with a limited amount of ammo. There's no ammo to pick up, so you'll need to use the 
 enemy weapon -- the AK47 -- when ammo runs out.
  
  The downsides of this game are that it's too short, it's too easy (although a few parts prove to 
 be quite a challenge) and there's no multiplayer or any community to speak of. If you can look 
 over some of it's faults, Navy Seals is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mithu1234
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2005 4:33 pm PT
Review:  this game is complete in its own respect but doesnt impress much if u compare it with other games 
 in this genre. but having said that the game is cool with iraq, bosnia and korean levels. graphics 
 are good but in the korean level there are some glitches, here the soldiers donot fall to the ground 
 after being killed and remain floating in air! there were some great visual treats as well. on one 
 occassion i entered a room with sleeping soldiers but as i stepped in they sprang to their feet 
 and started firing at me. i was just shocked. there are underground pathways some getting across 
 gutters and the like, i felt just like a secret operative on an important mission.
  
  GRAPHICS:7.8/10
  
  SOUND:8/10
  
  GAMEPLAY:7.5/10
  
  OVERALL: GOOD GAME AND COMPLETE 
 IN ITS OWN RESPECT. MUST BUY IT IF U ARE A FIRST TIMER IN THIS GENRE OR WILLING TO EXPERIMENT A 
 BIT.
  ASHIRVAD PARIDA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smnsmnsmn2
Rating: 4.3
Date: Aug 30, 2004 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Valusoft's budget-priced shooter, Navy SEALs (SEa Air Land) , lets you assume the role of a commando 
 belonging to the aforementioned special forces. There are 10 levels, spread across 3 different 
 missions; set in Iraq, Bosnia and North Korea. Though simple, the action in Navy SEALs is fun. 
 The objectives are what you would expect in a budget-priced shooter; do that, save this hostage, 
 flip that switch, etc. The weapon set in Navy SEALs is also very interesting. You always begin 
 a mission equipped with a couple of U. S. weapons - namely the SOCOM pistol, the MP5SD, and sometimes 
 even the M4/M203. Along the way, however, you'll find yourself relying on the AK-47 that your foes 
 wield more than any weapon, mainly because that's the only weapon for which you can get ammo for.
 
  
  For a budget-priced shooter, the graphics are decently good; the only exception remains the blocky 
 weapon models and the shadows, which could do with slightly more work on them. The visuals are 
 extremely crisp, featuring a variety of textures.
  
  On the other hand, the sound in Navy SEALs is absolutely horrendous - there's no internal soundtrack, 
 and neither is there any recorded speech for enemies. The only sound effects in the game are flat-sounding 
 gunshots and enemies falling to the ground. 
  
  Navy SEALs is extremely short, and will probably take a veteran approximately slightly more than 
 3 hours to complete. In addition, the game has no multiplayer support to whatsoever to speak of, 
 so there's nothing much to do once you've finished the game except to replay the single-player 
 campaign again.
  
  Elite Forces: Navy SEALs - Sea Air Land is an extremely short but fun game. Bottom line, those 
 looking for a Rainbow Six simulation will be disappointed. However, those who savour quick fun 
 in exchange for $10 will be happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrizzlyJim
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jun 13, 2003 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Having been a former Navy Medic assigned to a SEAL Team, I was deeply offended by this game. No 
 SEAL in his right mind would ever be as careless as the character in this game! I was delighted 
 when I first spotted the game and bought it instantly, hoping it wouldn't be like those other whimpy 
 "Army" games... Trust me, these guys are NO SEALS! Don't waste your money on this game. Buy Splinter 
 Cell and you'll enjoy yourself a lot more. And whatever you do, rip the cover off the box and burn 
 it! This is NOT what the SEALS are like! They should've titled this game "Common Army Grunts!" 
 And forget those commercials where they show the SEALS sitting in the tent playing the game... 
 They would've more likely kicked the table over and then blown the game and the computer to bits 
 after playing a few levels of this game, if that! The controls are sloppy and difficult. Not really 
 a good game... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
