-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: El Matador
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/elmatador/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Stylish visuals and sound.
 Fast, tough action done up in old-school shooter style.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 So difficult that it's virtually impossible to play.
 never-miss enemies.
 lacks vital features, like the ability to lean out from corners.
 very short.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  3, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.1
Critic Score: 5.7, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 433 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Red Mile Entertainment
Developer: Plastic Reality
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date:     Sep 29, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's fast-paced, it's gritty, and it's got style to spare, but El Matador is also one of the most 
 infuriatingly unbalanced shooters in years. 

  If anyone has a clue about what Plastic Reality Technologies was trying to accomplish with El Matador, 
 please let us know. It's hard to tell what the developer had in mind with this old-fashioned third-person 
 shooter about DEA agent Victor Corbet, who fights the drug trade in Latin America. Because it is 
 absolutely all over the place in terms of style and theme, and the difficulty is so over the top, 
 you can expect to load at least a few dozen saves on every level.  

          Look, it's Max Payne!     

  El Matador has something of a Hitman or Splinter Cell feel 
 because of the gritty settings, the true-crime storyline where you're trying to take down the heirs 
 to Pablo Escobar single-handedly, and the fact that just a few bursts of fire or a couple of well-placed 
 grenades can send you to back to Washington in a body bag. But this isn't a tactical shooter or 
 a sneaker. On the contrary, this is one of the fastest, most traditional shooters seen in recent 
 years. It has a Doom-like pace (and soundtrack) , a generic selection of weapons, and tons of enemies 
 that are waiting around every corner. If you slow down, you'll get pinned down by withering fire 
 and then killed by either the barrage of lead directed your way or the grenades that are always 
 efficiently tossed into hiding spots.  

  Although this sounds like a dream come true for an old-school shooter fan, excruciating difficulty 
 ruins El Matador. Those hordes of enemies noted above never seem to miss, unerringly nailing you 
 again and again across rooms, hallways, and fields. If you stick Corbet's neck out even the tiniest 
 bit, you get shot in moments -- even if the bad guy doing the gold-medal shooting is hunkered down 
 a few dozen meters away behind a palm tree or a desk with nothing more than the top of his head 
 exposed. These shots come out of nowhere and drain you so regularly that your health and armor 
 might as well be ticking down on a clock.  

  Unfortunately, there is no way to handle these marksmen. They hit you even when you're totally 
 behind cover, and they even seem to get their bullets through walls at times. These guys fire so 
 many apparently magic bullets that somebody should be investigating them for the JFK assassination. 
 It also doesn't help that you have to expose yourself to shoot at enemies. There is no way to lean 
 around corners, so when you want to kill the bad guys, you have to get out in the open. And as 
 soon as you get out there, it's generally rat-a-tat-tat -- you're dead.  

  Med packs and bulletproof vests are also few and far between. And they're generally found only 
 after you've blasted through convention-sized numbers of hired goons. Lots and lots of reloads 
 are common as you stagger through the game's five or six hours of play (yes, even with the constant 
 loading of saves, the game is still that short; there are no multiplayer modes of play either, 
 so these abbreviated solo missions are all you get) .  

  El Matador often provides a team of cop commandos as backup, but they are such terrible shots that 
 it takes forever for them to kill anybody. Even worse, these cowardly morons often scramble into 
 cover positions that you've already set up in, which typically results in your being pushed into 
 the clear and taking a few bullets in the process. Only a slow-motion feature mitigates the crazy 
 difficulty, and even then, it isn't very helpful. Because those never-miss baddies are so unimpressed 
 with your exceedingly blurry Max Payne impersonation, they often manage to perforate you just as 
 many times as you perforate them.  

  Even with all of these serious flaws, the game has a certain amount of  Commando -era Schwarzenegger 
 charm. The dialogue is crammed with action-movie clichs and beautifully dumb moments. For example, 
 when Corbet cuts a phone call short with his outraged superiors, he says, "I've gotta shoot scum." 
 Also, there are times when you really get rolling, gunning down one thug after another in corridors. 
 The only problem is that all of these corridors lead to great big rooms that are filled with gangs 
 of goons who will kill you a dozen times in a couple of minutes. About the only plus in moments 
 like these is that many thugs don't know enough to duck back behind cover after firing. So you 
 can line these thugs up like sitting ducks when you're not in a crossfire (which, unfortunately, 
 you almost always are) . Bosses are also particularly prone to this problem. They are typically 
 easy to kill because they often seem to lean motionless against a pillar or post while you fill 
 them full of lead.  

          Subtle, it ain't.     

  Anyhow -- not that this is much of a comfort -- but few bad games look and sound this good. Plastic 
 Reality has produced some stylish backdrops for all of this speedy carnage. The default gamma is 
 almost pitch-black, but levels look great after you tweak this setting (and sometimes tweak it 
 again and again because it often reverts to darkness after loading a save) . The variety of locales, 
 from sleazy nightclubs to urban drug labs and jungles, is what makes these backdrops look stylish. 
 Perhaps more importantly, the frame rate moves at an impressive clip, even on a midrange machine, 
 and with loads of enemies and allies on the screen. Sound effects and the techno soundtrack also 
 pound away effectively, giving you the impression that you're really under fire, albeit in some 
 sort of apocalyptic disco.  

  A tough game is one thing, but El Matador tilts the playing field so much that it feels like you're 
 being cheated. While there is nothing in gaming like the satisfaction of beating a really hard 
 shooter, there is a fine line between giving you the chance to earn that feeling of accomplishment 
 and hammering you so relentlessly that continuing to play seems futile. If Plastic Reality ever 
 makes another shooter, let's hope that it discovers where that line is in the future.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (28 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: blizzardlion
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 11, 2009 6:45 am PT
Review:  So when you start El Matador, it feels familiar.. It definitely looks a lot like Max Payne 2, a 
 better looking Max Payne 2 game, but that is not entirely a negative aspect. It borrows heavily 
 from Max Payne 2, adds a new story, better graphics and so on and you end up having a mind blowing 
 gunning game. 
  
  So the gameplay is just like Max Payne 2, you move.. and spot an enemy, either shoot him normally 
 or you can use bullet time, in which you jump slow motion and start shooting your enemies but this 
 is not the familiar Bullet Dodge of Max Payne, in El Matador you still take damage. The game consists 
 of moving in a few locations, gunning down every enemy that you see and you have like boss battles 
 which is a good thing because in Max Payne 2, you have only 1 against Vlad but in El Matador there 
 are various boss battles at the end of the chapters of the game and you also go against some of 
 their ultimate bodyguards whom are as well good and difficult to kill. So the gameplay is pretty 
 good, move and shoot, jump slow motion etc. its fun and addictive one you start, the only drawback 
 is that its difficult. 
  
  So now, the difficulty of the game, unlike many games, this one can be truly a difficult game, 
 the enemies start shooting you at long distances and they succeed xD in the sense that they don't 
 miss much. So you have to be very quick to shoot before them and in areas in which there are many 
 enemies you have to be even quicker and take cover. Even the easy mode is challenging xD but its 
 fairly alright. The enemies have a good A. I. not that bright but they move around and they also 
 go behind walls so I think its quite good.
  
  The graphics of the game, underneath the shell they seem like Max Payne 2, but pumped up with light 
 effects, the character models are nicely done all in all the graphics are good, they have nice 
 detail and all, but they could have been better.
  
  The sound is fine, voice acting.. explosions, guns and their bullets and when they go into slow 
 motion mode.. is all fine.
  
  The story, is interesting it is like one of those action movies about police and drugs. Good but 
 too short the game is about 5/6 chapters with no sub chapters and therefore the action ends quickly 
 which it is a shame because it truly has a good story with a twist at the end. It's just good.
 
  
  Conclusion, the game is a fun short game with plenty of action and a good storyline, buy it if 
 you haven't, its also very cheap now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: some_guy2345
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  El Matador is a Max Payne clone from European developers Plastic Reality and Cenega Publishing. 
 It follows the exploits of Victor Corbet, a trigger-happy, no-nonsense DEA Agent as he is on loan 
 to Colombian police to fight the La Valedora drug mafia. The game's premise is nothing new, and 
 the the plot is neck-deep in action movie cliches. Corbet is a gruff, muscular action hero who 
 is constantly in trouble with his superiors - at one point in the game, he abruptly ends a phone 
 call with his police chief by saying he's "gotta shoot scum". The other main characters pretty 
 much come from the same mold. The story sends you to various generic settings, such as lavish drug 
 lord mansions, nightclubs, jungles, etc, and serves as nothing more than an excuse to shoot many, 
 many drug dealers in the face. If you're playing this game, you aren't gonna be playing for the 
 story.
  
  El Matador, at first glance, is pretty much a Max Payne expansion pack. The game features slow 
 motion, allowing you kill multiple enemies before they can damage you too quickly. Corbet can also 
 perform a slow motion dive and fill enemies full of lead. He can also do combat rolls to dodge 
 shots, and also has the ability to enter over-the-shoulder aim for more precise shots. While playing 
 this game, you'll definitely want to do that because El Matador is a much, much tougher game than 
 Max Payne ever was. Enemies don't take a lot of shots to die, but neither do you, and the odds 
 are usually stacked at least 10 to 1. Cover is essential to survival, and the over-the-shoulder 
 aiming mode allows you to shoot from cover, sometimes clipping through the wall to do so. For much 
 of the game, enemies are set up to get the drop on you, so the game becomes sort of a tactical 
 shooter. It's not to say that you couldn't survive playing it run and gun style, but you'll usually 
 be getting out of firefights by the skin of your teeth.
  
  You won't be entirely alone while you fight La Valedora, though. For about half of the game you'll 
 be accompanied by AI controlled team mates. They have fairly good aim, and are smart enough to 
 hide behind cover, but they'll die fairly quickly and are much more useful as a meat shield than 
 as real team mates. Occasionally, you'll be able to fight alongside some main characters, identifiable 
 by their face because they don't wear any armored helmets like regular team mates do. These guys 
 never die and are quite helpful when you get to fight with them.
  
  There aren't any puzzles in the game, and the game eventually becomes a linear shooting gallery, 
 as both you and the AI pop in and out of cover shooting at each other. Except for a few times where 
 it's not entirely obvious where to go, levels are easy to navigate. If you're not sure if you're 
 going in the right direction, you'll know you're entering a new area when you're suddenly ambushed 
 by more enemies. To break up the monotony of shooting faceless goons, every few levels you're thrown 
 into a boss fight. Each boss is basically an enemy with a ton of health and 100% accuracy. The 
 bosses aren't particularly smart, and sometimes will just stand still behind cover as you slowly 
 chip their health away by shooting their foot.
  
  To facilitate the act of shooting everything that moves, El Matador features a very wide variety 
 of weapons. There are a bunch of handguns and machine pistols, which are surprisingly effective 
 weapons. Shotguns are typically slow to fire but incredibly powerful, and the heavy machine-guns 
 are devastating but incredibly inaccurate. You'll spend most of the game using an assault rifle 
 of some sort, as they are both accurate and rapid firing. There's also an assault rifle that comes 
 equipped with a scope, which will be one of your most widely used weapons, as ammunition for sniper 
 rifles is incredibly rare. The game also has a rocket launcher (very fun to use in combination 
 with slow motion) , a useless grenade launcher that exhibits very strange physics, as well as a 
 variety of hand grenades. Explosive grenades are great for clearing rooms, but the flash bangs 
 provided in the game have absolutely no effect on the AI.
  
  For a game made by an independent developer, El Matador has superb graphics. The engine has great 
 lighting and sharp textures. Character models have a great amount of detail and animate in a realistic 
 fashion, and the game looks and runs great on older machines. Explosives are especially gratifying 
 to use, as enemies flop around with exaggerated ragdoll physics. As generic as the levels are, 
 they're beautifully constructed. The audio isn't as good, though. The voice work is incredibly 
 hammy and the cheesy lines are delivered flatly. The music is a terrible, ear-grating synthetic 
 rock that is incredibly distracting and should be turned off.
  
  In spite of the extreme damage model and the crack shot enemies, you won't spend that much time 
 on the game. El Matador is, at best, around 6 hours long. The entire game is split into 6 chapters, 
 and one prologue chapter, but each chapter is composed of several levels. There is no multiplayer 
 mode to speak of, but the action is good enough to warrant another play through. You can access 
 each chapter directly from the main menu as soon as you unlock it in the story mode, but other 
 than replaying the story mode there's no replay value to this game. If you can find this game for 
 a fairly low price, you can't go wrong with purchasing El Matador.
  
  Summary:
  Pros:
  + Great shooting action
  + Slow motion gameplay a la Max Payne
  + Great graphics
  Cons:
 
  - High difficulty
  - Short story mode with no replay value 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  EL MATADOR is a good game.. the game has 2 main 
  aweful problems...
  
  1) to short! - the game has a proluge and only 6 chapters (in every chapter one level so.. 6 levels) 
 its to short.. the game is short but...
  
  2) to HARD! - the game is short but... to hard!! you cant finish this game without codes or trainer 
 or savegame of someone else.. well you can finish but it will take you some time... ok the problem 
 of HARD dont think that on easy its ok.. i played on EASY and even on easy the game is really hard.. 
 the emenys never missed you.. you will have to quick save every second in order to go smooth in 
 the game (smooth.. yeah right) the game is hard believe me about that
  
  but now i will tell you about the other things.. the game is kinda "max payne style" slow-mo and 
 all of that.. thats the thing that make the game so good.. there is non-stop action in this game 
 (sometime even to much action that will make you cry again i say: to hard!)
  
  the visual effects are great fire, blood, explosions and water... the graphic is nice (i give it 
 8/10) good looking graphic..
  
  the sounds are also great (like every third person game) good visual sounds... also when you will 
 have a clean area the game will have some aweful music.. but when you will shoot the first enemy 
 the game will open really cool music while shooting and doging bullets
  (by the way even in slow-mo enemys will heat you)
  
  there is no story in this game.. only 
 missions,
  A police special squad (thats better than a story) ..
  
  the best thing in this game is that you have a team and not like max payne that youll be on your 
 own in this game you will have a great squad its more fun than games that you need to be alone 
 against lots of enemys
  
  the game isnt worth buying know that.. weast of money for a to short game.. if this game was longer 
 i think i would buy this.. but its not so dont buy it.. but it still worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 13, 2007 4:32 am PT
Review:  This game seemed to be good at replicating Max Payne but the storyline seemed to complete fail 
 it and it didn't back up the game. All in all, it's just another shooting game with the worn out 
 storyline. However, it is still a fair game and worth playing if you have no other good games to 
 play. It is more worth playing than many other games that are honestly appalingly abysmal.
  
  So 7 is just the right mark to rank it around. 
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
 
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play 
 and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is hard as hell to get through without using cheats. The game is pretty much unbeatable 
 the first time you play it and soon becomes frustrating constantly reloading the last saved game. 
 While I don't mind using cheats to have some fun in many games that I've already played with no 
 cheats, this is the first time ever that I can't make much progress without at least the "health" 
 cheat being enabled. I'm not sure why the developer made the "easy" setting so insanely difficult 
 -- I'd suspect that the game was too short and to artificially prolong the play time the difficulty 
 was bumped up to the level of unplayability. Obviously, the second big weakness of this game is 
 that it is really short.
  
  On the positive side, this is an extremely fast paced third person shooter that looks great and 
 plays smooth. There is really no time to follow the story since you are busy trying to stay alive 
 and shooting bad guys popping out of every corner. Although this is a third person shooter, surprisingly 
 it does play like like an FPS and many FPS fans won't have much trouble playing this.
  
  Also, on the positive side, weapons are pleasure to fire (especially shotguns) and they do a rather 
 graphic damage to the enemy. Sound is pretty good all over the place, from ambient to shots. The 
 proprietary Typhoon2 engine performs really great and considering that this is a year old game 
 the graphics look amazingly good. The AI and physics are also very good, and your own movement 
 is very neat -- I especially enjoyed the effect of moving sideways while crouched and aiming. Neat 
 stuff.
  
  In conclusion, I think this developer was running out of time and money and published a very good 
 but also very short game. Instead of adding to the game content and making it longer, the developer 
 unfortunately decided to make the gameplay insanely difficult even on its easiest difficulty level. 
 Yep, a huge mistake. Too bad, because the developer, Plastic Reality Technologies, was very promising 
 especially looking at the performance of their Typhoon2 engine ... so naturally I was looking forward 
 to their next project. However, it seems they shut down the company and we could only hope to see 
 some of their work and talents in productions of other game development studios. The game itself 
 is otherwise very much fun to play once you know the maps and know what to expect around the corner.
 
  
  Score: 7.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moriel73
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  El Matador has something of a Hitman or Splinter Cell feel because of the gritty settings, the 
 true-crime storyline where you're trying to take down the heirs to Pablo Escobar single-handedly, 
 and the fact that just a few bursts of fire or a couple of well-placed grenades can send you to 
 back to Washington in a body bag. But this isn't a tactical shooter or a sneaker. On the contrary, 
 this is one of the fastest, most traditional shooters seen in recent years. It has a Doom-like 
 pace, a generic selection of weapons, and tons of enemies that are waiting around every corner. 
 If you slow down, you'll get pinned down by withering fire and then killed by either the barrage 
 of lead directed your way or the grenades that are always efficiently tossed into hiding spots. 
 
  This game is outstanding. It has almost no flaws. Its got it all graphics, sound, ,story, and good 
 variety of weapons. This is a great game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EddieDavis
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  Read Gamespots reveiw as if they just started playing shooters. If the biggest drawback to this 
 game is that it's incredibly difficult, than fear not. It is difficult, yes, because you have to 
 get used to the idea that is put forth in this game -- that when bullets are flying, chances are 
 you will get hit, and you will die quickly. But that just takes an adjustment, and one that many 
 shooter fans will gladly welcome. You need to take your time in this game. No run 'n gun here. 
 It's a careful, methodical takedown of one room or section of ground to the next. There are no 
 timed levels (always a bad idea) , and no escort duties (ALWAYS a TERRIBLE idea) , so it's just you, 
 and sometimes your teammates (who can be helpful if you act to keep them alive) making progress 
 against enemy strongholds at your own pace. I wish it were more open ended, but that certainly 
 didn't detract much from the action, which was brisk and tense. There are difficult boss battles, 
 not once you find the right position and weapon for the takedown, it's do-able any very satisfying. 
 And although your enemies are spot-on shots, so are you, and as the Gamespot boys seam to have 
 missed, right-click aiming is the rough equivalent of leaning around corners, as you can target 
 without coming out of cover pretty effectively. And this game is graphically beautiful, by the 
 way, and chugs right along at high resolution. The ONE drawback -- quick load is a misnomer, and 
 can make the game drag when you need to keep loading -- which you will. But it's save anywhere, 
 so there is that element of mercy that some lesser developers fail to provide. Anyway, definitely 
 buy this game if you are an action fan. It's done with great respect for good shooter players, 
 and you'll find it in the bargain bin, thanks to tragically unfair reviews like Gamespots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monowasp
Rating: 2.6
Date: May 25, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  Here is yet another game that is fast paced with next gen graphics, at least that it was the box 
 said. They, like many other forgot to mention, on the box, that this would be one of those B-games, 
 where: A. You'd have totally stereotypical characters...
  B. You'd have totally stereotypical environments... - which would give you a stereotypical game...
 
  
  That shouldn't really be a bad thing, there are plenty of good non-new-inventive games, the thing 
 that makes a game work, or a movie, or a book, is believable characters; which in the end means 
 this game is a total waste of time.
  
  Why?
  
  Because the game developers have made many mistakes. There is no actual storytelling in this game, 
 because there is no real story that you take notion of. You have a character that is based on the 
 Max Payne games, he runs like Max, shoots like Max, even slows down time like Max, but you don't 
 give a damn about him, and therefore everything in the game is plastic...
  
  The good things are, that the game has some ok graphics, if that is the only thing you care about, 
 then you should buy it... Otherwise, play the old Max Payne game instead, much better.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkinLawg
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  I don't know why this game has such low ratings. I actually enjoy playing this game. It's an excellent 
 game that combines the styles of Max Payne and Far Cry. This game is really hard to play on Normal 
 difficulty, so I would reccomend trying it on easy first. The graphics on this game are really 
 good, so I would reccomend having a good graphics card to play this. This is a grat third person 
 shooter game that is highly underrated. Another good thing about this game is the low price, it 
 was only $9.99 at GameStop. I would highly reccommend this game if you enjoyed Max Payne and Far 
 Cry and have a low budget. I really hope they do a follow-up to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woozienebunu
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 17, 2007 3:20 am PT
Review:  El Matador seemed to be a Max Payne like game but better and with more action. When I started playing 
 i noticed the difficulty. I quick saved after every enemy I killed and those bosses, well let's say 
 an AT-4 was at need.
  The story seemed nice but it ended up as being ugly, unclear and weak essenced. The gameplay is alert 
 but it's frustrating and it ruins Bullet Time's rep. The sound is pretty nice andthe graphics are 
 pretty old.
  One nice part is that it's with cocaine, and you have a lot of GUNS GUNS 
 
  It isn't what it was supposed to be, so play the Max Paynes again!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sime47
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  When I first looked at preview of the game it looked revolutionary to me. Now I have to be honest 
 and say that I am little, I mean a lot dissapointed, but still it was somehow enjoyable to play 
 this very short game. Yes, short, there are only 6 chaptes (levels) + prologue which means 7 levels. 
 Those levels are not too big, but it doesn't mean you will pass through them just like that and 
 it is all beacuse of it's impossible difficulty. In this game enemies just can't miss, almost every 
 bullet they shoot will hit you if you are not hidden behind the wall. In every and I mean every 
 corridor, room, place you will die at least 1 time (I said at least but average will be 5-10 times) 
 and that is what makes game longer and I don't know what to say, is it good or bad, I mean it is 
 good beacuse it is challenging but it is bad beacuse loading times are making game longer. Graphics 
 is great, locations are very detailed and every lever is special and different from each other, 
 there are night club, city streets, sewers, jungle, ship, drug factory and some more. Sound is 
 great too, good sound of weapons, good voice acting and all that and good music fits very much 
 in the action. Story is nothing special but to me the ending was great and it changed my opinion 
 of game's story being not special. All in all, El Matador is very challenging, visually beautiful 
 and typical third person shooter. So, if you like all that, why don't you try? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 10, 2007 6:23 am PT
Review:  When I saw the first screenshots, I was happy, I thought it will be better than Max Payne 1 &amp; 
 2. The graphics are really good, with some superb effects &amp; very good textures. The sound is 
 really good, but the voice acting is not that great &amp; the techno music, although it's very nice, it's 
 too repetitive &amp; boring. There are many weapons, but too similar to each other,&amp; stupid 
 designed (4 exampe, the micro SMG is better than the AK-47 in the game) . The gameplay is nice, but 
 again repetitive,&amp; the bullet time is almost useless, the slow time is better in El Matador. 
 The story is very weak &amp; short (about 3-5 hours of play) ,&amp; some things we saw on screenshots 
 aren't found in the game.&amp; they promissed 15 missions, there are 5) .&amp; you can't understand 
 what happens at the end, it looks that Victor Corbett gets shot, but after, they say that he's alive. 
 So, very good graphics, superb cutscenes &amp; good sound. The other parts from El Matador are mediocre.&amp; 
 it's impossible to pass it without cheats. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordanbijl
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  It takes a page from max payne, its lovely bullet time, which allows you to dodge bullets (poorly) 
 and slow down time to actually aim your shots, which is already frustrating enough...
  
  El matador had the potential to be an amazing game, no doubt about it, senseless killing, tonnes 
 of bad guys to shoot, and a amazing physics engine that makes shootouts interesting to watch... 
 unfortunatly, there are many problems wth this game that make it fail at what it does. You pretty 
 well play as a DEA agent going after drug bosses or something like that, not that I really paid 
 attention to the story, because it was all over the place and never made any sense... The problem 
 with the game is that it puts you up against a never ending amount of enimies, that somehow, know 
 where you are at all times, and somehow, can hit you with every bullet the shoot at you... So I 
 found it hard to enjoy the game with dying every two bloody seconds... I actually had to use cheats 
 to get through this game, (note typeing health, or weapons in the console (~) gets you infinite 
 health and all the weapons)
  after cheating my way through this way-to-short shoot-em-up I have actually decided that I like 
 this game very much...
  Im not kidding, sure you may need cheats, and the enimies really, just stand there... and have 
 no real AI at all (besides occasionally throwing grenades you throw back at you) but it is actually 
 pretty fun given the fact that you just shoot everything in sight.
  
  If the modding community would mabye mod some new levels and tone down the difficulty, this game 
 would actually be pretty decent, in a fact that It is exactly like max payne, just with better 
 graphics...
  
  And ignore gamespots screenshots that look like crap, because it looks way better than that on 
 my computer.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sabazios
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 9, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Of all the criticism pointed at El Matador, only one I've read makes sense (courtesy of Eurogamer's 
 as usual) : the AI is not that great.
  Actually, the issue of intelligence is really the one to consider here. What El Matador lacks is 
 exactly that: intelligence, smartness, cleverness. It should be unredeemable in a game that makes 
 use of the same engine as the glory that is Max Payne.
  Indeed, the AI of your enemies and allies is a bit of a letdown, as they spend too much time ducking 
 behind cover, occasionally tossing a grenade in your general direction or throwing back the one 
 you tossed their way. More flanking maneuvers and tactical adaptability would have been appreciated.
 
  This isn't as bad as it sounds, though, as it leaves you a little time to plan your next move 
 - a real necessity here since the opposition is pretty accurate, and very lethal once it starts 
 to connect. It's also pretty satisfying, since the level design often allows various approaches 
 to the enemy's position, and you get to do the flanking and surprising.
  One word of advice: do yourself a favor and turn off the music before you start the game up. Not 
 only is the ludicrous techno tune totally out of place, and plain awful, but it tilts the game 
 in the wrong way, pressing you forward relentlessly, implicitly encouraging a run-and-gun approach 
 which simply doesn't ever work in this game. Once the music is turned off, not only will you get 
 to appreciate the great sound effects, but the pace of the action will be yours to dictate. You'll 
 be able to relax and plan your moves without a blast beat to confuse you.
  Unfortunately, no background music means that the voice work will stand out in all of its blatant 
 bad taste. The story is the weakest point of El Matador by far. The intervals in the furious action 
 present you with a set of uninteresting, clich&eacute; characters, and a paper-thin plot.
  I should slaughter the game for this, but the atmosphere, efficiency, and technical perfection 
 sway me the other way.
  All in all, El Matador is a very superficial game. Don't come here looking for the strong characters 
 and emotional pangs of Max Payne, but don't just neglect this title. El Matador may forget that 
 clever, engaging storytelling is what makes a game memorable, but it makes an impressive use of 
 Max Payne's engine and mechanics, offering wonderful vistas and intense firefights. And it manages 
 to add in a pinch of tactical combat. At its current bargain price, this one's a fine buy.
  Just don't forget to turn the music off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: protossdragoon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  You're probably wondering why i gave this game a high score. Well there is only one thing that 
 makes this game great. If you have played FEAR before, then you will know. The bullet-time is not 
 new but is great. The gameplay at first is very hard because u always get hit. But as you play 
 through it, you will get to learn how to play more. First of all, this is not the typical run and 
 gun shooter that it appears to be. Taking cover, using bullet-time and zooming are some of the 
 things that you need to learn to use in this game. These may seem impossible to use but they are 
 the learning curve to a great game that delivers actually good gameplay. i would call this a combination 
 of FEAR for the bullet-time feel, DMC for the steep learning curve and Max-pane because of the 
 style it took. The sound is also quite good with every distinct sound for each weapon. The graphics 
 are also great too. The new plastic software almost feels like the source engine which is a good 
 thing. For example, u can shoot a bit at a window and then lunge forward using slow and u will 
 actually go through it-with style! The glass breaking is also a good effect and the sound feels 
 like u are in a movie. The only bad side that i would say is that the levels are a bit repetitive 
 but this is much like fear and gameplay gives it back the feel that it needs. The boss battles 
 are also fun. Although this is just a matter of triggering down the boss before he does that to 
 you, they are not dumb and will take cover and shoot at you. But it is easy if u know their motives 
 and then it will just be a breeze. One thing that i would have liked to see was more effects. For 
 example when the enemy shoots you and you loose blood, the screen could have had a static shock 
 or something and blood could gush out depending on what weapon and where it hits you. Also effects 
 like when bullets hits walls and metal could have been better but it is still great. To like this 
 game, u just need to think that it is not going to be easy and that you should be cautious of your 
 surroundings. And when u feel like u got the hang of it then u could add some syle to it and really 
 enjoy it. I know because i did that and it proved to be a great game once u uncover the true experience 
 of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olleost
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 4:33 am PT
Review:  You are Max Payne, a gritty hero with an obvious attitude problem. Somewhere along the line you 
 found out you could slow down time. Except, you aren't Max Payne. You seem to be called El Matador, 
 and what are you doing in South America? Oh well, there's people to kill and places to see, no 
 need to get caught up in the details.
  
  Overall the graphics look very nice, but you need a fairly speedy computer to run it on the highest 
 settings. , Sadly, load times are pretty bad. Yoy WILL get annoyed when you play it. The slow motion 
 effects are pretty great, in fact 99% same as in Max Payne.. The sounds are good. Again the focus 
 being in slow motion that the whizzing and explosions all seem about twice as cool as before. The 
 entire game is in third person view, so for you guys that is used to this sort of gameplay will 
 not be dissapointed.
  
  The game is a good pick if you liked Max Payne. Not AS good, but on the right track. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matconnor
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  After playing through El M twice now, I can only think what if?'. What if the developers would 
 have spent more time with writing &amp; polishing a real, coherent storyline to go with the nice 
 graphics &amp; physics of this game. It's obviously heavily influenced by the awesome Max Payne 
 games, w/ perhaps a tilt of the hat toward last year's Total Overdose. However, pretty graphics 
 &amp; good sound do not a complete game make.
  
  El M has pretty one-dimensional gameplay, in that it consists of levels where you basically start 
 off running &amp; shooting at anything that moves, using the slo-mo/bullet-time feature to defeat 
 the hordes of enemies you will encounter. After the first few levels you will have experienced 
 pretty much everything the game has to offer... it all becomes a rehash of what you've been doing 
 since the start. The boss encounters are almost generic in their uniformity &amp; difficulty. I 
 never saw or experienced anything that made me sit up on the edge of my chair &amp; say OMG, as 
 was so often the case in MP 1 or 2.
  
  Having said all that, it still has its merits, if for no other reason than to remind us of how 
 spectacular the Max Payne series was, &amp; how much we all still miss its incredible gaming experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoP999606
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 3:35 am PT
Review:  Disapointing games apear all the time and I played a few myself but El Matador quite simply tries 
 to copy Max Payne in all most every way and in all most every way it failes to do sow. The first 
 big problem of this game is it's allmost inexistent story, you play a DEA agent named Victor Corbet 
 that after a couple of missiones in the game is nicknamed El Matador, just like that. So in the 
 sory it's not even close to Max Payne's epic and interesting story.
  But because not the story makes the game but the gameplay here the game sucks just as much. I don't 
 know why so many people say this game is hard when I find it mid to low-mid dificulty. To say my 
 feeling about the gameplay in just one word, I would call this game BORING. Why? because it tries 
 again to copy MP meening that you get your standard bullet time but if you can belive it even this 
 one is super flawed. How? well I know that bullet time is made to help you take small to no fire 
 while you shoot in this mode, well in EM you take as much fire and the camera is so bad that you 
 can hardly aim. But it's not all dead you get a lot of enemyes and weapons to mess arownd with 
 and the locations are varied. In this game we get Bosses that you may have trouble spoting if he 
 is sorounded by normal enemyes because he looks the same only is a lot more precise and need's 
 more bullets to be taken out.
  Graphicly thow the game looks good with some nice textures and some rag-doll physichs. The sound 
 is also preety good but with some horrible voice-acting.
  The game is short and you'll finish it in a few hours but belive me you'll be glad it's over. Alternative:
 
  Anything else, yeah Anything else is the game you pick up when a title that you were expecting 
 a lot turns out to be a total disaster anything else is the GAME of GAMES ...
  
  In the end well this game is a letdown that you should pass by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 8, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  The Good: the graphics is pretty good everything from the enviroments and some cool weapons.
  
  The Bad: really a max payne wannabe with the bullet-time and when u dive and everything. and 
 no multiplayer.
  
  Overall: this game is a maxpayne wannabe in many ways like when u dive in the bullet-time and the 
 shooting and all kinds of stuff like that are all taken from max payne so it's without a doubt 
 a totally max payne wannabe but it's not a very very bad game but still u should not get it before 
 testing the demo. and it could be some more fun with a multiplayer kinda thing but no multiplayer 
 so whatever if u liked the demo then u probably should get the full game but if not dont play this 
 game at all (but that's if u didn't liked the demo) there is two demos available for this game 
 BTW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7540
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  This game can only be described in two words: freaking hard. I only managed to get past the first 
 level this morning and I bought it, or pre-ordered it, three weeks ago. If you thought DMC was 
 hard enough, you haven't played El Matador. But what really makes it hard is the enemies are thrown 
 at you head-on and you are dumped smack-bang in the middle of the gun fight. This is easy? Don't 
 bet on it. Mostly, the timed missions are like thirty seconds to get halfway across the entire 
 jungle, pick up a weapon, kill the villian and destroy the base. Nobody is better than this game. 
 It just is too damn challenging, I gave up a long time ago. You should too. But on the other side, 
 it has cool weapons and the bullets are aim-and-direct hit. Not bad, but could be a bit more polished. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minevich1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 14, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  not easy, and not for all (like somebody before me says :P ) , every body and his taste and love for 
 the games.
  from the first look it's seems like a really bad clone of the max payne, but if you loke very good, you 
 understand how muck you wrong!
  this solid game, yes it's not superb game like i wrote up there, and not bad, just righy like i always 
 says,
  the game very enjoble-how slowmotion can't be enjoble? tell me guys :)
  the graphics looks great, and the physics are even more.
  the sound are solid, even by yself have 
 some broblems with a sounds, but is a not bigdeal.
  but the most importen is the gameplay-and the game does it very good,.
  the storyline little 
 boring ----but the most important of the game is the game play
  my scores ------------&gt;8.7 (good :P ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masterforge
Rating: 2.4
Date: Oct 12, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  Did you ever find it amusing to kill computer-generated characters? The actual killing part that 
 is, seeing pixels being killed on a screen? I did... perhaps ten years ago. Now, it just doesn't 
 cut it. I'm going to get this straight early on, killing stuff is as much as this game will ever 
 deliver, and even that part isn't particularly well done. Oh, yes... it does deliver something 
 else perhaps: It is not completely ugly, graphics wise. Not that it should in any way be credited 
 to the creators of this game, since the whole engine along with the graphics was snatched from 
 Max Payne 2, they don't even try to hide it. Now about that action... the bullet-time, jumping 
 around and shooting bad guys in the head with a large rifle could have been somewhat exciting if 
 it wasn't for the, already mentioned, fact that I've already played this. Except, it's even worse 
 now. I don't remember from Max Payne 2 anything about the enemies being able to auto-aim me in 
 the head from any range with every bullet and every weapon. The possible exception is the shotgun (s) , 
 but I'm not sure. This alon would perhaps make it hard to beat, but it's counteracted by the fact 
 that the enemies often hide behind cover over wich you clearly can see their heads. Headshot! Also, 
 the fact that they don't at all react to being shot at makes you able to shoot them without them 
 moving for as long as you want, should such a situation arise. It's also kind of fun how all the 
 enemies spawn the second you enter a room instead of being there in the first place, wich just 
 proves that the creators realized their game would be too easy to play if you could actually apply 
 real tactics on it. Oh, and the bosses. Is there ANYTHING that is as fun, realistic and just great 
 as having a boss that can take 100 times more bullets than an ordinary man before he goes down 
 (complete with a health bar!) ? In a fast-paced platform game with green bunnies, any day. In a 
 realistic current-time FPS? No way Jos&eacute;.
  
  Right... now about the story, its a story, and that is as much picture as there is to get about 
 it. Roughly as exciting as a grey rock with a few specks of bird poo-poo on it. Maybe less. A good 
 story is supposed to make me feel with the characters, but no. I'm not particularly excited over 
 a guy that is a complete Schwarzenegger-wannabe, plus the fact that he completely and utterly makes 
 no sense at all. No insults or anything intended, but I was very: Wtf?! at almost every cutscene, 
 making me wonder how much, not if, drugs the storywriters were on. Oh, and every turn or pretty 
 much anything along the story of the game was such a complete clich&eacute; that I didn't even 
 think I'm sure this is gonna happen! , due to the same reason that I don't go about thinking: Hey, 
 the sun is going to rise tomorrow! Also, I was hoping to be playing a game, not a giant anti-drugs 
 propaganda poster.
  
  I'm going to round this off now since I think you've pretty much gotten the picture. The thing 
 is, you won't be having much fun playing this game, unless perhaps if you get great kicks out of 
 severely destroying inanimate things in unspectacular ways. Oh yeah, and the music is awful. It 
 would possibly fit in a disco... at best. But not in this game, or any game for that matter.
  
  I've played flash games that I was 100 times more excited over than this, truly. You got better 
 things to do and better ways to spend your hard earned bucks. One last thing: I did play this game 
 to its end. And no, it was not precisely challenging. It has the Doom 3 effect (wich is, walk into 
 a room, die whilst noticing where the bad guys spawn, reload and spam the places where they spawn 
 with all you got) , wich is to challenge what gonorrhea is to you.
  I will however confess that at the final boss I did cheat. Why? Just so I could be ridden of this 
 piece of garbage instead of spending too much time and reloads at something that was sooo very 
 boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarek75
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 11, 2006 3:20 am PT
Review:  Ok.. let me see, now we have a great game with a great and a cool name called El Matador at first 
 I expected something like the movie the matador but that was not a full action movie..!!
  so it must be something else then.. ummm Max Payne .. yes sure I copy from it with no soul ,like 
 when any body wants to make an action movie and bring some cup with some drugs and nude ladies 
 and volaaa.. u have a movie!!!
  that is it .. playing to shoot and only to shoot without any other thing to enjoy. just shoot the 
 basterds..!!
  but let me say something max payne has a soul ,it has a spirit that actually touched must of us 
 when we played ,we felt it deep inside our souls and minds ,It was connect to us and we were connected 
 to it can u do that!!
  i guess not..!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abhichoke
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 8, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  From the previews I have read before it looked like it ['s going to be another gta copy. But then 
 it turns out to be a Max Payne 2 'mod'.
  Anyway, this game took all the good aspects of the Max Payne series and added some more of their 
 original innovation. I liked the ragdoll physics, the sound and the motion blur when I use slomo. 
 But this game failed to deliver a nice story for it was cut short in the ending and I wanted to 
 play some more of it. Also, the AIs are irrational, when you shootdodge they can shoot you in the 
 middloe of the air precisely even you surprise them when you pop out of your cover, or sometimes 
 they don't see you at all even you shoot his friend next to him with a shotgun in 1 ft!
  My summary : Nice form, nice gameplay, sucks at the story and AIs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zbugja
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 3, 2006 3:02 am PT
Review:  Well hello and hi. This here game was fun to play and looks great. It's a short one, in fact a 
 very short one to play through but it's worth the time. Gameplay does not offer anything revolutionary 
 but missions are various and it is a dynamic ride. Shoot and sneak and shoot and run. The best 
 part in my opinion are the graphics. Game is sharp and reminds of Half Life 2 with it's industrial 
 enviroments and great lighting/shadows and has some Max Payne taste to it as well. Jungle, city, 
 sea. And let's not forget the theme. Taking down a drug cartel. There is a good solid message at 
 the end. Check it out. It's European, it's a good thing. I give it a 7.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodreaperfx
Rating: 5.2
Date: Sep 30, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Just finished el matador... it left a strange feeling of something with good potential but crappy 
 design. First of all, the game mechanics are close to a classy arcade game, it may fit game consoles, 
 but sure screws up a PC title. Learning curve is about 20 mins... the game is very easy as concept 
 but artificially designed to get harder only because there are lots of enemies to shoot, and some 
 of them have abit more health. The game itself is very short.. only 6 chapters that u can finish 
 in 1 day. So you have the classic bad-guys... you have guns... you have some AI help witch sucks 
 by the way (some times your entire squad is wiped by 1 guy with a grenade) ... you also have a bullet 
 time thingy wich is useless in most cases.. all these things wraped in a game that resembles a bad 
 copy of max payne. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anabiosis
Rating: 5.3
Date: Sep 30, 2006 5:14 am PT
Review:  The similarities between Max Payne 1-2 and El Matador are too obvious. Even the menu and keyboard 
 layout are the same. But it gets even worse when you start playing. Our main character looks, moves, 
 and shoots like Max Payne. Even the animation of bullet-time moves is the same.
  
  Next thing which's been borrowed from MP is the introduction of new characters. Zoom in - slow 
 mo - 'take a look, that's mr. X (Y, Z, whatever) '. Nah. One more suprise - additional characters 
 from EM and those from MP2... guess what? And the weapons. UZI, AK, pistols (yay we got some dual 
 pistols) and so on. Deja vu.
  
  But since it's a Max Payne clone, El Matador has something which makes this game worth buying. 
 Probably. Gameplay. Totally copy-pasted from MP, constant action simply works. But in some 40 minutes 
 it all made me want to hit 'Exit', then install MPII and enjoy the good old hit. Maybe it's just 
 me, old, tired, and fastidious.
  
  Secondly, it's the atmosphere of a nice B+ class movie. Lots of guns, lots of dead bad guys and 
 a good guy fighting drug barons. Yeehaw. Me likez that.
  
  Graphics looks nice. Seems like it's a bit enhanced engine of MP2. Or not. Who cares. Solid '7'. 
 E. M. deserved it. The visuals look like crap while using the 5th gen GeForce Cards (i tried ASUS 
 GeForce 5600 256 MB with latest drivers... MP1 looked better) . ATI 1800 made El Matador shine. 
 But it concerns me that the game sometimes lagged (although my PC is not that obsolete, p4 3000, 
 2GB Ram, aforementioned Radeon) .
  
  Sound. There is some sound. Gunshots. People dying. Nice. Well, the conclusion. El Matador does 
 not look like a separate game. Despite all the changes and enhancements, it's nothing more but 
 Max Payne 2.0.1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 29, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  ok i played this game for a lil bit , and i can say that game is realy hard one , its well like 
 max payne and has got few things from ather 3rd person shooters, in this game you cannot just shoot 
 everybody , you need to hide under crates and so on...
  ok heres my rewiev
  graphics: not very special but has got some pretty things ,view and ather...
  Sound: this is the 
 good thing for me , i realy liked the sound , the explosion of granade kinnda realy got me :) gameplay: 
 well i dont know but i can say that game has got very realistic gameplay , you die fast , and when 
 you jump to side wit sloved down time its isnt very easy to hit , like in max payne
  Well i gues gamespot might give for this game 8/10 but i give 9.3/10 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
