-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Emergency Fire Response
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/firedepartment/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  8, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.7, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 87 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: Monte Cristo
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Jul 30, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Emergency Fire Response is a fairly simple fire-fighting simulation that manages to capture much 
 of the thrill, energy, and suspense often associated with the profession. 

  It's easy to see why many kids fantasize about being firefighters when they grow up, since firefighters 
 must bravely battle danger and rescue civilians. Emergency Fire Response is a fairly simple fire-fighting 
 simulation that manages to capture much of the thrill, energy, and suspense often associated with 
 the profession.  

          When arson is to blame, you'll need to preserve the evidence while still worrying about 
 saving lives and dousing the flames.     

  In Emergency Fire Response, you control the firefighters of Station 615 as they are called to various 
 fires. In effect, the game plays much like a 3D squad-based real-time strategy game. The game has 
 no multiplayer options, but it does have a single-player mode that consists of 10 levels, each 
 with three to four missions. Thanks to some imaginative and interesting design, the missions are 
 interesting, challenging, and strategic. For example, one early mission is a simple case of a fire 
 at a warehouse, but since the authorities suspect arson, you need to try to preserve the evidence 
 by saving computers and surveillance tape.  

  Monte Cristo paced the game extremely well, layering different objectives into the missions as 
 they progress. For example, in a mission at an embassy, you need to balance rescuing high-ranking 
 diplomats with saving culturally invaluable artwork. Unexpected obstacles, like collapsed hallways 
 or flashbacks -- a phenomenon where gases in a room suddenly ignite -- will also commonly arise. These 
 obstacles require quick thinking and precise strategy, and they add to the suspense and tension 
 of the situation. Between the multiple objectives, the immediate obstacles, and the necessity of 
 keeping your firefighters safe, the game is surprisingly fast-paced, engrossing, and tense.  

 
  You won't need to save every person or rescue every piece of artwork to complete a mission, but 
 at the end, you'll receive grades based on each component of the mission and one overall grade. 
 You may even find yourself going back to play a mission over to attempt to beat your score, though 
 outside of that, the game offers no real incentive to do so. You control the same team of firefighters 
 throughout the game, but unfortunately, they don't gain experience from mission to mission, and 
 you can't improve them. Emergency Fire Response might also have benefited from a premission planning 
 phase, like in the Rainbow Six tactical action games, but simply fighting fires is often enjoyable 
 enough in its own right.  

  In each mission, you'll be granted a variety of firefighters and vehicles. A typical team, which 
 usually includes four to 10 members, will consist largely of regular firefighters, who are best 
 at fighting regular flames. However, you'll also get a few specialists like a paramedic, who can 
 help wounded fire victims and other firefighters, or a technical officer, who is adept at using 
 machinery and driving vehicles. Vehicles are another important aspect of the gameplay. Basic vehicles 
 include an ambulance, to which injured civilians and firefighters must be taken to recuperate; 
 rescue ladders, which can be used to reach higher floors; and tankers, which supply water to other 
 vehicles and firefighters.  

  The game is controlled from an isometric overhead perspective, which makes for some interesting 
 interface challenges that the game doesn't always handle well. To move vehicles, you left-click 
 on them and then hold down the right mouse button while pointing either ahead or behind the vehicle. 
 The vehicle will then either move forward or backward, turning as you indicate. This can be problematic, 
 since the camera stays in a fixed position until you change your view, and it can't be zoomed out 
 very far. Once you are moving a vehicle, if you round a bend or change direction, your view will 
 often be obstructed by trees or other obstacles. You must then stop to change your view. The same 
 is true when commanding firefighters in burning buildings, and since time is of the essence in 
 most of the missions, the interface can seriously hamper your ability to respond to the situation 
 you find yourself in. Because the interface can't keep up with the speed of the game, it's always 
 an annoyance right when the game is at its best.  

  Other than the view problems, the game's interface works well. Each section of a fire is represented 
 with a red circle of varying intensity that is accompanied by a status bar that decreases as you 
 douse the flames. It's generally easy to strategically fight fires. There's also a convenient unit 
 bar at the bottom of the screen that shows the status of all your firefighters and vehicles. The 
 sounds of flames, explosions, and burning objects are important to heighten the immersion in such 
 a game, and Emergency Fire Response comes through on this count as well. There's no music in the 
 missions -- only sound effects. However, the game's explosions are deep and full of bass, and flames 
 crackle loudly. The music featured between missions is generally stirring and very fitting, and 
 it's a shame that it couldn't have been included in the actual levels.  

          You can move vehicles like this tanker with the technical officer, though due to the interface, 
 doing so can be burdensome.     

  Graphically, Emergency Fire Response is pretty solid. The game's environments and buildings are 
 designed realistically, and the lighting associated with the fires is suitably dramatic and menacing. 
 The fires themselves look good, too. The game's units and objects are generally detailed and well 
 animated, and the units look different enough that you can identify them easily. However, the game's 
 vehicles are a bit blocky, and they don't ever look as though they're truly moving -- in fact, they 
 look almost as if they're being dragged along the ground. At least you can change your units' appearances 
 to those of firefighters from different countries, such as Germany, France, and Britain.  

  Emergency Fire Response is a simple but engaging game. It doesn't have many units or vehicles, 
 but it's short enough that this lack of variety doesn't become bothersome. And each mission is 
 so different from the last that unit variety is even less of an issue. If Emergency Fire Response 
 had featured a bit more depth to allow for unit customization and advancement and unit selection 
 between missions -- and if it didn't have some occasionally irritating interface problems -- it might 
 have been an exceptional game. As it is, it's a game that has some problems but is still surprisingly 
 enjoyable. The game's concept itself is unusual, and it's one of the few computer games out there 
 that manages to be enjoyable without any kind of graphic violence. And considering the game's suggested 
 retail price of $20, it's a great value -- Emergency Fire Response may be short, but it's sweet while 
 it lasts, and it doesn't overstay its welcome.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 4, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Take the command of a squad of fire fighters as they try to bring order out of messy emergencies. 
 Each mission pits you with a number of troublesome fires, often involving hazardous materials and 
 civilians whose lives are at stake.
  
  As soon as you arrive at the scene you need to be fast; it is absolutely vital that you get moving 
 immediately, deploying your vehicles to start combating the fire, then try to figure out how to 
 proceed. You'll often chase fires spreading in different directions towards cars and other explosive 
 objects that will cause even more mayhem. Sometimes you need to be thorough and at other times 
 you must cut a path through the inferno to reach civilians boxed in by flames, risking to have 
 your brave squad of firemen emptying their extinguishers deep inside a building. This sort of tension 
 keeps you on your toes at all times and makes the gameplay very satisfying.
  
  What is less impressive is the fact that scripted events will occur as your squad completes an 
 objective or passes a checkpoint. Fires that you had completely extinguished will suddenly appear 
 out of nowhere, reigniting large areas in a blink of a second, taking you out of the experience 
 and making you feel this is more of a puzzle than a simulation.
  
  The major caveat though, is that the box claims the game to offer 34 missions in ten different 
 environments; this in fact translates to a mere ten missions with various sub goals. It is great 
 that the ten missions are all very diverse and make use of different equipment, but this also means 
 you only get to use certain vehicles or skills one on or two occasions only. The game cries out 
 for more scenarios for you to practice what you've learned during the campaign.
  
  All in all though, this is an absolute blast to play!
  
  NOTE: This game is being distributed 
 in Europe by Infogrames under the name Fire Chief. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
