-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Emergency: Fighters for Life
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/emergencyfightersforlife/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 17, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.6
Critic Score: 5.0, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 67 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: WizardWorks
Developer: TopWare
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jul 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The truth is that Emergency has so many faults that it could use some major rescue work itself. 
 

 For gamers who've begun to weary of the  formula of nearly 
 every real-time strategy game on the market, Emergency: Fighters for Life's unique premise will 
 come as an extremely welcome change of pace. But thanks to clumsy execution and pedestrian production 
 values, Emergency winds up smack in the middle of the "could have, should have" category.  

 In Emergency, you're more or less a plenipotentiary of emergency response and disaster relief: 
 It's up to you to dispatch and control (from the usual oblique overhead perspective) police, medical 
 personnel, and firemen, as well as vehicles such as fire trucks, ambulances, police cars and paddy 
 wagons, rescue helicopters, fire-fighting planes and boats, bulldozers, and more.  

 Many of the situations facing you are garden-variety emergencies - fires, flooding, a football riot, 
 a derailed roller coaster, airplane crashes, boating accidents, and sundry types of vehicular mayhem, 
 to name a few. But others are considerably more calamitous, if not particularly original: a nuclear 
 meltdown (Chernobyl, 1986?) , a poison-gas attack on a subway (Tokyo, 1995?) , and a crash at an 
 air show (Ramstein, Germany, 1988?) .  

 It's no biggie that some of the missions here are based on real-life tragedies, but it would have 
 been a nice touch if the developers had shown a little imagination and turned to some more obscure 
 and bizarre disasters like The Great Molasses Flood (Boston, 1919) or the London Beer Flood (1814) 
 for inspiration.   

 That's nit-picking, of course, and no one would give a hoot if the game's biggest shortcoming was 
 the lack of weird accidents and emergency situations. But the truth is that Emergency has so many 
 faults that it could use some major rescue work itself.  

 One of the keys to a successful response to an emergency is recognizing the scope of the accident 
 and identifying obstacles, especially those that could pose a threat to rescuers. Unfortunately, 
 the graphics in Emergency's mission camera - which displays a "detailed" view of the area - are 
 so teeny-tiny that it's almost impossible to spot many crucial objects you need to manipulate. 

 In one mission, for instance, you need to flip a switch that turns on a "traffic jam warning sign" 
 so a helicopter can land on the freeway - but the hot spot on the post housing the switch only 
 takes up one or two pixels on the 640x480 display, and there's nothing to indicate that the post 
 is anything other than, well, a post.  

 Exacerbating the problem is the absence of a zoom function or a "tactical" map to let you jump quickly 
 from one area of the disaster to another; instead, you must constantly scroll the main view just 
 to look around the scene. And on some missions (not necessarily larger ones) that scroll can slow 
 down to a herky-jerky crawl, making completing even a straightforward mission a minor ordeal.  
 

 Then there's the issue of micromanagement. It's one thing to take control of several departments 
 that normally wouldn't fall under the command of one person; it's another when the personnel in 
 those departments are nothing more than zombies. Regardless of how many personnel and units you're 
 dealing with, you have to issue orders for every single thing they do. Let's say you need to pick 
 up tires on a race track before a race gets started. First you select a single firemen (who can't 
 be wearing a chemical suit or oxygen mask, although I don't know why that would keep someone from 
 picking up a tire) , then order him to pick up the tire, then tell him where to go, then order him 
 to drop it - and start all over again for the next tire. You'd be in some pretty dire straits if 
 all these guys had to go to the bathroom at one time.  

 It's a given in any real-time strategy game that you can select several units and have them enter 
 a vehicle - but not in Emergency. Send out six cops in a police truck to handle a crowd, and you'll 
 have to guide them back to the vehicle one at a time. Speaking of police, I always thought that 
 a single officer in a patrol car could handle a mundane task like directing traffic, but I must 
 be wrong: In Emergency it takes two officers, one to drive the car (and apparently stay glued to 
 the seat) while the other gets out to do the work. Unfortunately, the pathfinding routines for 
 vehicles don't seem to benefit from this "dedicated driver" scheme: Send several units back to 
 base, and five minutes later you'll find they're completely gridlocked because a vehicle that's 
 just arrived on the scene won't get out of their way.  

 Complicating matters is the linear mission tree; fail on a mission, and you've got to keep playing 
 it until you succeed before you can take on a new challenge. It's bad enough that you automatically 
 lose some missions when there's a fatality - after all, no rescue squad can claim to have a perfect 
 track record. But in some cases you won't even know why you lost, because once you receive the 
 "Mission Failed" message you don't get to look around the scene to see who died where and for what 
 reason.  

 But the real trouble with Emergency can be summed up in four words: It has no soul. Not only are 
 the characters so small that they seem utterly insignificant, but a near-total absence of sound 
 effects and animations adds even further to the static, lifeless atmosphere. Disaster scenes are 
 noisy, chaotic, and frantic affairs; the accident scenes in Emergency, on the other hand, are almost 
 serene, populated only by silent bystanders who seem hell-bent on blocking rescue vehicles or strolling 
 casually into deadly areas that even a top-dollar stuntman wouldn't traverse. Some missions are 
 difficult to complete, but even when you do succeed you'll rarely feel any thrill of satisfaction 
 or accomplishment.  

 Success in Emergency isn't a question of responding in a timely fashion to constantly changing circumstances. 
 It's a boring routine of figuring out what type of units are needed, in what order they should 
 be dispatched, and where they need to go once they arrive. It is, in short, connect-the-dots strategy 
 gaming and delivers about as much fun and excitement as that phrase connotes.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mtdewtag
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 1, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Emergency: Fighters for Life is a game where you will test your managerial skills and see if you 
 can save lives and beat the clock. Okay no real clock to go against you but if you use up to much 
 time to complete a mission the game will take points from you.
  
  Gameplay: Standard point and click. Depending on how you handle the mission timewise and saving 
 lives-wise you will get a rating percentage for each mission. One downside to this is that if you 
 are not sure what you are looking for this can turn into a click try and error until you get the 
 desired result you want.
  
  Okay time to state the good.
  
  The game allows you to manage a multitude of emergency equipment that is at your disposal. Not 
 only do you get to decide where the vehicles go but the people that can ride in them.
  
  Now for the bad.
  
  The point and click gets tiring really quick. You not only have to manage 
 the vehicles and your emergency people. You get to do crowd control in some missions. This can 
 be a bit frustrating since the stand-byers and gawkers will walk right into danger and end up getting 
 hurt or killed. If you lose too many people it is game over. 
  
  If worrying about the people who can get hurt was not enough to keep you busy. You also get to 
 worry about your vehicles being damaged or destroyed. Nothing worse then getting a fire under control 
 only to have a secondary explosion take out a bunch of your vehicles. Now you got to scramble more 
 vehicles to help out.
  
  On some missions you have to find a switch to flip to control certain actions and make sure everything 
 is safe. If you do not activate the switch all kinds of chaos will follow making the mission even 
 tougher or you will just simply fail it. The switches are so tiny even if you had a magnifying 
 glass you would be hard pressed to find them. Not only is it hard to find nearly invisible switches. 
 The next fun thing to look for is that one suspicious person. Oh yeah they all look alike you just 
 have to get lucky or break down and read a FAQ on those missions so you know who you are looking 
 for in the mission.
  
  Back to the good.
  
  The game has a variety of missions to test you. Some are fairly easy and you will get through them 
 no problem. Others are more complex and you will have to learn to prioritize.
  
  Graphics: For the most part they are average. It would have been nice if things like switches and 
 the people you needed to capture were more apparent in the game. I am not saying have a huge arrow 
 over the item saying click this but something that would make it stick out.
  
  Value: If you are into managing and like games like Simcity and Civilization. This game will fit 
 in nicely with your collection. Replay will be low. But there are some missions that are fun and 
 using the level pick cheat helps to add some replay value to this game. 
  
  Tilt: Overall this is a good game that has much potential. Sadly the gameplay will keep most from 
 wanting to play it. Once you get used to the point, click and slow scroll of the game. It actually 
 becomes enjoyable. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
