-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Emergency Room 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/emergencyroom2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 29, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 7.1, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 26 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Legacy Interactive
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jan 31, 1999

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While Emergency Room 2 might be an interesting and challenging cognitive aid, it's not much of a 
 game. 

 If the very idea of either staring at images of phony human wounds adorned with fake, copy-pasted 
 graphical blood or performing a virtual stool test sets your heart a-palpitatin', get out of your 
 chair and grab yourself a copy of Emergency Room 2 this very minute. If not, you may want to read 
 a bit further.  

 Legacy Interactive's Emergency Room 2 places you squarely behind the wheel of a shiny new rip-snortin', 
 two-fisted, no-holds-barred medical student on his rounds in the emergency ward of Legacy Memorial 
 Hospital. Once you sign in, you begin your shift in the waiting room, where four patients await 
 treatment. After you decide on a patient and have consulted the relevant research pamphlets, it's 
 time to whisk your patient off to the exam room, X-ray room, lab, and treatment center. Treat your 
 patients poorly and they may end up in the morgue; treat your patients correctly, and you'll eventually 
 advance through the hospital ranks to the lofty position of chief of staff.  

 The actual game boils down to selecting a particular patient with a certain ailment, then figuring 
 out the right way to treat him. Presumably, the processes of selecting a patient with a particular 
 ailment and becoming familiar with the different medical tools, hospital rooms, and procedures 
 are intended to build memory and association skills, as well as provide a general source of information 
 about medicine and emergency room practices. The actual selection and use of the correct equipment 
 and procedures would, in turn, seem to be intended to further enhance deductive reasoning skills. 
 That is to say, you should not only learn what sphygmomanometers, stethoscopes, and EKGs are and 
 do, but also how to use each, and when, and to what part of the patient's body each should be applied. 

 In this educational vein, Emergency Room 2 succeeds for the most part. There are exactly 100 different 
 patient cases, subdivided into five levels of difficulty, and each requires its own particular 
 plan of action to treat successfully; patients may be selected either randomly or specifically 
 by case. Once you select a patient, you can consult the CME, the continuing medical education data, 
 for that particular case, to help decide on a plan of action. Next, you bring the patient to one 
 of many hospital rooms, each of which is equipped with a specific tool or set of tools to be used 
 on the patient. As in a real hospital, you're encouraged to err on the side of being overly thorough 
 in your examinations, though avoiding costly and unnecessary procedures, such as X-rays or CT scans, 
 will maximize your score.  

 The entire interface is mouse-driven, and a few points and clicks will always yield at least some 
 relevant information in every single room in the form of instrument or medication descriptions, 
 anatomy charts, or your own notes from your own in-game handheld computer. In addition to the standard 
 exam and admitting rooms, there are also the hospital lounge and the library, which you can use 
 not only to take a break from the examination, but also to have another look at the patient's CME 
 or to consult reference materials filled with pictures and nifty factoids about the history of 
 past and present medicine. And once you do manage to familiarize yourself with the tools and procedures 
 necessary to treat your patients, you'll find your success rate with your patients will climb. 

 Unfortunately, while Emergency Room 2 might be an interesting and challenging cognitive aid, it's 
 not much of a game. One of its most obvious shortcomings is its presentation - it sounds merely 
 adequate and looks thoroughly unimpressive. The game can be run in no higher than 16-bit color 
 mode, which doesn't really hurt the simple diagnostic charts and diagrams, but doesn't do much 
 to help the dull, grainy-looking FMV sequences. There's no background music whatever, only the 
 voices of your patients, the staff, and the hospital intercom. The intermittent and random chatter 
 from the hospital intercom attempts to simulate the environment of a real hospital but clashes 
 with the fact that all rooms - including the waiting room - are, for the most part, completely 
 static. Instead of busy interns pushing around gurneys with their patients' friends and loved ones 
 in tow, nearly everything in every room is deathly still, and the odd contrast curtails all hope 
 of creating any kind of immersive atmosphere.  

 The only real non-FMV movement you'll see is that of the patients in the waiting room as they describe 
 their conditions; they do so in a hilariously stilted routine that recalls the paper-cutout cartoons 
 of Monty Python. And though a good deal of the voice work is fairly well done, like that of Chasing 
 Amy star Joey Lauren Adam's friendly nurse and In Living Color alumnus Steve Park's (no relation) 
 wisecracking radiology technician, several of the patients suffer from an overdose of overacting. 
 These include the excessively gruff, excessively enthusiastic father of the boy who burned himself 
 and the utterly absurd jive stylings of the Jimmie Walker wanna-be who scraped his knee.  

 Emergency Room 2 also suffers from the omission of any kind of tutorial whatever. The CD case-sized 
 manual is filled with squint-inducing fine print that doesn't go into any sort of specifics on 
 the use of particular tools, rooms, or procedures. Going in for the very first time, you're very 
 likely to fail miserably in your examination and will subsequently be chastised for failing to 
 do some key action or actions. Monkeying around with everything isn't allowed since your examinations 
 are timed and will automatically end when your time is up. The timing of examinations can't be 
 turned off either, presumably in the interest of keeping things "realistic." As a result, you'll 
 have to learn the ropes the hard way - through trial and error, which isn't exactly the way real 
 hospitals are run. As you scratch your head and try to figure out what's what, the tag on the back 
 of the box that reads "Bad news is you killed him, Good news is you can save him next time" will 
 suddenly make a whole lot more sense.  

 In addition, Emergency Room 2 has a bad case of interface problems. For whatever reason, scrolling 
 up or down a long list or document is far too sensitive to mouse clicking. Even the most timid 
 peck will send the scroll arrow flying up or down to the beginning or end, which makes selecting 
 the desired case needlessly difficult and reading long reports more trouble than it's worth. Also, 
 with the exception of the decision to select a particular patient, there's no cancel button or 
 option anywhere in the game - pressing the escape key will quit out of the game entirely. Though 
 probably designed in the interest of "realism," this can be a game ruiner, especially if you accidentally 
 choose the wrong treatment. You can't save games either, so making a critical error in one of the 
 more complex cases means going all the way back to square one in the waiting room, sitting through 
 the patient's speech, then retracing your steps back to the exam rooms and doing everything over 
 again.  

 It might seem that the time limits and the lack of both a general cancel button and saved games 
 would add a level of realism and excitement to the game. Unfortunately the idea falls apart in 
 practice. If Emergency Room 2 has a strength, it's its informative and academic treatment of medical 
 information, for which a no-rush, learn-as-you-go approach would have been far more appropriate. 

 In the end, Emergency Room 2 seems like a decent piece of edutainment software. To its credit, it's 
 chock-full of accurate, if not tremendously in-depth medical information and would fit perfectly 
 on the shelf of a high-school computer learning center. Unfortunately, its mediocre presentation 
 and its gameplay problems keep it from being appropriate pretty much anywhere else.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Nintendokid891
Rating: 5.7
Date: Apr 3, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  This game is not what i thought it to be. It is more of a...
  I dont know what to call it. JUST DONT BUT IT. Ok, so heres my review...
  
  GAMEPLAY- The gameplay 
 is Okay. Like I said before there really is NO gameplay more of just asking questions and marking 
 stuff of on your PDA.
  
  6 out of 10
  
  GRAPHICS- Not good at all. They were for Windows 95 & 98. So ill give them a six.
  
  6 out 
 of 10
  
  SOUND- The music is ok....
  wait. What music?
  
  4 out of 10
  
  LEARNING CURVE- You have to remember a lot of info. so i would say 1 or 2 hours.
  
  1 to 2 
 Hours
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
