-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Emergency 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/emergency3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting premise with plenty of creative mission scenarios.
 Decent graphics and performance with relatively modest system requirements.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Clumsy, frustrating interface.
 The trial-and-error nature of the missions will try your patience.
 Spotty artificial intelligence.
 Uninformative manual and a limited tutorial will leave beginners guessing as to how to actually play the game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  2, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.3
Critic Score: 5.9, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 180 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Sixteen Tons Ent.
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Apr 6, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The interesting premise of Emergency 3 is negated by often clumsy controls, frustrating mission 
 design, and terrible artificial intelligence. 

  Emergency 3, the latest real-time strategy game from publisher Strategy First, attempts to capture 
 the urgency of life-and-death situations that arise from sudden and unexpected events like train 
 wrecks, automobile accidents, structure fires, explosions, and even failed bungee jumps. But as 
 exciting as it may sound, Emergency 3 delivers much more frustration than dramatic tension, thanks 
 to clumsy controls and the trial-and-error nature of the mission design. The flaws are made all 
 the more apparent by the fact that most of the missions are actually creative and interesting, 
 and that the overall premise of the game is a promising one.  

          It's like  Rescue 911 , but with clumsy controls, annoying mission design, and no William 
 Shatner.     

  The gameplay in Emergency 3 is divided between a 20-mission single-player campaign and a freeplay 
 mode. In freeplay, you can complete a series of challenges or address an endless stream of emergency 
 situations spread out over a large town. Regardless of which mode you choose, the basic gameplay 
 remains the same. You're given specific objectives to complete and you must use a variety of rescue 
 units to do so.  

  The missions in the freeplay mode are as simple as putting out a fire, responding to a very generic 
 "medical emergency," or sending out an engineer to repair a faulty traffic signal. As you play, 
 you'll see the same handful of objectives repeated ad nauseam, the only variables being the location 
 and frequency of occurrence. Once you figure out how to address each type of scenario, the challenge 
 is derived from micromanaging several units at a time and balancing your budget.  

  The single-player campaign features much more-varied missions and locations, some of which are 
 quite creative and interesting. Before each mission, you're treated to a rendered scene that shows 
 exactly what happened in the moments leading up to the event. You'll have to deal with all kinds 
 of situations that go way beyond simply putting out fires or treating wounded people. There's a 
 multiple-car pileup caused by a distracted bus driver, a collapsed glass dome over a crowded water 
 park, a bungee jump gone terribly awry, and more. But as compelling as the setup is for each of 
 these missions, they play out in an aggravatingly rigid step-by-step process that leaves little 
 room for error. The missions will try your patience by requiring you to follow a very specific 
 course of action every step of the way. It's up to you to figure out what you need to do, be it 
 hunting for a tiny, nondescript control box to turn on a traffic signal to divert traffic away 
 from an accident, or searching for a fallen jumper who has been washed downstream and ended up 
 underneath some underbrush. Chances are the jumper will die a dozen times before you actually find 
 him, and when you do find him, you'll have to figure out exactly which rescue unit to use to save 
 him.  

  That brings up another flaw in Emergency 3. There are more than 30 rescue vehicles in the game, 
 but there's no explanation of what each one actually does, or how to use them. There are the standard 
 fire trucks, ambulances, and rescue helicopters, but then there are much more specialized units 
 like fire boats, K9 units, and salvage trucks. Each unit serves a very specific purpose, but there's 
 often very little indication as to what that purpose actually is. There .pdf manual included with 
 the game doesn't explain much of anything, and the in-game tutorial only shows you how to use a 
 handful of different units. There is a bit of brief text accompanying each unit, but you can't 
 access that until you're already in the midst of a mission. So while people are suffering all kinds 
 of unspeakable horrors, you have to read through a bunch of often poorly translated text to figure 
 out which of the couple-dozen units you need to use. It would be like a paramedic showing up to 
 help a guy having a heart attack, only to stop and read the instructions on how to get the defibrillator 
 working.  

  Once you figure out which unit or units you need to use, there's the challenge of actually controlling 
 them. Each unit has to be deployed one at a time, and once they appear on the scene you can start 
 to issue orders. For the most part, this just involves selecting a unit with a left mouse click, 
 setting a destination with a right mouse click, and interacting with people or objects with another 
 right mouse click. It's simple enough when there's not too much going on, but when you're trying 
 to juggle dozens of units it can get difficult. For one thing, the units don't always go where 
 you tell them to. Occasionally they'll find their way without any problems, but other times your 
 medics will end up wandering off into the middle of a forest when you try to get them to cross 
 a bridge or enter a building. Other times, your units will get stuck in a confined area and will 
 just give up and quit moving.  

  Another problem is the cursor, which changes shape to indicate when you can interact with an object 
 or person. Unfortunately, the cursor isn't very responsive to these interactive spots, so you'll 
 often have to mouse over a person or object several times before you can actually interact with 
 it. Targeting can also be difficult. Sometimes, when attempting to set up a police officer to direct 
 traffic, they'll face  with  traffic on a one-way road, and sometimes your firefighters will inexplicably 
 stand there with a hose doing nothing while fires rage all around them. Even more frustrating is 
 the artificial intelligence (or lack thereof) of the civilians. Rubberneckers will stroll out into 
 the middle of traffic on a four-lane highway to get a look at an accident; pedestrians will walk 
 right up to a burning building, and so on. Since most missions require you to keep the casualties 
 to a minimum, it can be extremely frustrating when absolutely everyone in the game has a death 
 wish.  

          The artificial intelligence in this game will have you questioning whether or not any of 
 these people are actually worth saving after all.     

  Emergency 3 at least looks fairly decent, and will run just fine on a PC with relatively modest 
 specs. That said, it's nothing particularly eye-catching, either. Unlike the previous Emergency 
 game, this one allows you to rotate the map, which allows you to get a clearer perspective on the 
 often cluttered scenes. Each of the units is fairly detailed, and for the most part they are easy 
 to distinguish from one another. The game sounds considerably worse than it looks. Even if you 
 forgive the blaring sirens, which seem somewhat necessary given the subject of the game, the sound 
 quickly gets repetitive, even annoying. Each time you issue an order you'll hear the same confirmation 
 phrase from your workers, and you'll always hear the same grunts and moans from the people you're 
 trying to rescue.  

  As far as extras go, Emergency 3 does have a few features beyond the main game. You can upload 
 your challenge mode scores to an online scoreboard, and the game does come with a mod browser, 
 although there aren't exactly a ton of mods available for the game. There's also an external scenario 
 editor that allows you to create your own maps and missions. You can create as detailed of a scenario 
 as you want, or even edit existing scenarios. However, the program is anything but user-friendly, 
 and you'll be completely lost if you don't have a lot of patience and at least a slight understanding 
 of computer programming.  

  Despite its flaws, Emergency 3 does have a few enjoyable moments, due entirely to its unique premise. 
 Unfortunately, that isn't enough to carry the tedious mission design, awkward controls, and aggravating 
 artificial intelligence that pervades almost every moment of the game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  Emergency 3 is the latest North American release in Sixteen Tons franchise, published by Montreal 
 based Strategy First. Having been given the opportunity to play (and review) the 2003 release, 
 Emergency 2: The Ultimate Fight for Life, I can safely say that the same elements that made the 
 second release enjoyable are back. Unfortunately, the same overly difficult and frustrating puzzle 
 designs, as well as the non-intuitive and unresponsive user interface have followed it as well.
 
  
  As I said with Emergency 2, this is a title I really could enjoy. It touches on a field where I 
 have derived interest - the co-ordination and management of emergency services for both standard 
 and extreme crisis management. Like its predecessors, you are responsible for saving lives, and 
 averting larger disasters. You dispatch emergency vehicles, police, fire, ambulance, as well as 
 engineering teams for controlling environmental hazards. Using a 3D isometric view, you send emergency 
 crews to the scene of a disaster, unload them, and secure the scene, resuscitate and remove victims, 
 restrain criminals, put out fires and control any other dangers in the vicinity. You are put into 
 the role of crisis coordinator, and it certainly isn't an easy one.
  
  Let's start out with what's new in Emergency 3. Aside from the stuff you'd expect, the game features 
 an enhanced physics engine supporting crashing buildings and flying debris, as well the graphics 
 have also been vastly enhanced. The higher resolution textures and enhanced detail in the world 
 look outstanding, as well as the improved fire and smoke effects. Character and vehicle animation 
 are still lacking, but at least the world around them looks good. Also new is dynamic rotation 
 in the 3D world (would could have been very helpful for that blasted virus infected monkey escape 
 level in Emergency 2) . Finally, the game introduces a new mission editor, and unlimited scenario 
 mode, better known as free mode.
  
  Emergency 3 offers two modes of play, free mode where you face an endless number of challenges 
 in managing the emergency services for a large city, and the campaign mode similar to that found 
 in its predecessors. In free play, you are given brief and vague descriptions of incidents in which 
 you have to respond, accidents, minor fires, unknown medical emergencies, and the like. The challenge 
 here isn't necessarily solving the puzzles, it's balancing a budget (each unit costs money to dispatch) , 
 and micromanaging these units  it quickly becomes tiresome and repetitive.
  
  On the campaign side of things, Emergency 3 offers twenty new missions that vary in objectives, 
 techniques, and difficulty  ranging from hard, harder, and hardest. I'm glad I've played the second 
 game in the series, as I can only imagine how difficult it would be to just step into this game 
 for the first time. Emergency 3 opens with a relatively straightforward missions and the difficulty 
 ramps up quickly  much too quickly for even experienced gamers (not to mention beginners) to really 
 want to continue playing deep into the game.
  
  The objectives of each mission are quite varied, forest fires, blazing buildings, massive traffic 
 pileups, train crashes, terrorist attacks, you name it, it's likely here. Your mission is always 
 the same, get people out of harms way, secure the scene, save lives, and take care of any remaining 
 threats. At your disposal are thirty-five vehicles and a wide array of personnel, everything from 
 pumper and ladder trucks, police and airvac helicopters, fire boats, water bombers, heavy salvage 
 trucks, etc. The standard units are pretty self explanatory, what makes the game difficult to step 
 into is the lack of description as to what each of the specialized units actually does, and what 
 it is useful for. The included documentation is mediocre, and the included tutorials only describe 
 a handful of the units found in the game.
  Similar to its predecessor, at the beginning of each mission, the game introduces the environment 
 and the incident through a brief rendered cutscene. What makes the game so frustrating is the exact 
 sequence of steps you have to figure out to complete a mission, even missing one minor step will 
 cause the mission to fail and restart from the beginning. An example, in one scenario early in 
 the game, a bus driver not paying attention to the road causes a massive pileup. You're on the 
 scene, and the game quickly tells you to make sure you divert the traffic. After several attempts 
 to divert traffic with police officers (resulting in their deaths and the mission ending) , you'll 
 eventually figure out that you have to send an engineer to a little tiny control box to enable 
 a traffic signal at the exact point of the accident (handy that it just happened to be there) .
 
  
  So, after spending ten minutes dispatching units to the scene, cutting open cars, stabilizing victims, 
 and transporting them to hospital, the game lets you know that you may be forgetting someone. You 
 dispatch a diver looking for something in the water next to the highway. A few minutes later, another 
 warning appears that a few stupid pedestrians are getting out of their cars on the other side of 
 the highway to take a closer look at the scene. Unless you dispatch a police helicopter right away 
 (because the police cars and officers can't get to the other side of the highway for some odd reason) , 
 land it in the field, and clumsily direct these people off the highway, you'll fail the mission 
 as one of them will be hit by a car. I know this firsthand, I failed many, many times because of 
 this exact issue. And this isn't an isolated incident; expect to repeat most of the missions a 
 few times because you didn't follow the routine to a tee, or missed a minor step. It's what makes 
 Emergency 3 so inflexible and a very frustrating gameplay experience. It's really a shame, because 
 the missions themselves are quite creative and diverse, but this rigid gameplay model takes away 
 much of the fun of looking forward to the next mission.
  
  I've got another minor nitpicky point that I noticed in the second release, and hasn't been changed 
 for this one. Sound localization would be a big asset  the game was developed in Europe and as 
 such all emergency vehicles have the British siren effects. The game would feel much closer to 
 home if the developers had localized it for a North American release. The rest of the sounds are 
 quite mundane and repetitive, you'll hear the same sound clip whenever you issue orders to a unit, 
 and the same moans and groans from victims lying on the pavement.
  
  If you could put aside the overly high difficulty level, frustrating mission design, and really 
 dumb AI, Emergency 3 still has one major issue. The control schema uses a simple point-and-click 
 context-sensitive interface; unfortunately its clumsy implementation leaves a lot to be desired. 
 On occasion, when directing units to a specific position they'll end up in the middle of nowhere. 
 Without first rotating the camera, it's very difficult to perform certain actions (like hooking 
 a hose up to fire hydrant if a tree is slightly blocking your view) . I've even instructed a police 
 officer to direct traffic, only to have them turn their back on the traffic and start directing 
 while facing the wrong way. Placing and directing units often turns into a chore when they get 
 stuck, and even when stuff does work, you'll find you often have to click on the buttons more then 
 once for the unit to actually respond to your command  another annoyance to add to the pile.
 
  
  Emergency 3 isn't a terrible game by any stretch of the imagination, it's an innovative title based 
 on a unique premise. Where it falls short is in a few key elements, the rigid gameplay structure, 
 dumb artificial intelligence, overly challenging missions, and poorly implemented control scheme 
 all greatly detract from the overall enjoyment factor. Hopefully, the next game in the series will 
 address these issues, but in the meantime it's very difficult to recommend Emergency 3 as an enjoyable 
 game unless you can overlook its many significant flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carversth
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 30, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  In Emergency you control all of the emergency's services, Fire Dept., Police Dept., Medical Dept. 
 and Technical Dept.
  
  The missions grow more difficult as you reach the last missions, each mission has a fun part and 
 a hard part.
  Fun part is for me is like cutting cars, taking people out of burning buildings, saving people 
 and putting them in an ambulance...
  Hard and boring part? Fighting fires (and if you lose a bit of control, you can restart the mission 
 because you'll never control the fire) , trying to make the (idiot) people not going inside an burning 
 building to see what's happening..
  
  Well, there's a lot to do in emergency, but one of the worst things are... the controls.
  Its 
 really fun the gameplay, the sounds, the graphics and even the dramatic scenes of people fainting, 
 a car running over lots of people, an Movie Theater exploding... and then having to fix the things 
 up... but...
  Having to control one firefighter to go evacuate a building by ordering him to
  1) Enter the 
 building
  2) Lead the person
  3) Get out of building
  4) Lead person away from the critical area
  5) Go back and do everything again with every person 
 there.
  
  Well, that's really not that fun...
  Some missions would be better if you could get firefighters to automaticly evacuate buildings so 
 you could take care of a fire spreading that's killing more people that you're saving...
  
  But, you can find the fun in this game, but its a bit difficult (mainly because of the controls) .
 
  Trust me, after all the bad sides this game is fun, after you play it, you'll want to become a 
 firefighter or something :)
  
  And that's it! A great game, with it downsides.
  Emergency 3.... The mission is... LIFE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiralodyssey
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 1, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I've only played it a bit, but the game is definatly lacking. When it was picked up for sale in 
 the US, why didn't they put in US sirens and vehicles? I'm trying desperatly to put in a mod to 
 fix that, but the patch required isn't in English as far as I can find, and the game's official 
 website is only half in English. The cover shows a nice looking US style fire engine with an ambulance 
 that looks the same as the one I drive, just with different paint and graphics, but in the game 
 you have a bunch of Euro-firetrucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikley28
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 15, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the most underrated games. It can be addicting like those tycoon games and 
 doesn't take an extremely high end PC to run. It is one of the better games made lately and is 
 a steal for only $20 at Gamestop. In the few days I had it I have ignored Battlefield 2. It has 
 a few bugs, such as moving the cursor curing the cut scenes gets the camera stuck scrolling. 
 
  
  Please Please Please!!! I hope someone picks up the license for Emergency 4 which is currently 
 available in EU in French and German.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SK64killer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 17, 2006 10:51 pm PT
Review:  yep thats right i rate it a 9.7 because i love this game and i think i rated it right so if you 
 dont like it go play some other game alright because somepeople like alright now ok well i like 
 this game because its just awsome with all the action and gameplay or whatever you call it i thought 
 this game was great it really depends on what kind of computer you have to have a high graphical 
 computer to play this game the way you want it to and like i said i love this game i play it all 
 the time so keep it up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffreyCor
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 11, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  I really an not sure if the reviewers actually played this game or did something different when 
 scoring this one. This game is fantastic and was way overdue in the US market. The graphics are 
 very good and the controls are easy to learn and use. The freeplay option greatly expands the gameplay 
 over the scripted missions plus the included mod feature allows for massive changes using the same 
 game base. While the AI people do very stupid things at times, they are no more ridiculous then 
 what I see going every day by actual people. It is by far better the the previous 2 installments 
 in the Emergency series and stands as the best until such time as Emergency 4, which is currently 
 out in German and French regions, is finally published in any English version if not a dedicated 
 US version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: staraflur
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 1, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  I expected more from this game, a sequel. But it was a huge letdown. Whoever devised the idea for 
 getting the ambulances, fire trucks, etc to the scene must have deliberately been trying to add 
 difficulty for some reason. And to make things worse... the AI is horrible as are the in-game instructions. 
 
  
  I was bored by the second scenario, when I finally realised I was not having fun. What else would 
 be the point of such a strategy game. I certainly wasn't playing it to learn how to respond to 
 a real emergency. 
  
  I would not recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
