-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Emperor: Rise of the Middle Kingdom
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/emperorriseofthemk/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 10, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.7, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 618 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: BreakAway Games
Genre: Historic City-Building
Date:     Sep 9, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Emperor is a fun and satisfying management game, but it is primarily the same fun and satisfying 
 management game as those that have preceded it. 

 Each entry in Impressions' city-building series has been an incremental upgrade to the previous 
 one. The series improved dramatically with Pharaoh, the first game to leave the Roman confines 
 of the Caesar games. The series improved even more significantly with Zeus, which added more-creative 
 mission goals and downplayed the military element, which had previously been a problem with the 
 series because of the cumbersome combat interface. Zeus had a few of its own problems, but it introduced 
 so many great ideas and features to the series that it seemed like a promise of even greater things 
 to come. Emperor: Rise of the Middle Kingdom breaks this promise. Instead of improving on Zeus, 
 Emperor plays it safe by returning to the earlier games in the series. Developed not by Impressions 
 but by BreakAway Games (whose previous work includes the Cleopatra expansion for Pharaoh) , Emperor 
 is much like Pharaoh, with a few of Zeus' additions thrown in for good measure. Though it includes 
 some improvements of its own, it also brings back a few frustrating issues from earlier games. 
 And some of these problems -- such as the combat interface and the aimless wandering of your workers -- aren't 
 as easily overlooked as they once were.           Rice is one of the new agricultural commodities. 
    

 It's not a major criticism to say that Emperor plays much like its predecessors. Impressions' city-building 
 games have always been formulaic, but it's a solid and addictive formula. With the last three city-building 
 games, most of the major changes have been cosmetic. The gods, buildings, and commodities available 
 are specific to the setting, but the basic gameplay remains almost identical. You lay down residential 
 areas, set up trade with other cities, provide food and commodities for your residents, and occasionally 
 fight to defend your city or send your troops out to conquer another.   

  Emperor follows this formula to the letter, though instead of being in ancient Rome, Egypt, or 
 Greece, you are now in ancient China. With Zeus, the setting lent itself to more-exciting mission 
 goals: You would often need to attract mythological figures and send them out on quests, or build 
 huge sanctuaries to the gods who would then bestow considerable bonuses to your city. The mission 
 goals in Emperor return to the basic quantitative goals of Caesar III and Pharaoh. You'll be required 
 to produce a certain quantity of a commodity in a year, save up an amount of money, conquer a number 
 of cities, or reach a target population. Occasionally you will be required to build a monument, 
 but these monuments are goals in and of themselves and don't bestow any benefit to your city apart 
 from satisfying an objective.   

  Part of the problem is that Emperor only occasionally lets you continually build and improve a 
 single city. Zeus made a significant change to the series' formula in that most missions were simply 
 continuations of the previous ones. Over the course of a campaign, your city would grow to massive 
 size, with occasional excursions requiring you to build a colony from scratch and then return to 
 your primary city with added benefits for having a colony. Emperor occasionally allows you to resume 
 a city that's already working, but most missions require you to start from square one. And when 
 you consider that square one is the same in every mission, the missions can get rather repetitive 
 as you go through the motions of starting all over every time.           Heroes will come to your 
 city if they are pleased with your tributes.    

 Emperor does make some minor improvements to the way your city operates. Items will now go to where 
 they're most needed, so food won't stockpile at trading warehouses simply because they are closer 
 to the farms. In general, the distribution of goods is more efficient, though your workers still 
 have a bit of trouble going where they are most needed. You can place roadblocks to steer your 
 residential services and safety workers to where they're most effective, but roadblocks aren't 
 a perfect solution -- being able to plot patrol routes for workers, as in Theme Park and RollerCoaster 
 Tycoon, would have been a welcome addition to the series.   

  Another welcome addition would have been a better means of dealing with heroes and gods. Zeus made 
 some significant progress in this respect, by allowing you to build temples and sanctuaries to 
 please the deities. Emperor returns to the "festival" system of previous games. You must remember 
 to give offerings to the gods and heroes at regular intervals, and there's no reminder or automatic 
 scheduling of these offerings. As in Caesar III, it's easy to forget to pay tribute when there's 
 so much else to worry about. Emperor includes three philosophical groups -- ancestral, Confucianism, 
 and Taoism. Each appears at the appropriate time in history, and each has its own deities or heroes 
 to please.     

 Significantly pleasing a deity or hero will summon him or her to your city. Their presence will 
 give you bonuses, such as supplying nearby houses with a commodity or enhancing production in a 
 certain industry. Others have very unique uses, such as collecting animals for your palace menagerie. 
 The heroes in Emperor are well implemented, but paying tribute to them isn't.           Achieving 
 perfect harmony requires you to place buildings where they are most effective.    

 Chinese cultural elements play a minor role in Emperor. They don't have much impact on the mission 
 structure, but they are used for two slight tweaks to the game mechanics. The most significant 
 change is that you now have to worry about the Feng Shui of your city. There are some philosophical 
 and elemental explanations, but the basic result is that certain types of buildings will be more 
 effective, or "harmonious," on certain landscape types. A harmonious city has happier, more productive 
 residents. In some scenarios, this is a major consideration, because it is difficult to achieve 
 perfect harmony in areas that are either too wet or too dry. The other cultural element is the 
 use of the Chinese zodiac, which gives your leader bonuses such as reduced building costs, special 
 gifts, or increased defense during years that correspond to his zodiac sign.   

  The increased defense is a useful gift, because combat has been made more of a priority in this 
 game than in Zeus. You will be invaded on occasion, and Emperor has removed the option to have 
 your forces automatically respond to invasion. While giving the computer control of your troops 
 didn't always work in Zeus, at least the option was there. Combat has always been a minor problem 
 in the city-building series, and it's a shame the designers have yet to find an interface to properly 
 deal with it. Selecting your troops is difficult, and though there are formations and attack styles 
 to choose from, the victorious army is usually just the biggest army. Emperor also hasn't improved 
 upon Zeus' invasion interface -- one of the weakest points of that game. So, just like in Zeus, you 
 simply send your troops to battle and wait to hear about the results.   

  In multiplayer games, you have one more option -- you can choose the point of insertion for your 
 troops. This isn't the only good thing about multiplayer games, and perhaps the best thing about 
 the multiplayer options is that they are there at all. Emperor is the first in the city-building 
 series to include a multiplayer aspect, and it is surprisingly good. The scenarios are made up 
 of interesting goals that allow you to compete against or collaborate with other players. Many 
 of the multiplayer missions are quickly achieved goals, making the games much shorter than the 
 single-player missions, and even if you still feel isolated while you're building your city, it's 
 nice to know there's a real human buying your bronzeware and millet.           If you have money 
 and entertainers, you can hold festivals to celebrate the New Year.    

 Emperor's other significant change is the larger viewing window. The default resolution has been 
 increased, making it so that you don't have to close the interface every time you want to see a 
 large section of your city. The graphics themselves, however, are drab compared to the colorful 
 environs of Zeus. While this may partly be a result of the setting, the lack of variation in housing 
 and buildings makes every city look just like the last.   

  This sameness describes the city-building series in general. Emperor is a fun and satisfying management 
 game, but it is primarily the same fun and satisfying management game as those that have preceded 
 it. If Zeus was two steps forward for the series, Emperor is its one step back. Fans of previous 
 installments will like it if they haven't had their fill of the formula, while newcomers will be 
 able to see why the formula works so well. But hopefully, future games in the series will continue 
 to improve on the blueprint, instead of just following it to the letter.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Emp454
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  A well polished game that's really hard not to admire the effort displayed. It takes the simple 
 formula of build, pave, cultivate and expand and flavours it beautifully with the thriving culture 
 of ancient china. The results were a delightful mix.
  
  As a typical civilization game it's along the lines of creating a magnificent healthy city, by 
 establishing a settlement and keeping a healthy balance between economy, immigration, trade and 
 agriculture. Though hardly the expand and dominate type of game you'll have enough on your hands 
 meeting the desires and needs of your own people without fussing over other cities.
  
  Keeping a balance though can be devilishly difficult as the better your city does the more immigration 
 occurs thus the more jobs you will need to create. There's only so much land to use (though it's 
 certainly a generous area on each map) and so many jobs to perform that you'll end up with probably 
 half a dozen loggers mills and mining simply to meet up with the unemployment rates. Soon you'll 
 find yourself reaping far more resources than your people will use and you know what to do with. 
 You could of course lower wages to cure this or you could just leave unemployment high... Though 
 this will anger the citizens and they'll leave. This is probably the most common issue you'll encounter, 
 though being more of an inconvenience than a problem. On the other hand the building options are 
 fairly expansive and there'll ALWAYS be something fresh to do, improve or experiment with.
  
  Visually, the environment and animated sprites are fantastically crisp and lush; the animation 
 of each individual performing their daily jobs is amazingly satisfying to witness.
  
  Sound wise, the music is traditionally Chinese styled and very catchy if heard long enough. The 
 individual sound bites that occur throughout the city hit the spot perfectly, though the voice 
 acting is occasionally corny and muffled, but I'm betting this was intended as a light hearted 
 poke in the ribs.
  
  All other neighbouring cities are off map and can only be interacted through a country map. Say 
 for example, you want to request money or food, you click on the map of China and click on the 
 city you want to make the request from and after a 10 min wait, the message should be delivered. 
 However you can play through several games without ever needing to interact with anybody, it's 
 more of an extra if you truly have nothing better to do as requesting just about anything besides 
 money and other foreign luxuries is unnecessary. Spicing up simple relations and trade with others 
 can be interesting but take more time than their worth.
  
  Why they bothered to make an online option is a mystery as the root of this game is hardly multiplayer 
 directed at all, plus theirs no one online anyway. Odds are it wouldn't have been very interesting. 
 Though the companies likely to have disbanded there is little reason to search for patches, my 
 experiences have shown the game to be relatively bug and problem free despite some reports I've 
 read.
  
  On the down side the battles in this game are IMMENSELY poor and a HUGE let down, if being invaded, 
 enemy troops appear at your city and begin attacking anything they see. While in battle you can 
 direct your troops in the general direction of the enemy and only sit back, watch and hope that 
 your army will win. Even that's dull for it doesn't matter if you have a fit and large army, their 
 is a 75% chance they'll become demoralized and flee the fight even when still at full strength, 
 and you can't do a thing about it. If on the other hand YOU want to invade a city, you just assign 
 the troops and send them off only hoping that they will be successful, which nearly EVERY single 
 time, they aren't. There is no visual of the battle as it's off screen, and every single time guarantee 
 if you send off your army, different armies from several different cities will begin the march 
 towards yours which is highly inconvenient, you cannot defend yourself as no troops will be produced 
 until those abroad return. 
  
  Stupidly, you can only build 2 forts out of 4 which include cavalry, archers, infantry and catapults, 
 but there is even a limit to the amount of troops from each fort that you can build, like 6 Cavalrymen, 
 12 archers and that's IT. They are pathetically weak and the only way of higher-than-average success 
 is to request more troops from a city that's on excellent terms with you, which you achieve by 
 giving them tonnes of tribute.
  
  Overall the core area of the game that makes it work is its simplicity. The pains of tedious organization 
 and control of just about everything in other titles such as SIM CITY are directed towards more 
 serious, seasoned players of civi games while EMPEROR is able to give a nice blend of AI and auto 
 control of most issues while still leaving plenty for the player to do, a recommended buy for civi 
 beginners. Though battles are its weak... sorry, AWFUL point, the main aim of the game is not war. 
 Which is somewhat of a pity, it would've been pleasant to have an option to start a conflict or 
 two depending on your mood. But in reality this is frankly a grade A way to ruin your empire, so 
 it hinders an excellent mark from me. Despite that I'll be playing this for years to come, submersed 
 in a rich, beautiful Chinese world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 23, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Emperor: Rise of the Middle Kingdom is another Impressions city builder, this time set in ancient 
 China. While the game does add some new features to the formula, they're extremely minor compared 
 to the advances of Impressions' previous city-builder- Zeus. Add that to the fact that several 
 of Zeus' more interesting features are now gone or changed for the worse, and we've still got a 
 quality game- but its a clumsy step backwards for the genre.
  
  As I've already said, Emperor is set in ancient China, so you will be governing Chinese cities 
 through out differing time-periods in Chinese history. Unlike some of the earlier campaigns Impressions 
 made, Emperor has several campaigns instead of just one. These campaigns are set during the reigns 
 of the more important and well known Chinese dynasties, so you've got the Shang dynasty, Han dynasty, 
 along with several others. You'll be very familiar with how these campaigns work if you've played 
 any of Impressions' previous city-builders such as Caesar 3 or Zeus. Emperor's campaigns work using 
 a combination of Zeus' structure and Caesar 3's structure. Just like in Zeus, the cities you build 
 stay the way you built them throughout the entire campaign, but the game also has you move around 
 a lot more building many new cities from scratch, just like in Caesar 3 (Granted- Zeus also moved 
 you around a little from city to colony, but not nearly as much as Emperor does) . The actual city 
 building in the game is essentially exactly the same as it was in Impressions previous games. You 
 set up housing for immigrants to arrive, and you also have to set up services for them to make 
 sure their kept fed, safe, and happy. Emperor's three most major changes are its multiplayer, heroes, 
 and feng shui. The multiplayer simply allows 2 people to build cities and trade/fight each other, 
 but that's all it has special about it really. Feng shui essentially forces you to build your city 
 in a bit more of an organized manner, lest you upset the feng shui. You can still build anywhere, 
 but the feng shui system discourages putting certain buildings in certain locations. But in all 
 reality, the feng shui rarely becomes a real problem as long as you know what your doing.
  
  Emperor's heroes are brand new in that they are important individuals, gods essentially, that 
 you must keep pleased. If you can make them happy enough- they'll eventually come visit your city 
 and grant you special benefits. The catch however is that you must directly control these heroes 
 like your military units, and this can get tedious with the heroes who really need to move around 
 to spread their benefits. That, and your city doesn't make offerings automatically like it did 
 in Zeus when you were honoring the gods, you must order the offerings manually, so don't you dare 
 forget! Also, offerings are the only thing that keeps them happy unlike in previous city-builders, 
 temples alone won't help you a bit! This would of been much more manageable if the heroes controlled 
 themselves.
  
  Emperor also forces you to do combat a lot more often than any of the previous city-building games 
 ever have. Training an army in Emperor works exactly the same as it did in Caesar 3, you build 
 forts and provide weapons and training- and the soldiers will eventually form up at the forts for 
 you. You can train basic infantry, crossbowmen, calvary/chariots (Depending on time period) , and 
 catapults. And yes, combat works exactly the same as it always has since Caesar 3, so its not very 
 fun. The fact that several of Emperor's campaigns force you to fight constantly will undoubtedly 
 get on some people's nerves.
  
  Graphically, Emperor is quite fresh looking, even though it is in 2D. The game does have some great 
 looking textures, buildings, and civilians. Sound wise, the game is similar to previous the city-builders, 
 but it just doesn't quite sound as satisfying as Zeus did, especially with its voice acting, though 
 the voice acting provided here is still good.
  
  Ultimately, Emperor is a sudden lash backwards for Impressions city-building series. It hangs on 
 to a few too many old traditions, and changes a few of Zeus' greater features for the worse. While 
 the game will undoubtedly still be enjoyable for newcomers to Impressions' city builders, veterans 
 will probably be disappointed with Emperor. Especially if you've been spoiled by better city-builders 
 like Zeus.
  
  Pros: Good old Formula still works. Fresh looking 2D graphics.
  
  Cons: Heroes are tedious all around. Combat occurs too often.
  
  Recommendable for: Newcomers 
 to Impressions' city-builders. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandyqbg
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 10, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  History lovers out there should take a peek at this game. It is an interesting game if you wanna 
 sit in front of your PC for hours on the end without having to sit at the edge of your seat.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Nothing to say much on this subject. It's bright a'right, but don't expect 
 that reality factor that you get in today's games. Remember it is an old game. The graphics is 
 good enough for the game and saves some strain on your eyes. Thanks to this it works quite well 
 on even the lower end machines.
  
  SOUND:
  
  The sound doesn't catch your attention, but is soothing enough unlike those intense scores which 
 keeps the muscles tense. The background music is good ol' Chinese. The in-game sounds are... well, 
 you can't actually give any strong comment on that.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  There's nothing original here, compared to most other city-building series. It's all about building 
 the city from scratch and managing its various aspects like Finance, Millitary, Religion, Trade, 
 etc. Your reign is supreme here. is the other only game in the series that I have extensively played.) , 
 it has some notable improvements. For example, the millitary interface is better, in the way that 
 you can order your army to attack other cities and so on. Still it still has a long way to go if 
 it can be even comparable to some basic war RTS games. The trade is another place where improvements 
 are seen. Here, you can fix prices on your end of the trade for specific goods. The walkers AI 
 has also been upgraded. Instead of taking goods to the nearest storage centre, they are taken to 
 the place where they are most needed.
  
  MISCELLANEOUS:
  
  The Multiplayer is very notable component of Emperor. It allows you to go on individual quests 
 or you could join hands with another player on this. As with most other games multiplayer is a 
 strong sweetener. It always gives you the satisfaction that you are playing against a human player 
 and not some dumb AI. The game interface is also more attractive than most of its predecessors.
 
  
  THE FINAL VERDICT:
  
  An old game, it is still engaging and fun. You hardly notice the time fly by. But this is strictly 
 for lovers of this genre and all those who love going by their analytic and planning skills than 
 their instinct. All those who love those fast-faced, action-packed and adrenaline-pumping games 
 better stay as far away as possible from this. It is NOT for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I really liked this game and for an early city simulation game, this one was great!
  
  Graphics: The graphics are built off of a 2D engine but you can rotate the camera so it looks like 
 3D (don't get confused) . the games graphics are solid and tight, not really fluent which i can't 
 blame since it's... old, but since it is not 'fluent' like other games, their are no framerate problems, 
 and a pretty good looking game to play and to watch.
  
  Sound: Actually sound Chinese and like every city simulation game, you click a building and it 
 makes a sound. However, the game's music to me wasn't really relaxing, kinda gave me a headache.
 
  
  Gameplay: Now this is kinda new even to this day, a lot of the city simulation games are just like 
 this "you are the mayor and you run the city, you have to worry about Transportation, Safety, Education, 
 Economy/Business, Recreation, Industry, and everything else. Well Emperor changes that, your business/industry 
 is based down to few building choices such as smelting factories, clay making, and stuff like that 
 or housing your crops not a big selection that you see now a days, and of course you can trade 
 with other cities, but since it's back in the...'old' days you can go to war with other cities, 
 this feature i found was unique and not only did safety include 'Watchtowers' but also walls and 
 armies to protect your precious city and your people.
  
  The game also adds another unique feature, sacrificing materials to a certain mythical creature/god. 
 Every month or so you must sacrifice some of your precious resources to keeps the gods happy or 
 if you don't they can unleash massive destruction across your city, so it's best to just keep'em 
 happy.
  
  I highly doubt you can still found this game, but I found for $5.00 at EB Games, and if you ever 
 find it be sure to pick it up, because once it's gone, it's gone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  I know I'm reviewing a very 'old' game, but I could not stop thinking about this very old game 
 where I spent countless hours being stuck to the chair playing: Emperor- Rise of the Middle Kingdom 
 .
  
  I'll make this one short since no one wants to read about a forgotten game from about 4 years ago 
 for too long.......
  
  Background: You are emperor in ancient China. The game consists of you building a city and leading 
 your people and citizens to prosperity with trade, income, housing, farming, and government as 
 well as the ability to conquer other nearby cities and other cool stuff to make things 'happen'. 
 Basically, it has everything a city-buliding game should have.
  
  Positives:
  
  1) Quite addictive. And I'm not joking at all. You build and you build, and you'll find out soon 
 enough that you JUST HAVE TO finish building and decorating your city or doing something else. 
 There's so much to do such as 'should I build a farm here?', 'Are there enough roads?'. You're 
 in control and you can rule for virtually eternity. Throughout your city, people will be walking 
 around doing their duties. There are plenty of individuals out there, ranging from entertainers, 
 priests, medicine folks, soldiers, traders, farmers etc.. Each one must do their jobs to help build 
 your city to the top. You, as Emperor, can set taxes, conquer neighboring cities and build build 
 build.
  
  Negatives:
  
  1) Graphics aren't that amazing, yet I should say there are still good, particularly where the 
 buildings and citizens roam around. It isn't too choppy. Most of the time though, you'll find you 
 just don't care about how it looks. 2) Gameplay/Micro-management. This should NOT be such a big 
 deal, as most games at one point or another end up being 'repetitive'. 'Emperor..' is like any 
 other city-building game, you just have to keep on building and can't expect too much, yet what 
 keeps this game from falling apart is it's content and your goals as emperor (that is... to build) .
 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Surprisingly good, even today. If you're into city-building and are bored with the newer games 
 out there, it won't hurt to try and find this one. Won't cost much and is still a worthy 'sit-down 
 and click' game. Graphics requirements are pretty low and I bet you can run it fine (on max) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sith_slayer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 30, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  If u're expecting Emperor to be as jolly and colourful as Zeus, then you're in for a bit of a let 
 down. By itself, emperor is a good game, if only it has ben released between Pharaoh and Zeus. 
 But after having all the fun I had in Zeus with Heroes and Gods and Home Cities, its kinda boring 
 to backtrack to Building a new city every mission. To be fair, there are a few missions where u 
 get to expand an city u already built but these are few and far between. Unlike in zeus the monuments 
 which take you "years" to complete, have no benefits except satisfying a mission goal. I loved 
 it that u could build a sanctuary that had real benfits to your city. But here its back to square 
 one with monuments. 
  Bottom line, If u like pure city building with few distractions and side-tracks then this is the 
 game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lagmadosh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 28, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  Emperor is much like Sim City. Build and watch, and then build a little more. It is set in old 
 China, where religion and harmony play big roles. It is used an age-like system, but you can't 
 advance through the ages like in Age of Empires or Empire Earth. Instead you choose the age before 
 you begin the game. 
  
  You begin the game on a map, not necessarily empty, but there are no people living there. The maps 
 are filled with forests, rivers, hills, and animals, and your task is to build a city there. This 
 is done by making dwellings, and then people visibly move in and start to work. Then you have to 
 build farms, lumber camps, weaponsmiths, markets, furnaces, and many other buildings to make a 
 perfect city.
  
  This is done pretty good, and it is very satisfying to see your city grow, both in size and in 
 wealth. Nothing is like having mills filled with food, warehouses stuffed with expensive goods, 
 and have working people in the streets all the time.
  
  But there are some downsides with this game also. Like in the Sim City games, the houses may devolve. 
 I think it is rather silly to "devolve" houses because there aren't enough ceramics, or because 
 the residents have no access to Buddhist shrines. It is just too unrealistic. And the battles are 
 a sad thing to watch. Poor graphics on the fighting, and arrows hitting several meters from their 
 target killing them. And you have hardly any control of what your soldiers are doing. You just 
 have to watch -and hope.
  
  When you have mastered the game, when you know perfectly when you should build which buildings 
 and know how to make the living areas perfect, it may get quite boring. Because the game really 
 has no clear "goal" other than getting higher population or mastering the game on more difficult 
 levels. You'll find yourself get the same game each time you play.
  
  But this game has re-playing potential. When you are done with it and start playing something else, 
 you can wait some months, and then you can start playing this game with almost as much addiction 
 as when you played it for the first time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Science2000luke
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 11, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Who could have thought that being an Emperor and guiding your subjects to prosperity could be so 
 difficult? Simply feeding, healing, sheltering and entertaining one person may be simple, but endowing 
 an entire populace with such necessities is a nerve-wrecking task. No wonder countless rulers have 
 fallen prey to their own shortcomings.
  
  After playing and replaying the game for the first week, I have been stumbled by its difficulty 
 and have thought that glorified rulers must have been competent people indeed. However, as time 
 passed (~2 weeks) , the games difficulty sank as I became better at it. Then I realized how great 
 the value of a game is that immerses you amid reality -- something that is not afraid to show you 
 how truly challenging it is to be a member of the elite.
  
  The sound and graphics played their part as well in keeping my eyes glued to the screen, but it 
 wasthe depth of the game that kept me commanding each unit in an attempt to satisfy as many people 
 in my small ancient Chinese community as possible. As for the gameplay, basic keyboard and mouse 
 controls were of useful as in other games, but the many commands in one's disposal were required 
 to be memorized, hence, initial gameplay was hindered by having to look back at the manual to see 
 what key does a certain command.
  
  Anyhow, because Emperor is a micromanagement game that ties different aspects of human society 
 with detail uncommon in any other games, it is an artistic representation of a fun, great learning 
 experience. If anyone would be interested in playing this game, don't delay -- the benefits of experiencing 
 human history as a ruler is sure to fill your heart with ambition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahsanthekiller
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2006 1:48 am PT
Review:  If you have played "Zeus" or "Pharaoh" you are already familiar with the basics of the "Emperor." 
 In this city building sim, you'll build industries, farm, trade, and compete against other cities. 
 You'll also have to pay homage to Gods to keep them happy. They'll take anything from silk to rice. 
 You'll be able to easily tell the difference between difficulty levels in the missions. If you 
 like a challenge, you'll love the hardest level. Because gameplay is similar to previous games 
 in the series, you may want to consider passing on this game, unless you are craving more city 
 building fun. "Emperor Rise of the Middle Kingdom" is a must have for city building fans, because 
 it is packed with hundreds of hours of play.
  I think the game is best because of the following sentences : 
  
  Pros :
  * online play
 
  * engaging gameplay
  * open play & missions
  
  Cons :
  * gameplay similar to previous sims in series
  * difficult combat interface
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 ; )
  Ahsan The Killer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmtzrdz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 16, 2005 7:53 pm PT
Review:  It's a game that's really hard not to admire the effort and beauty of. It tries hard, it really 
 does, and boy did it deliver.
  Unlike most strategy games it is more along the lines of creating a magnificent healthy city and 
 to expand your empire and power, by forming alliance and trade with neighbouring cities.
  
  You start off with a vast open space of land and a whole load of cash, you build a road and create 
 houses, houses will soon be filled and people will automatically arrive once houses have been built, 
 once you have a good population, you build wells to supply the city with water, you build farming 
 houses and mills to grow and store crops, you build markets to disperse the food throughout the 
 city. You build a tax office to collect taxes but first need to produce paper to supply the offices.
 
  It works just like real life, and you could waste hours playing this none stop as it is a never 
 ending game.
  The detail, art and environment is truly a site to behold and just shows you the spectacular beauty 
 of a Chinese country side.
  Every time you click on a different building for statistics or changes pleasing sounds that are 
 suited to the building would be heard, clicking on a loggers hut would play the sound of sawing 
 and wood being cut, clicking on a market plays the sounds of people giving orders or exchanging 
 money. All of it hits the spot perfectly.
  The music plays traditional Chinese instruments and is highly relaxing and catchy.
  All other 
 neighbour cities are off map though and can only be interacted through a country map. Say for example, 
 you want to request money or food, you click on the map of China and click on the city you want 
 to make the request from and after a 10 min wait, the message should be delivered.
  On the down side the battles on this game are IMMENSELY poor and a huge let down, if being invaded, 
 enemy troops appear on your map and begin attacking anything they see, while in a battle you cannot 
 command troops or interact with them in any way but you can only sit back, watch and hope that 
 your army will win, even that's poor for even if you have a fit and large army, their is a 75% 
 chance they'll become demoralized and flee the fight, and you can't do a thing about it. If on 
 the other hand you want to invade a city, you just assign the troops and send them off only hoping 
 that they will be successful, which most of the time, they aren't.
  You can only build 2 forts out of 4 which include cavalry, archers, infantry and catapults
  but 
 there is even a limit to the amount that you can build, like 6 Calvary, and 12 archers and that's 
 it.
  though battles is it's weak... sorry, AWFUL point, the main aim of the game is basically Sim City 
 similar. Which I think is a good thing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jayhawk
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 10, 2004 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Emperor is the latest and possibly last game in the City Builder Series, which started with Impression's 
 Caesar, set in the time of the Roman Empire. Emperor, however, was not made by Impressions, but 
 rather by BreakAway, who were also responsible for the Pharaoh expansion Cleopatra. 
  
  Like it's predecessors Emperor follows the history of a famous Empire, in this case the Chines 
 one, from it's start in the very early Bronze Age up to the time where Kubilai Khan took over the 
 empire. As with the other true City Builder games, you will start out small, learning the use of 
 the various buildings and resources at your disposal. The tutorial is pretty clear and contains 
 a lot of extra information that will help you come to grips with the wealth of detail presented 
 in the game. 
  
  Cities are built by carefully placing housing, utility buildings, farms and industry, with each 
 level of housing (houses evolve as they get more available resources, such as hemp, ceramics and 
 tea) needing certain types of food, goods and services. As each scenario starts you will be presented 
 with a brief introduction and the mission goals. These range from producing X number of goods of 
 type Y, having X number of people living in Y type housing, conquering city Z and/or having one 
 or more ancestral heroes roam your cities streets. Apart from these mundane goals, some missions 
 will also require you to build monuments, such as a stretch of the Great Wall or the Ch'in Tomb.
 
  
  The various scenarios have been sub-dived into several campaigns, each set during a period of Chinese 
 history, such as Shang, Han and Tang. As you move forward through history, new resources become 
 available and scenarios slowly get more challenging. 
  
  Military wise, the game is like the other City Builder games too, but with more different unit 
 types, such as archers, hor****, chariots and, something new, siege engines. These are more than 
 useful when you decide to send your troops across the world map to subdue a nearby city and force 
 it into vassal state. Beware though, if you treat your new vassal too harsh, you will have a revolt 
 on your hands, and can forget about receiving tribute while it lasts.
  
  The game takes a Zeus like look at religion and if you manage to keep the ancestral heroes and 
 gods happy they might drop in for a visit and help you out blessing buildings, catching animals 
 (for the Imperial Palace) or conquer enemies.
  
  The graphics of the game are pretty impressive and allow you to create wonderful looking Chinese 
 cities. Some of the buildings have animations showing they are active, and these are done with 
 some great tongue in cheek humour. More humour can be found in the responses of your citizens and 
 in their names. BreakAway even managed to put some of their beta-testers, with slightly adapted 
 names, into the game. Apart from the voice acting there lots of background noises and some very 
 good music. 
  
  The game runs smoothly and bug free, at various resolutions and can be played at various levels 
 of difficulty, which mostly mean differences in pricing and in how quickly your people will get 
 upset when you mistreat them. New for a City Builder game is the fact that Emperor supports multi-player 
 games. These are either games where you compete in trying to get the scenario goals done quicker 
 than your competitor, or co-op games, where you build monuments such as the Grand Canal or the 
 Great Wall. While it takes some getting used to, it's a very nice concept, but games can take a 
 very longtime to finish.
  
  All in all, if you liked games like Pharaoh and Zeus, you can't do much better than adding Emperor 
 to your collection. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
