-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Emperor: Battle for Dune
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/emperorbattlefordune/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 14, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.2, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,143 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Westwood Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Jun 12, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
In borrowing conventions from earlier games, Westwood managed to make its latest project interesting 
 enough and enjoyable enough to be worthwhile for virtually anyone who's ever liked another game 
 of its type. 

 Emperor: Battle for Dune is the latest in Westwood Studios' long line of real-time strategy games 
 and the spiritual successor to its early '90s game Dune II, which single-handedly defined the genre. 
 Like Dune II, Emperor is based upon the famous science fiction universe found in the Dune novels 
 by Frank Herbert and in the 1984 movie by David Lynch. As in its predecessor, Emperor lets you 
 assume command over the military forces of any of three distinct factions that are fighting to 
 gain ownership of the desert planet Arrakis and its invaluable resources. The game emphasizes fast, 
 intense skirmishes over complicated tactical decision-making, and it features an impressive 3D 
 graphics engine that really helps bring the fiction of the game to life. Emperor also gives you 
 a lot of options and a lot of replay value, between its three single-player campaigns, its skirmish 
 mode, and its robust multiplayer features.           The battles in Emperor are intense and visually 
 stunning.    

  Emperor may be Westwood's first fully 3D real-time strategy game, but fundamentally, it plays much 
 like its predecessors. That is, you view the action from above the battlefield and typically must 
 establish a base of operations and then start producing a variety of units with which to destroy 
 all of the enemy's forces and defend against any retaliation in the process. To fund your military 
 efforts, you'll need to earn money -- specifically, by harvesting and processing the invaluable chemical 
 known as the spice Melange. An in-game tutorial quickly explains all this. Actually, unlike in 
 most conventional real-time strategy games, the resource-gathering process in Emperor is fully 
 automated. You can even upgrade refineries to support up to two additional harvesting units so 
 that a single refinery can do the work of three. Flying carryall vehicles automatically ferry harvesters 
 to and from spice fields, and should one of your harvesters or carryalls fall under attack and 
 be destroyed, you'll get a limited number of replacements for free. This system works well -- it's 
 a relief to not have to micromanage your economy and to be able to concentrate on fielding a strong 
 military instead. Of course, though your harvesters will do their jobs autonomously, they'll still 
 depend on you to protect them.   

  As in most real-time strategy games, each mission in Emperor begins with the battlefield being 
 almost completely shrouded save for the area around your starting units. Like in the Command &amp; 
 Conquer series, once you move units through the shroud, the shroud disappears for the duration 
 of the battle. In skirmish mode and multiplayer mode, Emperor does let you toggle a true fog-of-war 
 option (similar to other RTS games) that requires you to maintain line of sight, which will certainly 
 affect your strategy in battle. Either way, reconnaissance in Emperor is simple: Each of the three 
 playable factions has access to a cheap, defenseless scout unit that can clear the map quickly 
 and easily. Therefore, as with the resource gathering, scouting in Emperor is made as simple as 
 possible so as to let you concentrate on combat.   

  The variety of units found in Emperor isn't exhaustive, but it's diverse and entertaining. Aside 
 from a few universal types of units such as harvesters and scouts, each of the three playable factions 
 has completely different military forces. The units of the honorable House Atreides are direct 
 and imposing, and most effective at long range. The wicked House Harkonnen's units are extremely 
 deadly but require good tactics for best results, as most of its units can be readily countered 
 by troops they're not specifically designed to destroy. The forces of the mercenary House Ordos 
 are physically weaker but also perhaps the most versatile. They're fast and equipped with regenerating 
 energy shields that protect them from initial damage -- yet Ordos units suffer noticeably if their 
 shields are breached. Though the units across all three sides are different, the three sides' structures 
 are analogous. So, depending on which House you're controlling, you'll have to use a different 
 strategy in battle, but setting up base infrastructure and gaining access to more-powerful technologies 
 will be the same straightforward process regardless.           The game features a good variety 
 of detailed, interesting units.    

  Emperor actually features five ancillary factions in addition to the primary three, and you can 
 select any two of these as allies prior to multiplayer matches or skirmish battles. You may also 
 gain the favor of a couple of them during any of the game's three campaigns. In practice, an alliance 
 with one of these gives you access to an exclusive production facility, which in turn lets you 
 produce two additional units. Some of these are quite powerful and collectively lend even more 
 diversity to the battles in the game. The extra factions include the Fremen, native nomadic warriors 
 of Arrakis; the Sardaukar, fanatical soldiers who fight in the name of their emperor; House Ix, 
 a sect devoted to advanced technology; House Tleilaxu, renegade masters of genetic manipulation; 
 and the Spacing Guild, who monopolize space travel in the known universe.   

  A lot of the units in Emperor are cleverly designed, aesthetically appealing, and memorable. In 
 spite of this, you'll likely find that your strategy in battle focuses heavily on certain units 
 and all but neglects certain others, either because they seem too overpriced or too underpowered. 
 Part of the reason is because your tactical options in Emperor are fairly limited, most notably 
 in that you can't easily assemble your units into formations. Groups of units also have trouble 
 maneuvering around each other in close proximity. They often won't be able to get around one another, 
 and when attacking, they'll move toward their target in a disorganized mass -- you'll invariably 
 lose your front line to defensive fire just because there's no good way to send in your forces. 
 Aside from the lack of formations, Emperor doesn't have many options for determining unit behavior. 
 Units such as the Harkonnen buzzsaw, which are clearly designed to overrun enemy infantry, are 
 fundamentally less useful because they won't overrun infantry on their own. The various units in 
 Emperor do a fine job of shooting at enemy passersby, but when a situation calls for anything subtler, 
 you'll always have to take direct control yourself. Finally, some of the smaller infantry units 
 in Emperor can be very difficult to distinguish from each other, let alone pick from out of a crowd. 
 At least the game's 3D camera control is simple and intuitive; you have limited ability to zoom 
 in with the mousewheel, and you can also rotate your view as necessary.    

 In addition to these few issues with the control and balance of the game, the nonlinear campaigns 
 in Emperor also lack polish. The three different campaigns are open-ended in that you usually get 
 a choice of which region of Arrakis you wish to attack next. Depending on some of your choices, 
 different events may transpire. For instance, you might help the Sardaukar early on and gain their 
 trust through the remainder of the campaign. However, by and large, the nonlinear campaigns are 
 pretty shallow. Some missions are noticeably scripted, but toward the middle and the end of the 
 campaign, you can tell that the game is trying to pass off randomly generated skirmishes as true 
 campaign missions. The mission briefings will be vague, and the results of your victory seem inconsequential. 
 The computer likely won't provide much of a challenge either, as its predictable attacks often 
 can be readily anticipated and thwarted even at the hardest of the game's three difficulty settings. 
 In turn, the lavishly produced full-motion video sequences that reveal the plot of the game from 
 each House's perspective will seem to fall away toward the end of Emperor's campaigns. Early on, 
 you'll probably enjoy these video sequences, starring recognizable actors such as Star Trek's Michael 
 Dorn as the Atreides duke, and weird character actor Vincent Schiavelli as the Harkonnen advisor. 
 The acting performances in Emperor are more self-consciously forced than in the David Lynch film, 
 but they share a similarly over-the-top sensibility. As the campaigns go on, and you realize the 
 video sequences are becoming less frequent, you'll start to miss them and you'll realize that there's 
 not much point in letting the campaigns drag, since certain victory objectives will be clearly 
 in sight. Besides, you'll find that the promising-looking strategic layer in between campaign missions -- a 
 turn-based, color-coded world map reminiscent of Risk -- is mostly just for show.           Full-motion 
 video cutscenes are used to tell the story.    

  As far as the show's concerned, Emperor: Battle for Dune looks outstanding. The battle for Arrakis 
 is impressively recreated in stunning 3D, inspired by the baroque visual design of the Lynch film. 
 The various units often have a retro sci-fi look about them and feature moving parts, headlights, 
 and other fine details. The environments are filled with colorful rock outcroppings, long shadows, 
 remains of previous battles, and even some natural phenomena, such as gigantic sandstorms -- and 
 gigantic sand worms, which will occasionally rise up to devour legions of units, regardless of 
 whom they belong to. Besides the setting of Arrakis, Emperor also recreates the three homeworlds 
 of the game's main factions. Their inclusion adds a great touch of variety and will certainly make 
 the game even more appealing to fans of the Dune universe. The audio in Emperor is also excellent 
 for the most part. The three primary factions have their own unique themes, which are reminiscent 
 of either the great musical score found in the original Dune II or the great musical score found 
 in the 1984 feature film. Also, each unit in Emperor has its own unique set of quips that it'll 
 speak in response to your orders, and though they can get repetitive, most are nonetheless very 
 well done and really help make each unit seem more alive.   

  Emperor: Battle for Dune does have a few technical issues, most of which are related to the fact 
 that the game demands a powerful system for optimal performance. Loading times before missions 
 can be quite lengthy on midrange or even higher-end machines; and with all graphical options enabled, 
 the game will bog down noticeably when a lot of action is afoot, even on very fast computers. Fortunately, 
 the game looks quite good even with the graphical detail at a minimum, and you can individually 
 tweak different graphical options and also adjust the overall speed of the gameplay to best suit 
 your system.           Emperor draws much more from its source material than Dune II did.    

 
  Like Westwood's other recent real-time strategy games, Emperor includes the free, fully integrated 
 Westwood Online player-matching service, which promises to easily let you find plenty of willing 
 competition. Online play is quite smooth, and the brisk pacing of the combat makes multiplayer 
 matches a lot of fun. The quick-match option is especially convenient: It automatically finds you 
 an online opponent of roughly similar experience and throws the two of you into a match, with both 
 of your bases already established. Emperor supports online skirmishes with up to four human players 
 and network matches with up to eight players, and while the game doesn't ship with a scenario-editing 
 utility, it does include a rather large variety of different maps -- and it even gives you the unusual 
 option to play through the three campaigns cooperatively online.   

  All together, Emperor: Battle for Dune is a well designed and visually impressive real-time strategy 
 game that promises many hours of fast-paced battles in both its single-player and multiplayer modes. 
 It'll be especially appealing to fans of the source material that inspired the game, including 
 the film, the novels, and Westwood's own Dune II. Fans of any of these will find that Emperor actually 
 takes its science fiction premise much further than the original Dune II did, even if it lacks 
 that game's innovation. That is, players expecting a brand-new revision of real-time strategy conventions 
 won't find it in Emperor. Despite the game's many interesting attempts to streamline and simplify 
 a lot of the genre's more cumbersome conventions, it ultimately still plays a lot like other real-time 
 strategy games by Westwood Studios and other developers. Then again, its similarity to its predecessors 
 is essential to the success of Emperor: Battle for Dune: In borrowing conventions from earlier 
 games, Westwood managed to make its latest project interesting enough and enjoyable enough to be 
 worthwhile for virtually anyone who's ever liked another game of its type.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Waldemar014
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  As a longtime fan of the series, i say, WE NEED MORE GAMES LIKE THIS! better then all other dunes! 
 there were rumors of new movie in 2010 but 'm not sure if it's true. but this is an AWESOME GAME! 
 one of the best games i wish they would make new one. the emperor is awesome he owns!!! the an awesome 
 way to experience the book (s) the game makes more sense if you read books MORE SPICE!!!! MORE SPICE!!!! MORE 
 SPICE!!!! MORE SPICE!!!! MORE SPICE!!!! MORE SPICE!!!! yup spice is awesome, dune for ever
  
  SPPIZZEE UVER ALLES!!!
  
  
  Other people: I dont understand those books. Why is everyone 
 a psychopathic killer, many of whom have off'd their first person when they were a toddler?
  
  What in the does the spice have to do with worms? What the balls is a sand trout? Why in the 
 wasnt baron Harkonan as cool as he was in the movie? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegothicity
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  This was a very good game. Although I find the last level a little bit difficult, that's just me. 
 Although if you're going to be playing as harkonnen, there comes a point where you get to choose 
 the really hard side, or the really easy side... I dare you to take the hard side. (Gunseng = hard 
 Copec = Easy) Personally I like the acting used in the cutscenes. it's been ages since I've played 
 any game that has actual actors used in the game that weren't voicing something. (I don't count 
 Need For Speed Most Wanted.) Gunseng is my personal favorite character, but if I had to choose 
 best looking, I'd definitely pick the mentat from house Ordos. Still, if you don't really like 
 Real Time Strategy games, this game is worth reconsidering. Smooth game-play with a player changeable 
 pace, nicely used models, and moderately used AI systems... Except for the occasional rediculous 
 story-line of a mission or two, and the occasional sandstorm stealing your poor little fremen, 
 and sardukaur away. (but that's a fun little addin too if you want to just mess around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ad_calalo
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  The Westwood company has shut down (too bad it shut down) because the staff of Westwood has retired 
 and EA came in and took over Westwood. Emperor: Battle for Dune is my personal favorites because 
 the graphics, sound, gameplay, and the powerful units that makes this game is so special to RTS 
 lovers out there. The game is the best game I've ever played, the 3 side although there are only 
 few sides the units are all powerful it is also great in multiplayer where you battle against each 
 other, atraides is my favorites side for this game, that I spent playing for hours. So I recommend 
 this amazing game to RTS games lovers to play this. ATRAIDES ROCKS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wargrudge
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  Though it does get slightly repetetive, the game play in Emperor: Battle for Dune is still superb 
 years after its release. At time the campaign seems to bog down slightly, but that is quickly overcome 
 by the multiplayer modes built in the game. Online, the game runs smoothly. And the skirmish mode 
 makes continual playing of this game above average. The graphics are high-end for this game being 
 not the most recent in terms of newer RTS games, and there are some notable characters that you 
 can catch a glimpse of during the mission briefings. One of the better features that set this game 
 apart from others was the reinforcements you receive during a battle. These units can be used to 
 shore up defenses, or slowly establish an attack force without having to divert resources to do 
 so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John-Crighto
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  I have been searching for the game for 4 yrs and found it 3 weeks ago. THIS GAME ROCKS!!!! then 
 again, most Westwood games r, I've played great games.... but... mmmmmm..... this one reallly really 
 really takes the cake! She's a buit. I love her. tho she is one of the most difficult games i ever 
 played... i stillm love her. I'd try it, all of u who haven't played it yet. This game is good, 
 best even. The graphics r good, everything is superb, better than games made nowadays. u can see 
 my stuff below.
  Have fun, and if i remeber my online account, i'll c u there and I K U A!!! lol {maybe that's a 
 bit of an exageration} lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 11, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  A great strategy game, filled with loads of laughs. In skirmish, you can have the ability to control 
 your main army, and two little raiding force type armies; you can have a barrel of laughs. You 
 can play as three different houses in the main campaign. The campaign is filled with great little 
 cut-scenes, and you can perform all types of fun bonus objectives, such as sabotaging an enemys 
 fuel camp, and energy supplies. During skirmishes, you can play as one of the main three houses, 
 and two other armies, with specialised troops. These troops abilities vary form faction to faction, 
 they can ride the dune worms, or replicate themselves using enemy troops. Also, the environment 
 is interactive to an extent, with sand worms, and sand tornados appearing from anywhere, at any 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fuseking
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 13, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of the Dune series books. Never relized there was a game plus two older ones. 
 Saw it at best buy and I was like "sweet!"
  
  I am used to red alert and others like it so was not used to the different way of playing the game. 
 You could pick the terriotory and each choice would effect who would be your allies. You could 
 ally with the fremen a nomadic desert people who could summon the awsome worms. Or the IX a technology 
 race that could provide projectors and also camflauged bombs to invade a base. Lastly were the 
 theylix and I never did manage to allie with them. They provided parsites and zombie.
  
  This game was a great game each race had a complety different feel which made it unique. If you 
 are looking for a classic game here it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luna7fox
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 7, 2006 4:05 am PT
Review:  i have played and adored the original dune 2 since its release. i spent many hours toiling away 
 and even went to the stage of editing game files (you can actually control sandworms!) . so, i avoided 
 dune 2000 because i hear from everyone that its terrible. wait patiently and then here it is the 
 new 
  Dune. Emperor: Battle for Dune. i'm obviously very excited, i read reviews that say its pretty 
 good. so, i get it!
  
  Here's what I thought of it. First off, I love the cheesy, melodramatic acting in the cutscenes. 
 its great, and it fits perfectly. I love the archetypical house leaders. the oh so noble its sickening 
 duke achillus (anything at all like achilles?) , the maniacally hilarious EVIL baron (sound russian 
 anyone?) , and the faceless spineless speaker of the ordos. haha! great, i can't wait to begin!
 
  
  so then we get to the missions, and its looking pretty good. graphically, its superb. they've taken 
 all the best bits of dune and polished them up very nicely. units look great. although, i was a 
 little disappointed by the design of the devastator, harkonnen's most noteworthy unit. why does 
 it have 3 legs and such a ridiculous walk? it really detracts from its awesome might. surely a 
 standard mech would've looked much tougher. anyways ok, fine. apart from that i'm happy.
  
  so, i continue playing, at the second mission i cut the music. the sound is generally horrible. 
 the range of unit responses is cack. they each have maybe three different ones. "affirmative", 
 "moving out", ready". the 'helpful' voice is irritating. she's awfully slow to respond to whats 
 appening, making her generally a pointless accessory. 'spice harvester under attack' so i scroll 
 back and its already gone! splah. my initial excitement is waning.
  
  as i continue to play on i notice more and more problems. the AI for example is dire. the units 
 are some of the stupidest ever. they get in each others way, they take the most convoluted routes 
 to places. they are unable to move and fire at the same time, meaning you have to baby step them 
 about in order for them to survive any sort of attack or relocation. horrible. this is war? dumbarse 
 units plodding about. i forgave dune 2 for this because it was 1993, but i'm afraid there is no 
 longer that excuse available.
  
  this is where the whole game falls down. they havent added any new material and have only very 
 superficially improved the existing ones. the 'sub-factions' are essentially useless. why would 
 i care if the ix need my help, when all they give me are the lame duplicator tank and the silly 
 bomb spider? they can rot! also, didn't it bother you that you have to build every single other 
 structure to get the top level units, and they turn out useless anyway. every single structure 
 needs to be upgraded every time. surely once we've got the technology to build a unit once, we'd 
 have it as common knowledge, and cease to build and inferior factory? now the game is both annoying 
 me and greatly disappointing me.
  
  now for my major gripe. i was waiting for the sonic tank, my weapon of choice in dune 2 and it 
 comes along and they stink! they're useless. firstly, because their weapon goes through anything, 
 everything is harmed. this was also the case in dune 2, so it meant that you had to keep them away 
 from your base. their flaw was remedied in dune 2 in that sonic tanks couldnt harm each other, 
 making a sonic tank gang, a lethal combination. now, they die within two shots of their gun cos 
 theyre too stupid to get out of eachothers way. and the lack of any kind of formation feature renders 
 them utterly useless and if anything, a burden. this doesnt make any sense why a unit would have 
 such a big flaw. it means i've got the most useful and powerful unit (the minotaur) in level 3. 
 why bother continuing? you've peaked already. the only other useful unit is the mongoose because 
 it can fire at airborn units. so all i end up doing, out of necessity, is building hoards of minotaurs 
 and mongooses. how dull.
  
  gameplay - dross. it plays so much like dune 2, its ridiculous! come on! the only added feature 
 really is the multiple select. theres no formations. and new units are derivative, they have lame 
 gimmicky features that have no 
  value within the game. this means your armies consist of 2 different units at best. in this way, 
 its changed nothing from dune 2, and if anything, has actually de-volved. westwood, come on! you 
 created such brilliant rts' as 
  command and conquer, red alert, tiberian sun. what happened here? tactics are redundant because 
 you have to move your armies at such lame distances at a time or they'll get blown to pieces by 
 a couple of infantry stood nearby. you just want to get the mission over with to see which new 
 units you get and its some **** 'zombie' man that dies from the mere thought of voilence. what 
 happened here? how did this steaming pile get boxed up and released?
  
  i'll stick to the original, its not great, but its better than this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  You might want to say that this is ANOTHER Command and conquer installment, but this is not the 
 case. This is basically a new version of the original. It started with Dune 2, and this is the 
 next evolution stage. The game is phenomenal. the graphics are unreal, the music is fantastic, 
 and the AI is above average. The game has three story lines (one for each army) and the way it 
 evolves is well done. the game has a few sideline stories and the way you go around it all is well 
 managed.
  
  What do you want to be?
  
  The game also has a nice set of celebrities (Michael Dorn aka Worf) and other well known actors. 
 Westwood took out all stops with this game and it is still a wonderful game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arre_87
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 1, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  The first time I played this game I remember how impressed I was, not by the gameplay but by the 
 graphics. It was pure eye candy. The smooth details on every single unit and building made the 
 game to what it was back then. I'm not saying that the gameplay and the story is bad, but the graphics 
 definitely gave Emperor: Battle for Dune a huge plus. It is not connected to Red Alert or Tiberian 
 Sun in any way even though you felt that they've had some influence on this game. The sound effects 
 were fantastic and I had just bought a new stereo system which obviously affected my opinion. It 
 has been a couple of years since I last played the game so I can't really come up with something 
 else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingPro01
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 26, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  A great game, which has much depth. The campaigns are good, as well as the cinematics. A game rich 
 of gameplay and strategy.
  
  You choose to lead either The noble house Atreadies with leader duke Leto Atreadies, the evil house 
 Harkonnen with their leader Baron Vladamire Harkonnen or the incidious house Ordos with their leders 
 named the executrix, 5 beings speaking through one known as the Speaker. All different houses, all 
 different units, fighting for the spice malange on Arakis, and the universe.
  
  As well as the main three houses there are extra factions that you can choose to ally with, which 
 include the Fremen, native nomadic warriors of Arrakis; the Sardaukar, fanatical soldiers who fight 
 in the name of their emperor; House Ix, a sect devoted to advanced technology; House Tleilaxu, 
 renegade masters of genetic manipulation; and the Spacing Guild, who monopolize space travel in 
 the known universe.
  
  A great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holland01
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 25, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Emperor battle for dune is a 3D RTS game. The game take place in the future on the desert planet 
 Arrakis. On the planet there is a special substance The Spice Melange, it's have a great value. 
 they say in the game He how controls the spice, controls the univers. after the dead of teh emperor, 
 three houses where chosen to fight for the throne and the spice.
  
  Atreiders of the planet Caladan they are the basic team. for attack and defence.
  
  Harkonnen 
 of Guidi prime they are the brutals in the game if you want attack you must choose for the harkonnen.
 
  
  Ordos of the planet Draconis IV they are very good in defence with there mortars.
  
  The Graphics are very nice and the gameplay is superb. the maps are very big and beautifull. the 
 sound and voices of the troops are fantastic
  
  this is a great game a must have for every RTS fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedimastersam
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 2:02 am PT
Review:  Frank Herbert's epic novels have enlightened people all over the globe with his stories of a war, 
 a war that has been for only one thing in the whole universe that runs every thing. 
  
  Spice, the most precious substance in the galaxy. The only planet that has spice is Arrakis, the 
 desert, wind swept, arid planet home to the biggest and deadliest creature. 
  
  In this strategy game you will play as the new commander for one of the three houses of the laads'raad. 
 the noble house Atreadies with leader duke Leto Atreadies, the evil house Harkonnen with their 
 leader Baron Vladamire Harkonnen or the incidious house Ordos with their leders named the executrix, 
 5 beings speaking through one known as the Speaker.
  
  It is your duty to lead your hose to victory and control the universe.
  
  Whoever controls 
 the spice controls the universe............. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragenix
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 11, 2005 4:16 pm PT
Review:  To start off this game is about a world known as Arrakis. This planet is a desert wasteland, which 
 can just about support any form on life. Plagued by giant sandworms and multiple tornados this 
 barren land is a chalenge just to stand on. The reason this planet has been the cause of so much 
 bloodshed, is due to the planet's only natural resource, 'Spice'.
  As the story goes, the Emperor of House Corrino, the ruling house at that time has been assassinated 
 by the head Benidict Sister, in change of a faction of 'nuns' who can predict the furture by using 
 Spice. The Benidict Sisters have also teamed up with The Guild, the universe's main faction of 
 traders. They were giving the job of transporting Spice about for the Empire, they use the Spice 
 to fold space and travel get distances in short times.
  You have the choice of playing as House Atreides, led by the Duke, a noble and honourable house 
 were loyalty is strong. House Harkonnen, led by the Baron, a violent house were murder and betrayal 
 is the only way to go up the ranks. House Ordos, led by a council of rich business people, who 
 will do anything to have control of the Spice for financil purposes.
  After you pick what house you want to play as, you start your battling, throughout the game you 
 can get support from smaller houses, such as the fremen the natives of Arrakis, who have excellent 
 stealth snipers, and fedakins who can control the sandworms for short periods of time.
  
  Overall this game is fantastic, i have played it through 3 times and completed each house's campaign.
 
  It's a great buy and a must for you furture Commanders !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randar23rhenn
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 24, 2005 4:30 am PT
Review:  Emperor: Battle for Dune is a truly massive game, not unlike the source material from whence it 
 came. Massive campaigns, huge amounts of diverse factions, and tons of awesome weapons of war make 
 it a truly great game, but it is not without some flaws. 
  
  Gameplay: As I stated before, Dune has truly massive campaigns, you can play as House Atreides, 
 House Harkonnen, or House Ordos, all of which are massively different in style and story and take 
 a good 20 hours each campaign, just flying through. There are also several lesser houses you can 
 employ to do your will if you wish. 
  
  All these different houses make for a huge selection of weapons of war available to do your bidding. 
 Oddly enough, from the lowliest infantry unit to the greatest walker vehicle, you will never have 
 a unit that no longer has a use, every unit is useful throughout the game, and that is a truly 
 awesome aspect of the game.
  
  The main problem with the gameplay is that it lacks anything that you haven't done before. It is 
 just more of the same RTS gameplay: harvest resources, crank out troops, take more resource areas, 
 repeat. While this doesn't make it a bad game, it certainly is somewhat of a detriment not trying 
 anything new. Another flaw of the game is the fact that there are several truly unbalanced units 
 in the game. If you know the source material (as in the Dune books) , you would know it makes sense 
 for the units like Saudukar infantry to be incredibly powerful, but for an RTS game it just makes 
 the game tactically unsound to have an easily acquired unit be so incredibly powerful as it can 
 take out a vehicle easily with a few hits.
  
  These faults are not enough to break the game however, the superb campaign modes, with fairly awesome 
 storylines, and sheer amount of diversity in the weapons of war you can wield is a testiment to 
 greatness. 
  
  Graphics: Graphically impressive for its time, I would compare the graphics to looking much like 
 Warcraft 3 in terms of quality. Take that as you will.
  
  Sound: Emperor: Battle for Dune is really full of forgettable tunes and rather annoying sound effects... 
 there are a few okay music pieces, and the people doing the acting for the campaign are pretty 
 good... but it's still fair at best.
  
  Value: With such massive campaigns, diversity, etc, this game is a superb value for your money. 
 
  
  Tilt: It is a great game, but again, not without its balancing issues and flaws. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
