-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Emperor of Fading Suns
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/emperoroffadingsuns/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 25, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.5, 8.3 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 45 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SegaSoft
Developer: Holistic Design
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Feb 28, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Emperor of the Fading Suns is a good game with a major flaw. 

 Emperor of the Fading Suns does something that is getting increasingly hard to accomplish: It breathes 
 life into the stagnating and repetitive genre of space-conquest games. The game seemingly came 
 out of nowhere - burdened with a cumbersome name, a publisher with no reputation for this sort 
 of game, the worst ad campaign in recent memory (two ducklings and a cat sleeping in a basket... 
 you figure it out) , modest graphics, and a belated entry into an already over-crowded field. That 
 it has emerged as a strong contender speaks volumes for its fundamental gaming quality.  

 EFS wasn't produced in a vacuum. The creators are Holistic Design, who as Holistic Dudes created 
 some good computer games: Merchant Prince and Machiavelli (the same basic game) , Battles of Destiny, 
 and Hammer of the Gods. As paper game developers, they were central in creating White Wolf's major 
 properties: Vampire and Werewolf games, as well as a good collectable card game, Jyhad. Holistic 
 also designed an RPG world and system called Emperor of the Fading Suns, and it is in this rich 
 universe that EFS (the computer game) is set.  

 The world of EFS is a medieval science-fiction realm in the tradition of Warhammer 40K and Dune: 
 noble houses, warring factions, an avaricious mercantile caste, and a fearsome inquisition. As 
 a setting, it's already a cliche, but EFS spins it magically and makes it work. At the start of 
 the game, the emperor has mysteriously died, leaving a power vacuum that must be filled by one 
 of the major players. The goal is to use force, wealth, and diplomacy to get the other leaders 
 to elect you regent, and from there secure the throne as Emperor.  

 Unlike similar Civilization-style conquest games, EFS does not start on a blank map and force dozens 
 of game turns of exploration, expansion, and military build-up before you have an empire. Instead, 
 you begin with a small empire, a military force, wealth, and a general knowledge of the game universe. 
 Some of the maps of these planets have been lost, leaving you with only a vague sense of their 
 geography, while others are known to you.  

 Gameplay is broken down along familiar lines. There is research to be conducted in order to build 
 new units and get certain advantages. As with other traditional elements in EFS, however, there 
 is a twist: Technology proscribed by the inquisition may be researched, but could result in your 
 excommunication. These are deadly, often psi-based techs, and the ability to delve into the darker 
 areas of research is a great touch.   

 The main part of the game is played across a universe map and planetary maps. You can build a space 
 armada and explore hidden parts of the universe, then drop units (troops, engineers, spies, etc.) 
 on the planets and begin taking them over. Different buildings can be built or discovered on the 
 planet surface, and form one of the keys to EFS. Ruins (both alien and human) often hide special 
 relics with special powers, while the merchant league runs Agora (trading posts) and psi-lords 
 dwell in monasteries. The player may build elaborate cities of factories, churches, mines, farms, 
 chemical plants, palaces, and other structures, with a core group protected from orbital attack 
 by a shield. Buildings not only produce units, but also resources necessary for construction and 
 available for trade. The resource element of EFS can be quite complex, but is also badly explained 
 in the lean documentation - making the included ability to turn it off a helpful option.   

 A strong diplomacy option, which allows you to cajole, threaten, or form alliances with the other 
 leaders adds a good element of deviousness and politics to the mix to balance the trade and military 
 aspects. The result is a game, much like Machiavelli, in which shifting allegiances and the fortunes 
 of war make for an interesting mix. There's a lot going on here, with over a 100 units available 
 for production, complex planetary landscapes, intricate trade and production elements, and an over-arching 
 story of the noble houses and alien races.   

 The interface for controlling all this is acceptable if not outstanding, with some features taking 
 more mouse-clicks than they should, and the graphics throughout are fine enough for the task. Several 
 gameplay bugs have already been fixed in a patch that is now available, but some smaller ones still 
 remain. There does, however, remain a major sticking point with EFS, and one that, until fixed, 
 will keep it from being a success: The AI has no teeth. Difficulty is scaled by the extra number 
 of trait bonuses given to the opposing houses, but no amount of trait boosting can make any of 
 the noble houses act aggressively. In the cutthroat environment of EFS, these opponents should 
 be a constant threat. Instead they twiddle their thumbs and bow easily to your will, ultimately 
 removing a lot of enjoyment from the game. An e-mail head-to-head option is time-consuming and 
 hardly a good solution to this, and online or net play would have helped immensely.   

 Emperor of the Fading Suns is a good game with a major flaw. It is simply too rich and well done 
 to dismiss casually, but without a fix to the limp AI, the challenge for gamers will be minimal. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Nephallim
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, and having very little to do with this review, a nitpick:
  Holistic Designs was not "central" to developing White Wolf products, the individuals who later 
 formed Holistic Designs were.
  
  In direct regards to McDonald's 1997 review, I don't believe it is at all fair. The scores for 
 Graphics and Sound are rated at 5 but no mention of either comes up in the review itself to explain 
 why they were judged to be mediocre. The best we get are two words, "modest graphics". As memory 
 serves the graphics, while nothing to rave about, were more than acceptible and comparable to games 
 of the time and the sound was actually quite good. As one of the earlier reviewers mentions, the 
 music is varied and you could actually play the audio by itself should the desire strike you. Of 
 course, the first reviewer claims that there was no music... which is quite wrong...
  
  I also don't remember the AI being a push-over as McDonald seems to have experienced and the statement 
 that nothing could make them act aggressively is completely false in my experience. While not astonishingly 
 difficult, the AI did not just sit idly while you conquered the galaxy.
  
  The only real flaw of the game was its complexity. There was a LOT to do and consider in taking 
 your turns, as to be expected from the kinds of hex-based empire simulations that are still played 
 on tabletops around the world today and which EFS is entirely based upon. It was not a game that 
 you just sat down and were good at.
  
  McDonald proves incompetent in calling the emailed multiplayer option "hardly a good solution" 
 in favor of online or net play. For starters, we're talking 1997 here. Not every company could 
 afford to host persistant servers for their games. And as much as there could be to do in a turn, 
 they could be quite lengthy and there wasn't a lot their your opponents should automatically know 
 about what you were doing. So would YOU want to sit around eating up your online time, which many 
 people were still paying for by the hour or even minute at the time, waiting for your opponent 
 to finish their turn? No, live online multiplayer was NOT an option for this game and it is testament 
 to the developer's wisdom that they came up with an alternative. It may be quite laughable by today's 
 standards, but it was passable for its age.
  
  I would LOVE to see EFS dug out and rebuilt to today's standards. It was a game that begged for 
 advances in technology and could be an astounding, deep experience powered by the latest generation 
 of equipment. It was an amazing concept and game that just needed more going for it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ranger-X
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  I personally consider this one of the greatest games i've ever played. Despite the graphics, I 
 found still found this game to be engaging. Firstly I will say that the music has made this game 
 memorable to me. At times the music is warlike, other times sad and sometimes even mystical --- 
 very good mood music and soundtrack. Aside from the music there are many enjoyable moments to be 
 found and there is also a pretty complex stratagy to the game. The player needs to research technology 
 and after researching it, is able to construct all sorts of hideous, scary, and powerful things. 
 Some such things are: plague bombs which can be unleashed upon the enemy players on their planets, 
 space bombers (Cadiz Dreadnought) which can bombard units on planets from above, assassins, heavily 
 armoured legions and many more. One other thing that makes this game enjoyable is the art that 
 is found for many unit drawings and events where horrible things unfold. Overall this is a very 
 great game which has a very perfect formula. People should consider investing time into this game 
 to actually get anywhere. SOME NOTES TO REMEMBER are: 1, there are problems running this game on 
 XP 2, It is possible to listen to the game cd in the cd player as a soundtrack. 3, there is a slow 
 down in play time after playing the game for a long time because alot of things need to be calculated 
 but downloading the 1.4 patch speeds the game up a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akazergling2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 15, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  A friend turned me onto Emperor of the Fading Suns in 1999 and it was pretty tough at first. One 
 thing this game definitely has is a heavy learning curve, but once you have the hang of it, it 
 can be laughably easy.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  The strategy is pretty complex in EFS, most of your time will be spent between micromanaging each 
 of your planets, your armies, diplomacy, researching, and trading for resources. As the game progresses, 
 turns will go from taking minutes to taking hours to finish. This isn't a flaw however except in 
 the case of multiplayer capabilities, which it basically eliminates.
  
  Graphics - 4/10
  
  The graphics while not really necessary for a strategy game, bad ones do tend to detract from 
 the overall experience. EFS was revolutionary in it's scope however it wasn't too difficult to 
 find better graphics in most games that came out around the same time.
  
  Sound - 4/10
  
  EFS has no music, the only sounds experienced in the game are sound effects of the different 
 units which weren't very impressive.
  
  Value - 9/10
  
  EFS is definitely worth the money (Easily found on the internet for under 3$) if you are interested 
 in long strategy games or if you enjoy playing retro computer games.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - 8/10
  
  I would recommend Emperor of Fading Suns to anyone that enjoyed the 
 Dune book series especially because there are many themes that run through both of them. Grand 
 houses lead by an Emperor, a galaxy slowly falling apart (or at least unstable) , and 3 large positions 
 that control the power in the galaxy. Try this game out if you have a bit of spare time and you 
 won't be disappointed, just don't expect a blockbuster. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
