-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Empire Earth II: The Art of Supremacy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/empireearth2theartofsupremacy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting new factions such as the Maasai and Zulu provide a look at Africa rarely seen in historical RTS games.
 Tug of War is a great addition to multiplayer modes of play.
 Native tribes add strategic options to maps.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 French and Russian civilizations have been done to death in other RTS games.
 Many odds and ends would more appropriately have been provided in a patch or in the original Empire Earth II.
 A lot of the rule tweaks are worthless.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  1, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.4
Critic Score: 6.2, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 429 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: VU Games
Developer: Mad Doc Software
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Feb 14, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This mediocre expansion pack adds little to the Empire Earth II experience. 

  Expansion packs for real-time strategy games are always a bit of a gamble. Sometimes you get great 
 new content that both enhances and lengthens the original game. This might include a new campaign, 
 a fresh faction or two, and maybe even some rule tweaks and new multiplayer modes of play. Other 
 times, however, you get a disappointing collection of odds and ends that have been held back from 
 the original game for the express purpose of selling them to gamers for extra cash six months or 
 a year down the line. Expansions are almost always at one extreme or the other; they rarely seem 
 to be simply mediocre. Until now, that is. Empire Earth II: The Art of Supremacy walks the line 
 between new content and reheated leftovers, mixing intriguing additions, such as African tribes 
 and a campaign at the dawn of Egyptian civilization, with bland accoutrements, such as the French 
 civilization and multiplayer rules that nobody will ever use. The developers at Mad Doc Software 
 balance every good feature in this expansion with something either uninspired or ill-advised.  
 

          Yes, even great big guns can be heroes in this expansion pack.     

  Take the four new civilizations and campaigns, for instance. Incorporating the Maasai and Zulu 
 tribes into the existing mix of 15 RTS-standard civs is absolutely inspired, as African civilizations 
 aren't often brought to life in an RTS. The Maasai campaign is an innovative story about a war 
 with an evil multinational corporation over a newly discovered energy resource in 2037, while the 
 Zulu are featured in new historical "turning points" battles, which deal with the legendary battle 
 of Rorke's Drift in 1879. And the new African region, which includes deserts, scrub plains, and 
 lush jungles, is the setting for a campaign set at the dawn of Egyptian history.  

  But much of the African novelty is offset by the other two new civilizations, the French and the 
 Russians, and their been-there, done-that Napoleonic campaign. These nations have been featured 
 in nearly every historical RTS ever made and would probably have been in the original Empire Earth 
 if they hadn't been held back for inclusion in this expansion. The same goes for the campaign, 
 which pits the Russians defending against the French in a snowy struggle that any respectable strategy 
 gamer has already fought a couple of hundred times. Mad Doc has included a civilization editor 
 that allows you to create nations from scratch, but that's still no excuse to ship the expansion 
 with boring additions like these.  

  Give and take is apparent in the two new skirmish/multiplayer modes as well. Tug of War is a great 
 idea that spreads the battle over multiple maps (three, five, seven, or nine) that represent each 
 side's home territory and the no-man's land between them. You start in neutral ground and try to 
 drive the enemy back to its homeland through victories on one map after another. This leads to 
 tense, quick bloodbaths or lengthy, epic conflicts, depending on how many maps you choose to fight 
 over. Picking three maps raises the stakes, as a single loss forces you to battle for your life, 
 while choosing nine maps usually leads to a drawn-out war with lots of ebb and flow, victories 
 and retreats. The only drawback is that the overall campaign isn't quite seamless, as all units 
 aren't transferred between maps (although progress through the epochs and on the tech tree is, 
 so you don't have to start from scratch on each new map) .  

  Territory Hotspots, on the other hand, is boring. This is a variation on regular Hotspots play 
 from the original Empire Earth II, with the only difference being that the key locations here are 
 revealed at the beginning of matches, and you win by controlling them for a set period of time. 
 The game is supposed to mimic real-world victory conditions, where armies routinely win wars by 
 conquering oil fields, ports, and the like. And it does accomplish this objective, although it 
 plays out so close to the standard Hotspots mode that you have to wonder what the point is here. 

  Rule tweaks and additions in The Art of Supremacy are up and down as well. Heroes don't add much 
 of anything, as units seem to jump to this status almost randomly during battles. The asymmetrical-resources 
 toggle nicely mixes up resource allocation, although this seems like a more appropriate addition 
 for a patch, not an expansion. Fealty mode in skirmish and multiplayer matches is interesting, 
 as it adds a medieval-style lord-vassal relationship to give losing players a chance to stick around 
 as underlings. The only problem is that this doesn't work well online, as most losing players don't 
 want to stay in games. They typically choose the Viking-funeral route and go down in flames -- or 
 simply quit. So this mode doesn't seem to get much use.  

          Burn baby, burn!     

  Adding independent native tribes such as the Iroquois and the Olmec to maps makes more of a difference 
 to gameplay, although it's hard to laud this feature too much as it sort of copies an innovation 
 previously seen in Age of Empires III. Here, though, you can assimilate these groups and gain specific 
 bonuses like warrior spirit, which lets you produce infantry faster, or fertility, which cranks 
 up the population growth rate. Tribes add a strategic option to games as well, in that you have 
 to decide between negotiating alliances with them to gain power-ups or wiping them off the map 
 and seizing their buildings. It can often be a better idea to try and destroy tribes to prevent 
 rival players from assimilating them than it is to bother with the often-tedious chore of lining 
 them up as allies.  

  If you're a hardcore Empire Earth II fanatic, The Art of Supremacy is probably a must-buy. There 
 are a reasonable number of enticing goodies in this package, and the new campaigns provide at least 
 seven or eight hours of gameplay. More casual followers of the series might want to hold back for 
 this one to hit the bargain bin, though, since there isn't anything here that could be considered 
 essential, and the retail price is a rather steep $30.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: henrynarits
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 28, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  Good: new civilizations, civilization editor (best thing about it) , native people (lot of fun but 
 sometimes... they can crush you) , and hero system, good MP
  
  Bad: hoped more civilizations, hoped more things into game
  
  If u start playing it, it looks 
 like its nothing better that the last one same things 3 same civilizations but when u play it for 
 longer u will know it was worth buying because the civilization editor allows u to create something 
 what u need for your tactic like when u like using spys and spying u can make it so its good for 
 you +other things so every time when u play something can be different, natives are fun they are 
 easy to get to your side again when u live next to them and your enemys get them its recomended 
 to build 2 walls because usually they build a big army and lots of fortesses so they are dealy 
 in combat but they are all the time in Epoch 3-5 so they are no use against future
  
  i liked this game and im still playing it in LAN with my friends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Empire earth 2 expansion offers the same nice graphics, but not much more.
  The new african nations are nice.
  
  Gameplay:
  +/- No real upgrades here
  +New african 
 nations are nice
  +Solid new campaigns
  -More like a big patch
  
  Graphics:
  +Looks alright
  +plays decent
  -Plays slow when many players are in the game
  
  Sounds:
 
  +OK sounds
  +/- Mediocre music
  + Love the cannon sounds!
  
  Value:
  +/- Adds little value to the game
  +New multiplayer modes are solid
  +Campaign modes are solid
 
  
  Tilt:
  +/- Presentation not that interesting
  - expected more from this expansion
  -No really big bug fixes
  - Should be a big patch
  
  EE2: Expansion contains some new features, 
 but those features arent that interesting, this expansion should be a big patch!
  Adios all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: net_mugger
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 22, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  This game acomplished one of my greatest dreams! I've never played a better RTS. Empire Earth 2 
 offers everything for those who play this type. The expansion is a bit in vain but anyway you can 
 play the whole Empire Earth 2. The Gameplay offers many available actions to the player. A lot 
 of decisions to make and even the ability to make a war plan and consult it with you ally/allies. 
 It's also an upstanding multiplayer game. The Graphic is nice and has all. The only thing I don't 
 like about it is the ability to rotate the camera view wich was available in Empire Earth. The 
 sound is relaxing and acceptable also: D
  
  Play Empire Earth 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kamui_of_God
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 25, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  The expansion pack for one of the greatest RTS games to grace us. However, do not be hasty on purchasing 
 the expansion. Because for its hefty price tag, it really doesn't offer all that much.
  
  It adds 4 new civilizations: France, Russia and two other civilizations which are part of a new 
 region - the African Region.
  
  It allows you to activate neutral tribes. These neutral tribes start around randomly on the map, 
 claiming a territory to themselves. You can either trade with them, and recieve a bonus, or you 
 can simply wipe them out.
  
  It's sort of a fun concept in my opinion, but I suppose it can also be viewed as useless to others.
 
  
  The expansion also provides a few basically irrelevant gameplay tweaks (such as Artillery being 
 able to become heroes) and a new game mode.
  
  The expansion also improves the game's graphics.
  
  Overall, it's a great game, but unless 
 you wait for the price to drop or you're loaded with cash- I don't suggest purchasing this expansion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ziggy56
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 22, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  ok well empire earth II is a great game but the expansion pack sucks. in my opinion it should have 
 been a patch for the game and not a exp.
  it adds a few new features but not much...
  
  -custom civs: whitch you can do in the first one but you have to delete a civ to make one.
  -new 
 tug of war game type: i think it is pretty cool but there is no one to play it with, i will get 
 to that in a moment.
  -a few new civilazations: a african russian and a few others.
  -a few new graphics tweeks to make the game look better.
  thats about it
  
  its mainly a 
 multiplayer game, the Campaigns are ok but i'm not to into them. but there is no one online. i 
 mean litteraly like 2 or 3 people online at a time. so if you are asking my opinion i would get 
 Empire Earth II, there is plenty of people online all the time and its the same amount of money 
 as the expansion pack.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheval52
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 6, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  The overall gameplay of Empire Earth II is great, along with the stunning graphics of blowing sandstorms, 
 rain, and snowfall. The soundtrack itself is equally pleasing and adds a sense of overall realism 
 to the game.
  
  What I don''t quite understand with the expansion pack is, if you are going to portray various 
 native tribes from the New World why would you not include a rival European superpower like Spain? 
 It would be the equivelant to leaving the French out of the Napoleonic Wars.
  
  Having Spain would have made the expansion pack complete. Who else would have had the sheer audacity 
 & cruelty of mind to take on and eventually destroy the Aztec & Incan Empires? Having Spain in 
 the picture would have made for a more formidable foe for the Native American tribes as well.
 
  
  All in all, Empire Earth II is still a great game but the expansion pack missed the bus ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rometotalwar999
Rating: 1.6
Date: Mar 28, 2006 2:07 am PT
Review:  This gotta be the worst RTS Game ever, honestly. Empire Earth II was a generic copy of classic 
 RTS games like Age of Empires and especially, Rise of Nations . And this expansion adds nothing 
 but trash & junk to the game. Let me list out the points about this game.
  
  The Good: African tribe factions
  The Bad: Minimal additional features, which by the way, are 
 trash.
  The Ugly: Same unit models as the rest of the nations for the African Tribes. 
  
  Gameplay-
  
  There's no strategy for this game, yup, NO STRATEGY. All you have to do is mass 
 up some cheapo army as much as your population cap & beat the crap out of your opponent's base. 
 Believe it or not, Archers OWNS ALL , including buildings, Future Era units and tanks and even 
 IRON WARSHIPS (Wood against Metal?) ! All you have to do is mass them and you OWN your opponent. 
 The only exception is the Air Units which brings me to my next point about no strategy.
  
  Fighters, Helicopters, Bombers all have unlimted ammo, and fortunately or unfortunately this game 
 offers Nuclear Bombers. This means the next "Sure-Win" Option you have is race as fast as you can 
 to the WWII era and mass up your nuclear bombers & rain certain death over your enemy. Once your 
 bombers runs out of ammo, all it has to do is return to the Airbase and reload and repeat the cycle 
 all over again. And no, Anti-Air Turrents are quite useless against a mass of Nuclear Bombers. 
 It might stop the first wave, but would not survive against the second wave.
  
  The next poor aspect about EEII & AoS gameplay is it's units' level. For a certain amout of resources, 
 you can upgrade your units' level. But once you reached the next era (which is VERY FAST) , your 
 upgrades for that unit will be gone. Yup, just like THAT!
  
  Wide variety of Nations, Same units for ALL of them with the exception of 3 unique units which 
 are scattered across 15 Eras, which means every 5 eras you get one unique unit. And no, you can't 
 build previous unique units. 
  
  Graphics-
  
  Same old graphics from Empire Earth II. It can't be helped, can it?
  
  For the new African 
 Tribes, they have unique appearances for their units and not to mention, their unique abilities. 
 But as the game progresses, they will look and play EXACTLY the same just like any other Nation.
 
  
  Here comes the most resource hogging & most useless feature of EEII- Weather. ALL the weather, 
 seasons etc leads to one thing; limited range of sight. It does nothing else to affect the gameplay. 
 And no, ships don't capisze because of weather. Useless Feature.
  
  Sound-
  
  Ho, ho, ho. ALL your Nation's units say one common language, the language you bought your game 
 in. And no, it doesn't offer different accents unlike other games. Whether it's English, French, 
 Russian, African..... it's all the same. Not to mention horrible voiceovers for campagin
  
  Value/Multiplayer-
  
  There ain't any value for this game. Short & Horrible campagin forces 
 you to skirmish which in turn presents you with poor gameplay. And the Multiplayer Lobby of Gamespy 
 is EMPTY. This game boast great multiplayer but why people do not want to play online, go look 
 at the gameplay and you will know.
  
  Technical-
  
  This game offers FALSE PROMISES; they boast to have EAX support but in reality, it cannot work. 
 A bit like promising you a car which has the coolest Air-Conditoner, but when you buy it, there 
 ain't even an air-con. 
  
  And this game does not offer intergrated language support, which means only one language with a 
 copy of the game. If you bought the wrong language version, don't try to tweak your system around 
 cause it's useless.
  
  The Forums of the game are extremely unfriendly, they only show you the good points of the game 
 and delete the bad posts. If you post a problem to them, they will first have a good laugh, give 
 you stupid solutions like turn off your firewall & anti-virus so that the game can install, what 
 kinda crap is that? And if they can't answer your question, they'll leave you to rot.
  
  This game is filled with bugs until it eithers lags your system down to **** or prevents you from 
 patching because of a "wide-variety" of language-specific patches. The patch is SUPPOSED to cure 
 the lag, but gives you an Access Violation Error and causing to be unable to play the game. Kinda 
 stupid patch isn't it?
  
  Conclusion-
  
  Ideas COPIED DIRECTLY from Rise of Nations in a bad way. Same old graphics, Horrible Sound, Value 
 & Tech Support. Do I need to say more?
  
  It's just like a old car resprayed with a fresh coat of paint with a rusty interior and released 
 to the market with the same pricing as any other cars (in this case, games) out in the market. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsharad007
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 14, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  this is a great game. also a great launch time since there has been no decent game for over three 
 months now. (even christmas went drab) . a definate buy for anyone who likes startegy games. anyone 
 who hasnt played the original should get it but may wanna wait for a possible compilation of the 
 original and this expansion.
  
  GamePlay : better than ever. everything right has been retained and new stuff like create your 
 own civilization is good additions.
  
  Content : Only 4 new civilizations added compared to the original 15 this is real small. shud have 
 added more atleast half the original
  
  Graphics : same as b4 would have liked higher res textures.
  
  Sound : same as b4 but good 
 nonethe less
  
  Replaybility : much the same as b4 : forever
  
  Overall : might be just the game to give gamers something to do for the lack of games this last 
 few months
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
