-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Empire Earth
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/empireearth/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 13, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 8.2, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 2,860 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Stainless Steel
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Nov 12, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Regardless of whether you've played other games like it, you'll find that Empire Earth is massive -- more 
 than most real-time strategy games would dare to be. 

 Empire Earth is a real-time strategy game that spans about a half a million years of human history, 
 the last 200 of which take place 200 years from now. So if you're the type who appreciates ambitious 
 game designs, then you've found one in Stainless Steel Studios' first game, which was conceived 
 by the designer of the original Age of Empires. Actually, Empire Earth has a great deal in common 
 with Ensemble Studios' highly successful Age of Empires series. Even the games' graphics look similar, 
 though Empire Earth uses a fully 3D engine, unlike Age of Empires. Similarities aside, Empire Earth 
 is a huge game to say the least -- it's much more time-consuming and involved than the typical real-time 
 strategy game, and its staggering variety of units is as impressive as it is intimidating. Real-time 
 strategy is sometimes criticized for favoring shallow, action-oriented gameplay rather than strategic 
 depth -- but that's definitely not the case here. In fact, Empire Earth is best reserved for hard-core 
 real-time strategy players who won't mind the game's less-than-stellar graphics and sound but will 
 instead relish the ability to relive 14 different epochs of human warfare.           Empire Earth 
 takes place in ancient history...    

  Empire Earth is clearly designed to appeal to those who enjoy Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings. 
 Those familiar with Age of Kings should be able to jump right in and start playing Empire Earth, 
 which borrows most of that game's controls, interface features, and even some of its keyboard shortcuts. 
 As in Age of Kings, in Empire Earth, you must spend a considerable amount of time focusing on gathering 
 various resources. All four of Age of Kings' resources have been appropriated for Empire Earth. 
 A fifth resource, iron, has been added to further complicate the resource-gathering process. Most 
 resources are found lying out in the open, in square-shaped deposits conveniently strewn about 
 the map. Hunting for food also plays a big role throughout Empire Earth. All manner of realistic-looking 
 3D animals are there for you to hunt: cute giraffes, cute hippos, cute walruses, cute elephants, 
 cute horses, you name it. Be careful, though -- if you hunt too zealously, you'll wipe out the species. 
 However, if you consciously let some animals live, offspring will appear, letting the delicate 
 cycle of life continue for later exploitation.   

  Unfortunately, unlike in Age of Kings, there's no market structure that you can build to trade 
 a surplus of one resource for another. This makes it all the more essential that you constantly 
 weigh the importance of each individual resource in your short-term and relative long-term strategy 
 and that you aggressively expand your territory to claim the resources you'll desperately need. 
 If you're locked out of a particular type of resource, chances are that defeat will be close at 
 hand. Then again, most units require only two out of the five resources, so you can focus your 
 strategy accordingly or at least change your military spending to account for low quantities of 
 particular resources.   

  Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings wasn't exactly a simple game -- despite being more than two years 
 old, it's still popular, thanks in large part to the sheer variety of strategies possible because 
 of all the different units and playable factions. Empire Earth takes that game's recipe and doubles 
 it. In fact, there's little denying that Empire Earth has by far the broadest scope and the greatest 
 breadth of content of any real-time strategy game to date. From stone-age rock throwers, Roman 
 chariots, medieval knights, and Napoleonic musketeers to World War I-era biplanes, World War II-era 
 tanks, and 22nd-century giant robots, Empire Earth's variety of units is almost ludicrous. All 
 told, there are more than 200 units in all, a number rivaled only by the impressive 1997 real-time 
 strategy game Total Annihilation -- but only if you count the additional units found in Total Annihilation's 
 first expansion pack. Empire Earth also features a good variety of buildings and technologies, 
 though these aren't quite as exhaustive as the unit options. In fact, many of the buildings remain 
 the same throughout all the epochs.           ... as well as the present and the future.    

  Does the additional breadth and complexity of Empire Earth mean it's a better game than Age of 
 Kings? No, of course not -- you can actually have too much of a good thing, and Empire Earth is evidence 
 of this. Using the default game settings, resource gathering is painfully slow. Not only that, 
 but the costs required to advance from one epoch to the next are extremely high. It's theoretically 
 possible to play a game of Empire Earth starting in the prehistoric epoch and work all the way 
 on up through the nano epoch. But this would literally take hours upon hours. Fortunately, there 
 are options available for optionally speeding up the gameplay, as well as a deathmatch mode that 
 starts you off with plenty of resources, thereby letting you focus almost exclusively on unit tactics. 
 At any rate, you're unlikely to see all the epochs in a single battle because an aggressive computer 
 opponent will do its worst to write you out of history at the earliest opportunity. At the standard 
 or hard difficulty settings, the computer will quickly expand across the map and will hit you hard 
 and with just about everything it's got. Like most everything else about Empire Earth, the AI is 
 no joke.   

  Perhaps the designers intended to make a scathing critique on how little humankind has evolved 
 over the years, but the various epochs in Empire Earth actually aren't all that different once 
 you get past the obvious graphical distinctions. Throughout all 500,000 years of history, you'll 
 still need to gather food, wood, gold, stone, and iron. You'll do this by assigning peasants -- called 
 civilians here -- to walk up to these resource deposits and scoop them up, exactly like in Age of 
 Kings. Those same pumpkin patches feeding your cavemen will be feeding your modern-day military 
 men millennia later -- you'll have stealth bombers, but you won't have supermarkets. That same clump 
 of gold will fuel your entire war machine throughout history. Similar quantities of resources will 
 be used to train or construct historically analogous units. In the year 2200, you still won't have 
 any technology that can cut through the fog of war.    

 It's true -- in the 20th century, you'll have access to things such as B-29 bombers packing atom bombs, 
 long-range howitzers, machine gunners, and Panzer tanks. These aren't nearly the same as pikemen, 
 archers, and catapults by any stretch of the imagination. But the actual gameplay of Empire Earth -- gathering 
 resources, defending your towns with walls and towers, using mixed forces to mount huge attacks -- remains 
 constant no matter what epoch you're in. It just gets more complicated as you proceed later into 
 history, because newer technology adds more variables to the battle. Actually, the game comes with 
 a tech tree that clearly delineates land, sea, and air unit relationships -- basically, what's effective 
 against what -- throughout all of the game's epochs. It's very useful for coming to grips with the 
 game's depth and especially demonstrates the complexity of the unit counterbalances in the later 
 epochs. Empire Earth may be a rock-scissors-paper game in the prehistoric epoch, but later on, 
 it gets much more complex than that.           Siege weapons, cavalry, archers, and dozens of other 
 units are available.    

  Age of Kings was characterized by its gigantic battles, and the battles in Empire Earth -- true to 
 the rest of its design -- are actually at least as big and can be even bigger. The game's 3D engine 
 may not look like much at first -- the terrain graphics are rather garish, and many of the buildings 
 look flat and plain. However, this engine is capable of rendering dozens or even hundreds of fluidly 
 animated fully 3D units simultaneously onscreen while maintaining a decent frame rate. You'll probably 
 have to tone down some of the graphics options on midrange systems to get the smooth performance 
 you'll want -- but it's the scope of the battles that's most impressive. You can use the mouse wheel 
 to zoom right up to your units and see how blocky they look, but you're best off viewing the game 
 by zooming all the way out. From this angle, you can see plenty of the screen but still make out 
 individual units clearly, even when running the game at high resolutions.   

  Empire Earth gives you a few convenient command features, including Age of Kings' "idle worker" 
 locator button and the ability to set a unit to automatically scout the outlying terrain. You can 
 also set your units into a number of formations, though unlike in Age of Empires II, they won't 
 move in formations, nor at the speed of the slowest unit in the group. The pathfinding in Empire 
 Earth is mostly good but isn't quite perfect, as you'll sometimes see some of your units taking 
 detours from point A to point B. At least they'll tend to not get stuck on one another, so you 
 needn't fear massing them into groups. Well, unless you're worried about enemy artillery fire. 
 Empire Earth also gives you standard options for setting unit groups, waypoints, aggression levels, 
 rally points, and more. The interface includes all the features you'll need.   

  Random map games, either against the computer or against one or more human players, are the best 
 way to play Empire Earth. This open-ended option lets you choose from a variety of settings and 
 map sizes, as well as determine things such as the starting and ending epoch of the battle, the 
 number of players (up to eight) , the difficulty of the AI (easy, medium, or hard) , and more. There's 
 a nice option that lets you choose a random starting epoch, which experienced Empire Earth players 
 will no doubt appreciate. Empire Earth also offers "tournament" vs. "standard" game types, and 
 the difference is that in tournament mode, resource gathering is faster, costs to advance in epochs 
 are lower, and walls and towers aren't quite as sturdy. Age of Kings players will find that the 
 pacing of the tournament mode more closely resembles Ensemble Studios' game, whereas the standard 
 Empire Earth pacing is considerably slower.           Huge battles are possible in Empire Earth's 
 3D engine.    

  Unfortunately, Empire Earth doesn't offer any real variations to the standard victory condition 
 of having to kill everything that isn't your color. Empire Earth is a very time-consuming game 
 anyway, but all the more so since you'll likely run into late-game scenarios that'll make you think 
 you've finally defeated your opponent, only to find that he must have gone and hidden a citizen 
 or something in some far-off corner. The one alternative to victory by genocide is to build wonders 
 of the world and defend them. There are six different wonders available, and you can set how many 
 of these it takes (up to six) to determine victory. All wonders are very expensive and take a long 
 time to build. Unlike in Age of Kings, they actually confer significant bonuses to your faction, 
 like automatic healing to all your units or heightened power of persuasion for your priest units. 
   

  The nano-age giant robots are evidence that Empire Earth isn't a completely serious or realistic 
 game, and to that end, so are the priest and prophet units found throughout every epoch of the 
 game. Priests are just like Age of Kings' monks -- they can convert enemy units from a distance. 
 Prophets are more expensive and deadlier. They're essentially spellcasters, capable of calling 
 down very destructive calamities that can seriously damage groups of enemy units or structures. 
 From casting plagues on masses of enemy units to casting firestorms on enemy towns, prophets are 
 certainly powerful. They also make the early epochs of Empire Earth a lot more interesting than 
 they would have been if all you had to work with were clubmen and rock throwers. Some of Empire 
 Earth's other units are also a lot of fun to use. The game's larger units, including ships and 
 siege weapons, look very good and seem to pack a wallop. Later on, B-29 nuclear bombers (and their 
 futuristic counterparts) deliver a blast that looks suitably devastating. The nano-age giant robots, 
 called cybers, look pretty generic but pack powerful-looking energy weapons. Throughout history, 
 you can also recruit certain hero units into your army. Warrior heroes are powerful in direct combat. 
 Strategic heroes confer morale bonuses to allies and can break the morale of their foes.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (80 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Robertcwm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Empire Earth is great practice before playing "The Art of Conquest" expansion pack! The expansion 
 pack is pretty much way better! But you have to have this installed to play it. I would recommend 
 it if you are looking for a cheap good game. It's way better that Empire Earth II and III! Once 
 you play it get the expansion pack to make it really knock your socks off! Although, you may now 
 encounter graphic problems in some versions of vista but you can fix this problem easily, or not 
 depending on if you are really bad at fixing things. Also this is off topic, but why do these reviews 
 have to be 100 words!? Some of these games are very hard to describe because there so good. The 
 only thing bad in this game is the scenario creator, but once you figure out everything (there's 
 this thing called GOOGLE people!) it's really easy to make advanced scenarios with events that 
 cause something to happen when you do a certain thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obliabo
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  Empire Earth is pretty good, yeah. I mean it's not fantastic but the feeling of control you get 
 when you play, you might as well be God. Now there is a trilogy, Empire Earth has become quite 
 successful, but number 1 will always have the values a classic always has. With "Random Map" mode 
 you can play from the Stone Age with cave men and rock throwers, all the way up through the ages 
 of Planet Earth, finally reaching the Nano Age, with Robots and deadly bomb dropping planes. There 
 is also a Campaign mode where you play different Campaigns featuring English Campaign and others. 
 Empire Earth is very much similar to games such as Age of Empires and other games of the like. 
 You control the Earth, build a mighty army and conquer the universe, reigning for about hundred 
 billion years. All in an average hundred billion years work though, so all in all Empire Earth 
 is good but not brilliant. I reccomend it, but for a good weeks gameplay not an amazing experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aires457
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  Empire Earth for the pc was the best game I ever played. I got it when I was nine then later it 
 broke then I got it again then it broke again and I'm thinking of getting again because it's such 
 a fun game. It's better than empire earth 3 by far. So let me tell you about the game. You go though 
 14 ages. Starting in the Stone Age with clubs and slings and ending in the nano age with hecka 
 huge mech robots and air strike nukes. There are campaigns you can go though which I find boring 
 cause you have to follow a specific set of directions and you can't be creative a win your own 
 way. There is also a scenario editor where you can crate your own levels which I think is fun because 
 it makes the game more of an experiment than a game. To rap it up yo yo my homies this game da 
 bomb lol I have no idea why I just did that tanks fer reading DAWG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightinblaze
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  I remember the first time I had played this game. It had me immersed in it day and night for more 
 than a year. I reminisce those days as if it were just a few days ago (actually, around 2 years 
 since I had played this game) . This one game launched by Sierra caught my wandering eye.
  
  I don't quite know how do I start describing this game. Commencing from the campaigns there are 
 four each spanning a vast era or epochs as it is known as in EE. All the campaigns have been excellently 
 integrated within the game's immense time-span. The gameplay is a marvel in itself describing itself 
 in one short yet sweet one-liner -- Enthralling, stupendously entertaining and massive.
  
  The graphics are comparable to the standards of a game launched in 2001 - Neither too good nor 
 too bad. They target the periphery of a pie with scrumptious layering but an uninspired core. 
 
  
  The soundtracks and the background music annoy me, forcing me to subdue my reluctant mobile phone 
 to play a few good soundtracks. Anyhow, one can consider the music direction pretty mediocre.
 
  
  Ultimately, I'd said that apart from the aspect of sound and graphics the game delivers to an extent 
 that a potential buyer would anticipate from it. If you really do want to play an RTS with a scope 
 covering the fire-fearing apes of the past to the fire-making homo sapiens of the future this is 
 the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serchant2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 4:45 am PT
Review:  
  Yes this is an RTS game. An RTS game that has the ages from the Prehistoric Age to the Nano Age 
 (future) . How would you like to play as the caveman? command your Roman troops. Siege castles in 
 the Middle Ages. Command your platoons in the massive battlefields of WWII. Or fight monstrous 
 machines in the destroyed future. Campaign is nice but may seem hard at times. And of course theres 
 a scenario editor! (Thank God) So now you can make your own scenarios. It may be more difficult 
 with the editor at times but if you have some experience, that it will work quite good out. Also 
 the Create A Civilization Mode is good, for those who don't know this, you can make your own civilization 
 with your choice of attributes. Its all up to you. Now to business.
  
  Gameplay: Strategy is all you need. It seems difficult at times but sometimes its also challenging. 
 A. I. ain't bad at all. 8.5/10
  
  Graphics: Well as it is a six year old game, it may not look good but at its time, it was. 7/10
 
  
  Sound: Well how can I say this? Well most voices are great, sure there are always some units' voices 
 that annoy you but thats like in all games. 8/10
  
  Value: Hmmm, well it is quite a good game and you can get this game very cheap in stores or online 
 shops. 8/10
  
  Overall: 8.6
  
  Thank you for reading my review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: om3ga_storm
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 31, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  Empire Earth is epic. You've heard it before, and it's true. The game goes beyond the time period 
 that Age of empires series is usually associated with. EE starts with the beginning of mankind 
 to the nano age. So it goes without saying that this is a very ambitious game.
  
  The game play is similar to the age of empires series. The element that makes it stand out is once 
 again, the word "epic". In a standard game, unlike most RTSs, there is no tech tree: all buildings 
 are ready to be built at the start (provided you are in the right time period, for example you 
 can't build a tank factory in the stone age) . 
  
  Although the game might start out slow, the battles can get intense after a long while. In fact 
 you might have multiple battles going on at once (sea, land, air) . This really makes the game frantic 
 but fun at the same time.
  
  Since a formal game might take hours to get through, I liked to divide time periods for example 
 one game i might play the earlier era, and sometimes i would play the middle ages.
  
  Playing in the world war 2 time period to the present poses the greatest challenge, since as mentioned 
 before you have a lot going on at once. Add to that the scale of the maps and the need for resources 
 and you've got one big mess to sort out. It is guaranteed that once the first battle starts, the 
 sound that warns you that your units are under attack will not cease!
  
  So casual gamers beware, this RTS is more appropriate for those gamers that want a challenge beyond 
 Age of Empires. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noblepuker
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  The zoom on this title is insane. You could see a soldiers mustache (its blocky and unimpressive 
 that close tho) . The individuals are 3d rendered (not crappy sprites) . The grafs are nice (2001 style) . Good 
 variety of units from prehistoric to future time periods.
  Outstanding built in editor .Let your imagination go.. i've pitted 40 wolves against napolean, five 
 copper age armies againt an advanced Mechwarrior, UFOs against musketeers... used eagles for recon. You 
 get the picture. The map sizes in skirmish range from small to gigantic. Some of the biggest maps 
 i've ever seen in a real time strategy. The maps are also randomly computer generated.. so i don't 
 think there are any third party ones....... wait, you can make'em in the editor (nicer than the generated 
 ones.. with snowcapped peaks, etc) .
  This is, and allways will be, one of my all time favorite strategy games. I had to shelve it once 
 Rome Total War was released.
  
  I never played the campaign, was it any good?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjgamefreak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  WOW! This game has alot to it. I've never played a game more epic then this one. First you start 
 out by choosing multi-player, or single player mode and both are awesome. First let me talk about 
 single player mode. You can select wich age to choose, like prehistoric age, middle age, nano age, 
 etc. And plus there are enviorments to choose like, plains, deserts, woods, and alot more. Not 
 only that you have alot of building choices, like farms, houses, towers, and more to protect your 
 army. Now lets talk about the multi-player. The multi-player is awesome. In multi-player you can 
 be against or work together. But yhe difficulty is very hard, and at first it's very hard to figure 
 out what is what, but when you figure everything out, then it's non-stop fun and addiction.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Overall rating, 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: globalchimp
Rating: 8
Date: May 21, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  I remember when I bought this game... I got it sealed so I had some time to change my mind in case 
 I wanted to return it. Strategically I waited until the 2 weeks passed and I could no longer return 
 it, and I took it out of it's box. IIRC it still had a nice albeit environment-unfriendly Box with 
 a capital B if you remember those days and with an actual paper manual that you could sit down 
 for. Anyways, I played the game some and to be honest was let down. It was confusing, and simply 
 too much. There were too many units to choose from at a time and I was left uncertain how to compose 
 my army. After a while I put the game down. 
  
  Then some time later for some reason I decided to pick it up again and tried to get into it. After 
 a while I guess I made the "switch" and the amount of choice became one of my favorite parts of 
 the game. It was really enjoyable all the things you could do and could create. The battles are 
 also quite long lasting from my experience with a lot of defense structures to be built and have 
 a really epic feeling. With the options of so many ages and different upgrades and units it's enjoyable 
 to decide what to do; while you still have the option of a simple no nonsense rush. I definitely 
 enjoyed playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beanmachine12
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 16, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  Empire Earth is a little strange compared to conventional Real Time Strategies. The graphics are 
 not that good and the game is prone to freezing occasionally. Now the historical aspects of the 
 game are very well researched and the modern-future russian campaign is very unique but the way 
 it ages up is just too complicated and although i approve of some of the vehicles, such as the 
 planes and tanks, the futuristic weaponry e. g. the cyborgs are not really that believable. It's 
 not a game i would recommend but interesting enough for players who like a challenge and for players 
 who want to experience the other end of the spectrum on Historic RTS'. An alternative to this would 
 be the Age of Empires series, which in my opinion are the best in the Historic RTS genre.
  
  so all in all good, but not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rext_1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 4:51 am PT
Review:  Before reading any further I should tell you something Im not a die hard RTS fan in fact Im not 
 a fan at all. Few genres do I loathe more than RTS. The way the units arent actually being controlled 
 by you ,the way most fights end up being a guy-with-the-biggest-army-wins affair .Yes I hate RTS 
 (Age of empires, Warcraft, Command and Conquer (ahhhh.. the first RTS i encountered ,threw it out the 
 window when I noticed I wasnt having any actual fun)
  But Empire Earth is different, its actually enjoyable the game hand-holds RTS novices like me so 
 that in a short time and for the first time i enjoyed an RTS game. Empire earth is not too slow 
 paced and neither is it too fast it hits the RTSphobias spot in game there are five resources to 
 be gathered ,these resources are than used to build bases, units ,houses and the like ,all combat 
 units are upgradeable but this is next to useless since the enemy magically upgrades theres to 
 in about the sametime.
  The single player campaign is the most fun even more fun than multiplayer where no-lives who spend 
 years polishing there skills hand you your @$$ at regular intervals. The campaign missions are based 
 on Historical events (at least if you close your eyes while playing the russian futuristic campaign) 
 and so the game doubles as a history lesson.
  So even if you hate RTS like me give this game a try it just may enjoy the only good RTS game ever 
 made!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  Graphics are nice, though about the same quality as Age of Empires II. You can zoom in, but it's 
 just ugly and I found no use for it. Sound is, again, about the same as Age of Empires II, with 
 nothing to really comment on.
  
  The improvements come in the gameplay. Many new races to choose from, and now you can make your 
 own custom race. Basically you have 100 points to spend on different bonuses to land/sea/air units 
 or your civilization, etc... A very nice addition if I do say so myself.
  
  There are many more units than Age of Empires II, since Empire Earth has 10 Epochs (Ages) , with 
 many new units and upgrades to previous ones. The units themselves can have their attributes upgraded. 
 You can spend resources to upgrade a unit's (all of the same type of unit are affected, not just 
 THAT unit) hitpoints, damage, speed, armor, damage radius and the like.
  
  A few new additions come in the form of Aircraft Carriers which can send air attacks from great 
 distances, but is just about defenseless when fighting another ship.
  
  There are also air bases which can send out aircraft a certain distance, based on how much fuel 
 that unit has. Since planes can nuke buildings, they are extremely useful and downright fun.
  
  The game plays very similar to Age of Empires II, except that it takes alot longer to win a 
 game. If you have even the slightest bit of interest in strategy games I would recommend you get 
 Empire Earth (preferably the Gold Edition which comes with the expansion, or whatever it's called) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackjack54
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 29, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  great great and great. one of the funnest and epic games of all time. it is a must buy!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 It has a thrilling campain mode. also a fun quick action mode. It gets better with the expansion. 
 Now each empire has a special ability, missle luncher, market, insurence, ext. In the epansion 
 you can even go in to space. It has a easy layout and easy to learn. The game will stick with you 
 for the rest of your life. The omly flaw is it pauses alot but you get used to it. You can also 
 play online and increase game value. Buy it  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer_Pickle
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  I'll just some up what I thought about this game into different parts:
  
  Graphics: For their time, they were pretty good. The units arent really 3d though, they are just 
 made up of different 2d sprites glued together. Nuke explosions are friggin sweet, if you are looking 
 right at ground zero, the whole screen turns white enough to blind you, so make sure you looki 
 away! The terrain also look awesome. 8/10
  
  Sound: Sound and unit acknowledgements are pretty good, except in the campaign. The voice acting 
 is downright terrible. The sound that happens when an atom bomb explodes though is great, its a 
 mash of screaming and tank explosions caught in the blast, along with the bomb explosion itself!
 
  7/10
  
  Unit diversity: Huge load of units, eah having strengths and weakness's, for example tank massers 
 will realize that their tanks may as well be useless against buildings, and as they are pulling 
 back, 2 or 3 A-10 Thunderbolts will come and destroy their whole tank army!
  9.5/10
  
  AI: This is what makes the game hard. The computer cheats!!! Even on easy it gets resources faster, 
 out of nowhere, builds units faster, and also gets units seemingly out of nowhere! It will also 
 rush you with aircraft before you have even gotten enough resources to build an airport yet!
  However, the computer is smart, and will attack your units with their weaknesses and will also 
 use tactics.
  7/10
  
  
  I give the game an 8.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordx67
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  The Good When I first played Aoe 2, i thought it was a pain that the game was so limited in it's 
 timeline. So, the minute I saw EE, it was love at first sight. (well, you know what I mean) . The 
 intro was really cool. I just like the feeling of traveling from neanderthals with clubs, to macemen, 
 to archers, to crusaders, to simple gunmen, to musketeers, to doughboys, to tanks, to planes, to 
 cybers. It is AWESOME!!! Every two epochs is a self-contained RTS game. The main goodness of the 
 game is the random maps, there are just so many different ways to do your game. If you set it on 
 gigantic, be prepared for the ultimate battle.
  The Bad
  The people who designed Empire Earth probably were not trying to make a hint of a good campaign. 
 The cutscenes alone make the campaigns horrible. The people speak with such a accent it wanted 
 to make me sick. Also, it zooms in to the soldiers whcih you should NEVER do. Also, resource gathering 
 takes a loooong time. But, since there is a large pop cap. that doesn't really matter. But the 
 most annoying part of the game is the sound. The music is reallly cool, but when a guy dies they 
 make a disgusting gasping/ choking sound. It's ok at first, but after a while the gasping/choking 
 sound made me want to rip the game in half.
  Summary: super-cool game, as long as you turn the volume down and don't zoom in to the units.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarymovie5
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 24, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Like I said I don't want to call this game bad because it has so much potential. It is kind of 
 hard to describe because it has so many possibilities. First, there are many civilizations to choose 
 from, but they are all the same. In other words whether your the Chinese or your the British, you 
 make the same things. The combat isn't too hot either, being very repetitive. Now that we have 
 the cons out of the way, there are some pros. The game requires you to use your head and make stategy 
 and explore. It is fun expanding your empire. So this game could be fun for a while, but also gets 
 old. I would check out Age of Empires instead.
  
  Gameplay- 6/10
  
  Replayability- 5/10
  
  Graphics- 6/10
  
  Building Empires- 9/10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaos_complete
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I've played both EEI and EEII (not EEIII, though it seems to be garbage) , and I must say that I 
 would prefer the original over the sequel. My main qualm with this game is that with a little more 
 effort, it could have been much better. It seems as though as with EEII and EEIII that the developers 
 rushed in the end, but in this case, they managed to release a game that is at least fun to play. 
 
  
  Because this game was released in 2000 (I believe) , I'm definitely going to be a bit more lenient 
 on it than I would be on newer games. 
  
  Sound - 8. Strong soundtrack, but got repetitive after awhile. Certainly not bad, though.
  
 
  Gameplay - 7. It was pretty fun most of the time. The campaigns were also fun (particularly Novaya 
 Russia) , and could get a bit tricky if you didn't use the right tactics. This made for an experience 
 that was a bit more than just sending mobs of random units at the enemy. 
  
  Problems:
  
  Unit AI: Medics, AA, and other non 'direct-combat' units have a tendency to charge right into 
 the battle and get killed. It's really, really annoying to have to carefully select all my skywatchers 
 and pull them out, and by then they're usually half dead. Also, there's another problem in that 
 when enemy units are just barely out of a units range, they'll just sit there and do nothing.
 
  
  Enemy AI: The Enemy AI has a major penchant for building walls everywhere. Around cities is fine, 
 but all over the map gets annoying, tedious, and frankly really doesn't do anything. The AI also 
 knows exactly where you are, which makes things pretty unfair on larger maps. It also seemed as 
 though on harder difficulties that their strategies did not get better, but that they mobbed more 
 units and 'cheated' in terms of resources. 
  
  Units: Some units/buildings are too weak. The towers would be one. They fire far too slowly for 
 the amount of stone you pay for them. Some units have a range that is too short, some too long.
 
  
  Buildings should be more involved. There are only one or two upgrades you could research in each 
 age, and it was pretty linear. They didn't have any recognizable effect on units in the game, most 
 of the time: more upgrades in number and complexity (that could possibly interact with each other?) 
 may have been a good idea) . A few more buildings would have also been nice. Having the artwork 
 change more frequently would have also helped.
  
  
  SCRATCH THE PRIESTS AND PROPHETS. I'm not asking for perfect realism, but I hate having my laser 
 tanks stolen by some preacher. It ruins the civilization feel of the game and just seems quite 
 corny. Maybe having defenders have a bonus near a temple would be okay, but not this.
  
  Upgrade units more (with corresponding graphic changes) . Especially in the later ages. I don't 
 like using bazookas and stinger soldiers in the nano age. I have a feeling that this was just plain 
 laziness.
  
  Work on unit movement a bit. Troop squads would have been a better idea, and having them a bit 
 closer instead of scattering about would have also been nice.
  Have a more conspicuous flashing on the map when being attacked. I swear, when I have a lot of 
 bases, I sometimes won't see until it's too late.
  
  Also, citizens should change their 'mining methods' , clothing, style, etc more. Being able to 
 mine other areas aside from patches in later ages would have added more strategy.
  
  Make the game get bigger in later ages. It hardly happens. You have the same buildings, and same 
 size cities throughout.
  
  
  It's REALLY frustrating having to gather stone the whole game to build towers. Small things like 
 this. More things should become automated, resources should change a bit more, etc.
  
  The transition to all 'lasers' is a bit hasty. The futuristic units are also often named in a corny 
 fashion and look rather stupid. I would suggest having people with real creativity design them. 
 Maybe have three future ages? One from 2000-2030, 2030-2035, and 2060-2100 perhaps? 
  
  Lastly, Nuclear bombs barely made a splash. Anti-missile systems would have been nice, too.
  
 
  Graphics/interface: 6
  
  The graphics weren't bad at all for the time, but the 'zoom in' feature was utterly pointless. 
 It felt more like 'legos' than playing an RTS game. The in game cinematics also were not needed, 
 or could have at least not allowed the camera to swivel so much. I also would have greatly appreciated 
 being able to zoom out a LOT more, especially on big maps. This made it nearly impossible to fight 
 the computer.
  
  Value: 8
  
  I downloaded this game, but it's only about 10 bucks. It's not money poorly spent. 
  
  Tilt: 
 8
  
  Overall, this game is good, but could have been amazing if a few small mishaps were corrected. 
 Keep in mind that I KNOW that there are already sequels out, I just think that instead of correcting 
 these mistakes, the developers instead made the same ones at far higher frequency. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: livebyfaith85
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately no other games can came to close as the first edition of Empire Earth. I have Empire 
 Earth 1, Empire Earth 2, and played Empire Earth 3. I am going to stick to the first one. The game 
 has decent graphics not all that great but the gameplay is awesome. Empire Earth 2 didn't really 
 get my attention and Empire Earth 3 was a major disappointment. 
  
  I enjoy creating new scenarios and upgraded units in the game. You have total control over the 
 game. Once you have completed the scenario, you can use it on the multiplayer (online) by switching 
 the files from .scn to .ees in the saved game data folder on Empire Earth directory. Make sure 
 to click on include cheats in the scenario and type in "my name is methos" this will give you everything 
 (resources, fast build, and upgrade units) . I play this game online with my brother alot. Overall 
 it's an awesome game. If you like Age of Empires then you will love this game. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serchant
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  Yes this is an RTS game. An RTS game that has the ages from the Prehistoric Age to the Nano Age 
 (future) . How would you like to play as the caveman? command your Roman troops. Siege castles in 
 the Middle Ages. Command your platoons in the massive battlefields of WWII. Or fight monstrous 
 machines in the destroyed future. Campaign is nice but may seem hard at times. And of course theres 
 a scenario editor! (Thank God) So now you can make your own scenarios. It may be more difficult 
 with the editor at times but if you have some experience, that it will work quite good out. Also 
 the Create A Civilization Mode is good, for those who don't know this, you can make your own civilization 
 with your choice of attributes. Its all up to you. Now to business.
  
  Gameplay: Strategy is all you need. It seems difficult at times but sometimes its also challenging. 
 A. I. ain't bad at all. 8.5/10
  
  Graphics: Well as it is a six year old game, it may not look good but at its time, it was. 7/10
 
  
  Sound: Well how can I say this? Well most voices are great, sure there are always some units' voices 
 that annoy you but thats like in all games. 8/10
  
  Value: Hmmm, well it is quite a good game and you can get this game very cheap in stores or online 
 shops. 8/10
  
  Overall: 8.6
  
  Thank you for reading my review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jono2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  There is one huge flaw in this game: the computer cheats like crazy.
  
  Okay, let me explain:
  
  Instant armies:
  
  The computer generates units out of nowhere. 
 Basically, you could have the computer on the brink of defeat and suddenly a huge army will come 
 and wipe you out. You can get around this by playing on 'all visible' mode, but what fun is that? 
 This cheating can be particularly frustrating when you have managed to nearly defeat the enemies 
 base after 2 hours of playing, to have random armies push you back and defeat you. If you quit 
 the game and view the map, there is no way the computer can generate this many units from the few 
 military bases it has in such a short time. Ridiculous resources:
  
  This is just stupid. The computer generates resources out of nowhere. To test this, i played an 
 all visible map 1vs1. I had 10 farms and he computer had 2 farms. After playing for 2 hours i quit 
 the game and checked the summary. The computer had generated 5 time more food than me. Oh, and 
 my farms were operating at max efficiency. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BSirum
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 31, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of historic real time strategy but empire earth was a bit of a letdown.
  i'll start out with the things i like about ee. First of all the game has alot of depth and a good 
 value. in the game you can sart the game 500,000 years ago witch is a nice touch. Also ee has the 
 future that goes up to 2200 and has robots and soldiers with laser guns witch can make ee exiting.
 
  The game also has of course alot of depth, you can have over 600 hundred people in your nation 
 so you can have a huge army but it takes a while to have that many people. There are alot of nations 
 to choose from whitch have bonus stuff such as creating citizens normaly costs 50 food but if you 
 choose a certain nation it will cost 40 food.
  Now I will tell you the stuff i dont like in the game. first of all when you choose a nation nomatter 
 what nation it is the buildings all look the same, nothing is different. Another thing is is when 
 if you choose a civ the computer player can choose the same nation, you dont want the united states 
 and the united states at war!! There is another thing that is a problem with the citizins sounds, 
 for example when a person dies they somtimes make these bazzare noises asif they are going to puke!
 
  The games graphics are still good after 6 years but thy could've had better textures. The battles 
 in the game are fun to watch but it gets annoying after hearing the same people death sounds over 
 and over again. Also during a few campaigns a few of the character acsents are a little exaggerated. 
 Overall i think ee is just a good game it has some flaws and some stuff that are good but i don't 
 fully recemmend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shaggy_McShag
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  Empire Earth is not a bad game. It has all the qualities of an RTS, and stretches extensively through 
 different time periods. It has all three military concepts: Land, Sea, and Air. It even has an 
 AI that could whoop you if you're not paying attention.
  
  However, Empire Earth has its weak points as well. I like to think of EE as a thing of tarp; it 
 covers a large area, but does so thinly. In other words, it encompasses a huge time period (from 
 cavemen to robots) , but it doesn't really go in depth in any of the ages. The game just briefly 
 covers the time period, and skips through to the next. Details are discarded, and just about everything 
 lacks variety.
  
  I have several issues with the game. First of all, it assumes that everyone turned Roman during 
 the Bronze Age. What about all the Chinese, African, Indians, and other people that were living 
 during that time?
  
  That also brings me to another issue. There are no distinctions between civilizations. Ottomans, 
 US, Russian, Spanish, everything is the same. Same units, same buildings, same technologies. The 
 only thing different is the upgrades, which anyone can alter. Does having Russian upgrades make 
 you Russian? In other RTS games such as Age of Empires, Starcraft, Galactic Battlegrounds, they 
 all have unique buildings and units, or at least the units and/or buildings look different. In 
 Empire Earth, everything is the same.
  
  A smaller annoyance: When constructing buildings, the building doesn't just rise up off the ground 
 as in this game. While it doesn't really affect gameplay, it annoys me that buildings appear pre-constructed, 
 and all the villager does is stretch it into shape.
  
  Empire Earth has its strong points as well. As mentioned before, it features a wide timeline. Some 
 of my favorite time periods include the Modern and Digital/Nano Ages, because they feature ranged 
 and aerial combat - something that other RTS's don't really have. Also, it gives me a sense of 
 accomplishment when I see my robot horde descending from the mountains and obliterating those foolish 
 enemy cavemen.
  
  In conclusion, Empire Earth is overambitious. If it expands more in-depth into the timelines, maybe 
 even dropping an Age or two, it would be much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  Ensemble Studios Age of Empires conjures images of a kick-ass medieval RTS franchise brimming 
 with blades of steel and mighty castles. Nothin wrong with that, right? Apparently, it depends 
 on who you ask!
  
  After the first game in that million-selling series was completed, lead designer Rick Goodman thought 
 it was time to broaden the games horizons. Unfortunately for him (and maybe for us) , many of the 
 people at Ensemble were content simply to refine the core game that had proved so successful. So 
 Rick left to build his own game company, Stainless Steel Studios, where he would be free to design 
 the title he thought Age of Empires II should have been.
  
  The fruit of his labor is Empire Earth, and while it isnt perfect, it does offer up one hell of 
 a good time.
  
  The games hook is its 14 epochs (time periods) , which chronicle the progression of human civilization 
 from its early days in 500,000 B. C. all the way through the not-so-distant future of 2200 A. D. 
 Cavemen, archers, swordsmen, riflemen, airplanes, ships, subs, tanks, cyborgs, mechs, and many 
 more are all contained in this one massive game.
  
  The Age of Empires games have only four relatively small age-leaps, and your ultimate goal in most 
 multiplayer battles is to build up to the final age as quickly as possible so that youre able 
 to gain access to the powerful units. Empire Earths varied epochs provide way more depth than 
 that in its gameplay options.
  
  Multiplayer battles and single-player skirmishes are the best parts of this game, and are  
 fun. Each epoch is a self-contained, fully playable RTS game unto itself. Furthermore, you can 
 create games that start and end in any sequential epochs you choose. World War I through the Modern 
 Age is a span of time I enjoy playing a great deal.
  
  Standard and Tournament are the two rule sets to choose from in multiplayer and single-player skirmishes. 
 In Standard mode, its tough to progress through the ages because of high costs and slow build 
 times. In Tournament mode, build times are reduced and epoch upgrade costs are lowered to facilitate 
 a faster gameplay experience  amen to that, brother!
  
  Empire Earth allows you to customize your civ to a never-before-seen degree to suit your style 
 of play. At the start of each game (Standard or Tournament rules) youre given five minutes to 
 pick your civilizations bonuses. There are well over 100 to choose from, and they range from unit-type-specific 
 attack bonuses to an increase in the efficiency of your farms. Upgrades increase in cost depending 
 on numerous factors, and youre given only 100 points to spend at the start of each game, so choose 
 wisely.
  
  Players who like to just jump in and go can also choose from one of the games 21 pre-made civilizations. 
 Make sure you pick one thats appropriate for the epoch youre playing: gaining bonuses to the 
 armor strength of tanks and fighter jets wont help much if youre playing in the Middle Ages!
 
  
  As impressive and gripping as the stories are in the games four single-player campaigns (each 
 one brings you a bit closer to modern times and the future than the last) , I didnt have nearly 
 as good a time with them as I thought I might. The individual scenarios that make up the campaigns 
 are long and hard  not just because Empire is a hardcore RTS in which youre always having to 
 pay close attention to the rock, paper, scissors rules of combat, but because the mission objectives 
 are too often muddled or misleading. Time and time again, I ended up with far too small an army 
 to accomplish my goals if I relied only on in-game mission tips and recommendations as my guide.
 
  
  Make no mistake, this game is tough, and while you can adjust difficulty settings in single-player 
 skirmishes and multiplayer games, you cannot do so in any of the campaigns. The compelling stories 
 do make them worth fighting through, however, so my tip is to always build more units than you 
 think youre going to need based on what the game is telling you.
  
  Graphically, Empire is rich and detailed  especially compared to other 3D RTS games. The animations 
 are smooth and varied, and if you zoom in close enough, I think you may even be able to see Rick 
 Goodmans face on one of the characters in the game! Despite Empires 3D engine, you cant rotate 
 the camera  the only time youll see it spin is during the nifty
  in-game movies that pop up every so often in the single-player campaign missions.
  
  Overall, 
 the games music is pretty good, though it gets a bit repetitive. The sound effects, on the other 
 hand, are first-rate, and really bring you into the action in each age.
  
  Empire Earth certainly has a massive scale, but it still feels like it belongs in the Age of Empires 
 series. I think that point speaks very highly of it. Ive clocked innumerable hours with it so 
 far, and I think Ive barely scratched the surface of what all the many units and time periods 
 have to offer. Believe me, this is one were going to be playing around the office for a while 
 to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oblivionwaiter
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  This isn't a BAD game, but it isn't a good game either, it is right in between.
  
  There are some really great ideas in this game, I mean, come on, what other games have you played 
 that have 12 ages/epochs?
  
  Yeah, that's what I thought, none.
  
  The thing is that they don't have enough variety between the epochs, the prehistoric and stone 
 age should have ben put together, so should the nano and digital. It just doesn't seem like they 
 put a lot of thought into the design of the epochs, they're just to bland.
  
  And the Civilization names mean almost nothing, yeah, the Civilization creator is fun, you get 
 bonuses for choosing different civilizations, but there is absolutely NO differences (artistically) 
 between the civilizations (although this was fixed in EE2) .
  
  The game seems unbalanced too, it has too many resources and units don't do enough damage to each 
 other, the gathering rate is a bit too slow, and the time it takes to get to the next epoch is 
 too long considering the amount of epochs. (If this had been an age game with 4 ages the time to 
 age up would have been just right) .
  
  I just wonder what would've happened had this been developed by Ensemble studios. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 15, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Empire Earth was the first game from Stainless Steel Studios, and while it could of been way better 
 if they had put in the extra effort- Empire Earth was a good start for them. (A pity they closed 
 down a while ago)
  
  Empire Earth's basic gameplay and premise both revolve arround the task of you leading civilization 
 from the stone ages- all the way up to the future. In all reality- this might as well be Age of 
 Empires- only now on a grand scale. So if you've played games like any of the Age of Empires- you'll 
 find yourself right at home here- for the gameplay is basically exactly the same.
  
  Does Empire Earth add anything to the gameplay then? It actually does- and this is mostly in part 
 to the grander scale. Empire Earth focuses on the entirety of mankind's history- not just the middle 
 ages like Age 2 did. So while your treading familiar ground with the early ages- things get more 
 complicated as you move up in history. For example- you'll eventually get air units like Sopwith 
 Camels and Helicopters. You've also got Prohpets- who can cast devastating calamities upon your 
 enemies. So if you like the Age of Empires gameplay- but want more of it. You'll get a LOT of it 
 here.
  
  Graphically- Empire Earth fumbles. The terrain is bland- and units are not pretty to look at. They 
 also repeat the same bad animations over and over when idle- or even when fighting. Sound wise- 
 the game ultimately sounds fine- and has some surprisingly good voice acting for most of the main 
 characters in the historical campaigns. Unit responses ain't half bad either- though they are very 
 repetitive.
  
  Empire Earth is extremely derivative of Age of empires- that cannot be denied. But that's ultimately 
 acceptable here with the massive scale Empire Earth brings to the table. So just about any fan 
 of RTS games should be able to enjoy Empire Earth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: franklinzhang
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 23, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  Its just plain awesome! 14 ages of pure history and even the future! The graphics are alright for 
 a game that's 6 years old but who cares? The main focus is the history and the awesome realistic 
 campaigns. Anyone who plays this game will be astonished by the extreme depth and scope of it. 
 Although there is a long tutorial campaign, its still easy once you get used to it. The only few 
 disadvantages are the age of the game: 6 years and counting and the sound but what more can you 
 expect? 6 years old! 2001 wasn't a year with razer-sharp graphics or state-of-the-art sound. Therefore, 
 Empire Earth will satisfy your RTS tastes and make you truly feel like a general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killa25
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 1, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  Empire Earth is a great game! Although it can get boring after a while because the games are so 
 long. I think the game is much better on LAN. when you play by yourself it just isn't as fun. I 
 really like the different levels of the game. You can start in really early ages and go up to the 
 Nano age, or you can pick one age to stay at! I personally like the WW2 age. I usually start at 
 WW1 and go to the Nano age (lasers!) . Overall I would encourage you (if you don't have it) to go 
 spend the $20 and get this great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentfox2239
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun game. You dont need the cheats to do well like in alot of games where you may need 
 a cheat here and there to win. All you have to do is get an airfield and dock. If you work your 
 ships with your planes you will be really good. The campaign is ok but not the best the most fun 
 you can have is by just playing a plain game. Playing LAN is also fun if you get 1-2 more friends 
 to play with you than you will have a ton of fun and it will make the game seem to go quicker. 
 This is better than Empire Earth 2 in my opinion and better than Warcraft 3 (singleplayer) because 
 you can get to a little more modern age if you want to and decide how modern or futuristic you 
 want to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rainbowsix6666
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 9, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  Empire Earth is a real-time strategy game that spans about a half a million years of human history, 
 the last 200 of which take place 200 years from now. So if you're the type who appreciates ambitious 
 game designs, then you've found one in Stainless Steel Studios' first game, which was conceived 
 by the designer of the original Age of Empires. Actually, Empire Earth has a great deal in common 
 with Ensemble Studios' highly successful Age of Empires series. Even the games' graphics look similar, 
 though Empire Earth uses a fully 3D engine, unlike Age of Empires. Similarities aside, Empire Earth 
 is a huge game to say the least -- it's much more time-consuming and involved than the typical real-time 
 strategy game, and its staggering variety of units is as impressive as it is intimidating. Real-time 
 strategy is sometimes criticized for favoring shallow, action-oriented gameplay rather than strategic 
 depth -- but that's definitely not the case here. In fact, Empire Earth is best reserved for hard-core 
 real-time strategy players who won't mind the game's less-than-stellar graphics and sound but will 
 instead relish the ability to relive 14 different epochs of human warfare. Empire Earth takes place 
 in ancient history... Empire Earth is clearly designed to appeal to those who enjoy Age of Empires 
 II: The Age of Kings. Those familiar with Age of Kings should be able to jump right in and start 
 playing Empire Earth, which borrows most of that game's controls, interface features, and even 
 some of its keyboard shortcuts. As in Age of Kings, in Empire Earth, you must spend a considerable 
 amount of time focusing on gathering various resources. All four of Age of Kings' resources have 
 been appropriated for Empire Earth. A fifth resource, iron, has been added to further complicate 
 the resource-gathering process. Most resources are found lying out in the open, in square-shaped 
 deposits conveniently strewn about the map. Hunting for food also plays a big role throughout Empire 
 Earth. All manner of realistic-looking 3D animals are there for you to hunt: cute giraffes, cute 
 hippos, cute walruses, cute elephants, cute horses, you name it. Be careful, though -- if you hunt 
 too zealously, you'll wipe out the species. However, if you consciously let some animals live, 
 offspring will appear, letting the delicate cycle of life continue for later exploitation. Unfortunately, 
 unlike in Age of Kings, there's no market structure that you can build to trade a surplus of one 
 resource for another. This makes it all the more essential that you constantly weigh the importance 
 of each individual resource in your short-term and relative long-term strategy and that you aggressively 
 expand your territory to claim the resources you'll desperately need. If you're locked out of a 
 particular type of resource, chances are that defeat will be close at hand. Then again, most units 
 require only two out of the five resources, so you can focus your strategy accordingly or at least 
 change your military spending to account for low quantities of particular resources. Age of Empires 
 II: The Age of Kings wasn't exactly a simple game -- despite being more than two years old, it's 
 still popular, thanks in large part to the sheer variety of strategies possible because of all 
 the different units and playable factions. Empire Earth takes that game's recipe and doubles it. 
 In fact, there's little denying that Empire Earth has by far the broadest scope and the greatest 
 breadth of content of any real-time strategy game to date. From stone-age rock throwers, Roman 
 chariots, medieval knights, and Napoleonic musketeers to World War I-era biplanes, World War II-era 
 tanks, and 22nd-century giant robots, Empire Earth's variety of units is almost ludicrous. All 
 told, there are more than 200 units in all, a number rivaled only by the impressive 1997 real-time 
 strategy game Total Annihilation -- but only if you count the additional units found in Total Annihilation's 
 first expansion pack. Empire Earth also features a good variety of buildings and technologies, 
 though these aren't quite as exhaustive as the unit options. In fact, many of the buildings remain 
 the same throughout all the epochs. ... as well as the present and the future. Does the additional 
 breadth and complexity of Empire Earth mean it's a better game than Age of Kings? No, of course 
 not -- you can actually have too much of a good thing, and Empire Earth is evidence of this. Using 
 the default game settings, resource gathering is painfully slow. Not only that, but the costs required 
 to advance from one epoch to the next are extremely high. It's theoretically possible to play a 
 game of Empire Earth starting in the prehistoric epoch and work all the way on up through the nano 
 epoch. But this would literally take hours upon hours. Fortunately, there are options available 
 for optionally speeding up the gameplay, as well as a deathmatch mode that starts you off with 
 plenty of resources, thereby letting you focus almost exclusively on unit tactics. At any rate, 
 you're unlikely to see all the epochs in a single battle because an aggressive computer opponent 
 will do its worst to write you out of history at the earliest opportunity. At the standard or hard 
 difficulty settings, the computer will quickly expand across the map and will hit you hard and 
 with just about everything it's got. Like most everything else about Empire Earth, the AI is no 
 joke. Perhaps the designers intended to make a scathing critique on how little humankind has evolved 
 over the years, but the various epochs in Empire Earth actually aren't all that different once 
 you get past the obvious graphical distinctions. Throughout all 500,000 years of history, you'll 
 still need to gather food, wood, gold, stone, and iron. You'll do this by assigning peasants -- called 
 civilians here -- to walk up to these resource deposits and scoop them up, exactly like in Age of 
 Kings. Those same pumpkin patches feeding your cavemen will be feeding your modern-day military 
 men millennia later -- you'll have stealth bombers, but you won't have supermarkets. That same clump 
 of gold will fuel your entire war machine throughout history. Similar quantities of resources will 
 be used to train or construct historically analogous units. In the year 2200, you still won't have 
 any technology that can cut through the fog of war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexlips
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 11, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  I have played this for years and I absoloutely love it. I have only noticed recently as tehnology 
 has caught up that there are a few flaws.
  
  Graphics:
  They are fine for it's age but its pathetic how you cant zoom out any further or at least view 
 it from 4 different angles. I am guessing that the EE2 is 3D
  
  Repetitivness:
  Single player mode seems to repeat itself so much but its still fun sometimes.
  
  Apart from 
 that its brilliant and alot of fun to just do what ever you want with. The reson I fell in love 
 with this game is because unlike Age Of Empires, it goes into the modern ages! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordan_allison
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 8, 2007 12:03 am PT
Review:  The game has its flaws but over all great game
  the game play is very good and graphics are decent
  some of the more fun parts are without doubt 
 making an impenetrable fortress and slowly attacking your enemy
  
  its just hard enough to make it fun
  
  the sound effects are pretty good but improvement was 
 made into the sequel which is also a great game
  
  i have spent countless hours on this game it really draws you in and keeps you there
  
  the 
 aim of the game basiclly to complete a series of objectives in one of four campains.
  greek, roman, russian and german 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bag8ball
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 19, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  The Good: An enjoyable gameplay experience, easy to use scenario and campaign editors, allows you 
 to build your own custom civilizations, a great RPS system.
  
  The Bad: Cartoon like graphics and sound , some pathfinding issues, nearly useless diplomacy system, 
 no makets &amp; cheating AI.
  
  From the creator of Age of Empires comes another enjoyable RTS game: Empire Earth. Now Empire Earth, 
 unlike Age of Empires, has arguably the largest scope of any RTS ever made. Nearly everything from 
 Clubmen to 22nd Century cybers is at your command. Another difference from Age of Empires is that 
 this game is fully in 3D (although for reasons you'll know later, you might not want to get up 
 close to your units) . Because of this, you can experience massive battles in the game (up to a 
 thousand units actually) .
  
  And speaking of battles, the objectives of a normal game are simple: build a base, gather resources, 
 create a Grand Army of the Empire , and seek and destroy your enemies. However, another way of 
 winning a typical game is by building enough wonders to gain enough points for a wonder victory; 
 once you build the appropriate number of wonders, a countdown will start and the enemy must destroy 
 at least one of the wonders to stop the countdown or else the player with the most wonders wins. 
 (The period between the countdown's start and finish is usually the time in the game when the AI 
 will launch a full fledged attack on your civ; if the AI for some reason isn't able to get anywhere 
 near your civ, it will usually build a massive army, ready to strike at your civ.) Anyway, as said 
 eariler, Empire Earth's scope is vast. However, it's rare for a player to play through all the 
 epochs in just one battle (it will take a veeery long time to do this the clean way) . One reason 
 why you often can't play through all the epochs in one game is the AI's desire to destroy you A. S. A. P. 
 so it's better to play a game with a more limited scope (such as starting at the Digital Age and 
 ending in the Nano Age) . The wonders of Empire Earth, unlike Age of Empires, give benifits to the 
 owning faction such as increased population capacity and self healing abilities. Besides the average 
 soldier, players can recruit heroes which come in two flavors: strategists and warriors. Warrior 
 heroes give a bonus in morale to any nearby friendly units while Strategist heroes can give nearby 
 enemy soldiers a drop in morale and can heal friendly units but they aren't as strong as warrior 
 heroes. Morale in Empire Earth is simply something that help decrease damage to units. Houses that 
 are inside a town center's area of effect helps increase morale. Other buildings also have an area 
 of effect (such as hospitals, temples, univercities) . Units in an area of effect have certain bonuses 
 (e. g: protection from conversion) .
  
  Empire Earth comes shipped in with four campaigns: the Greek campaign which takes place from the 
 beginings of Greek civilization to the conquests of Alexander the Great; the English campaign which 
 is divided into 3 parts: the Norman Conquest, the Hundred Years War &amp; the Napoleonic Wars; 
 the German Campaign where you must lead Germany during the two World Wars. The fourth campaign, 
 unlike the other three, is a fictional campaign and has some reminiscence of the Red Alert series. 
 In it, you lead Russia in it's quest to conquer the world, which ultimately fails. Speaking of 
 failures, it's now time to talk about Empire Earth's weak points. First up is graphics. If you 
 zoom in close enough to your units, you'll see that they lack in detail and how awful they look. 
 If you thought the units look bad, have a look at their weapons. The hand held weapons all look 
 like they are nothing more than cardboard cut outs. Another thing about the graphics is that there 
 are no cultural differences (e. g: a Chinese soldier in epoch 5 would also look the same with a 
 Greek soldier in the same epoch) in the way how buildings and units look. The sound of units are 
 horrible and this is especially true of the earlier epochs. Although the music of the game sounds 
 good, sometimes the music being played isn't the right theme for the current event. Another pitfall 
 of Empire Earth is the pathfinding. In order to get from point A to B, units would sometimes take 
 the long and dangerous route and sometimes would get stuck. The diplomacy system in the game downright 
 bad. The AI usually doesn't change its hostile stance towards you even if you give them a ton of 
 resources (at least in my case) . Also, there is almost no way in knowing what kind of resources 
 the AI wants. In Empire Earth, there is no way to buy or sell resources since there is no market 
 what so ever, which during the right time can be bad. One more pitfall of Empire Earth is the cheating 
 AI. In one minute, you have a massive base and in the next minute, you find out that the AI has 
 a far larger base and army. I can't understand how on earth could they have gotten so many troops 
 and buildings so fast. And thats what I observe when I'm playing in Easy difficulty! When I 1st 
 played Empire Earth, I noticed that there are a few things in which made me believe the game wasn't 
 as seroius as Rome: Total War or Cossacks: European Wars. One of this was the Star Wars influence 
 in the game. The most obvious was the appearance of the Sentinels and Guardians. They looked more 
 like Clone Troopers or Imperial Stormtroopers than soldiers of the 21st century and beyond . Another 
 thing which made Empire Earth less serious of a game is the depiction of prophets. I mean, these 
 guys can call for volcanoes, earthquakes, plagues and fires. If this was SimCity, this is what 
 I could have expected but since it isn't, it just made Empire Earth a little less realistic. The 
 depiction of cavemen in the game made Empire Earth less realistic. IMO, I think the cavemen in 
 the game were dumb as the dumb guys in cartoons such as SpongeBob Squarepants, which can be insulting 
 to some. BTW, I almost for got one more thing. The game's scenario editor allows players to create 
 scenarios that rival even the best scenario in the best campaign. As for the campaign editor, if 
 you want to create a campaign, just simply put together scenarios which are related to each other, 
 write a description of the campaign and poof! You've created a campaign. (Oh, you can also add 
 descriptions to your scenarios as well.)
  
  The civilization edtior alows you to create any civilization of your dreams (everything from the 
 clans of Battlerealms to the Galactic Empire in Star Wars) in any way you want.
  
  But despite the said flaws above, Empire Earth is still an enjoyable game to any RTS veteran. Wheather 
 it's the vast scope of the game that attracts you or the possibility of creating the civ of your 
 dreams or perhaps the idea of people able to call forth disasters, Empire Earth would not dissapoint 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingofthecloset
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 24, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  The year is 2007 and we are knee-deep in war games. And if war epics found one home, would definitely 
 be the computer. Strategy, online, and shooter war games multiply like rabbits on the shelves. 
 One game, however, flew under the radar during the Battlefield and Age of Empires glory days. It 
 got considerable recognition and made an enticing sequel, but Empire Earth contains so many elements 
 in enhancing this games value. Although they may not bring anything new to the table, this game 
 is fun and manageable for both war strategy gurus and newbs alike.
  
  Like many games in its genre, the idea is to build a civilization from scratch, and to conquer 
 your enemy. One might go about this by surrounding their camp with walls and towers, and overtaking 
 the enemy territory with a sustained ground attack supported by cavalry and archers. Or, for the 
 more conservative, one might keep their sharpshooters outside of enemy range to thin the opposition, 
 while guiding aircraft overhead to deplete factorys and seige towers. In short, there are plenty 
 of ways one might go about reigning supreme. And with a countless supply of varying troops, you'll 
 probably never have the same fight twice.
  
  Naturally, this game's strongest component is the online play value. For those that are able to 
 jump right in, they'll find the rather simplistic setup for getting into or starting an online 
 game. If practice is the recipe, then you could play a single play mode against and/or with the 
 computer.
  
  Empire Earth also has four different campaign modes to chose from, each one with a unique storyline. 
 Some of your tasks will seem more like tutorials, but you'll be pitted against the odds much of 
 the time.
  
  Admittedly, this game has its faults. The graphics have seemingly been sacrificed. But it pays 
 out. Largely. For example, you may only notice the blocky heros if you are zoomed in. It's almost 
 unnoticeable from the bird's eye view, seeing as ants can't have too much detail. But in the midst 
 of battle, you'll hardly find any lag. This is a good think, considering the fate of an entire 
 civilization could be hanging in the balance.
  
  If your an online junkie or a more practical player, this game has it all in store for you. It 
 would take many, many hours for any one player to try out everything in the game. So whether war 
 games are right up your alley or you'd like to try out something new for a change, then seek no 
 futher than the PC's very own Empire Earth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 7, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  With so many real time strategy games available, it is hard to choose one in which to purchase. 
 Most are very alike in general gameplay and features, but Empire Earth is different, allowing players 
 to engage in combat over a time span of 500,000 years, from the days of cavemen to the future with 
 Nano bots. Prepare for an endless battle, as once you begin playing, you will not be able to quit.
 
  
  Published by Sierra Studios and developed by Stainless Steel Studios, Empire Earth features fourteen 
 unique epochs and over two hundred different units. Rick Goodman was the lead designer of Microsoft's 
 Age of Empires, a widely known and highly praised title. In 1998, Rick Goodman left Ensemble Studios 
 and formed Stainless Steel Studios. Empire Earth is the result.
  
  Upon launch of the game, players are faced with several options. Empire Earth features several 
 single player modes of play, including a random map generator and scenario and map editor, where 
 you can develop and create your own scenarios. Empire Earth also includes a fully integrated multiplayer 
 system through Sierra. com or a local area network.
  
  The selection and variety of epochs present in Empire Earth is one of the most outstanding features. 
 Stainless Steel Studios have successfully added half a million years of history and the future 
 into Empire Earth. You can begin at any point in history and progress through the ages, whether 
 it is beginning in the days of cavemen or starting in the Nano age. The most popular epochs included 
 are the World War II and modern age, but every epoch offers a unique challenge. The ability to 
 select from 21 predefined civilizations or develop your own custom civilization from approximately 
 100 traits is something unique in Empire Earth as well. Develop your civilization carefully, as 
 you will be forced to rely on those traits to your advantage on the battlefield.
  
  Units are another ongoing accomplishment in the field of real-time strategy games. Empire Earth 
 features a massive number of units, and as you progress through the epochs, new units will become 
 available while others become useless. Everything from tanks, helicopters, subs, nuclear weapons, 
 and ground troops have bee included. Every unit behaves differently, and has specific strengths 
 and weaknesses. Although you may be familiar with a specific aircraft, your opponent may be more 
 familiar with a ground unit, and you must be prepared to defend against an attack. It is important 
 to understand the strengths and weaknesses of each unit, and exploit them when facing opponents, 
 as this is the best way to guarantee success. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenoXV
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 3, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  I played this game and it was real addictive and very fun only thing is, it was hard as heck to 
 beat computer players. I was always wondering how they got their units and structures 1st. And 
 i watched the computer player and he got a free building way too fast. And for me to try to beat 
 him like that was impossible. He'd have a counter for my every move and i got sick of it and finally 
 read the book and it said that the computers get extra resources i figured that was kind of lame 
 but the game play was hard as heck to get use to when facing computer players. But the game was 
 fun. I played for hours and it took everything out of me to try to kill the computer. I dont know 
 what to say to fix the matter except for the fact that its not cool to give the ai computer extra 
 resources. But that may be just me not knowing a hidden tactic i tried to discover. Anyways for 
 any new gamers, this game brings back memories. And its a must have if your new to the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 18, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  I don't think any other RTS game has went across human history but this one does it well. First 
 off, the graphics look good as long as you don't zoom in. The explosions look mediocre but sound 
 powerful. The games sound is bad in some places and can get VERY repetitive. That being said the 
 game is very addictive and fun to play. Although the computer seems to cheat and becomes so hard 
 on normal settings because you are overwhelmed with so many units. The A. I for difficulty just 
 seems to mean the number of units the computer produces. But the game is designed with the same 
 concept as any other RTS. The simple fact that it spans the entire human history is the only thing 
 that really sets it apart from other RTS games. I recommend this game to any RTS fan but I think 
 you should rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33T_HitmaN
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  This game Empire Earth is a bit like age of empires, but better, you can start off as cavemen then 
 eventually advance to nano (robots) .
  
  I love this game its personally one of my favourites, i like it because you can get planes and 
 advance further than imperial age!
  
  I THINK EVERYONE SHOULD OWN THIS GAME, i hope some people are influenced by my review.
  
  This 
 game is awsome some of the new units include; Bazooka toopers, jeeps, planes, helicopters, cars 
 and robots, also you can get like artillery things that shoot big bombs and aircraft that are nuclear 
 or something! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: favre135
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 27, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  I bought Empire Earth about a month after it came out, and it is by far the best RTS I have played 
 in my years of playing games. Empire Earth is just an all around good game with the biggest thing 
 being custom civs. I am suprised that no other RTS that I know of have used this. It is a great 
 way to keep a game balanced and makes it so you can have a variety of styles to play. I will admit 
 that the graphics aren't that great, and the single player isn't the best, but everything else 
 makes up for it. If you play it on Multiplayer, it is an entirely different game. It really does 
 involve strategy and working as a team if you are with other players. The music and sounds in the 
 game are actually very good in my oppinion. I will never forget the opening song to EE as long 
 as I live, and is probably one of the best opening songs I've heard, but that might just be me. 
 The game is balanced perfectly since everyone gets the same units, but there are so many units 
 to choose from, and so many ages to play, that it never gets old. The online lobby is the best 
 lobby I have ever seen. Many of the people I know also agree that it is wayyyyy better then the 
 gamespy lobbies with tools such as friends list, ignore list, easy to find server list, and much 
 more. I played Empire Earth for a year after switching to EE: AoC, and played that online for 2 
 years, and I'd have to say, it isn't the same as it used to be, and not as many people are on, 
 but it is still by far the best RTS ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 12, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  For the experienced Age of Empires gamer, Empire Earth is a pretty easy game to play. For the 
 newcomer, Empire Earth is a really complex game to learn how to play, especially considering 
 the 200 + page game manual that comes with it, technology chart poster, and single sheet information 
 page with information on the hot keys. However, the game can be learned in an hour or so, just 
 skim through the manual, then, after installing the game into its huge directory file on your hard 
 drive, you start the game. Firstly, the introduction cinematics are incredible! The logos of Sierra 
 and Stainless Steel Studios is graphically rich and dramatic, in a purely multimedia way. Then, 
 the introduction to the game with computer graphics that one dreams of, a stone age tribal chieftain 
 being painted and dancing around a campfire, Horatio Nelson at Trafalgar commanding his ships to 
 victory with a round of cannon fired, to General George Patton looking through his binoculars at 
 the German Panzers in the North African desert, giving the order to fire, so realistic that it 
 looks like a movie, and finally the nano age of cyber warriors fighting in a post-apocalyptic world. 
 Most of the RTS games starts out with such bravado, and makes you only wish the game itself played 
 like the introduction cinematics! Game play is basically patterned around the gathering of resources, 
 gold, food, wood, and iron ore, the stockpiling of which helps you to do just about everything 
 in the game, except the actual fighting. As in Age of Empires, you need so much wood and stone 
 to construct buildings, from houses to settlements, which are supply depots, to barracks, archery 
 pits, cavalry stables, granaries, airports, tank factories, docks, naval yards, industrial buildings, 
 hospitals, temples and churches, and finally wonders. There are 14 epochs or eras, spanning 500,000 
 years of human history, from stone age, to copper age, bronze age, iron age, middle ages, imperial 
 age, etc. Advancing from age to age requires building so many unique buildings from that age, researching 
 various technologies, and getting enough food, gold, and iron that is required to advance from 
 this age to that age, and it gets progressively harder as the game goes on. The technologies that 
 you can research, as it were, are many, and can be done with an expenditure of food, wood, stone, 
 gold, etc. These technologies improve resource gathering capabilities, military strength improvements 
 in offense and defense, improved buildings, powers of priests and prophets, and more. Empire Earth 
 can be played against the computer, which has a very formidable artificial intelligence, or A/I, 
 interface. Game play can be easy, medium, difficult or impossible. Variation in game play is almost 
 limitless, as the map can be small, tiny, medium, large, huge or gigantic. You can set the beginning 
 age in the Stone Age, and play all the way through the nano age, spanning 500,000 years. You can 
 also predetermine your civilization by choosing a preset one, or customizing your own. You can 
 play against one computer player, or up to eight, or have teams, you and a computer ally, against 
 three or four others. There is also standard play and tournament play. The population limit can 
 be preset as well, from 25-500 units. Other ways to play include head to head Internet play, where 
 you can play a buddy live on the Internet. I havent played this way yet, and have only played 
 against the computer so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 30, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  If you're thinking if you should buy this game the answer is NO! Try to download it for free at 
 BEARSHARE p2p! That's what I did and I opened the game and it wasn't pretty bad. Well the campaings 
 were nice but the scenarios didn't match with one another. And the movies SUCKED! But this game 
 has the highest worth/price ratio of all my games... Since it's 0 $! Of coarse! But this games 
 has some cute ideas and it's a little old for today but can you get Age of Empires III for free? 
 No!!! I have to say that if you'r PC runs out of games search full game at applications at BearShare 
 and you'll find some small nice games like the SIMS, Empire Earth and so on... If you don't have 
 BearShare you can search at google. com for Bearshre free download and just proceed. Hope you like 
 my advices! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renorlibrado
Rating: 5.2
Date: Sep 2, 2006 2:56 am PT
Review:  There are better games than this.... dont bother buying this at target or anywhere just helping 
 ya out. Its cool if you like History... but the graphics are eye shattering, litteraly. Thats in 
 today's standard. Nevertheless this game has some fine points... like... what am i kidding been there 
 done that... starcraft looks better than this and that came out earlier. aight then im out. Cuz 
 this game has trigger points which pisses me off. I dont know what im supposed to do sometimes. 
 Plus there are limited amount of resource. Put since this is historically accurate, buy this game 
 to help you study in modern world history.. it realy helps! But if you dont give a damn about this 
 game then get HL2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnkyking
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 20, 2006 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I must admit that a major part of me disliking this game is due to the fact that many of my friends 
 hyped it up and told me it was awesome ( and that it was way better than Age of Empires 2) . After 
 hearing their praise I went out and bought the damned thing, thinking that it would be the ultimate 
 RTS. It turned out to be pretty lame. 
  
  The game is like every other RTS out there except for one big difference: rather than focus on 
 a single time period, the game spans from the beginning of human history to the far future. Trying 
 to pack thousands of years of human history into a single game is pretty ambitious, as well as 
 something no other developer had tried before. However ,ambition alone does not make a good game, 
 and I never got a sense of epicness that the creators of the game were obviously trying to give 
 off. 
  
  The gameplay is standard RTS fare, where you mine resources and build up a base while creating 
 armies to destroy your enemies. Nothing special.
  
  One of my biggest peeves with the game is its graphics. Good graphics are not 
  exactly the most 
 important aspect of an RTS (I'd prefer a RTs with crappy grpahics and awesome gameplay over the 
 opposite any time of day) . But not only does Empire Earth not have the awesome gameplay to back 
 it up, the game seems to want to show how crappy the graphics are. In game cutscenes usually zoom 
 in on the blurry little faces of the units and show them walking around badly proportioned buildings. 
 Not a smart move by the developers. 
  
  The in-game music and sound is nothing special, and nothing stands out enough to take not on. 
 
  
  Overall, I found Empire Earth to be dissapointing. Fortuantely, the sequal has been out for a while, 
 so don't even waste your time on the original. However, if you're curious, you can probably find 
 it in a bargain bin somewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasoabdou
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 14, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  play i can say this game good 
  i dont love empire earth 2 becuase is very slow
  but this game eteal good startegy game
  and good network
  bad update
  no mods
  no new cool 
 maps
  and why this game have limited number units ?
  good sierra 
  and this game have 14 age
  its cool and have more country
  but i see in country ierael why?
 
  if you need play this game _____ old game
  you must use cheats
  atm = 1000 gold
  creatine = 1000 iron
  rock&roll = 1000 stone
  this review from sasa
  egypt
  portsaid
 
  portfoad
  
  on meddle sea & canal seuz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iliketoplayalot
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 5, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Somewhere in the late 2001, it was a dark sunday evening, me and my family roamed around a large 
 commercial center. I was a bit down, with school starting again tomorrow. Then we looked around 
 for some computer game which my mom called "Age of Earth".
  
  After a little investigation in a shop, we didn't found a game with the exact name, but we found 
 a game called "Empire Earth" and we thought that was the game. 
  
  Empire Earth is a beautiful real-time strategy game designed by the mastermind behing the awesome 
 Age of Empires game, named Rick Goodman. The game is such a great achievement in my opinion in 
 so many areas. From to the great music to the excellent playability, the game just oozes quality, 
 and the multiplayer is a blast to play.
  
  The game is indeed epic, spanning the entire history of humankind. The game in gameplay is your 
 average strategy game, build workers, collect resources, build armies and crush your enemies with 
 your military might, but you will soon forget that, after you get sucked into the game and understand 
 the depth and beauty behind it. 
  
  There are five types of resources: food, wood, iron, gold and stone. All of them are useful all 
 of the time. Trees grow back and animals populate if you leave them alone. So hunting never completely 
 becomes obsolete. Unfortunately there isn't no kind of market-oriented system. Meaning you cant 
 sell your goods for something else.
  
  The battle units act so that a different kind of unit is deadly against other type of unit, but 
 weak against some other units. This applys to all of the ages, and you can never take over your 
 enemy with a tank rush or a ballista army. For example, swordsmen are effective against archers 
 but weak against pikemen. 
  
  This kind of system makes the ability to create different formations for your armies a valuable 
 tool, and oh boy are there many! You can assemble your troops for example into circles, lines, 
 rectangles, triangles and even into a bolt-looking formation. This way you can for example protect 
 the archers while the infantry is supporting them.
  
  There are four single-player campaigns, spanning four different periods in history. These campaigns 
 include multiple scenarios, which are mostly varied, very well done and historically accurate. 
 Completed with the epic music, you truly feel like you're drawn into history, those campaigns truly 
 gave me the shivers. You can even create your own scenarios with voice-acting and cinematic sequences 
 if you feel like doing some work to have more fun. Naturally there is the random map game, with 
 deathmatches and stuff.
  
  As said before, the multiplayer is a real blast to play. You can trade resources with friens easily 
 by chatting. For example: "Hey gimme 500 wood and give you 500 food." The chatting alone makes 
 an already fun, epic game even more enjoyable, what could be more hilarious than meanily laughing 
 to your player partners while causing trouble to them?
  
  While I wish there was a some kind of resource system and I agree the stone, iron, and gold mines 
 are a little too plentiful and farming being basically endless source of food annoys me. Those 
 same farms and mines that feeded and armed your clubmen, will fuel your unstoppable war machine 
 in the future. Also the game may be very challenging or even frustating to a casual gamer.
  
  But in overall, i love this game, and it will always stay in my mind as one of the best real-time 
 strategy games of all time. If you got any respect for strategy games and haven't tried this one 
 out, you should definitely pick it up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sprintguy1376
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 27, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  -Gameplay
  Empire Earth has some very interesting gameplay elements, including the feature to upgrade your 
 epoch. As you gather more resources and expand your Empire a feature becomes available at your 
 capitol that allows for advancement of your epoch. Epochs range from the prehistoric age all the 
 way to the near future with the nano age. Though this is an interesting concept, there isnt a 
 big difference between epochs that are close together. For example, going from the imperial age 
 to the industrial age holds almost no difference except the characters appearance and animations. 
 Of course there is a big difference when you keep advancing your civilization from the industrial 
 age to the modern era.
  The campaign isnt very good at all. You just shouldnt play the campaign all together. The real 
 gem in this game is the skirmish mode. Fine tune every aspect of the game. Tune your population, 
 the difficulty, and the maps all to your liking. The skirmish mode is what makes this game as it 
 is never the same game twice. It keeps you interested, a lot more than the campaign. This is the 
 best way to play Empire Earth, its skirmish mode.
  Empire Earth also does have a very respectable scenario editor. It will take a lot of practice 
 to master all the features that you can use, but once you do its worth it. There are so many options 
 at your fingertips and when playing online, you can see your work pay off because most of the time, 
 the online player enjoy playing scenarios more than standard games.
  The multi-player is very good in this game. It is very well thought out and simple to navigate. 
 There are always people playing Empire Earth online, with no exception. Youll always have someone 
 to play with online. There are some lag issues with some games, usually when there are more than 
 6 people in a game, but usually it doesnt happen if you have a good internet connection. 300K 
 and higher should be sufficient.
  
  -Graphics
  The graphics in Empire Earth vary from very good, to pretty bad. Empire Earth looks best when zoomed 
 out. There are bright colors that dazzle the eyes, the ambience looks realistic and the terrain 
 looks great. There are no framerate issues in this game. Framerate is always above 20 FPS which 
 is very good for an RTS like this. Even with you and your opponent waging war in the battlefield, 
 the framerate is solid.
  When zooming into the characters, they look very blocky and unrealistic. The faces dont look very 
 good at all; they just have black smudges for the eyes and mouth. This is a major flaw in the graphics, 
 but it is easily overlooked because of how elegant and clean it looks when zoomed out. 
  
  -Sound
  The games sound isnt anything to write home about. Its very average. It has one orchestral 
 score that it loops throughout the whole game and the voice is inconsistent. The accents are much 
 exaggerated and almost offensive at times. Its not unbearable, that one orchestral score is pretty 
 good for a while...
  While the game installs there is a song playing throughout the whole thing where a man is singing 
 in a language. Its pretty much impossible to figure out the language, it sounds like random blabbing 
 in an epic voice tone. But it is pretty fun to put your own words to it and see what you can come 
 up with. It was pretty entertaining for a while.
  
  -Value
  This is where Empire Earth shines. This game will be in your CD-tray for years! With a scenario 
 editor exploding with features and a simply amazing multi-player, this game will keep you coming 
 back time and time again. Along with the skirmish mode for some variety, its almost impossible 
 to put this game down. With such diversity within the game and trying to test out any and every 
 epoch, this game may consume your life like it was an MMO.
  
  -Reviewers Tilt 
  This game is astounding. The immersive experience makes this game worth playing over and over again. 
 If you and 2 friends all play this game online, it may well be some of the most fun you can have. 
 This game is just plain amazing.
  
  Final Score: 8.9
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: McHenry2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 12, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I havn't wrote a review for this yet even though I've had it for years, this is the game I have 
 put more time into than any other previous game.. The graphics are the only downfall, but everything 
 else IS GREAT!! It takes a while to learn how to play and understand it but once you do it can 
 be one of the greatest things in your life, all I play is online though, and even that is AWSOME. 
 You have a wide range of options to create scenarios, go through whichever ages you want, any RTS 
 fan I would highly recommend this too, but now it is starting to get out of date, I say this is 
 AN INSTANT CLASSIC other than the graphics this game is SUPERB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StonePirate
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 7, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  Very few people know this game and/or have played it, which is a real shame as it has do much to 
 offer when it came out.
  It followed closely in the footsteps of the Age of Empires games, and took the best aspects of 
 it and used it, along with some other. The fact that this was one of the few games, at the time, 
 which allowed you to build your civilization from the very beginning of mankind to the future was 
 astonishing and deserves a lot of recognition, especially when you would look at your robot army 
 with Atom bomb planes and think back to the days when you would be proud of a dozen men with spears 
 and, if you were lucky, bows and arrows.
  Also the varieties of units were huge, especially in the future, with fighter jets, bombers, fighter 
 helicopters, transporting helicopters and so on just for fighting for the skies.
  The graphics were on a very much different engine to that used by Age of Empires, Command and Conquer 
 and other such games at the time, which was a massive leap for the technology we use now.
  I spent so many hours paying this game, which was so worth it and it is a shame that few people 
 played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonbob_05
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 6, 2006 3:41 am PT
Review:  Just to start, the single player game is very poor so i wont even get into that. the multiplayer 
 or skirmish on the other hand is fantstic. you start off back in te stone age and slowly make your 
 way up to the nano age, but to do tis you need to buildd up your base, defend it well and most 
 importantly kick some ass. it is better when you hve a team on your side because they will send 
 large forces to attack meaning you can save yours and also if you are under attack they will come 
 and rescue you. There are not really any bad points about the multiplayer that i can think off. 
 The graphics on this game seem very good but if you zoom in it really shows that they arent very 
 good. there seem to be more straight lines and triangles than there are in my maths book, but it 
 doesnt really atter, just dont zoom in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ritchiegrc
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 29, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game about 8 months ago - tried it once, but didn't like it. Today, wanting to try 
 something new, I decided to give it another go - and you know what.... I was surprisingly pleased. 
 It's graphics may not be the best compared to others out there, but a good strategy game is just 
 that - a strategy game.... something to get you thinking and I found that this game certainly got 
 the wheels turning.
  
  I think the problem I had the first time around was that I chose to dive right in and ignore the 
 traiing scenarios - a big mistake. After using the tutorial, I went out and gave a single player 
 campaign a try - after several starts, I finally managed to get a grasp of the interface and voila 
 - a very enjoyable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokisul
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 18, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  Simple story, me and my mate bought this game as we love to spend ages building bases, and then 
 waging wars....
  
  We loaded it up at 5am, from the first age in teh game, built our bases... 4 ages later, started 
 to poke at each others defences, my defences were amazing, but he was on offence, so i never got 
 a way in....
  It was like a cold war, could never get anywhere against each other...
  
  It went dark, .... looked at the clock.. was 4AM!!! we had barely started!!
  
  This game is 
 long and intense, my mate doesnt want to play it again cos he lost his life somewhere!! was fun 
 tho... several years ago at least. I liked how in-depth it was :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willdemers
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 15, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  This RTS isn't terrible, but then again it isn't very good. It can be fun to play around with if 
 you have nothing better to do, but as far as games go it's pretty bad.
  
  There's nothing to say about this game. It's alright, but not wonderful. RTS lovers might as well 
 stick with the AOE series. The gameplay is standard. Build a town of basic structures, then build 
 units... Swordsman beats Archers beats Spearmen beats Horseman beats Swordsman.
  
  At this point it's not like anyone would actually consider buying this game as it is so old, but 
 for those looking to perhaps purchase second hand games or older games for fun, I would not recommend 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmyComrade
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is Perfect as the expansion pack !!!!!!! the graphics, sound, gameplay and value are amazing 
 !!!! I have fun everytime I play this game. There is so mcuh variety and so many units to choose 
 from, build, and use in your empire. I play only the epochs from WW1-Space Age and it's so cool. 
 This game rocks my computer, I think this game is a true classic. If you don't have this one, you 
 don't know what your missing out on !!! get it ! I recommend it !!!!!
  
  There are all kinds of aircraft, seacraft, landcraft, and space carft (From the empochs that I play) 
 from tanks to cyborgs, from jets to bombers, from destroyers to submarines from space fighters 
 to space capitol ships, this game is loaded with with everything that a good RTS should have and 
 the gameplay is extreme. I have fun playing this game everytime and it rules to own this game as 
 well as the Art Of Conuqest (expansion pack) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 6, 2006 12:28 am PT
Review:  From the first day I played this game, I've loved it! It has all of the things I've ever wanted 
 in a game. Plus, it's just like Age of Empires, with a few differences. If you liked AoE, you WILL 
 like this game even more! 
  
  The initial civilizations in this game are only available to computer players at first, but you 
 can create more. Unlike AoE, the civilizations have all the units, buildings, and technologies 
 that any other civilization can get. The difference is that the have special bonuses. You can have 
 a bonus to get swordsmen with 30% higher attack. You can get 50% stronger buildings. You can get 
 almost anything you can think of. You have 100 points to do this with. But every time you puchase 
 a bonus in a catagory, all other bonuses in that catagory go up in price. This makes you have to 
 balance the bonuses you choose. 
  
  The AI in this game use strategies depending on what the know you are doing rather than always 
 doing the same thing. If they know you are sending an army towards their empire, the will create 
 defenses and slow you down with one of their current armies. Or mabye they will attack your empire 
 while your army is abroad. You never know what they will do. 
  
  The epoch scope in this game is so much larger than that of AoE. You go through 15 different ages 
 ranging from the age of nomads and clubman, the Prehistoric Age, to the age of lazers and cybers, 
 the Nano Age. These ages are based on the real civilizations of Ancient Egypt, Ancient Greece, 
 Rome, Medievil Europe, and the United States. Also the AI will choose different civilizations that 
 will work better for the beginning epoch. So starting in the Copper age, AI will pick something 
 like Israel. In the Industrial Age, the Ai might pick the United States. 
  
  The graphics in this games don't make it look all 2D like AoE, but the buildings look 2D in a way. 
 You can see any side of the units, but you can't see the opposite side of the building. You can 
 zoom in to see the game in close up view, but you can't rotate to look in another direction. Plus. 
 the music in this game is very drab, almost annoying because it NEVER ENDS! 
  
  The campaines in this game are very fun and challenging. There are four of them and they all spen 
 the history of the world. The firts one is as the Greeks from the Trojan War to Alexander's great 
 empire. The second is as England's Duke William. The third is as the German's from WWI to the end 
 of WWII. The fourth is a civil war in a futuristic Russia. They all have a good amount of scenarios 
 and they all last along time. One campaine can last more than twelve hours while playing straight 
 through. 
  
  The games map editor is just like AoE, but it's trigger system is extreamly complicated. It can 
 take days to fully understand how it works. After you do understant it, it can be a powerful scenario 
 creater. 
  
  This game is great and addicting. You can play for hours and it will only seem like 15 minutes. 
 But, after playing for a few weeks, (or days if that's all you do) you tire of it only to come back 
 to it a few days later. If you like RTS games, you need this game. There is, and never will be, 
 anything like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grasu
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 2, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  Empire Earth was released about 2 years ago. At that time I thought the game was the best thing 
 ever created. I bought the game for Christmas 2002 and played for about 2 weeks... then suddenly, 
 I realized something: This game is nothing more then a watered down version of AoE that moves at 
 an agonizingly slow pace and has little variety and strategy.
  
  I came back again to playing it about 3 months ago, and quit again both in frustration and disappointment 
 of what a missed opportunity this was. And now, I'll tell you why this is one of the biggest RTS 
 disappointments in history.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  No doubt about it, the graphics in this game are jaw dropping. Some effects could have been worked 
 on (mostly the deaths of some units) but over all there not bad. However where this game exceeds 
 almost all other RTS games ever created is in the animation category. I have yet to see more beautifully 
 animated planes or more convincing seas. Units move naturally and everything fits the bill perfectly. 
 The resolution can go pretty high up so that you can enjoy hi-res gaming but can also be lowered 
 for less powerful CPUs.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  
  Voice-overs are horrible for the most part. Extremely stereotypical actors are used thought the 
 German and Russian campaigns, which only adds to the frustration. The music isn't exactly top notch 
 either, but this is the PC, just reduce the music's volume to zero and have MP3s playing in the 
 background. The SFX are pretty good, nothing special. Exactly what is expected of a RTS game.
 
  
  Gameplay: 6/10
  
  The gameplay is the games 2nd weakest point.
  
  For starters, it's absurdly slow. In a good multiplayer game you can end up spending 4-5 hours 
 a match. Advancing through all of the games ages (14 in all, 15 with the expansion pack) isn't 
 an easy task. In the games Standard mode (more resources need to evolve, etc.) you can reach up 
 to 4000 food, 2000 gold, 2000 iron and 2 buildings per age jump. That means you may have as many 
 as 180 villagers (out of about 250 possible units) working the farms and any other resource available. 
 This is one of Empire Earths inherit flaws: With these many villagers working on collecting resources 
 and building stuff if your rushed (even if your opponent may be 1-2 ages behind you) you stand 
 a good change of getting you ass kicked without even firing a shot. This pretty much makes most 
 multiplayer games a matter of either trust (that no one will rush you) or of extremely tedious 
 resource micro management. Not fun.
  
  As for the games resources, there are 5 in all: stone, gold, food, iron and lumber. Each resource 
 patch (with the exception of animals, trees, and fruit patches) has an almost infinite amount of 
 resources you can gather, however, you can only assign 6 villagers to a patch so if you assign 
 more, one will have to sit out and watch the others work. Building a town hall or a capitol by 
 the resource in question can increase the amount of resources carried and harvested. But wait, 
 it's not that easy. In order to ''evolve'' the basic settlement to a town center you need 5 villagers, 
 in order to evolve the town center to a capitol you need 15, and in order to ''level up'' the capitol 
 you need 35 more. And don't think that you won't be using this method if you play the games Standard 
 method (there's also a faster Tournament game, but no one wants to play that) you will need about 
 5-6 of these leveled up capitols. That means micro management, tons of useless villagers that need 
 to be moved from left to right and just a waste of time. Again, not fun.
  
  The game offers the standard units in all ''Age'' games. From spearman to tanks, to nukes to bombers 
 theyre all here. Even 2 futuristic ages that have all kinds of mecha robots and other anime inspired 
 units are available. This is one of the games strongest points. The units use the Rock-Paper-Scissors 
 technique (for example: spearman kill knights more efficiently, swordsmen kill spearman more efficiently, 
 and knights kill swordsmen more efficiently, etc.) , which is standard for all games that require 
 thinking (Read: All games except SC and WC3) .
  
  The units become extremely over powered from one age to the other; Musketeers will decimate Arquebous, 
 which are only one age under them as a tech level. This will surely piss some to hell, but I liked 
 it. It gives the non-rushing player (e. g. me) a chance against the guy who just builds units that 
 are 4 ages behind the rest of the world. However not all is pretty in unit land, atomic bombs, 
 among others, are absolutely exaggerated as both usefulness and power. A player could send 30+ 
 Atomic Bombers all with more hit points than you can imagine and.. .. You know where this is 
 going. In 5 minutes you will have a leveled base, chances are even if that base has 300+ AA turrets 
 (but since I never actually got to make that many, I don't know that for sure) .
  
  Each unit takes up a certain amount of population. Some take more than others, which is another 
 basic standard for most games. The maps in the game are ok at best. There are very few of them. 
 Only about 15 with the patch included. There are enough resources to grant a good enough supply 
 but if you get your ass kicked chances are you won't be returning fast.
  
  Now, for one of the games weakest points.
  
  Remember what I said about speed (i. e. youll 
 be falling asleep while playing) ? That only applies throughout going through the ages 'cause on 
 the battlefield you won't get enough time to maneuver your units before they'll get blow to hell. 
 This just about stamps every strategy except make a billion fighter-bombers and rush with them. 
 Another thing about this game is that it's so damn straightforward. As in the example above, once 
 you reach WW2 Age there's no point in making anything but bombers and fighter/bombers. Buildings 
 units TREES! All can be destroyed in a matter of seconds by these units. It makes all your 4 hours 
 of resource gathering end in less than 50 seconds.
  
  EE also isn't to strategic. The guy with the most luck, allies that cooperate and most units wins. 
 I'm not trying to play Command and Conquer here.
  
  Convention, is also the name of the game. You build, rush, rebuild, rush, rebuild, call in allies, 
 final do or die attack.
  
  The game modes are also conventional. There are 2 main modes: Standard (more resources need to 
 advance, longer management part) , Tournament (less resource required, even less game time) , Death 
 match and all the other crap you find in all RTS games (with the exception of Rise of Nations) 
 after AoE2.
  
  Skirmish missions, although great to train with, are practically useless since the AI cheats with 
 the greatest audacity since C&C. It will actually have all its villagers build as many buildings 
 as possible and make bases that span the whole world map just to show off its infinite resources 
 and ungodly building times.
  
  Multiplay: 2/10
  
  Clearly the weakest point of the game. This is an absolutely missed opportunity. Not only does 
 almost no one play online, but also they all insist on either playing a 7-hour standard game or 
 a 5-minute death match. On top of all of that, almost all the bad examples in the gameplay section 
 apply here: Slow gameplay, over powered units, etc.
  
  Overall: 5/10
  
  Empire Earth was a missed opportunity. It could have dominated the market but it was way to choppy 
 and poorly made. Only buy it if (like me) you love Age type games, history, or Civilization. Otherwise, 
 spare yourself the pain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevie53
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 18, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  When this game first came out I thought it was another copy of age of empires, was I sadly mistaken. Everything 
 I thought was much better than any other strategy game I have played. It is truly addictive, I find 
 myself playing it for hours at a time. Even though I am a rookie at these games I find it one of 
 the the best yet. I have played it with and with out the cheat codes just to see how far I can 
 get. Too bad you cannot rent this game before you buy it I am sure other people will not share my 
 opinion about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prometheus92
Rating: 5.6
Date: Feb 12, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  When you get into empire earth, you get into a realistic world full of resources and units. This 
 game was awful, but was saved by the lone concept of graphics. It tried to recreate Age of Empire, 
 which was a great game, but this game spoiled the RTS name. Lets get down to the gameplay shall 
 we?
  
  You can start out in a variety, and pick difficulty. There are various nations you can pick from, 
 or just create your own. The thing that also got me mad was that you could only be Blue in single 
 player. Blue gets really old really fast. The people in prehistoric times make weird grunts as 
 if engaging in intercourse, people of the Renaissance sound friendly on the first click by saying 
 "Yes?" then you click them again and get "Yeah!?!" almost as if you were the one that blew their 
 house down with poorly pixelated artillery. The graphics looks good from afar, but do NOT go up 
 close. Cannons look square, units looks like brick or blocks stacked upon each other and look terrible 
 up close. The game has a nice ambience sounds and nice sea and land graphics. Once you get to the 
 Atomic - WW2 Age, the game ends. It just loses it all. Build B-29 bombers in swarms and nuke nuke 
 nuke, which the game basically comes down to in that era. Im sorry, only 2 nukes were dropped in 
 human history upon another civlization, not 50,000,000,000. It would've been a lot better if you 
 had only one "specialty" plane that dropped a nuke. 1, not 100. Houses were of some use in AOE, 
 but they are just for show in E. E. 
  
  If you were wondering why the computer manages to get nuked, pummeled and hit so many times and 
 still is able to rebuild is cheating. It has been admitted that the computer gets certain resource 
 advantages in different difficulty level. An example is none on easiest, and 25% resource bonuses 
 on Hardest. 
  
  Sum it up: 
  Pros: Ambience, A good idea (yet it managed to fail miserably) , nice interpretations of future 
 eras, World Editor, campaign builder. 
  
  Cons: Nukes spoil gameplay, bad graphics up close, repetitive noises, cheating computer, 1 color 
 to choose from in single player, useless buildings.
  
  Breakdown: 5.6/10 - Poor, not mediocre, poor. A bad attempt by Stainless Steel. 
  
  Buy or 
 Rent? Neither, i hated this game, don't even look at it, if you bought it, you might as well write 
 yourself a death note because this game will haunt you for the rest of your life. If you have it, 
 sell it to someone, but for a cheap price...$10.00 (maybe less) or $5.00, .50 cents, free, its 
 just that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armalite1016
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 8, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Empire earth is a very complicated game to think about. The very best aspect of the game is the 
 random map and multiplayer. The campaigns are basically wastes of time. 
  
  The Campaign is almost a discrace to the game. They almost have no point, and so they are never 
 worth playing, unless you enjoy spending about 30 minutes gathering recources so you can have a 
 battle with about 10 soldiers. 
  
  The random map game is where the real fun and value is. There are almost infinite options available 
 in this mode, and you can have up to 7 other players against or with. Unlike Age of Empires, you 
 cna choose to stay in just one age is you so do wish. These 1-age games are actually usually better 
 than epoch advances also. The only real problem with the random map games is the AI. Since the 
 computer players are apparently too stupid to play by the rules, they get discounts on all recources, 
 making it extremely difficult to keep up with them, especially on higher difficulties.
  
  On hard for instance, since they can instantly make military units, and you have to actually gather 
 recources to get a decent military, they will usually attack you very early, overwhelming you, 
 so you must usually have an ally computer to protect you.
  
  Another aspect is that it is very easy to hide, and thecomputer players are like cockroaches, spreading 
 everywhere, making it extremely hard to hunt them down, especially since you have to kill every 
 last unit to win, and unlike Age of Empires, the computer never resigns, fighting it out to the 
 death, making you hunt for every last citizen who is trying to rebuild.
  
  For these reasons, playing online is usually the best aspect of the game. The only problem with 
 this is that the game is so old that no one ever plays any more, since the expansion pack was released 
 and now Empire earth 2.
  
  Most of the Epochs do not seem very realistic, beucase of the large range of ages, the different 
 epochs are portrayed very very loosly. The perhaps best age is the futuristic ages, because they 
 have not occured yet, creating limitless possibilities, and there is no way to sya that it is unrealistic. 
 
  
  If you are willing to spend countless hours learning, and the controls and different triggers, 
 the senario editor is actually the best part of the game, letting you create any (absolute ANY) 
 situation and level you can think of, unless it is out of the limits of the game. You can even 
 make movies, although they will almost certaintly look horrible, due to the foggy graphics.
  
  Overall, Empire Earth is a good game, until you play long enough to notice all of the little 
 errors, which always turn into huge errors in time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elapointe
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 5, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  Empire Earth is a game that can make five hours disappear like it's nobody's business. With a historically 
 brilliant and well-written series of campaigns, the single player is never bored. Multiplayer is 
 solid, too. The music is very nice, and the graphics are pretty good - just don't use the mouse 
 wheel to zoom in. The biggest flaw of this game, however, is the computer players. They are so 
 difficult that on "Very Easy" difficulty it takes tremendous skill (or profuse cheating) to win. 
 Play a "Normal" difficulty computer with high resources, and by the time you get a scout over there 
 to see what's happening, it'll have a massive city, a strong defense, and a large and growing army. 
 The bottom line is that the game is really great, but the computer-controlled characters are extremely 
 difficult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbit_pie
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 5, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  this game is more for the real time stratergy game fans. The graphics are nice and the sounds great, 
 but the general gameplay in my opinion is lacking. Alot of the gameplay (if not all) is around 
 war, and you having to conquer your enemy nations. The zoom effect is a nice feature as yyou can 
 zoom right in2 the action and actually see your army fight with the enemy (including seeing the 
 blood) . If your not a huge fan of real time stratergy games, then i would rent this first, but 
 if real time stratergies are your thing, this game is for you. If you have any questions about 
 this or any other games i have reviewed please feel free to send me a message and ill get back 
 to you ASAP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irulehexen
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 23, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  While Age of Empires and Civilization were making their debut, and were the duo imperators of the 
 strategy genre, out came Empire Earth which struck up an alliance to have formed a triumvirate. 
 Empire Earth is more than a strategy game, it embraces the totality of the genre itself. Not only 
 does it contain features found in the AOE series but many more. You do not play from the neolithic 
 period to the iron age as in AOE nor Dark Age to Imperial Age as in AOK, rather from the neolithic 
 to the far future. You get everythnig from clubmen, short swordesmen, to knights, musketeers, to 
 even tanks and robots. Empire Earth is more than a strategy genre, its an innovation.
  
  In the game you have a colossol display of civilizations at your imperium, from the Greeks and 
 Romans to the Japanese and Chinese. Each civilization has its own unique unit and certain bonuses 
 that apply only to it. In the Romans you will see the famous legionnaires, in the Greeks the hoplites. 
 Another worthy feature are the campiagns. In one you have to create the city of Constantinople 
 which was the previous town of Byzantium. In another you control Belisarius and capture Rome from 
 the Visigoths. A final gameplay feature is the graphics which can be either stretched to the last 
 pixel or kept low for best performance. Whether you want to see every intricate signifier on a 
 soldier's scutum, or for mayhem and carnage galore to be at its zenith in performance. 
  
  Empire Earth may seem yet another clone of AOK and Civilization, however, to actuallly gaze at 
 the game proves otherwise. Not only does it shine just as brightly, but it redefines the strategy 
 genre. Empire Earth is a game that I highly recommend, but if dissidence and doubt still lingers 
 get the demo at least.
  
  Empire Earth- good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otownshend
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 1:01 am PT
Review:  Empire Earth is a good game, where you can start from the stone age and work your way up to the 
 future! It is challenging if you don't have much resources and the enemy do they could work their 
 way up faster and then they could easly wipe you out!!!!
  
  The annoying thing about this game if you are attacking the enemy and one of their workers escapes 
 they can build another town with out you knowing. You think you have wipe them out but they are 
 slowy rebuilding them selves!!!
  
  The graphics of the game are excellent, detailed and nice touches!
  The sound is great in the 
 game!
  
  I would recommend this game to people who likes strategic game play and Age of Empires! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vornagar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  A solid Real-Time-Stragety gamee with its pros and cons. Empire Earth is a promising and upcoming 
 series to come. The idea of this game is interesting. Your units can evolve from caveman all the 
 way to future people wiht lasers and mechs. Unfortunately this game is filled with many flaws. 
 First the AI in this game is really easy and can be beaten without breaking a sweat. Second the 
 added "Wonder Victory" can be both annoying for you and your opponent. Also, evolving your civilization 
 from one age to the other can take a very long time and leaves you getting bored after quite a 
 while. Third, graphics are not very impressive as with most RTS games. Fourth, the future age seems 
 like it was just plopped into this game. It is not as deep or innovative as the rest of the ages 
 and doesn't seem as great as it should be. Overall this game looks like the start of a promising 
 series to come and hopefully Sierra will build on this for Empire Earth 2 and 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunsnArmor
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jan 12, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  There is alot of levels on this game. Therese 4 different campaigns to choose from. There are also 
 alot of units on this game ( theres like 20 different ages) . I like the map editor a lot, too. 
 
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics is the worst part of the game. It looks like they didn't even work hard on it. Its 
 all square and everything. Though the intro movie is cool.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound isn't so swell either. Well thats about all I can say on the sound.
  
  Value
  
 
  You can buy this game if you want. It has a good story but the graphics and sound are bad. I bought 
 it for 30$. You should buy it because you can't rent a computer game, except for at a library, 
 of course.
  
  Reviewers Tilt
  
  I give it a fair rating. I hope the second one is better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  Since I first put my hands on my first strategy game, I said "someone should make a game where 
 you can upgrade all the way from Caveman to space age". And you know what? My wish came true a 
 few years later. 
  
  Empire Earth was the Strategy game of my dreams. You start with the Cave men and you work up through 
 like 12 or 13 ages up to the Nano age. This is great all by its self, but the game is a little 
 bit more intricate than just going through the ages and killing everything you see. 
  
  This was my first strategy game where you actually had to plan according to the type of weapons 
 you want to use and when you think the Computer has. Arrow beats Sword, Sword beats pike and pike 
 beats Arrow or whatever the this is. This adds a new level of gaming for me. You also have the 
 choice of what your strong points must be for all your different units. In stead of doing a global 
 upgrade, you also have the option to upgrade a specific type of unit. You can choose to only upgrade 
 the Tanks. And because you might have limited recourses you can choose to upgrade only the defense 
 of a tank or the amount of damage you can do. This was a nice little add on for Strategy games. 
 
  
  Some of the buildings have abilities to protect or heal your units. For example Universities stop 
 enemies from creating calamities inside a specific perimeter around the University building.
  
  All these little upgrades make the game great but it is a bit to much sometimes. I don't even 
 bother with half the upgrades and it is almost impossible to upgrade all the way from Stone Age 
 to Nano age in one play. Unless you are a 30 year old drunk that does nothing but play games for 
 10 hours every day you get home like my pathetic house mate.
  
  I love the game. I love the graphics and I will play this game for ages to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2005 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Don't You Hear It Calling?
  Remember this one. Honor it. Say its name with pride. Somewhere in its lineage to come, long after 
 its original name (Age of Empires II. V) has been forgotten and shoveled into mental landfills along 
 with boy-band dance moves, it, or something very like it, just may make the day of a kid like you 
 (or like the kid you once were) by allowing you to play games in History class without actually 
 absorbing any potentially-distracting, specific knowledge. Empire Earth is an epic, sprawling real-time 
 strategy game that imparts a general, sweeping sense of History's grandeur without resorting to 
 that lowest, creepiest endeavor known as "edutainment."
  
  Starting out with an excellently-done tutorial (presented with instant-gratification voice work 
 and short range rewards that give even first time players a feel for the game's objectives) , Empire 
 Earth leads you through single-player campaigns devoted to four different nationalities in four 
 different historical periods. The epochs include the English of the Middle Ages, the ancient Greeks, 
 the World War I-era Germans, and the next-century Russians.
  
  Never too early to learn an important, brutal truth here: despite the game's exciting mix of units 
 that tempt one to just rush out there and mix it up tank (or pikeman, or musketeer) rush style, 
 the game gets complicated very quickly; more quickly, in fact, than it takes to reach a new epoch.
 
  
  Each one of the mind-numbing array of units has complex strategic relationships with each of the 
 others. Don't think "rock kills scissors, paper covers rock," but rather think along the lines 
 of "rock kill scissors and paper covers rock, except when the improved scissors arrive, which not 
 kill not only paper and rocks but certain types of cups and dice, which when combined together 
 form the Chinese drinking game which can't kill anything in and themselves but can get a lot of 
 people drunk and poor..." If you count variants to general classifications of military units as 
 well as era-specific equivalents (such as noting two distinct brands of fighter aircraft in WWII, 
 before looking forward to their futuristic multi-role descendants) , you've got a satisfying two-hundred-something 
 unit types to contend with.
  
  To add to the purely mil-sci complications, Empire Earth requires the procurement of five types 
 of resources - the original four from Age of Empires, plus the new iron. As in previous games, 
 resources are fixed localized deposits whose locations can shape the very nature of your war-machine, 
 and suddenly finding yourself strategically blockaded from access to one or more can be, in the 
 historical-military vernacular, a real **** That's right - there's no resource trade system in 
 place allowing the haves to barter with the have-nots.
  
  Unless you're a real capitalist jockey of the Shanghai school, you won't miss it in any case. Empire 
 Earth is deep even for a hard-core RTSer; if you're used to more casual strategy gaming, you will 
 get hurt the first few times you play. You'll also find the going a little more deliberate overall, 
 and certainly if you take on the single player game at the beginning. There just aren't a lot of 
 exciting units to be had nor a lot of dramatic battles when your prime concerns are less about 
 Advancing Your Civilization than trying to scrape farm systems together and pick off the occasional 
 wild animal.
  
  Despite Empire Earth's definite feel of history, it takes a lot of liberties. Prophets, in particular, 
 are the first, well, goofy elements you'll encounter, magically "converting" the enemy's citizenry, 
 and even literally calling curses and holocausts down on the enemy. This fun but let's-face-it-goofiness 
 rears its head again literally ages later, when your futuristic bipedal mech-like Cybers totter 
 hither and yon about the countryside.
  
  But don't get ahead of yourself. Long before you climb the developmental ladder from Nadatech to 
 Nanotech, be sure to stop and smell the roses before you surround, subjugate and stomp them into 
 History's remainder-bin. A lot of the detail here is terrific. You're not just conquering the plains 
 with generic 'soldiers' or 'implements,' but Moorish infantry, hand cannoneers and the very Trojan 
 Horse itself. Watch trebuchets and other siege mechanisms load onto transports in preparation for 
 Ye Olde D-Daye, and for Heaven's sake, keep your ancient toga-wearin' citizens close to the nearest 
 Library (to prevent the enemy's Prophets from putting that crazy Old Time Religion into their heads) .
 
  
  The example of the Library is indicative of another of Empire Earth's cool schemes - the fact that 
 individual buildings actually have tactical and strategic meaning. It isn't enough to simply 'have 
 enough' of a type of structure (ask a Red Alert 2 player about Power Plants in this regard) , but 
 to have those structures carefully placed within your customized walls and defenses, with prudence 
 (or malice) aforethought. Unfortunately, the various civilizations in the game don't have units 
 specific to them (such as the American Strike Eagle in Civilization III) , which hurts one's feelings, 
 a little.
  
  Another minor letdown regarding important structures is that, while they do their jobs, some of 
 them don't visually change from epoch to epoch. It's a little weird to look proudly down upon your 
 Atomic-era nation only to spy some architectural anachronism squatting there like the one last 
 moldering slice of last year's birthday clam-cake amid all the new deli sandwiches, Power Sauce 
 bars, wrapped cruelty-free salads, and bad, bad metaphors. I'm just sayin'.
  
  If Empire Earth suddenly shows a 'fantasy element' along the lines of the prophets or the cybers, 
 it's as a well-crafted precaution, a way to ensure that the game never devolves into something 
 too 'historical' and dull. As such, victory conditions are pretty straightforward and typical, 
 almost to the point of tedium: kill everything. Sure enough, you may find yourself relentlessly 
 sweeping the map trying to track down that one, sole survivor rat bastard on the enemy's side that's 
 keeping the battle from 'ending.'
  
  In multiplayer as in single player games, a victory by creation of Wonders of the World is also 
 possible, but in light of the game's almost exclusively military cant, one almost questions (or 
 Wonders, if you like) why that option's there, and who takes it. Vegetarians, probably.
  
  Empire Earth isn't pretty close-up; terrain/building visuals are kinda dull and blah and blocky 
 (and since cinematics are engine-based, you can't even save your eyes during those) , but you gotta 
 admit, it's got a really good personality. Plus, the game can present some truly epic battles, 
 with dozens or even hundreds of 3D (not sprite-based) units active at any one time. It hasn't forgotten 
 its roots.
  
  But far and away past any of these high points, even over the well-crafted and often brutal civ-specific 
 campaigns, is simply the experience of the random, open-ended, random-map battles, unbound by artificial 
 start conditions, where it almost takes on that convincing feel of history. And once you start 
 messing around with scenario design, you can indeed lose decades. Call it an historical pack-in 
 bonus. In the end, nitpicky notes aside, Empire Earth is a thorough and layered game, and gets 
 a lot more right than it gets wrong.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: searsman100174
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 10, 2005 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Hours of entertainment. Loved it.
  
  I enjoyed all the campains. They gave enough guidance so you know what your doing, but allowed 
 enough leeway that you could still plan and play it your own way.
  
  I really enjoyed the random maps. You can begin and end at almost any era of human evolution from 
 prehistoric times to sometime in the future. You can put yourself in many different settings from 
 land to sea or both or even settings in space. I'm still still enjoying different combinations.
 
  
  The only fault I find is it can be difficult to keep track of different units and you sometimes 
 get stuck trying to micromanage some of the battles.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxtone
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2005 7:15 am PT
Review:  I have had this game since the day that it came out which was three years ago and I still play 
 it when I get tired of Xbox games, and you know why because this game does not end the same way 
 every time, and that to me makes this game worth the time and money.
  
  You get to create a lot of units and other thing is that u have I think about thirteen ages. The 
 other cool feature is the online game play and after all this time there are still people playing 
 online which is very nice and that goes to show u that I am not the only one that loves this game.
 
  
  I would recommend this game to any body who loves PC games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghoulishdoll
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 16, 2005 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- Very vast and expanding through the ages, no matter what age of combat you may enjoy 
 this game should cover it all. The wide array of weapons for each era also adds up to enjoyment 
 so you do not have to re-use the same kind of units again.
  
  Graphics- Pretty good for such an immense 3D game such as this one where the graphics have to be 
 evenly put out, to withdraw laggy gameplay, so i'd still give it good ratings in this department
 
  
  Sound- The sound effects and dialogue in this game was pretty okay and the blasts and weapon fire 
 was pretty realistic enough
  
  Value For Money- Yes
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhatter_412
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 11, 2005 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Empire Earth is a Real-Time Strategy that had a great deal going for it. With its large scale, 
 epic feel (1,200 unit population limit and 14 epochs) one might wonder how a gaming company would 
 go about implementing these into a playable, functional game. The answer is "poorly". The 14 epochs 
 make smooth gameplay a thing of the past and if you want to play a "large scale" game it could 
 take you upwards of 4 hours.
  
  All this to say that Empire Earth does have a few things going for it. The aforementioned population 
 limit give your military the power to expand beyond any other RTS I've played. The ability to custumize 
 civs is a nice feature, allowing you to tailor a nation to your liking (and taking away any pre-game 
 advantage in multiplayer scenarios) . The multiplayer is a good addition and can be enjoyable if 
 you lock the game to one or two epochs.
  
  All things considered I would call Empire Earth mediocre at best. A swing and a miss on Sierra's 
 part. Don't believe the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lt_Ghost
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2005 12:03 am PT
Review:  First of all the gameplay is perfect. All the regular RTS actions are here, idle citizens button 
 and everything. No complaints really. Actually it does a good job of keeping the IU small so you 
 see a lot of action. Also its standard Left-click and rigth click things as well.
  The Graphics are very dated now about 5 years old. But they are still looking good, you can ,ake 
 out structures and poeple fairly well.
  The sound in this game is still awesome, whether you have cannon firings or planes flying, its 
 sounds great, Especially with a BasS its even better!
  I boguth this game in 03 and got it for $30. And i will tell you I got about $70 dollars worth 
 of this game. Definitley worht the buy.
  Well i got this game in 2003 and im still playing it. Thats two years my friends! The great thing 
 about it is the variety you get out of this game. Get bored of modern age. swicth to medieval and 
 its a totally different ball game. And since this an older game it runs Absolutely great on even 
 the oldest current-PC's. So do your self a favor and if you can buy this game, as of august 24,2005. 
 Its probably like $10- $5. ITS DEFINETLY WORTH IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadManRollin
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 19, 2005 9:17 am PT
Review:  When the first screens started popping out, I couldn't stop myself from being amazed. This game 
 looked like everything a strategy game fan could ask for. Especially, it promised to have everything 
 that Age of Empires lacked, and also add a lot of new things. For starters, the game had Aircrafts, 
 modern age infantry and tanks, and moreover, it also had slingers from the stone age. As a whole, 
 the game was a collection of the worlds history, from the very early ages and up to modern, not-seen 
 and only dreamed about future age, ruled by robots.
  
  Yes, the game has a Nano age, where the battles look like outtakes from a sci-fi movie. Laser bolts, 
 huge robotic feagures, explosions -- things do look good, and all of it is in 3D. One can zoom in 
 and take the game to a third person shooter viewpoint. Infact, some of the campaign missions starts 
 with that view. It all looks really cool. The empire earth engine is a marvel, and it can run in 
 even 8 MB graphics cards. 
  
  In no way one can say that Empire Earth is a bad game. Actually it is quite difficult to describe 
 the true nature of this game. It's enjoying at times, and yet frustrating on other occasions. The 
 main problem with the game is actually it's best point as well. The game is really vast. You can 
 literally start a game with primitive men, and take them up to Nano age. But what sounds really 
 cool in paper doesn't really play out that well in reality.
  
  The AI is really aggressive, which is a good thing. But this also means that they'll attack every 
 now and then, and force you to solely focus on quickly building and upgrading a strong army. Unlike 
 most RTS games, you'll have to face action pretty early in the game. And there are too many units, 
 which means that you'll have to study each and every of them, and think of countering the counter 
 units as well! It's not just that plain old formula of ammassing a huge army, attacking opponents 
 from different points, and finishing them off. The attacks need to be comprehensive, covering any 
 and every sort of retaliation measures. 
  
  After all, most people plays games for having fun, and spending some quality leisure time. This 
 game emphasizes more on the "Strategy" part, compared to the fun part. Empire Earth might be lauded 
 by the RTS freak, who has completed each and every campaign from all popular RTS games, but this 
 game is not for all. Not even for a moderate RTS fan. Only the hardcore fans, whom are willing 
 to spend 6-8 hours behind one single scenario or fight will enjoy this game. 
  
  As far as Single Player's concern, the campaigns are really difficult, and involves lots of planning 
 and very calculative steps. One mistake, and you're done for it. This can be enjoying for a while, 
 but soon the heavy toil becomes a "toil", and players don't feel like "playing" a game. 
  
  This game is a highly recommended game for die hard RTS fans looking for a new challenge, but strategy 
 newbies and not-so-diehard fans should steer clear from this one. There are lots of more accessible 
 3D RTS games in the market, e. g. Warcraft III, Lord of The Rings: Battle for Middle Earth, Rise 
 of Nations, etc.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GlordionX5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2005 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Empire Earth defines the rts genre. Empire Earth has 14 epochs (space is in expansion (15 ages) 
 in which you collect resources as fast as you can to make powerful armies to crush your enemies. 
 
  
  The graphics in this game are somewhat lacking but the visual effects are realistic, such as holes 
 in the ground from shelling units into the dirt. After a building is destroyed it looks unreal 
 when it sinks into the earth but still leaves rubble after smoke appears after it falls, and the 
 gun smoke is a realistic effect. When looking into the people's eyes they look horrible, nonetheless 
 the graphics are great for its time. If Physics are placed into this game it would look very real 
 and the score will raise along with it.
  
  The sound is repetitive but realistically sounding as planes fly by, missiles af-iring, the kling-klang 
 of swords, the gunfire, artillery fire and the burning buildings. The music is very strong for 
 a game this great and suits it very well as u lead your civilization to glory. 
  
  Game play, game play, game play i'll have to say that it's at It's best for a 14 era game. Complete 
 with a Rock, Paper, Scissors system where units counter units accordingly with the different armour 
 they have (pierce, shock and archer armour with gun armour/laser armour in later ages) . The ones 
 countered should not give their hopes up because u can upgrade a single kind of unit to have more 
 attack range, health, armour and splash damage. The gameplay is endless as you try to find a strategy 
 that will win over all the rest and will keep you playing for hours on end. The custom civilizations 
 you can create will test your skill to use that particular one to the best of your ability than 
 the other preset civilizations.
  
  I say wow when looking at the multi-player screen so easy to use and it is so customizable for 
 changing sizes. You can add friends to your list and see all players that are waiting in the lobby. 
 Complete with invite to game, ask to join and a locked game, whispering (or private messages) , and 
 warn to secure your online experience. The game setup is also easy to use since you can chat with 
 your team and talk in the lobby at the same time or disallow the use of custom civilizations, cheats 
 and reveal map in-game. Along with 16 colors to chose.
  
  Even though the positive overrun of this review, the Artificial Intelligence (or AI) is a cheating 
 rip off supposedly to make a great match for players. This game was meant for multi-player.
  
  This game is a classic to all rts fans out there and i hope you the average player can understand 
 to not miss out on such a fantastic game. I Hope you like Empire Earth as much or near as much 
 as I. It feels so good to be an expert you can be one too. Warning: may play for hours on end.
 
  
  
  
  Other: Empire Earth 2 was a total let down from Empire Earth 1 and destroyed what Empire Earth 
 was meant to be, the original remains an innovating classic to all rts games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 28, 2005 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are nice, though about the same quality as Age of Empires II. You can zoom in, but it's 
 just ugly and I found no use for it. Sound is, again, about the same as Age of Empires II, with 
 nothing to really comment on. 
  
  The improvements come in the gameplay. Many new races to choose from, and now you can make your 
 own custom race. Basically you have 100 points to spend on different bonuses to land/sea/air units 
 or your civilization, etc... A very nice addition if I do say so myself. 
  
  There are many more units than Age of Empires II, since Empire Earth has 10 Epochs (Ages) , with 
 many new units and upgrades to previous ones. The units themselves can have their attributes upgraded. 
 You can spend resources to upgrade a unit's (all of the same type of unit are affected, not just 
 THAT unit) hitpoints, damage, speed, armor, damage radius and the like. 
  
  A few new additions come in the form of Aircraft Carriers which can send air attacks from great 
 distances, but is just about defenseless when fighting another ship. 
  
  There are also air bases which can send out aircraft a certain distance, based on how much fuel 
 that unit has. Since planes can nuke buildings, they are extremely useful and downright fun. 
 
  
  The game plays very similar to Age of Empires II, except that it takes alot longer to win a game. 
 If you have even the slightest bit of interest in strategy games I would recommend you get Empire 
 Earth (preferably the Gold Edition which comes with the expansion, or whatever it's called) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tardog_daman
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2005 1:27 am PT
Review:  Empire Earth rocks out loud. Those are my five opening words. But that cannot just be an entire 
 review. I must explain and talk about the game.
  
  Empire Earth is a strategy game made by the people who made the popular game Age Of Empires. Every 
 kid loved Age Of Empires. But the poor population limit was a let down. Here we go folks, 16 ages 
 of high paced, realistic warfare just came in.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay is great. The skirmishes are fantastic and campaigns are long, difficult and great.
 
  
  Controls:
  It's all mouse. The controls are dead easy to use as it's all done with the mouse.
  
  Sounds 
 and music:
  I loved the sounds. They were realistic and great. The music was fine also.
  
  Graphics engine:
  Awesome. It looks fantastic and when you zoom in to ground level, it looks 
 cool! The only let down is the cannonballs when they are in mid air. The cannon balls are basically 
 just black blobs and they are not 3D. This was quite noticeable and a let down.
  
  This is all I can really talk about. This is a short (and nearly useless) review but this game 
 is fantastic. My advice is to buy it. Don' t rent it, buy it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Entih
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2005 10:48 pm PT
Review:  To tell you the truth, this game is a really good game, at least in my opinion. The graphics aren't 
 the best of the game's time, but using 3D in place of 2D was a good idea, and highly commendable. 
 The sound is pretty good, considering the games date (or should I say dates, since it takes place 
 over 150 million years of human history) , but the sounds, especially voices, could have used work. 
 I still get a laugh going through the English campaign with the exaggerated accents. The music 
 is better than the voices. The music somewhat blends with the background noise while things are 
 calm, but then, as an army attacks yours, it changes rapidly to a faster and louder battle theme.
 
  
  The gameplay in and of itself is varied. First you have a tutorial that explains the basics. Then 
 you have four main campaigns spanning history: The ancient Greeks, from prehistoric to shortly 
 before 500 A. D., the English, from middle ages to about the 1700s, Germany, ranging through the 
 2 world wars, and the Russians, going from modern time to the nano age, about 3000 A. D. if Im not 
 mistaken. Then you have the multiplayer and random game functions.
  
  The multiplay and Random map games are not the right way to learn how to play, as other players 
 and the computer can be extremely ruthless. But, the good news is that these are highly customizable. 
 Most importantly, you can set up to 8 computer players (usually for random map) , and even set any 
 number as allies. Then you can adjust the amount of starting resources, from the lowest "Standard- 
 low" all the way to over-the-top high "Tournament- standard". Not just that, but the epochs are 
 adjustable, you can have all 14, or just one of them, but you cant skip an epoch, if you choose 
 to start in WWI, you can't just skip past WWII. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JRLester
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 19, 2005 4:23 am PT
Review:  Empire Earth and the expansion pack introduce various eras of civilizations where you must survive 
 by not only military superiority but importantly by managing resources and playing govenor when 
 allocating your work force of peasent like citizens. With enough patience, intelligence and combat 
 knowhow, you can prepare to face great military battles, fantastic action, and a thriving populous 
 who supports your mighty armies. There are set campaings to work with or if you are up for a real 
 challenge just play a random map against the computer, there is where the fun is to be had. The 
 computer there can create as large an army as possible, explore to destroy you and overall it keeps 
 you on your toes. Enjoy this game:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Capitalist
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 18, 2005 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Some games are modeled after others, right?
  
  Welcome to EE. The game was modeled right after AoK's engine, but, with 3D graphics and different 
 gameplay, but nontheless, interface was the same all the way. You collect resources, etc.
  
  You start a game, and it loads, and then you see a few citizens and a capitol. Almost all games 
 of EE look like this, except the campaigns and custom scenarios.
  
  Your goal is to defeat your rivals on the map and to help you do so, there are technologies to 
 research to give you an edge, and there are allies in the mist waiting.
  
  You defeat your rivals, win, blah, blah, blah, and the end. Or, you get crushed, and blah, blah, 
 blah, you start over. This dull scenario of multiplayer and single player revolves all around this.
 
  
  But, thankfully, EE comes with quite an advanced editor, and with that, you can create complex 
 multiplayer and single player scenarios.
  
  Graphics are not bad, and 3D effects can be awesome to watch the first time, but, get a bit repetative. 
 So goes for sound. Sound and music are not subtle at all, and consist of bits of artificial noise 
 created from some advanced sound editor.
  
  EE is one of those games that will keep you going for a bit, but, then will just end up in the 
 back of your desk.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 24, 2004 12:42 am PT
Review:  The lead designer the Age of Empires series Rick Goodman decided to part with his franchise to 
 design a more of a thinking mans RTS named Empire Earth. EE can be played in tournament mode for 
 quicker network games and standard mode for strategically more demanding single player campaigns 
 (where things like resource gathering, destruction of walls, and advancing to new epochs take longer) . 
 Being able complete games faster in multiplayer does not make Empire Earth an accessible game though: 
 if not for its humongous scope (over 200 unit types in 14 ages called epochs) then casual players 
 will be scared away for EE's aggressive AI. Of course, the scope and AI are also what make EE's 
 campaigns and skirmishes more interesting than those of most other RTS-s including Age of Empires. 
 EE also plays differently from standard RTSs in the following ways. For one, more goes into city 
 planning as certain buildings have effects on surrounding units (vicinity of hospitals heals, houses 
 increases your troops morale, universities do not allow people to be converted to EE's worker 
 units citizens, temples protect from calamities that can be performed by prophets) . EE's resources 
 are also collected differently: mines never deplete, people work in a building instead of having 
 them carrying stuff back and forth, all resources go straight to the town centre; there's also 
 an extra resource iron in addition to the standard four of AOE. Resource supplies are placed all 
 over the map and as each unit type unit requires two or one resources to make, your closeness to 
 location might very well the type of your army or force you to attack for more resources. Next, 
 EE's units feature upgrades for more abilities than most RTSs: attack range, frequency and strength, 
 armor, unit speed etc. And lastly, there are heroes: the strategic ones give morale bonuses to 
 nearby units and warrior heroes who are strong fighters. Heroes are the main characters of any 
 of EEs four campaigns which are more fun than usually for their great variety in units and buildings 
 belonging of different nations and the events (loose) ties to history. Although the historic battles 
 are pictured very simplistically, it is still sort of interesting to fight knowing that something 
 similar has actually happened (better than history classes at least, imho) . Campaigns also reward 
 players with prestige points which can be used to make specific units cheaper for your civilization 
 (another way to get bonuses is to build World Wonders) . Presumably EE can appeal to anybody as 
 the player can concentrate on battles between Stone Age cavemen, medieval knights, naval units 
 or futuristic robots alike. Although even a campaign would never cover all 14 epochs, with the 
 progress in human history the complexity of gameplay increases only slightly. Aside from the rather 
 steep learning curve, the most outstanding negatives of Empire Earth are its blockyness of graphics 
 (it is nice to be able to zoom in but you wouldnt really want to, an example picture on the right) , 
 and how grouped units would not retain their formations and maintain the speed of the slower group-members 
 while moving like in Age of Empires. Repetitive sound samples get very annoying too: units mostly 
 answer the same thing when clicked upon. Finally, the 20 civilization of EE do not feature any 
 bonus units nor do the units respond in their own language. Some of these features were hoped to 
 be included in the expansion pack Art of Conquest. Unfortunately, it turned out to be hard to add 
 to the game that already has everything; new contents were four new average-level campaigns which 
 instead of offering interesting strategic decisions were heavily scripted sequences of small battles, 
 and a weird 15th epoch in space where the sea was replaced by an empty interplanetary void. Still, 
 all in all Empire Earth is an exceptionally great deviation in a genre where most games play pretty 
 much the same.
  
  17/20 - Based on 5 HOURS
  3/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - Due to huge amounts of units/buildings, not all of them look good.
  3/4 
 ACCESSIBILITY - A game for more hard-core RTS gamers.
  3/4 PACING - Offers a lot of challenge and long learning curve to get to know 200+ different units. 
 Pretty much as interesting as a single player RTS gets.
  4/4 INNOVATION - The large scope of the game and lots of gameplay improvements. 
  4/4 IMMERSION 
 - It's scope and campaigns, although very loosely resembling history, make it a memorable single 
 player experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacsea
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 10, 2004 7:20 am PT
Review:  I bought this game about 8 months ago - tried it once, but didn't like it. Today, wanting to try 
 something new, I decided to give it another go - and you know what.... I was surprisingly pleased. 
 It's graphics may not be the best compared to others out there, but a good strategy game is just 
 that - a strategy game.... something to get you thinking and I found that this game certainly got 
 the wheels turning.
  
  I think the problem I had the first time around was that I chose to dive right in and ignore the 
 traiing scenarios - a big mistake. After using the tutorial, I went out and gave a single player 
 campaign a try - after several starts, I finally managed to get a grasp of the interface and voila 
 - a very enjoyable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MailmanBlack
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 23, 2003 8:56 pm PT
Review:  First of all, all of you out there who put this game down don't know any thing about strategy games. 
 
  1. I have notices allot of people complaining about how the game cheats just to let you know ALL 
 AI CHEATS even in "warcraft" or "starcraft" and don't say it doesn't because I herd it strait from 
 a programmers mouth (I read it from his article) . also the computer can never be as good as a human 
 player it cant think it only thinks logically as in what it was programmed to do the only way it 
 can come close to wining is by cheating.
  2. 7 people to a mine they do this so it leaves you wanting more so you fight for more resources 
 out in the plains of the map its what drives the game if you could put as many people as you wanted 
 there would be no point because you would have like 20 people on one patch of Iron or gold ext... 
 this would mean you would have so many people on patches you wouldn't care about a norther because 
 you already have to much as it is.
  3. "graphics suck" wrong they are very good for this amount there giving you, you can have up to 
 600 people at a time now think of it this way if each one of these units was a digital master piece 
 your computer would probably crash very quickly or lag ALOT this isn't AOE wear you can have 200 
 people this is 600 think about it do the math.
  4. "I have to kill every unit to win" DUUUU what do you want, I have to kill all but 20 to win 
 hehehe. no thats not how it works its like chess do you win in chess if you kill all but the king 
 no, you have to kill him to.
  5. the only reason y I put this game down of graphics is because the buildings are 2D if you don't 
 believe me just go to the scenario editor and turn the building around and you wont see the backside 
 of the house building ect...
  6. for the record Iv been playing this game for 2 years now and I think qualifies for gameplay 
 10.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
