-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Empire Earth: The Art of Conquest
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/empireearththeartofc/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 23, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.2
Critic Score: 6.6, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 688 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Mad Doc Software
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Sep 17, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Art of Conquest doesn't add enough to make much of a difference. 

 What do you get for the game that already has everything? Not much, if you're the Art of Conquest 
 expansion for Empire Earth. This disappointing addition to Stainless Steel Studios'  
 real-time strategy game doesn't do much to justify its steep $30 price tag. What you'll get are 
 three new campaigns, a half-baked new epoch, and one new bonus for each civilization.          
  The Pacific campaign takes place during World War II.    

 There are three new single-player campaigns in Art of Conquest: one set in ancient Rome, another 
 set in the Pacific theater of World War II, and a futuristic one that goes from Asia into outer 
 space. The campaigns are heavily adorned with in-engine cutscenes that zoom in far too close for 
 comfort, where blocky, low-resolution figures shift through their idle animations while embarrassingly 
 bad voice-overs play in the background. For instance, when the game tries to re-create General 
 MacArthur's triumphant arrival in the Philippines, the game looks and moves like an animated set 
 of child's toys.   

  And unfortunately, Art of Conquest doesn't play all that well, either. The campaigns introduce 
 some new units, but they have a minimal amount of impact on the gameplay, and you won't find them 
 in any of the skirmishes or multiplayer games. In the original game, you could build your own civilization 
 by earning points to buy bonuses that carried over from mission to mission. Art of Conquest has 
 nothing of the sort, instead connecting missions with convoluted storylines. The Roman campaign 
 begins with a fictional general before moving on to the career of Julius Caesar, ranging from Gaul 
 to the rest of Europe and Britain before squaring off against Pompey and Cleopatra in Egypt. But 
 the missions are little more than heavily scripted skirmishes on maps vaguely shaped like real-world 
 geography.   

  The limited nature of the expansion is most disappointing in the World War II campaign, which could 
 have featured some interesting island hopping, wars of attrition, and naval clashes with carriers, 
 submarines, and air power. Instead, there are only dull, superficial interpretations of battles 
 like Guadalcanal, Midway, and Iwo Jima that are more about scripting than tactics. For instance, 
 on Iwo Jima, you have to clear out bunkers to the north before clearing out the bunker to the south, 
 which ends the scenario. There's no good reason for this sort of restriction, but the campaigns 
 in Art of Conquest are generally driven by these kinds of scripting limitations. The futuristic 
 campaign, which is brimming over with exposition, is the least coherent. It goes from battles against 
 rebels in sprawling cities to strange trade puzzles to the game's new space age epoch, which may 
 as well have been strapped on with duct tape.   

  Space is the now the 15th and final epoch in Empire Earth, which might have been exciting if it 
 weren't so poorly implemented. Space is found only on specialized maps, where it replaces water 
 and can be crossed only by spaceships. "Planets" are represented by chunks of floating land, which 
 are really just round islands. Some of these are supposed to look alien, so they're drawn with 
 purple palettes and have clusters of crystals that can be harvested for wood instead of trees. 
 And as you might expect, there's no water on these new types of maps, rendering all naval units 
 and bonuses completely useless.   

  If you're playing a space map, you can set it up so civilizations will have no contact with each 
 other until the space epoch arrives and they can reach each other's planets. You can also have 
 space maps with all players on one planet and smaller planets waiting to be reached after the space 
 epoch arrives. These might have offered had some interesting effects on the gameplay if the new 
 additions in the space age weren't otherwise so trivial. Only the basic infantry and the defensive 
 turret get upgrades in this epoch. Otherwise, all you'll find are five types of spaceships, a new 
 gun emplacement, and an only marginally useful wonder of the world. The new ships, which seem rather 
 generic as far as spaceships go, move just like naval units, anyway. The new explosions look good 
 and the damage effects of ships with hull breaches are impressive. But in terms of gameplay, spaceships 
 are essentially big, ugly boats. Compared with the other 14 epochs in Empire Earth, space in The 
 Art of Conquest is almost as empty as the real thing.           The expansion's Roman campaign. 
    

 The best additions in Art of Conquest are the new unique bonuses given to each civilization. However, 
 these are wildly uneven, ranging from the virtually useless to the bizarre to the potentially unbalancing. 
 Among the stranger abilities are Roman "insurance," in which a portion of a unit's cost is refunded 
 when it's lost, and Assyrian "slavery," in which killing villagers will create new Assyrian villagers 
 who represent captured slaves. There are now several units with cloaking, as well as one civilization 
 that can temporarily cloak its own base. Some civilizations now have flexible economic choices 
 to exchange or substitute resources. Britain's commandos are basically rip-offs of the commando 
 unit from the Red Alert games. The Spanish and English have improved line of sight for certain 
 units, which is only marginally useful since it could have been purchased in the context of the 
 game. One oddity that again points to the weakness of the campaigns is that none of these bonus 
 powers actually come into play in the campaigns. However, in skirmish and multiplayer games, you 
 can mix and match these powers for custom civilizations. This adds an extra degree of flexibility 
 to the already overbearing detail that makes Empire Earth one of the most ambitious and desultory 
 real-time strategy games to ever overwhelm you.   

  Unfortunately, to play with these bonus powers, you'll have to shell out about $20 too much for 
 a set of disappointing campaigns and an even more disappointing space-age coda. Ultimately, The 
 Art of Conquest doesn't add enough to make much of a difference.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Robertcwm
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2009 2:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is WAY*infinity better than the original! It's just you haven't played online! Play the 
 multiplayer, you lazy people! You guys should be ashamed for not trying every single option of 
 the game before writing a review! I am going to tell all the people on the EEAOC Multiplayer! Every 
 one of you will be getting a formal complaint from us! You guys unappreciated this game because 
 the newer Empire Earth's suck. That is just gamerism (like racism, and genderism) ! You guys get 
 on the game right now and play online for 1 hour and then you'll see this game does not suck! People 
 if you have something to say back about this email me! You got that!? I will be watch this review 
 area! OK PEOPLE!? ok! Anyway why do you play a game once and then say it either sucks or is great. 
 You guys need to take your time and play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basantainlfc
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  This game is probably one of the best RTS game of all time. There are various ages to choose from 
 starting form the earliest prehistoric age to space age! My preferred age is the modern atomic 
 age. Basic concept of the game is gather resources build military units and destroy opposition. 
 Multiplayer is easy to start, unlike other games like **ahem** "Lost Planet" because the lobby 
 is active and filled with users in the lobby. People come online sometimes only to chat :) My only 
 complain about this game are glitches when playing online. It is easy to glitch hence it makes 
 this game harder to play with other people. All in all this is one of the best RTS games out there. 
 The graphics are decent considering this game was done in the year around 2002. It takes quite 
 some time to learn the ropes of this game. This game is definitely worth playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wind_mage7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 10, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Sure the campain can be boring, but the multiplayer can't be beat now. Especially because people 
 have come up with their own ways of playing like Citybuilders which always end in the biggest battle 
 you will ever see in you life (at least for computer games) . Tom Chick you must not play good pc 
 games at all I mean have you played EE2? It sucks period. EEAOC as its known is the best game in 
 the series. Sure the new powers arn't really balanced but thats the fun isn't it? The excitment 
 of conquering someones civilization that you thought would be totally unstoppable becuase it had 
 powers like cloaking and just-in-time manufacturing and upgrades such as range and attack for their 
 seige units. Or the wars started over the stone mine in the middle of a map. I mean thats the kind 
 of stuff good (keyword good) computer RTS games are made of.
  
  QUOTED FROM ARMALITE1016
  The original Empire Earth was really fun, and then they released this one. (This came out a LONG 
 time ago by the way, but I am reviewing it now.) Yes, the graphics do reach a level beyond bad, 
 but really that just makes Empire Earth more of what makes it unique. What really makes this game 
 good though is the multiplayer is just untouchable. Fans will try it and say, wow this is bad, 
 but real fans of EE know just how great multiplayer is. Playing with cpu controlled players is 
 still pretty fun, but when you enter in a diplomacy game, you really feel like a civilization, 
 in a sandbox world where you can do anything. Team games are still fun, but the diplomatic city 
 builders are really where the addictiveness comes into play. I said learning curve 4 or more hours 
 because in multiplayer you will need to play A LOT to even have a small chance against seasoned 
 players (seeing how this has been out for years now.) Diplomacy games are more forgiving, because 
 you can be peaceful and ally more people, but if you are fairly new, or havent played a lot, expect 
 to get chewed up within minuted by veterans of the game. They will wipe you out before you can 
 even get one military unit out. Everyone has been through that, so players will know what I'm talking 
 about.
  
  The Gameplay is almost perfect, but somethings are a little annoying, such as how units don't stay 
 in formation, and sometimes don't do exactly what you tell them to. Otherwise it is perfect.
  
  Graphics, like i said, laughable. Embarrasing. Just plain bad. but again, it kind of gives 
 the game its own unique atmosphere, it just wouldnt seem like EE without those graphics. so it 
 gets a 4, instead of a 3, which any other gam with these graphics probably would recieve. just 
 since it basically takes the graphics in the game and makes it so you dont even notice.
  
  Sound: repetitive, but what did you really expect from an old RTS?
  
  value is great, not because 
 of the stupid campaigns they throw in, but because of multiplayer. Also, not to forget, they had 
 this in the original game too, but its still here, senario editor. I have spent countless hours 
 with that.
  
  Tilt, 10, just because true fans of EE will never stop liking it, and it just porves it that about 
 1-2 years after EE 2 came out, a community, yet small one (although it has always been pretty small, 
 usually average of 100 players on at any given time) it has still withstood time. if that doesnt 
 tell you how much more to this game there is than what would seem, i dont know what does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bag8ball
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 17, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  The Good: Interesting campaigns, an interesting epoch, &amp; new civilization powers.
  
  The Bad: Bad looking space battles and maps, little or no improvements what so ever to things such 
 as graphics &amp; suffers the same problems found in Empire Earth (e. g: cheating AI, cartoon like 
 graphics and sounds) .
  
  Before I would like to begin, I would like to tell the person reading this that the score is based 
 from the perspective of an Empire Earth fan.
  
  Empire Earth is one of the most enjoyable RTS games ever made. Because of the game's vast scope, 
 it seemed that an expansion would just add new campaigns, new civilizations, new units, etc. Empire 
 Earth fans got these in the expansion, The Art of Conquest. Firstly, the expansion has three new 
 campaigns: Roman, Pacific, and Asian. Although two of the three campaigns are been there, done 
 that campaigns, these two showcases events that were rarely depicted in other RTS games. This is 
 especially true of the Roman Campaign. The first 3 missions is all about the highlights of the 
 life of Gaius Marius, a Roman rarely mentioned (let alone featured) in other RTS games (in my case, 
 the only game I so far come across this historical character is Rome: Total War) . Anyway, the rest 
 of the Roman Campaign is about the military campaigns of Julius Caesar, which was featured in a 
 few other games. The Pacific campaign, despite its name, was basically about the Americans war 
 against the Japanese. Of all the campaigns, this was probably the most dissapointing because all 
 but one of the missions was featured in some other game. The campaign has some uninteresting missions 
 (in particular the Tooth and Nail mission) . The Pacific campaign also starts and ends abruptly 
 (starting at the Battle of Midway and ends at the Battle of Iwo Jima, which wasn't the last battle 
 in the Pacific during World War II) . The last campaign, the Asian Campaign, is like the Russian 
 Campaign in Empire Earth (you lead a fictional civilization to glory and all that) . However, this 
 campaign features the new Space Epoch, speaking of which...
  
  The Space epoch lives up to its name: see space battles, conquer alien worlds and all that. Because 
 of this new epoch, new maps, buildings and units were added to compesate although, as you'll see 
 later, these new features for the space epoch weren't all cracked up to be.
  
  Civilizations get an upgrade in the expansion through the new civ powers such as Expansionism, 
 Adaptation and Camouflage. Each of course offer the owning civ certain and interesting benifits. 
 Like all games however, Art of Conquests has a number of weak points. For one thing, although the 
 campaigns are interesting, they all don't give you the opportunity to enhance your civilization 
 by buying civlization bonuses. Another pitfall with this expansion is despite the fact that it 
 has new units, nearly all of them aren't available in normal skirmish battles. As said earlier, 
 the space epoch adds new units to all factions in a normal skirmish. However, besides spaceships, 
 the expansion adds very little to land battles and absoulutely nothing to naval combat; so when 
 you're fighting on a mostly water map during the space epoch, expect your naval units to be the 
 same old boats used two centuries before the space epoch!
  Although at first sight they look cool, space maps are nothing more than islands separated by black 
 water . The same goes for the space battles, which are nothing more than engagements between ugly 
 looking boats (if you wanted epic real time space battles, better buy Star Wars: Empire at War 
 which offers far more good looking space battles) . What's probably worse of all is the fact that 
 the developers never even improved a few features such as graphics, sound, music, diplomacy and 
 game AI (the fact that Art of Conquest has the same old cheating AI is somewhat bizzare when you 
 consider the fact that Mad Doc Software is a company that develops games with a very good AI) .
 
  
  In my review in Empire Earth, I noted the game at times wasn't serious and I think that this was 
 greatly increased in this expansion. By creating a space epoch, the developers, IMO, exploited 
 this to show more of the Star Wars influence on Empire Earth. Instead of creating triangular Space 
 Capital Ships, the created a square one. The developers named one space unit corvette and this 
 was a possible allusion to the Correlian Corvettes (which was, like the Art of Conquest corvette, 
 designed to destroy space fighters) in the Star Wars universe. The main infantry unit, the watchmen, 
 might remind players of the droids used by the Trade Federation during the Clone Wars. Even the 
 look of the citizens have some similarities to Super Battle Droids. Besides these rip offs from 
 Star Wars, other rip offs include the Dune Patrol unit ( inspired by the Warthog in Halo) and the 
 SAS commando (came from Red Alert) .
  
  Art of Conquest delivers features which a hardcore Empire Earth fan wouldn't want to miss. However, 
 for the typical RTS fan the game's price tag of $30 seems to much for a game which is actually 
 only less than 190 MB and has not much to offer. But since this is an expansion to a game which 
 nearly had everything, why add so much? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssj9Goku
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 16, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  its okay
  it has awsome gameplay
  awsome sound
  good graphics
  awsome value
  okay Reviewer's tilt
  i would have to say rent it and
  then buy it if you like
  i give it 
 a score of 8.2 good
  but what i like the most is the
  editing mode once you do editing
  mode you'll find your self in with a
  lot of new well new everything
  if you lie hard games 
 you should
  buy this game its good for renting it
  if you don't like hard games i like
  it because of the editing mode if you try this game go to editing mode
  in game tools trust me 
 its fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 7, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  Empire Earth: The Art of Conquest is an expansion to the visually stunning and extremely in depth 
 real-time strategy game, with roots leading back to the Age of Empires series. This game is clearly 
 designed with the intention of making any die-hard strategy gamer foam at the mouth, and spout 
 bizarre gurgling sounds of joy while playing it. Does this expansion really cause that pleasing, 
 yet simultaneously degenerative effect? Is the casual gamer lost inside the plethora of options 
 and complexities? Oh, the suspense! The main attraction to this game is epochs. Imagine owning about 
 15 RTS games in one package. Thats really the best way to think of it. The original game spanned 
 500,000 years and included 14 epochs that started with the Prehistoric Age and ended at the Nanotech 
 Age in the year 2100. The expansion has an all new epoch, called the Space Age! Starting in 2200, 
 it has the disheartening effect of making me believe I was born a few couple hundred years too 
 soon. Among the additions in the space age is an all new Wonder, the orbital space station. The 
 citizens in Space Age games appear as robots. This is somewhat humorous, since the interfaces still 
 list them as male or female when they look identical. The sound and music are good, but didnt 
 stand out much either. However, none of them are annoying in the least, and the music that plays 
 at the title screen features somewhat haunting chants that really set the tone for controlling 
 entire civilizations and permanently altering the course of this little blue planets history. 
 Oh joy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armalite1016
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  The original Empire Earth was really fun, and then they released this one. (This came out a LONG 
 time ago by the way, but I am reviewing it now.) Yes, the graphics do reach a level beyond bad, 
 but really that just makes Empire Earth more of what makes it unique. What really makes this game 
 good though is the multiplayer is just untouchable. Fans will try it and say, wow this is bad, 
 but real fans of EE know just how great multiplayer is. Playing with cpu controlled players is 
 still pretty fun, but when you enter in a diplomacy game, you really feel like a civilization, 
 in a sandbox world where you can do anything. Team games are still fun, but the diplomatic city 
 builders are really where the addictiveness comes into play. I said learning curve 4 or more hours 
 because in multiplayer you will need to play A LOT to even have a small chance against seasoned 
 players (seeing how this has been out for years now.) Diplomacy games are more forgiving, because 
 you can be peaceful and ally more people, but if you are fairly new, or havent played a lot, expect 
 to get chewed up within minuted by veterans of the game. They will wipe you out before you can 
 even get one military unit out. Everyone has been through that, so players will know what I'm talking 
 about.
  
  The Gameplay is almost perfect, but somethings are a little annoying, such as how units don't stay 
 in formation, and sometimes don't do exactly what you tell them to. Otherwise it is perfect.
  
  Graphics, like i said, laughable. Embarrasing. Just plain bad. but again, it kind of gives 
 the game its own unique atmosphere, it just wouldnt seem like EE without those graphics. so it 
 gets a 4, instead of a 3, which any other gam with these graphics probably would recieve. just 
 since it basically takes the graphics in the game and makes it so you dont even notice.
  
  Sound: repetitive, but what did you really expect from an old RTS?
  
  value is great, not because 
 of the stupid campaigns they throw in, but because of multiplayer. Also, not to forget, they had 
 this in the original game too, but its still here, senario editor. I have spent countless hours 
 with that.
  
  Tilt, 10, just because true fans of EE will never stop liking it, and it just porves it that about 
 1-2 years after EE 2 came out, a community, yet small one (although it has always been pretty small, 
 usually average of 100 players on at any given time) it has still withstood time. if that doesnt 
 tell you how much more to this game there is than what would seem, i dont know what does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Denny_Carmassi
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 11, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  Empire Earth is fun at times, annoying at other. The graphics are bog-standard. The gameplay is 
 a total rip off of Age Of Empires, but better. The map maker is the most fun. You can jerk up the 
 stats of any units in map maker mode (It is so fun to see footsoldiers running faster than cars 
 and trucks.) You can place future troopers against primitive men. That is fun. The campaigns take 
 so long, and they suck and are completely historiclally inacurate.
  
  Gameplay- 8/10- Like Age Of Empires, but sooo much better. It's fun to jerk up stats of units to 
 your liking.
  
  Graphics- 2/10- Awfull. Even some PS1 games have better graphics. Hell, some Atari games have better 
 graphics.
  
  Sound- 7/10- Really bad soundtrack, but very good sfx
  
  Value- 7/10- Lots to do. Good multiplayer, and the map editor won't bore you in a hurry
  
  
 It's a really good game. Theres lots to do, and unlike Age Of Empires, It goes beyond Roman Times. 
 Right up to the future 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 3, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  I love the original game but I really do not think that this expansion was completely useful.
 
  
  The expansion does add a new Space age and some new Campaigns but I think charging people for that 
 is just wrong. I'm glad I bought it because it completes the set but I really think it was a bit 
 of a waiste. 
  
  It brings nothing that new to the game. I do like the new Space age and I do like the new planets 
 maps, but all that could have been put into a huge patch ur some type of update. Even better, it 
 could have been saved for Empire Earth 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nely_nelson
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2005 7:00 pm PT
Review:  In most reviews i found that people rated empire earth higher then empire earth the at of conquest. 
 I have them both and i find art of conquest funner to play. it had had new characters. I thought 
 the multipplayer was a bit weak and same with the single plater. I don't say this about many rts 
 games but i actualy enjoyed the skirmish mode. it had an epic 15 era's to play with. And the maps 
 were different everytime i played. I would recomend it to most hardcore rts fans. I fyou are just 
 looking for a time waster go with Age of empirees series. Thank you for reading this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhatter_412
Rating: 4.7
Date: Oct 11, 2005 7:38 pm PT
Review:  There are several things that a person expects from a Real-Time Strategy expansion. Empire Earth: 
 The Art of Conquest really didn't do anything for the Empire Earth name but bring it down to a 
 new level of terrible. The worthwhile changes to the game were few to none. The only real substantial 
 changes were the addition civ-specific powers, and the 15th epoch.
  
  The civ-specific powers were fun for the first few games until the player realizes that every civ 
 is still strikingly similar. The 15th Epoch was nothing less than a dissapointment. "Space", if 
 you want to call it that, is just a large black sea that surrounds flat, 2-D planets. One might 
 as well play on an island map. It's the same idea. There was a lot more that could have been done 
 with it. Sierra, again, drops the ball big time.
  
  If I had it to do over again I would have left Empire Earth where I found it; gathering dust on 
 the retailers discount rack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Sesshomaru
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2005 1:36 am PT
Review:  I got this game last summer, and im still playing it hours a day. This is a great game that you 
 strategy fans should definatly get. I have not played Empire Earth (without Art of Conquest) and 
 i have not played the campaign, just the mutiplayer. Like I said I've been playing it for over 
 a year, but I still suck! This is probably my favorite game ever. Now enough about me. The gameplay 
 is fun, but not much strategy involved, most people do the same thing every time. The lobby is 
 almost perfect, the only problem is there is a friends list limit of 255 and I'm at it, but besides 
 that it is great. The sound is excellent but only about 3 songs play in the lobby, and you'll get 
 the songs stuck in your head, trust me. The graphics... lets face it the graphics suck if you zoom 
 in, but your not ment to. If you stay at the bird's eye view it'll be fine. Now there is a filter 
 dirty words option but it filters your dirty words and they'll be alot of cuss words and stuff 
 inappropriate for children. If any of you EE (what you'll be calling Empire Earth) were wondering 
 who I am its Shu Lord Liu Bei. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
