-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Empire Earth III
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/empireearthiii/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Strips away a lot of the bloat from the first two games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Just three main civilization types.
 Overly simplistic world-domination campaign mode.
 Ineffective AI.
 Mixed-up units with some bizarre, unfunny specialties.
 Spectacularly annoying unit-acknowledgment dialogue.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 16, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 5.1, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 4.0, 1,151 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Mad Doc Software
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Nov 6, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While it may be a lot smoother and simpler than its predecessors, Empire Earth III has been dumbed 
 down to the point of irrelevance. 

  Be careful what you wish for. A lot of RTS gamers have been clamoring for a simplified Empire Earth 
 over the past couple of years, finding the first two releases in the series to be a mess of units 
 and eras as incomprehensible as a history textbook after it's been fished out of a blender. So, 
 welcome to Empire Earth III, a shot back at the critics that answers complaints by dumbing the 
 whole game down to utter dreck. While the first two games in the series at least inspired love 
 or hate, this new arrival is so "blah" that it can only elicit a lot of "What the hell happened 
 here?" shrugs.  

           All of the foppish voice samples don't exactly fit in with the crazed, bloody melee combat. 
 Although it is gratifying to see the jokers bragging about camel farts turned into red smears on 
 the landscape.      

  Still, the design is more misguided than flat-out awful. Developer Mad Doc Software probably started 
 from a good place, working with the sensible idea that a lot of the messy cross-epoch elements 
 needed to be stripped away for the franchise to truly compete with the likes of its Rise of Nations 
 and Age of Empires rivals. To accomplish this, the designers scrapped the old individual civilization 
 model and moved to a different route where you guide world regions. Instead of picking the British, 
 the Persians, the Americans, or the like for campaign play, you choose a side from Western, Middle 
 Eastern, and Far Eastern empires that encompass basic stereotypes of their cultures. So the Westerners 
 are all about research and expensive, high-quality units. The Easterners deal in huge numbers of 
 infantry. And the Middle Easterners specialize in cavalry and hit-and-run tactics. You can get 
 past these generalities only by playing skirmish mode against the computer or against other human 
 players online and selecting from handfuls of more traditional nations like the US, North Korea, 
 Switzerland, and Russia, and even then these sides don't really differ from the others in their 
 regional blocs.  

  This concept gets across an imperial theme quite nicely, but it also simplifies things too much. 
 Basically, the standard dozen or so civs typically tricked out with all sorts of varied units and 
 specialties have been swapped out for what amounts to a measly three of them that play a lot like 
 one another anyhow. West and East are structured similarly, with builders constructing traditional 
 Western city centers and Eastern ministries, warehouses, barracks, stables, and so forth. Only 
 the Middle East stands out somewhat, and this is mostly just for portable buildings that can be 
 unpacked without the assistance or any sort of worker unit. You need to get into the future era 
 to notice anything interesting with these sides, as that's when you start seeing ideas like the 
 Middle East's cloaked factory and camouflaged revolutionary guard, and the East's bioengineered 
 units like the supersoldier and hulking mutant. Despite these variances, the styles of play are 
 nearly identical no matter what part of the globe your empire calls home. You need to make accommodations 
 for the blatant specialties noted in the paragraph above (which basically means you need to build 
 cavalry with the Middle Easterners, research a lot of tech with the Westerners, and crank out the 
 infantry with the Easterners) , but aside from that this is all about the same old base building, 
 resource gathering, and army rushing.  

  Much of the new world-domination mode of play feels equally tired. Mad Doc has swiped a page from 
 the Big Huge Studios playbook that the developer used to make Rise of Nations, dropping the typical 
 scripted campaign for a freeform option where you try to conquer the globe. It plays as a cross-genre 
 experiment, with you making moves on a global map in turns and then seeing how they play out in 
 real-time skirmish maps. The only problem is that it's all incredibly bland. Provinces are designated 
 as imperial, economic, military, or research sites based on the amount of each turn-based resource 
 that the region produces (you actually make this formal designation, but there generally isn't 
 much choice since you're given set numbers for each category) , but there is nothing to characterize 
 these areas. You don't get to hear that, say, Southern Europe is a great conquest because of its 
 fertile farms and philosophical Greeks; you just see that the province gets good numbers across 
 the board. The only plus is being able to custom-outfit your civilization with various imperial, 
 economy, and commerce world techs like roads and infrastructure, supply lines, and superior intel. 
 You get to directly play most of these techs on provinces, too, which gives you a feeling of actually 
 developing an empire.  

           Look familiar? The main world-domination mode of play is a straight riff on Rise of Nations. 
 It copies this design right to the letter. Well, save for the 'good' part.      

  Still, most of your time is spent in repetitive conquests of provinces occupied by minor tribes 
 drawn from all of history. These battles cannot be auto-resolved as can scraps with the other empires 
 in the game, so you spend an incredible amount of time building the same base and army to slaughter 
 the same packs of heathens over and over again. Objectives are a bit varied in that you often hook 
 up with tribal allies or need to win over a new friend by doing him or her a favor, but they pretty 
 much always come down to you needing to build a big army to wipe somebody out.     

  Artificial intelligence provides little challenge in these engagements. Enemies put together reasonable 
 bases, yet never seem to build reasonable armies or attack you in more than a halfhearted fashion. 
 Take a little time to build even a middling force and you'll be able to stomp all over most maps 
 unopposed -- if you can find the bad guys, that is. Map design incorporates some of the most irritating 
 land features ever seen in an RTS. It's as if you're navigating narrow corridors, not forests and 
 plains. Valleys, cliffs, and rivers impede your progress everywhere, forcing you to patrol every 
 square inch of maps to find enemy settlements. Horrific pathfinding makes these explorations even 
 more annoying. Armies hiccup in place whenever you issue new movement commands and are so dumb 
 that they can get hopelessly stuck if you ask them to turn around in a tight spot like a dead-end 
 valley.  

           How these elephant archers got into ancient Western Europe, we'll never know.      

 
  Everything in world-domination campaigns is also mixed up when it comes to time and place. You 
 start in the proper geographic location for your civilization, but nobody else seems to be in their 
 proper places. So if you begin a campaign as the West, you kick off your conquering in ancient 
 Western Europe. So far, so good. But then you can immediately encounter an Olmec tribe in Britain, 
 an Asian settlement in the vicinity of Spain, and Knights Templar guarding a lost tomb next to 
 a pack of elephant archers in what appears to be Germany. So much for the global scope and historical 
 realism; the game seems to be even more of an historical mash-up then any other RTS.  

  Mix-ups are also common with unit types. As with previous Empire Earth games, units are often jumbled 
 together from various eras. Here, however, this tendency seems even more pronounced due to the 
 use of just five eras (ancient, medieval, colonial, modern, and future) . It's common to find all 
 sorts of bizarre units marching side by side. So if your sensibilities are offended by troops wielding 
 Gatling guns and arquebuses on the same battlefields, give Empire Earth III a pass. If this isn't 
 enough to turn off armchair historians, numerous goofy units with no basis in reality should certainly 
 do the trick. The Middle Easterners are probably the biggest offenders here, with camels that can 
 lay a hurting on enemies due to a special stench attack and a hero prophet unit that can call forth 
 a plague of frogs. While there is a place for such units in an RTS, they don't fit in a game seemingly 
 designed to be a more serious, more authentic take on conquering the globe.  

  The developer's questionable sense of taste and humor is also on display in the visuals and sound. 
 The overall graphic design of the game leans toward the cartoonish, with a brightly colored palette 
 that often renders units in pastel hues more appropriate for a teen girl's bedroom dcor than an 
 army's. This at least helps make buildings distinctive, as splashes of color let you tell one civilization's 
 settlement from another at a glance. Of course, there are basically only three of them, so it's 
 not like you've got a lot of architectural styles to memorize. The audio component of the game 
 soars well past cartoony and into stupid. Units acknowledge orders with nothing but cheap jokes. 
 Knights make snarky little comments about "being right behind youway behind you," and usabari 
 camel riders crack jokes such as "I am like a camel fart -- loud and dangerous." As you can tell 
 by these winning examples, the lines in the game aren't funny. And they're much less amusing after 
 you've been forced to listen to them a few hundred times over the course of a skirmish. Troops 
 seem to get stuck like skipping records at times, too, and often incessantly repeat the same dialogue 
 every time you issue a move command. This just makes a bad situation even worse.  

           Bizarre future units like the East's genetically altered hulking mutants and supersoldiers 
 add character, if not credibility, to later game battles.      

  We could get into the derivative, buggy multiplayer, the frequent crashes, and the demanding system 
 requirements that bring a Crysis-conquering system to its knees, but what's the point? Earlier 
 Empire Earth games were acquired tastes that not everybody liked. Now, in an attempt to reach out 
 to the masses, the developer has given us a game that nobody will like. The first two releases 
 in the series were overwhelming, but they're apt to inspire fond memories in anyone who makes the 
 mistake of picking up this lame new sequel.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (78 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dvbd
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 12, 2009 12:12 pm PT
Review:  the game is like the games before basically good only: it is to short, it isn't hard at all, the 
 story sucks, the campaign is lame and the graphics isn't good at all.
  the game is to short: the campaign isn't of a full world domination, only 60%.
  the battles aren't 
 exiting, they are booring.
  the little missions dont have enything to do with thwe game and have many bugs.
  a battle will 
 mostly take a few minutes not more than 20. the enemy isn't relly fighting. and if you build a 
 big army: the game doesnt focus on the soldiers and a big mess comes out (and this computer is 
 good) . the idea was good.
  making new units and more special abilities, making only three "races" so you wouldn't have to 
 many choices, not making many eras, and having the treasures being protected.
  so: nice try sierra entertainment... but no good
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: saurum
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 4, 2009 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting a long time since EE2 to play EE3. When it was released i saw the bad reviews 
 and ratings, then I gave up. Now I found it on a sale, so I bought it. Disappointing. I expected 
 more. EE1 and 2 were great, but what happened in EE3 is unbelievable. I thought World Domination 
 would be better than playing stupid maps with ridiculous missions that fail every time you try. 
 The graphics could have been better, but it looks like EE2 graphics with some update. The idea 
 was original and good, but the developers failed to build the game. Also there's a horrible bug 
 which makes my PC go Blue Screen (creepy...) . Auto saving makes the game slow down every 10 minutes. 
 Also there's missing the option of Cycle Production, which makes it boring to build a new army 
 after a battle. I hope that someday they will make EE4, and also hope it will be way better than 
 this one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satsui
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 14, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  What the hell happened? First game was amazing, though the cheating AI bothered me a little bit. 
 Then we come to the second game, they stripped some elements and added more to make up for them. 
 The second Empire Earth was good, but not as good as the first one. Then the third Empire Earth 
 came out. No civilizations, only 3 "regions". Sounds pretty bad right? It gets worse. So continue 
 reading if you're not let down yet. The game is a resource hog and yet the graphics compare nothing 
 to the first two. Neither does the gameplay. Only a few "epochs" as opposed to 14 of the the second 
 one, and more from the first one. Little to no research. This game is a dumbed-down version of 
 Starcraft when it comes to resources. Instead of gas and minerals in Starcraft, you have Gold and 
 Resources. You can build a tank out of wood! How cool is that? Empire Earth III seems to be concentrated 
 more on warfare than resource management but it is simple paper-rock-scissors fighting system. 
 In conclusion, it's not even worth the bargain bin. Just download it and you'll still feel ripped 
 off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 27, 2008 1:44 am PT
Review:  The third installment of Empire Earth was a complete and utter let down. It completely abandoned 
 everything that made the first 2 so great. 15 ages to go through and well designed units. This 
 one offers none.
  
  The gameplay is extremely slow and uninspiring. The units take forever to get to the other side 
 of the map, and that's with all the upgrades. The Units are just disgusting to look at and very 
 un-rounded. The Civilizations you get to choose from are all different, which is good, but they 
 lack a little imagination.
  
  The Graphics is super bad. Especially for the time that it was released. I mean, take a look at 
 games like Command and Conquer. Beautiful and crisp. With EE3, you can literally see the landscape 
 refreshing. 
  
  Campaign? What campaign? There is a world domination map that you can try and finish with all 3 
 your civs, that is if you can get yourself to play this bloody game. That's why I stopped. 
  
  Annoying Graphics, Units and Sounds just does not make this title worthy of its predecessors. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aires457
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 6, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  Empire Earth 3 for the pc was a complete disappointment. So I had empire earth 1 for a long time. 
 I think I got it when I was 9 and one day it broke. So later when I decided that I needed my favorite 
 game back I went on Amazon and found out there was an empire earth 3 coming out so I pre-ordered 
 it 2 months earlier lol :D. And I was hoping for an empire earth 1 with better graphics more soilders 
 and more ages to go though but what I got was a completely different game! There was 5 ages instead 
 if 14, there was a limit on how many people you could have working at a resource, and there was 
 this annoying territory system which made the game less fun. There were some things that made the 
 game fun like the black hole generator which was a giant tank which created a giant black hole 
 which was good for a big group of enemy soilders or to use on the capitol of one of their territories. 
 Well to rap this up if you want a good game like this get either one of the age of empire games 
 or get empire earth 1 gold pack. I would recommend the gold pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofhell2
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Positive
  - It's the sequel to one of the best RTS of its year
  
  Negative
  - Hugely disappointing
  - Strategy is way too simply
  - Annoying voice-acting
  - Almost no 
 variety
  
  Who played Empire Earth and Empire Earth 2 will realize immediately how bad Empire Earth 3. Not 
 only Empire Earth fans but every serious Real-Time Strategic fan out there. Empire Earth is a Hugh 
 disappointment and has stripped down a lot from the first two fantastic games. Strategy has become 
 too simply, and unengaging and many things that were great in Empire Earth 2 are horrible here.
 
  
  The game provides no challenge at all. Enemies are simply too beat and strategy as I said is severely 
 poor. AI is also stupid sometimes too. Graphics of Empire Earth are not so great, were much better 
 in Empire Earth. Level design is awful. There are also some bugs in the game which make it crash 
 here and there. Very little units in the game lead to almost no variety at all. Domination mode 
 is another disappointment. It's a total mess. Sound is weak and poor. 
  
  This sequel to Empire Earth, if you can call it a sequel is a big error, a false move in the Empire 
 Earth. There are just too much problems to consider this game as the 3rd installment of once an 
 impressive and highly addictive series. I don't know if Empire Earth 3 has ported the problems 
 from the first 2 installments but with a lot of bugs, can crash at any time, simple strategy and 
 other shortcomings makes this Empire a total wreck. Don't make a mistake and buy this sequel. This 
 is a disaster not a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deviant-kid
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 9, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  As the original GameSpot review said: "it's been dumbed down to the point of irrelevance". That 
 really does sum it up nicely.
  Fans of the earlier instalments fell in love with the sheer depth and variety within the game.
 
  There were so many ages to go threw, so many maps, even interplanetary war! We were amazed at 
 the sheer volume of units available, most of them - if not all of them - upgradeable.
  Well all that has gone, and been replaced by a hand full of civilizations with a handful of very 
 basic and boring units, all of them with incredibly gay voice actors (many of whom sound exactly 
 the same) , repeating phrases like: "I'm going to touch him with my 10ft.... SPEAR!" and "I look 
 good from behind, don't you agree?"
  There are even some military buildings, previously packed with available units (the airport for 
 example) , which now produce no controlable units whatsoever.
  I could go on and on, but i havent the time or the will to write about such an abomination of a 
 game.
  Don't buy it, you'll feel ripped off and deffinately regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpikeA3146
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 2, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  The day I saw that they had come out with EE3 I was stoked to buy it. I waited months for the price 
 to come down and finally bought it a few weeks ago. It was not a total let down as most tend to 
 think. Yes it is easier then the other EEs but the game play is nice if you want to burn some time. 
 Loved how they Incorporated a consistent world to the game though. I always thought that I did 
 not have a big enough world to play in the other two games. I really don't have any complaints 
 about the graphics. Love the quirks that the people give you when you click on them or have them 
 do anything. Makes me laugh sometimes at what they say. I do recommend buying a different game 
 if you are looking for a hard core civilization builder though. None the less it was a good job. 
 Hoping for EE4 and that it is a little better than this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazman3434
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 9, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  When I played EE2, I was pretty happy playing it. They had a large variety in civilizations and 
 unique units. The gamplay was pretty good and I had some fun. I didnt have much luck with multiplay. 
 EE3, wow, they just bombed it. I can give it alot of negative classifications like "dont believe 
 the hype" but "disasterous" sums it up. The tutorial was very boring and the new conquer territories 
 in an entire planet thing wasnt new. The mission to destroy the rebel encampment did not show anything 
 new either. The skrimish with several other fighting AI players also showed some bad characteristics. 
 All the other units were the same and all the graphics details were bland. Basicly, its anceint 
 age with medival styled units, early industrial age units, and futuristic units with nothing in 
 between to see how they evolved. Suddendly, my bold-action rifleman with mustard gas gernades turned 
 into a human/ machine robot with huge machine guns. The economy system was new but bad to. You 
 would get money by building a market almost right next to your town center and a unit would travel 
 back and fourth giving you money in a tiny travel distance. Basicly, you could say they chopped 
 off the parts of a very rich in detail game and turned it into a little box with little variety 
 and missing features of the past two games. EE2 had moderatly sized maps but EE3 had tiny maps 
 which made me feel claustrophobic. Your units would walk through a valley of mountains or really 
 something that looked like 20 foot hills. The trailors and cinimatics suggested huge battles where 
 you would conquer the world but the demo suggested else. Supreme Commander had a ton of hype but 
 it practicly meet it with its huge battles, etc. I think they killed the empire earth series. Oh 
 well.... I have better games to play. The full game will definately be better but by how much? 
 The demo basicly gave the game a bad first impression. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pipeistheboss
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 31, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  I've got to say this is a completely let down, how is it possible that Sierra innovates in such 
 way with EE I, then overpasses the expectations with EE II and with this sequel they drop the level 
 so bad... this is a lack of respect with us the players. Sierra should return us our money. 
  
  If you let me to give you an advice, please, please!!!! don't buy this game. If you respect 
 yourself as a video game player, don't buy this game. The idea of the 3D world map is interesting, 
 an innovative way similar to the board game risk, but it is very bad developed. Sierra should have 
 wait a little bit more to have the game in the stands and develop it MUUUUCH more.
  
  In conclusion, I give this game a 1.0 because gamespot doesn't let you to give a 0. I think I played 
 this game like for 2 hours, and I couldn't play more, is so bad the game that I had to stop playing. 
 I want to sell the game, but I'm not sure because I'm affecting another video game player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wcmontour
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Usually I look forward to a good follow-up to games that I have enjoyed. Not so with EE3. Granted 
 EE 1&2 could get overly complex and just the sheer number of units that could be built and in play 
 could be enough to make even the best micromanagers pull out their hair. But the units were well 
 done, thought out, logical and had good graphical rendering. In it's attempt to simplify some of 
 the complexity of the originals, EE3 has FAILED completely and miserably. The units look cartoonish 
 and have sarcastically annoying order acknowledgement (young children might find them amusing the 
 first few times) , the unit pathfinding is broken (builders can't complete walls because they built 
 themselves into corners) , overly simplistic campaigns, stupid AI, and the list continues. The graphics/play 
 engine is very poor (my machine is top notch and runs C&C3 and WIC with no problems) . I couldn't 
 believe this was from Sierra. I bought it because it was on sale and I liked the series, but seriously 
 SAVE YOUR MONEY! Even if it is in the bargain bin, it's not worth it. I agree with most of the 
 other reviews I've now (belatedly) read, that the game feels like a half finished, stripped down, 
 low budget wannabe that needed more time, money and ideas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geon106
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  I was a big fan of the original Empire Earth and so when i saw this for 19.99 in Gamestation I 
 decided to buy it (at the disapproval of my other half lol) . Reading the box i was very very excited 
 to play the game and couldn't wait, but as soon as it loaded, from the menu onwards it was downhill. 
 Cartoon graphics, corny dialogue, less than adequate graphics to name a few problems with the game. 
 There is nothing to draw you in at all.
  
  The game doesn't really improve on anything from the original, when I first loaded up a skirmish 
 i felt as though i was playing Warcraft 3. This game is a complete let down and would recommend 
 people stay clear rather than wasting your money away.
  
  The only good i can find is younger people or people new to RTS games may enjoy it, but anyone 
 who has played any serious RTS series before (like Age of Empires, C&C, Warcraft etc) will be in 
 for a huge let down.
  
  The multiplayer part of the game is a slight improvement but not enough to save the game by any 
 respect. I have to say that i've been put off the Empire Earth series and will proberbly play Age 
 of Empires 3 again from now on.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: magumbeejr
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 15, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  the graphics are poor probably a step down from EE2, the units are poorly designed and fugly 
 
  
  the voices are very annoying and repetative, i mean how many times the the developers think a builder 
 saying - 'sorry, i drilled hole in hand, ouch' would remain funny for
  
  the global conquest looks like a good idea but is just full of tedious fights in different locations, 
 there no storyline to it that i could find anyway
  
  you units are slow to react and are very stupid on their own, im sick of them being sent off to 
 attack an army and getting stuck on the way there because one unit cant get passed a tree, 
  
  or even worse when for some reason they start to spread out and all get their at different 
 times an get destroyed one by one by the enemy army
  
  also for the poor graphics the game does run a bit choppy, which is odd because games like COD4, 
 crysis and world in conflict run fine on my computer
  
  theres probably some other things wrong with this game but i think this will do
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhagnosis
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2008 3:18 am PT
Review:  yes it had some flaws but over all the game was wildly fun with great features that most games 
 dont contain, such as time travel and fatalities were amazing and you wont believe how fun it is 
 to deffend the intell i mean holding down the pack while playing attack and deffend i mean sure 
 a lot of people like to play on calypso but this game rules, This is our hope. This is the faith 
 that I go back to the South with. With this faith we will be able to hew out of the mountain of 
 despair a stone of hope. With this faith we will be able to transform the jangling discords of 
 our nation into a beautiful symphony of brotherhood. With this faith we will be able to work together, 
 to pray together, to struggle together, to go to jail together, to stand up for freedom together, 
 knowing that we will be free one day .Toothpaste use can promote good oral hygiene: it can aid 
 in the removal of dental plaque and food from the teeth, it can aid in the elimination and/or masking 
 of halitosis, and it can deliver active ingredients such as fluoride to prevent tooth and gumshis 
 game is one of my all time favs it took down diablo 2 i dont get how so many people look down on 
 this game i no longer trust this sites reviews. 
  PS KANE AND LYNCH WAS A GOOD CO-OP GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inverted720
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 2, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Don't bother. There is nothing special or fun about his game. It fails at providing any worthwhile 
 gameplay by comparison to it's predissesor. It is just too dumbed down. I went straight to skirmish 
 and had the game mastered in about 30 minutes. Just a bad sequel and an uninspired RPG. Oh and 
 the attach and build animations are lame lame lame. Bad Sierra no donut. It is EE2 but stripped 
 down far so that it feels like a 5$ game with everything except for the HD intro. One of my biggest 
 grips with this game is there is just no action in the game. No economies of scale. You will have 
 no trouble managing your troops in the game because you only get about 30 active at any one point. 
 Also the gatherers require no management whatsoever so the game basically plays itself. There are 
 almost no upgrades in the game, and the difference in ages makes little difference and is very 
 easy to obtain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordx67
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The box looks nice
  The Bad: The whole gameplay
  Sob... this is such a pathetic failure. Where can I start? Ok, the Empire Earth series was never 
 for easy going RTS fans. But this peice of u-know what is so simple and stupid, George Bush could 
 figure it out. I mean, Mad Doc was going right with the first two EE's. They weren't for all but 
 they where simply the best RTS's, rival of AOE.
  The graphics look Ok, but they are rather garish. I have a Dell XPS. That is like one of the best. 
 I mean $1000 should buy you the best shouldn't it? Even on my awesome computer, I still had the 
 graphics turned to low. And I still had delays. You simply can't have a good enough graphics card 
 to run this demanding thing.
  The soundtrack is simply annoying like the other EE's. But the units responses... they are the 
 reason of the downfall of the Empire of EE. For instance, Mark IV tanks are British ok? So when 
 I clicked on one it saidI say, would you care for some tea old chap?" What theheck!!! I don't 
 want to listen to that!!! Also it is annoying when the units give a sarcastic response likethat's 
 a GREAT plan!". You will seriously feel like telling you're computer to shut up.
  The World Domination... ha ha. It is really terrible. I thought it would like, revolutinize gaming. 
 When I first saw the interface, I felt an overwhelming sense of deja vu. ( for idiots, that means 
 that you feel like you've seen it before somehow) It was sort of no, exactly the world domination 
 in Rise of Nations. The battles are never epic or anything close to that. Most of the time you 
 have to navigate through the map to find a patheticly weak tribe. And you have to that again. And 
 again. And again. In the previous EE's even the easiest AI will give you a huge challenge. in this 
 game, you just train a handful of troops, and you will own the enemy. No challenge. And if there 
 is no challenge, there is no fun. No fun= Empire Earth III. 
  The civilizations have dissapeared. There are only three civilizations in theory. And, they are 
 all similar. No variety. 
  The battles are just a mess of troops, you can't really see anything. And, since there are only 
 5 epochs, you can't make decisions. In the other game, you think "should I attack with slingthowers 
 or upgrade to simple bows?"
  In this you make the brain-dead decision ofshould i attack with bows or upgrade to machine guns?"You 
 decide.
  The campaign is a big mess. It is like the guys at Mad Doc saidlets make a battle between Teutonic 
 Knights and Japanese ninjas!" No historical fact whatsoever. 
  So, I'm going to Best Buy tomorrow to see if I can get my money back. If you want to buy it after 
 reading this, you must be either be retarded or you have a mountain of dough to spend. Don't get 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rahzahm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Whether it's a skirmish, a couple friends playing the AI, or a couple friends going head to head, 
 this game, oddly enough, has become my new multiplayer favorite. Playing modern or future results 
 in quick (read: too easy) games because it's so easy to dominate the map with airpower. However, 
 playing Ancient-Colonial results in fantastic games where unit and production managment are crucial 
 to expanding your boundaries. AI use various strageties, and move forward in structured armies, 
 though they do get strung out at times. No single unit dominates, so various troup combinations 
 can be useful. 
  
  The main thing I like about this game is that the fortunes of war can ebb. With other stragety 
 games, once you fight off the initial push, you know it's all but over. With EE3, the AI puts up 
 a fight til the end, and will actually reconquer land if you're not viligant. AI adjusts it's unit 
 type over time, so you can't just pick a unit type and stick with it. 
  
  Lots of carnage, no build limit on buildings/towers etc. This is the game that replaced C&C3 for 
 our LAN stragety sessions. A great romp/stomp with AI that seriously puts up a fight. Suggest limiting 
 the era to Colonial or less.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: icedemoness
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 6, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  i have tried to play it on a system which runs games like universe at war and crysis perfect and 
 what do i see with this game whose graphics are nice but not breathtaking, after fighting one battle 
 fluidly, the next is laggy because of some programming problems.
  
  that is the reason why i think the developers left this game as crappy as it is now because they 
 new it was terrible.
  the sounds are constantly the same comment (which is tried to sound like humour :S) the graphics 
 well they are nice but not breathtaking as in aforementioned universe at war and the gameplay is 
 hard to test because the game runs laggy as hell so i geuss there is no gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MonayMan
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 6, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  Waste of time, waste of money, waste of computer space. Too little units, too little AI, too many 
 crashes, too many bugs and too much money for a game that holds none of the pleasing graphics showed 
 in previews.
  
  It was entertaining with the demo, I give it that. It was fun at first, but once your game begins 
 crashing it occurs more and more often. I've had it three days now, and it didn't crash at all 
 the first day, once or twice the second day, and now I can't even load a skirmish map on World 
 Domination anymore. 
  
  You get only a handful of units as far as variety goes, and gets less and less the farther you 
 get, instead of increasing. Unlike most of the reviews I've read, I actually got a good chuckle 
 out of the units comic attitudes, but they get repetitive. After a few fights I got sick of how 
 unimaginitive they all were, however entertaining it was chasing people on camels away with tanks 
 that shoot flames.
  
  I was hoping to see some incredible looking units from the previews I saw, but there arent even 
 any videos in the game that look good besides the opening video
  
  I never like to review a game without playing through it completely and giving it a chance, but 
 again, the crashes refuse to let me finish. The building constructing is lame, and I was personally 
 wishing I could literally develope my own empire, customize them how I wish, I've never played 
 any of the Empire Earth series before, and probally won't buy anything that hold the name on the 
 box anymore. 
  
  Download the demo if you want to play the game, that's the best it will get. There is no way this 
 game was worth 50 clams, buy something else. Speaking of buying something else, could anyone who 
 happens to read this point me towards a more stable RTS game? Like I said, full customization is 
 more my style. I used to play a game at my buddies years ago, and I kick myself for not remember 
 it's title so I could look for the series, but designing my own fortress would be a plus. Any ideas? 
 lol :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballintinius
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 2, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  Over the holidays I took the time to play EE3... Holy Pete... this game has been so dumbed down that 
 I felt that it was more rated for my 4 year old grandson than for me and my teenaged son....
  
  What were they thinking? The game is so simplified, so limited that I could not even begin 
 to cover all the bases. Far be it said that EE1 had it's limitations but was far more workable 
 when it came to playablity. The 3D effects of EE2 was a drag on the system, and it had it's lititations 
 as well, but was still playable with the stretch of epohcs and characters. But not EE3. 
  
  It's to simplifed, to stupid in mechanics, it lacks imagination, is limited in armies. I don't 
 know what the deal was with some gamers saying it was too complicated for RTS gaming... that's just 
 nonsense. 
  
  Use more brain power and stick with EE1 or 2 and dump thins waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seansoutar
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 30, 2007 11:41 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Before I bought Empire Earth 3 I bought Empire Earth 2. Empire Earth 2 at the time had good graphics 
 and very interesting twists to playing it. For example the battle planner tool and the citizen 
 organizer. When you buy the newest game in a series you would expect it to have pushed the frontier 
 of its series, be even more interesting and above all fun to play. Empire Earth 3 has just gone 
 backwards. They stripped away all the fun stuff. All the resources and now you are only left with 
 population and gold! The graphics are exactly the same as the previous version. The world campaign 
 is too simple, stupid and easy. They copied of Rise of Nations. Only 3 main civilizations really 
 got to me. When I play a game like Empire Earth 3 I want a huge variety. Voice acting is rubbish; 
 I could make a better one if I did it. So if you like very simple games this is for you. If not 
 stay far, far away from this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: endovac
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 27, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Do you want crashes, horrible AI, terrible UI and horrible graphics that demand way too much for 
 the way it looks? Well, you have found the right game. This is the biggest waste of 50 bucks ever! 
 I unfortunately received this as a gift and opened it and now I am stuck with this load of crap. 
 My computer runs Company of Heroes on the high settings but this game continues to tax my system 
 performance and crashes are all too common. Oh and by the way, load time for the levels are like 
 two to three minutes. I hate sitting and waiting for a game to start. Why does company of heros 
 run and load so well and have awesome graphics and this piece of crap game have no camera control 
 and horrible graphics and take forever to load. This is not even a game for a two year old. Sierra 
 and Mad Doc will never get another penny out of me again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odiverdano
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I see a lot of really bad scores for this game, and I just have to shake my head and wonder if 
 it is all the hardcore gamers that are giving this game such bad reviews. I judge a game on how 
 much it captures me in that "just one more turn" mindset, as well as how much fun it is to play. 
 Since I got this game, I have been playing it almost everyday, and on my day off, I have playde 
 it 12 hours straight. I have been having a heck of a lot of fun with it, in fact probably too much 
 fun, as I have been neglecting other things I should be doing in favor of playing this. Maybe it 
 is because I am a casual player, and like more easy-going play styles. The first thing I do with 
 a game is play on the easiest setting, and if I can't beat it at that level, I quit playing it. 
 If I can beat it, I up the difficulty to the next level and replay it. By far, too many games are 
 made so difficult that the casual players like me can't even finish it on the easiest mode. With 
 EE3, I was able to play it on easy level, and win with all three factions. I am now trying it at 
 the normal level and will see how I do. Bottom line here is that for people who get more than enough 
 challenge in their daily life, and just want to play a fun computer game to relax after a hard 
 days work, this is one that casual players will enjoy immensely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: David_Helmond
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 15, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I'm disappointed for a number of reasons:
  
  First of all, what I really liked about EE2, was the vast amount of Epoch. 15 era's to research! 
 and what's more fun, than to nuke a few cavemen. In this version, there are only 5 era's. Then 
 the campaign. This is nothing more than a world domination mode. There is no story what so ever. 
 And the game-play is f*cked up. A lot of menu's and side panels, without the proper information 
 on how to get it to work. Even with the tool tips, it'll take you up to a few hours until you fully 
 understand the world domination gameplay.
  
  The normal skirmish missions add nothing to the game sensation. They upgraded the graphics, which 
 is a good thing, however they messed up the programming. The graphics don't look that demanding 
 for your computer, but I was disappointed to get lag in the game. (and this isn't caused by the 
 hardware.)
  
  One other thing about the world domination mode is very annoying. Once you've conquered a certain 
 territory, you've probably build a base, defenses etc. Because it's a campaign, you would think 
 these building would remain in place. But as soon as you're attacked in one of you own territories. 
 This entire map is empty, apart from a single builder and town centre. So far for all your good 
 investments in that part of your empire!
  
  So let's summarize:
  Graphics: look ok, but poorly programmed.
  Sound: annoying comments from units. Very poor humour.
 
  Game play: during skirmish, standard. during world domination, f*cked up.
  Added value being the third installment: below sea level.
  
  If you like Empire Earth: stick 
 to EE2!!!! don't buy EE3 or you'll be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PiperGK9999
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 12, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  The visual quality of this game is repulsive. With the ability of programmers in this day and age 
 to capture scenes so lifelike you become immersed immediately in what you're playing, they seem 
 to have gone back 5 years to some ancient graphics engine as the basis for this game. What a complete 
 waste of money, I should have read the reviews first.
  
  Honestly, I'll give just about any game a fighting chance to stay on my computer, but I'm immediately 
 disappointed with the gameplay. Its slow, boring, ridiculous. You don't really see any weapons 
 used or damage taken, you just have to use your imagination in the flurry of movement from troops. 
 Honestly, I would rather have given 50 dollars to charity than spent it on this piece of dung. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: navyseai
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 8, 2007 2:28 am PT
Review:  Im so disapointed that I even login to make this comment.
  Comparing to empire earth 2 this game is worst in every aspect. It doesnt have any good graphics 
 and too few units. Im suprised about the intro movie however... I hope they don't quit the idea 
 to go back to the original idea from empire earth 2 having all kind of units and civilizations 
 was making this game fun... since they remove it they have nothing left. With the new directx10 
 games I really don't know what they were thinking when they released the game. I played this game 
 until the Future time and then i just uninstall it without even seeing the other "races". Hoping 
 to get my money back :| i would still buy empire earth 2 but 3 does not even seem the same game 
 anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Qxavier
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 2, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  After empire earth (1st one) , the game just kept slipping down the drain. All of the aspects of 
 this game is horrible. It is uninteresting, ridiculous verbalizations from units, cartoon-like 
 units, retarded AI, simple gameplay. You can actually just build monuments each time you invade 
 a territory (with tribes) and leave it until you own it in a matter of few minutes. That is just 
 one sample. Overall, while really trying to play this game and enjoy it, I ended up getting annoyed. 
 It's a waste of time and money. Believe me, I loooove EE. I've been waiting for the next installments 
 after that but it was never the same. You've been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carolyn1998
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  This is a very bad game. The worst I have ever played. Do not waste your money on this game. I 
 wasted $50 on this game. I expected better. In the world campaign mode I could not get out without 
 entering a territory. The language is very bad. I do not need to hear all those comments. Some, 
 I think are inappropriate. I don't like the weath and raw resource accommulation. I could not buy 
 resources from the market.. There was not much control over resources, which would have been nice. 
 I did not like the graphics al that much. the highlight are whatever that was, was not good at 
 all. It took away from the play of the game. I wish I could get my money back from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WilliamW
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 29, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Alright, I admit, I only played the game for what, an hour? I don't know, after so long I just 
 kinda fell asleep and lost track of time.
  
  While I played empire earth 1 and 2 I found the changes between them dramatic but it made the game 
 BETTER. I'm glad they have decided to keep experimenting but come on this is just horrible. I enjoyed 
 the empire view, while it seemed a bit under done it held its own. The actual combat however Just 
 what the heck? I agree with everyone who said this was a war craft nock off, because it was just 
 not a good one. So much content was taken out and what little there didn't get the attention it 
 needed and was under developed.
  
  Does this mean that because of war craft's success I'm going to have to start looking at cheap 
 rip offs? I don't even like war craft 3 game play, just the creative mods people made. War craft 
 stunk and a rip off of it just doesn't deserve to live.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowkarl
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  worst of all the strategy games i ever played... this one rilly bad... booooooooooring... crazy............ 
 i cant tell that its a good game.... rill dumb... super few units and civilizations 2 choose from... and 
 i think command and conquer red alert 2 or starcraft is much bettah than this.... but if u rilly 
 did buy it... ahhhhh... sell it... hehehe sorry empire earth...
  hold ur tango and pongo ppl... or u will regret it...... just advise if u rilly like medieval war 
 games: choose medieval 2 total war / stronghold if ya want modern war games: there are lot to choose 
 from... for future war games: choose supreme commander thats gud graphics and gameplay 2... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slamhammer
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 25, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  EE3 might as well have been published by Fisher-Price
  because the gameplay has been dumbed-down to that of
  a product geared towards five year olds.
 
  
  There's virtually NOTHING to do in this game, as 90% of the research has been removed, and as far 
 as unit building goes, once you reach the Future age, there's only about 8 units to pick from.
 
  
  In the barracks, you have ONE unit you can build, the Factory has about three units, and the Workshop 
 ends up with about 3 to 4 units.
  
  The airfield has two units you can build, one a transport and the other some, stupid flying ship 
 that gives off electricity and eventually blows itself up, for no apparent reason.
  
  Stay Away from this game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  The previous Empire Earth's were a strange breed of RTS. They combined a mess of units from different 
 eras, and they inspired other love or hate. Since then, critics have been praying for some leniency 
 to simplify the series, and they got exactly what they wish for. Funny how these wishes can have 
 the habit of coming back and biting you on the ass.
  
  For Empire Earth to truly compete with the like of Rise of Nations and the Age of Empires, a lot 
 of the junk that cluttered the old prequels had to be removed. The designers decided to remove 
 the old civilization model and move it towards you controlling entire regions. These regions are 
 the Western, Middle Eastern, and Far Eastern empires that command their own significant products 
 of their cultures. The westerner's are all about high expenses and high quality products. The middle-east 
 folk are more about their hit-and-run tactics. And the Far East deal in hordes of infantry. Unfortunately, 
 the West and East do not differ greatly; it's only the middle-east that seems to stand out. And 
 that, is only the start of the problems.
  
  The world domination mode is a bit redundant and feels far too easy, and its certainly makes it 
 an easier trip thanks to the less than impressive A. I. The units for the factions are quite odd, 
 and don't feel right at all. To top it off, the unit acknowledgement is seemingly unfunny and annoying.
 
  
  Critics got what they wished for, but its a text book example of messing with what was a previously 
 good formula. Empire Earth is shallow, and unfortunately will not appeal to many people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nahmeanuheard
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 24, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  I really like da 1st and da 2nd Empire Earth Sequel better but da 3rd is disappointing Why I said 
 tha cuz this is not da Empire Earth I had in mind they killed it, there only 3 sides are called 
 Western, middie east, and far east that's so stupid, what's happen to history like bak then it's 
 was World war, world war 2, mediveal, bronze age, dark age and other ages! What were they thinking!
 
  
  
  P. S. Don't even bother playing this game cuz they got Level tha are boring and it will piss U off 
 hard! Please Just play Empire Earth 1 and Empire Earth 2 these game are fine! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: livebyfaith85
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 23, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  I could not wait until it was released so I could try it out. After playing this game for 20 mintues, 
 it was enough for me to say how disappointed I was. I was expecting a little better than Empire 
 Earth 2. I don't know what happend but it seems everything is horrible with this game. With the 
 cartoonish-type of graphics, horrible sounds that are spost to be funny but not, very few units, 
 the game crashes to the desktop very often (even if u got a good graphics card) and I can go on 
 and on. I love the Empire Earth 1 but sadly to say there would be no real Empire Earth to come 
 to close as the first one. 
  
  I don't want anyone to be disappointed like I was. Therefore, try out the demo first .. DO NOT 
 buy the game unless you have played and liked the Demo version. If you like the game then you should 
 try Empire Earth 1, you won't go back playing Empire Earth 3 after you played the 1st one. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viperboy2025
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 22, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  HORRIBLE HORRIBLE GAME. Empire earth 1 was the best one, i didn't like the second one that much, 
 too bloated, the third one just doesn't have anything at all. Only 3 races. No country or anything 
 like that, stupid world domination rip off from rise of nations. Units suck, technology sucks, 
 the game just sucks, don't bother even trying it out, waste of time out of your life. BEWARE STAY 
 AWAY. WORST GAME EVER. Disastrous, horrific game. whatever word exists meaning bad, this is what 
 this game is. 
  Get age of empires 3 is instead, i don't play it anymore but its much better, and they have a new 
 expansion Asian dynasty thats looks pretty sweet and unique. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snow_Ball_Champ
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what is up with developers and "setting their game in a new direction." It seems like 
 many new games have done this, and they are all crap compared to their originals. Empire Earth 
 3 fits right into this category. Remember how much fun the original empire earth was, and the second 
 was pretty fun too right? Well not anymore. I didn't even bother to try the different factions. 
 After I played as the West and East in skirmish, I was too offended to continue playing. To make 
 it simple, this game is simply boring. I really didn't have any fun playing it for the hour and 
 a half or so that I did. If you watch the developer interviews, then you have just been immersed 
 into what we call LYING! "oh.... there are only 3 factions... but they are totally different..." 
 = total crap. "There are only five epics, but there are just sooo many possibilities..." Well I 
 don't think so. All the epochs look the same to me, and there is absolutely no technology to advance 
 or anything. I also like the "new slim and trim UI that you can customize" that they "implemented." 
 It was a flat out lie. There is no new UI. Now onto the sound. It's like some terrible cartoon. 
 I clicked on a tank, and it told me that it was "allergic to dust...." ok.... so I click on an 
 archer and I get "you should see me under my armor...." ..... what did you just say? I really don't 
 know what the developers were thinking.
  
  Empire Earth 3 is a complete waste of money. Thankfully my father purchased it for me, but this 
 before I knew that the game sucked. It doesn't matter who you are or what you like, this game will 
 not appeal to you at all. This game will especially offend you if you have played the other two 
 Empire Earths.
  
  In short, do not buy this "game." It gives a bad name to the Empire Earth series, and to all other 
 video games. I give this game a 1.5 because I think it deserves half of a point for not crashing 
 in the short time I played it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SachinChoudhary
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  Well if you look at any other game of the similar kind then we find that the game should be based 
 more on the STEP BY STEP approach rather then like SIM CITY. 
  Graphics are poor and i totally agree with one of the reviewer that this more or less seems like 
 a unfinished game, rather then a full release.
  
  Next the difficulty of the game is not set properly and at times you feel that there is a lot unmanaged 
 mess that you have in the game then managed success.
  
  But then there is certainly a degree of innovation in the game and if this could be furnished in 
 the up-coming version, if there will be one, then I would love to play it and rate it accordingly.
 
  
  So improved graphics, Proper taunts (Voice Dub) , & a better balancing of the difficulty of the 
 game will certainly fetch it a 7/10 in the future version and some might even like the renewed 
 form and game could very well hit the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbi4571
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  honestly i think empire earth 1 is better than this installment of empire earth. when i played 
 the demo i hoped the game would be just like empire earth 1 but with better graphics, more soilders, 
 and more ages but it was changed completely into a new not as fun game. i used to play for hours 
 on empire earth 1 and i made so many maps on scenario editor and now empire earth 3's map maker 
 is so boring. if you liked empire earth 1 my recomendation is don't but this game! to sum this 
 up the game is kind of fun and very disappointing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redangelus
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:20 am PT
Review:  I'm going to start with what this game does not have, because it is a lot of things.
  
  First of all the graphics are bad, the animations poor and the units design under any critique. 
 The voices and dialogs are weak, with no personal feeling and a slight sense of outdated humor.
 
  
  There is absolutely no story just a marker:" World Domination".
  
  Udgrades and economic and the world map are useless and bring nothing new to the already existing, 
 already used ideas. The same things could be said about the buildings, units, gameplay and ""in-battle" 
 upgrades.
  
  The AI is below anything i have ever seen, including games that are 7-8 years old. Ex :the computer 
 attacks your three fortresses with 4 riders.
  
  The quests / missions and the win scenarios are boring and unoriginal and in some places poorly 
 implemented. Ex you start in the corner of the map, you are surrounded and you must give resources 
 to the enemy, while he is attacking you.
  On the world map if you move up the enemies form below attack you, and if you move down the enemies 
 above do the same. They attack together as if they were allaies even if they are not. 
  Also the re are situation where you block a road and the computer will march it's units throught 
 your army, in which time you can kill all attackers without loseing any units.
  
  There is no use for diplomacy or spying, even if this feautures are available.
  
  The sounds 
 are bad and from t5ime to time you can hear this anoying remarks or background noise that have 
 nothing to do with the game. 
  
  Come to thing of it there is nothing i like about this game. It would have been a nice game several 
 years ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hassanrefat
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  They made EE1 and it was great , when they released EE2 they tried to make it looks like rise of 
 nations (the great game) but they have failed to make it better
  now they made this (I don't know was it a really strategy game or what?)
  Can't believe that 
 thing made by sierra
  So guys from now on be careful before you buy any of Sierra products ... don't waste your money
 
  And hope they can fix that horrible game with another good game 
  please don't make more patches to that games cause I'm sure nobody will play 
  I'm sorry for 
 you sierra and hope it's not your starts of your downfall : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dddd2
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Just make it simple!
  WTF?
  Always enjoyed playing empire earth 1 and 2 together and awesome on multiplayer
  
  Now we get 
 a cartoon like game with a intresting but simple gameplay 
  
  I said intresting, indeed its new but too simple and way under the line compared to 1 and 2
  
 
  If this is the first empire earth you play you could say its cool, but look at empire earth 1 and 
 2 and you will notice how cool it should be.
  
  In other words graphics dont say all its the gameplay and the feel!
  
  However its not worth 
 a 1/10 or a 3/10 or something like that
  
  I would give it a 5.0 becuase it still got a intresting gameplay and graphics
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FormicHiveQueen
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Empire Earth 3 is much more simplified than the previous games. No longer are there a million epochs 
 leaving you wondering "what stuff do I get in this one again?" Instead, there are now only five, 
 clearly labeled epochs in which you can confidently say "I know exactly what I'm getting when I 
 epoch up."
  
  EE3's sides are also much more unich to eachother. In the past, countries have had regional and 
 national traits and a few unique units to differentiate themselves. The problem with this system, 
 however, is that it makes each side so similar as to be almost indistinguishable from one another. 
 In EE3 there are only three teams, the regions themselves rather than actual nations, and they 
 all play very differently from eachother. The West packs a good punch for a high price, the Far 
 East has the cheap hordes from hell (not only that but most of its infantry can also build stuff) , 
 and the Middle East can do hit&run and even move their entire base if they have to.
  
  The severe dumming down from the past games will likely be frustrating for harcore strategy gamers. 
 But for more casual gamers like myself, who may not necesarily want the most complex game in the 
 universe, this game is definitely a must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexChec
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  I bought Empire Earth III because I was a devout follower of the Empire Earth series. That was 
 until I bought Empire Earth III.
  
  EE3 is a bastardization of the Empire Earth series, as much of a bold, new direction for the series 
 as Cardigan's bold charge against the Russians was for the British campaign in the Crimean War.
 
  
  There is very little that can be said is "innovative," the gameplay is ridiculously simple for 
 today's RTS standards, and the emphasis on cutting-edge graphics make this a game that only the 
 best of the best gaming platforms can handle  although even if you could afford to spend that 
 much money on a PC, you still wouldn't want to throw away $50 on EE3.
  
  We start with the game's mechanics. To build EE3, the folks at Mad Doc took its predecessor's engine 
 apart to rebuild it into something "new." The outcome has been the same as though a five-year-old 
 were given a monkey wrench, a top-of-the-line engine, and then told to go nuts. Other than the 
 World Domination mode  which is not a new feature to this genre, thanks to Rise of Nations  there 
 is not a whole lot of "newness" to the game. In fact, there's a lot of wanting for the old game.
 
  
  Gone are special resources, because gone are most of the epochs; gone are exciting battles between 
 the Incas and the Koreans because gone are specific civilizations in favor of customizable template 
 civilizations, Western, Middle Eastern, and Far Eastern, which really all play the same way  interestingly 
 enough, the Mesoamericans are completely unrepresented, so while there is a "Western" civilization, 
 initially defined by Western Europe, the Western Hemisphere is effectively absent from the game.
 
  
  Gone is the feeling that you are marching through history. You can run through the five epochs 
  Ancient, Medieval, Colonial, Modern, and Future  without breaking a sweat. In World Domination, 
 you are particularly cheated in that, if you manage to take a research-specialized province early 
 enough and hold onto it, you can find yourself in the Future epoch really before you have an empire 
 under your belt.
  
  Gone is an AI that makes you sit up and pay attention. In skirmish games, the AI builds up what 
 any human player would turn into a  but the AI will never pose 
 a serious threat. In World Domination mode, the AI seems to be even worse, just when you thought 
 it couldn't possibly so. Many, many battles end before they begin because the AI's initial force, 
 workers and all, will just charge your force and be annihilated. And, once again, when the AI does 
 get to base building, it never builds up a terribly large force to threaten you.
  
  Gone is stability. This is one of the few games I have reviewed with fewer than 80 hours of it 
 under my belt, because for every 10 minutes of having the game open  not playing, mind you, just 
 having it open, I would have a CTD or other error that would cause me to close out (or shut down) 
 and try again. Post-patch, the ratio between minutes and crashes improved considerably  maybe 
 30:1  but not sufficiently enough to warrant extended gameplay.
  
  With so little of the underlying game left, everything else that Mad Doc has attempted gives you 
 the sense of putting additional floors on a building with a cracked foundation. However, we move 
 on to the gameplay, or lack thereof.
  
  Despite the promise of customizable civilizations in order to make up for the distinct lack of 
 unique civilizations, the tech trees seem to march along very similar paths from one game to the 
 next, and the rock-paper-scissors approach to combat does not make the units feel part of any unique 
 system.
  
  Unit management is so poorly handled that going to battle in EE3 is more like a doing your chores 
 than playing a game. First, there is no suicide function to allow you to dispose of useless units 
 that are draining your population cap; therefore, you will often find yourself going to battle 
 with woefully inappropriate units that, if the AI were any better, would spell defeat each and 
 every time. Pathfinding is simply atrocious, which means that you have to suffer through terrible, 
 terrible voice acting as you click over and over again to get your units to go where you want them 
 to. 
  
  Honestly, why is the knight such a coward? I like "Monty Python and the Holy Grail" just as much 
 as any geek out there, but I don't want an army full of Sir Robins, thank you very much, Mad Doc.
 
  
  World Domination is ridiculously oversimplified. Whereas the game promised a kind of sandbox approach, 
 each province practically comes with a label to tell you whether or not it should be a military, 
 imperial, commerce, or research province. And, frankly, there just aren't enough provinces to make 
 any kind of worthwhile strategy. Granted, when you're cruising through epochs before you can even 
 really build an empire because of your almighty research provinces, it's easier to complain that 
 there are too many provinces, but if Mad Doc had really wanted to make the effort to make a sandbox 
 conquest mode, a better sense of variety would have been nice.
  
  The tribal quests in World Domination mode become headaches after a while, and playing through 
 them I felt like the tribes were the almighty empire and I their vassal. I mean, how else does 
 one explain the Vikings having buried treasure in Africa of they aren't a world-conquering Empire?
 
  
  EE3 feels like it was trying to compete with Rise of Nations in the way that EE2 should have  
 as much as I love EE2, I admit to liking Rise of Nations more  and failing horribly. It has an 
 inferior conquest mode, a worse sense of tactics in skirmish mode, and very little uniqueness.
 
  
  Finally, the graphics, while cool, demand far too much of any platform a casual gamer might have 
  and since EE3 was clearly stripped down to the bare bones in terms of gameplay to be accessible 
 by casual gamers, this is a bad thing.
  
  System Requirements Lab tells me that my computer easily beats the recommended requirements for 
 EE3, but even on the lowest settings, my machine struggled through even medium-sized battles. And, 
 of course, playing the game on the lowest settings didn't allow me to appreciate all of the design 
 work that Mad Doc put into EE3, so I can't really comment on how cool it looked compared to EE3. 
 From what I was forced to look at, EE2 was far and away graphically superior to this game.
  
  Empire Earth III has succeeded in killing the Empire Earth series for me. If you love Empire 
 Earth, avoid this installment at all costs, even the Super Christmas Bargain Bin Sales Mark Down! 
 cost this game will sport in a few years' time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jay_J
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 16, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review:  When i say detail, i mean through the ages, it doesnt seem to be like having millions of ages to 
 go through, i liked that though it made the game feel bettter, the new one is good graphics if 
 you have everything on full and a vertex and pixel shader 3 graphics card, then you get good detail, 
 i know your looking at this review and already thinking, im going to disagree with this one, well 
 you may not agree with what im going to say but this is my opinion...
  
  The gameplay: I think its pretty fun gameplay, although the fighting doesnt seem that advanced 
 compared to some of the graphics or nowadays technology, its like the developers could og made 
 the gameplay better.
  
  The Graphics: like i said earlier, good if on full, effects look nice.
  
  Longetivity: well 
 not much to be said here, part from the fact theres a civ and map maker, not much, though there 
 is a campaign and custom game for world domination, thought they should of also had a normal mission 
 option for the campaign and skirmish matches.
  
  The units: not an awful amount of different units, and considering there is now only 3 factions 
 which is not quite as good
  
  Conclusion: Althought i have said some bad points, i think this game is great, take breaks between 
 otherwise it can get boring, wait until this game gets really cheap, then its worth getting, it 
 CAN be fun!
  
  Thanks for reading :D
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxrod
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Empire Earth III is a real-time strategy published by Sierra Entertainment released on 6 November 
 2007 and is the latest game from Empire Earth series.
  The three regions (Middle Eastern, Western and Far Eastern) have unique game-play aspects. The 
 game contains five epochs.
  So far the game has received mostly a negative response from users on Game Spot .For me this game 
 is cool. And i like this game has broken earth's history down to five unique sections :Ancient, 
 Medieval, Colonial, Modern and Future. So if you don't have any game to play you can lose the time 
 by playing this game! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beafry
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  this game is certainly not what I thought it would be, not enough things to build in it, easy resource 
 gathering. No real fun. I wish they had to cut the trees or something.... and the game is a little 
 on the buggy side. IT seems games for PC now a days you NEED THE INTERNET. Just to get the patch 
 to play. I seem to lately always buy broken games.
  
  Come on they could have created a much better game and the voice dialog is just plain dumb. The 
 only good thing about the game was I saw once a man blown to piece's..... I still am looking to 
 see if I was just seeing things. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_tanner
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  i cannot believe, this is was a really good game, not Like Age ofEmpires, or well Rise of Nations, 
 and others Rpg, but still agood game, and now became this,, a game with no invention, a copy of 
 the first E. E, and with bad graphics and gameplay and all, dude, even the demo sucks, is the dead 
 for a serie that not the best, not even close, but still a fun serie,, rest in peace,,,
  
  now have to wait for some others game like this, like universe at war, looks nice , ijust finished 
 dowload the demo, i cannnot play before, ithink i going to play when i finish this, well
  
  Let the force be with you young padawan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nomailx
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  forget a refund, you can even sue the company for selling you this game.
  What's the deal with the units? the buildings? who designed them? Who coded them? and about the 
 voice acting? I guess 6 years old write the lines???
  
  Any pixel of this game looks like an ingredient of a pizza you don't wanna know about.
  
  Since 
 this game is really but really wrong.. really bad, it is better not to flame it but remind instead 
 the points which makes a game "fun".
  
  there are 5:
  
  1. there must be a challenge. (ex: drive to a place in 10 min)
  
  2. the challenge must be fun. 
 (ex: the drive itself must entertain enough.
  (a reason that I underrated oblivion, while all the world liked it.
  the thrill of the "killing 
 and magic action" was was very poor. ( (play blade of darkness to see how it should have been) ) . 
 )
  
  3. there must be a good story. (ex: the reason you drive must be meaningfull)
  
  4. it must look and sound good. (good graphics, and sound)
  
  5. it must be innovative. (when 
 u play the game, you must know that
  there are no alternatives)
  
  you have none of the above in empire earth 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anything57
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I myself only played second game a handful of times and actually found the giant battles, excessive 
 ages, realtively cool units. fun.
  With this i thought.. Why not buy the third game... who needs a demo
  So i started playing and 
 spewed out a couple riflemen. Then a horrible horrible thing happened.. they looked like pixalated 
 midgets from beyond the grave, oh well. SO i sent them to scout around the lame undetailed world 
 and found some enemies to murder.. Good family fun.
  Then 'Strike two' happened.. my war midgets started shouting the worst oneliners.. think warcraft 
 3 gone worse-er-er-er with the liners.... So then I remembered.. that there was blood and gore 
 in this game.. or so ersb said
  So i thought 'turn off my volume or kill my midgets to prevent them from talking'
  SO as my midgets 
 buddies were running around shouting horrible phrases being shot at by the enemy i noticed 'strike 
 3' BUM BUm bum. 
  The gore was at a minmum.. if it can even be called that.
  My midgets started bleedingg little mini red pixel babies so i decided to quit.
  
  The last 
 time i have to whine about something
  The gameplays generic.. other than territory caprturing and other random stuff that is added to 
 make people think or stupid people for that matter "DID'ja here there's new stuff in dis here game!"
 
  
  I don't know why i ever left dawn of war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadcamchris
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  As true-blue EE fans, we were anticipating the new detailed maps on this third installment and 
 we were welcoming the world domination gameplay. What sounded great on paper, is a huge embarrassing 
 sequel not worthy of demo play let alone actually spending money on it.
  
  They should immediately fire everyone involved with producing EE 3. Did anyone involved in EE 1 
 and EE 2 ever even play this game in beta BEFORE they released this garbage to the public. Horrible 
 gameplay, zero strategy, cartoonish units, all add up to no reason in the world to play or buy 
 this thing. It's a joke. Too bad... another good series ruined by attempting to do too much and 
 not understanding the appeal of the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Copythat
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  I Very much wanted to not believe the other user review...
  I Now have no choice. Poor performance, Crashes, Over simplified, way too easy. I Cannot believe 
 that this , this... thing, has an Empire Earth name on it. Wish I had my money back. I Loved EE1 
 and 2 and this game (?) is not worthy to be stepped on by those titles. Cartoony graphics which 
 can bog my system dowm worse than cyrsis (Quad core, 8 GB RAM, 8800GTX) ( (Yes, 8GIGS OF RAM) ) there 
 are times when I am looking at the screen on my G15 and it shows 25% CPU and 42% RAM usage but 
 I am looking at a slideshow on my screen. Why would that be? Not Multi core aware, Seemes to have 
 a memory leak in there somewhere.
  If I Had developed this game, I would Quit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinceklosters
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 15, 2007 5:25 am PT
Review:  As I finished up Empire Earth 2 I was satisfied with it, a good game offering loads of options 
 and good graphics for its time. It was actually fun to conquer territories and read the battle 
 reports afterwards, seeing your high-tech missile cruisers crush WWI style battleships and soforth. 
 
  
  When I played the demo of this game this was totally different. When I played the actual game itself 
 at a friend, I was totally dissappointed. It seems as if the game was designed for people aged 
 lower than 14. 
  
  Things that are missing from this game:
  - Deep strategic thought before commencing attacks (war plans etc.)
  - Actual realism when in 
 a certain age
  - Actual realistic epoch-development, there are only 5 epochs which severely insults history
 
  - The requirement for a brain, the game is too simple for real EE fans, it doesn't distinguish 
 itself from other standard RTS'es anymore
  - A good world domination mode; again oversimplified
  - A comfortable resource model
  
  In 
 short, this seems like an attempt to clone the best parts of other games (world domination, epoch 
 advancement) but it fails at doing so while abandoning the old EE concepts. The graphics are ok, 
 but graphics never make the RTS. In short, don't buy the game.. Wait for EE4 and hope it to be 
 a revisit to the old EE1 and EE2 traditions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waldemar014
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  still a good game but like i sayed before not wath i was expecting
  i give it a 8 ,why? becouse 10 for the original plus -2 for this one
  10- (-2) =8
  i must say 
 they did a good job in the graphics gameplay is kinda good but not that much of exitment and fun
 
  the original EE was awesome i remember hiding villagers in my allies towns, then make nuclear bomb 
 airplanes in secret and destroying the other teams ahhh those were the good days....
  ill just buy the original one again if i can find it.
  The thousands of clubman, and stone trowers 
 taking on tanks and machine guns...
  bombing runs on enemy base...
  that nuclear bomb falling in the idle villager....
  where did all this things go the great Empire 
 Earth gone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedingdriver
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 16, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  Empire Earth was one of the best games that you could possibly play in the history of real time 
 strategy games. 
  This piece of garbage is glitchy, unstructured, unstable, The voice-overs drive you insane and 
 make you want to mute the game, the multiplayer is very very very laggy, it can take up to 30 minutes 
 to connect. The AI is as dumb as a wall and will be no challenge to anyone that seriously knows 
 how to turn a computer on.
  Anyone looking to play a serous game, play the original Empire Earth. Not this worthless pile of 
 trash.
  It's not worth the trouble that you have to go to to even get this game running by putting it into 
 your CD drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jawz78
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  Well I have to give it a decent score.... but I did get dejavu when playing. It seems like RON 
 all over again. Yes, the graphics are better. But what's with the West, Middle East and Far East? 
 I did not like that. The game play is ok, it's not ground breaking but it doesn't suck. I was anticipating 
 this release for some time... only to be let down by this series once again. It really upsets me, 
 mostly because they have an awesome game concept but can never really deliver a great game.
  
  It seems that all the new games from great series of the past are disappointing at best... 
 I guess it should be no surprise that EEIII followed suite and joined Stronghold and Settlers. 
 Stick with Civilization... at least Sid Meirers knows what he's doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godzer2
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  Empire earth III is the sequel to empire earth and empire earth II
  Though most people, even me, considered EE at his original state a good game, there faith in this 
 franchise has been completely destroyed.
  
  First off, the graphics.
  I have to say that were living in 2007, but apperently Sierra and MadDog have been living in their 
 own world. it is acceptable for a game if it plays fantastic, in wich you only pay attention to 
 the gameplay, but as abysmal as teh gameplay is aswell, you just want to stop it. You almost pity 
 your GPU for needing to show this.
  
  Second off, The gameplay.
  Speechless ( iam not even gonna say anything about it, you really DONT want to experiance this 
 )
  
  Third off, the added features.
  the added feature they made in EE III is the world map. This style of play and Campaign is common 
 these days for the RTS franchise, so that scrapes the originality. They try to copy it, but instead 
 copied the bad things.
  
  All in all, this game is not something you should buy, unless your are a complete EE fan. Dont 
 believe me ? waste your time Downloading teh demo and see for yourself.
  
  / eXtaCy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek79
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:34 am PT
Review:  I was very impressed with the original Empire Earth. The sequel left some aspects to be desired, 
 but overall was still a good game. The latest iteration however, is evidence that the company needs 
 to go back to the proverbial drawing board. There was alot of hype, surrounding this game's release. 
 From what the developers showed, and screenshots that we saw, it looked like it was going to be 
 a winner. I was personally looking forward to reviving an old classic. However, clunky graphics, 
 mundane game play and "High School" grade voice acting, are just a few of the reasons why this 
 game should never be played by anyone. Ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragnofice9888
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 14, 2007 3:30 am PT
Review:  If you like bad games. 
  If you like boring games.
  If you like games that have worse graphics than Diablo 1.
  If you like games that were overly 
 simplified so you don't have to have any complexity.
  If you like laggy, buggy, lame games.
  
  You'll love EE3.
  
  This game... made me gasp. 
 I started it up... Installed it. I was so "Woo" This is gonna be good, right? I mean.. Come on. 
 I loved EE1.
  But nope. I even tried to play into it a little thinking, come on, this can't be ALL that's available 
 to me. Lol! Then I saw the light. This game was simplified. 
  
  Let me say this again.
  A Game about ADVANCING your civilization.
  Training an army.
  Building defenses.
  Controlling 
 Territory
  Waging epic battles
  Resource control
  World Domination
  ---------------------------- Was simplified to the crappiest RTS ever made.
  
  I'm sorry, Sierra 
 published this?
  If I was whomever was in charge of saying "Hey, go ahead and release it"
  It'd have been "Wow, format and restart this game's production."
  
  At one point, did the developers 
 stop and say.... Wow... This game is horrible! And, did they even test it? and notice how BAD it 
 was?
  
  Lol.. So the game came out, and the patch came out.
  
  The patch gave me more glitches than it solved. Units were "warping" as they ran... I'm running 
 a core2duo, 2gb ddr2 800, radeon x1950 pro.
  
  I didn't have what you'd call.. "Lag" But, I have what you'd call
  "Ugly Graphics, And Graphical 
 Glitches When On Max"
  I had to turn every detail to "LOW" to solve the warping. 
  
  ... But I got frame rate lag on LOW. Lol?
  
  So... In short. Don't buy this game. Don't ever 
 play it. Flip Sierra, and the developers the bird.
  
  Sierra, I'll really think twice about buying a game that you publish, if this is the quality you 
 demand in contracts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knightblade05
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 14, 2007 2:27 am PT
Review:  I don't know about all of you, but I have been burned one too many times by jumping out an buying 
 a game before the players have reviewed the game in question. Notice I've said player reviews! 
 And with good reason! The last game I ran out and bought made a darn good coaster -- that said game 
 is Star Trek Legacy which Bethseda released ---I ran out and bought my copy of the game because 
 I figured how can I go wrong, I'ts the same people that put out Oblivion! Well I got burned ---horrible 
 game ---and since It's release they put out one patch ---Thats it one patch and the game is still 
 broken ---one user in their forum asked if they would be releasing a patch so he could play multiplayer 
 with windows vista ---they told him on the forum too bad so sad you shouldn't have bought vista 
 which is standard with computers being sold now!!! and you shouldn't have bought this game ---I 
 couldn't believe what I was reading ---I for one have windows vista and I can play Baldur's gate 
 which was released almost ten years ago! ---I really felt for this person ---he could have been a 
 little kid for all we know!! What I'm trying to say is for a new game that came out less than a 
 year ago and is still broken and they have no plans to update it or fix it!!! I think its time 
 for us players to stop rushing out and buying these games -- read the reviews first and send a message 
 to these big game companies we are the ones with the money ---either start making quality games 
 and support them via patches and real customer service or you won't be around much longer!!!! I 
 admit I was real close to buying this game ---I had it in hand at the store and told myself no ---I 
 will wait for the reviews ---I'm not bragging that I didn't buy another coaster I'm just making 
 a statement that --- I won't get burned again!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feibie
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:57 am PT
Review:  Ok basically, when i had a look at this i thought it might be worth my time but.... this is not 
 worth my "time" and "money" srsly, you're not getting what you're paying for. dissapointing game 
 srsly... there's not many units... nothing really different from other games... there's about only 
 5 ages now which is just .... lame lol
  
  i dunnoes really.... just don't feel like playing empire earth, felt like playing some other game 
 or something it's just not right, game doesn't have the right feel to it...
  graphics aren't even that impressive
  i'm a big fan of RTS and well this.... is a 0-1 rated game 
 for me : ( i'd rather play ee2 lol
  basically.... it's just not worth it -_-
  
  lol even this review is bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Murrius54
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 13, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Horrible game flow. Annoying voice overs. Pointless gameplay. Clunky physics. Still many unresolved 
 bugs after installing the patch. Cartoonish graphics unsuitable to the series. Huge balance issues 
 (think ancient warriors defeating futuristic tanks) . Slow paced and and tedious. Ridiculous time 
 disconnects (in skirmish mode tanks show up from the opposite side when you are still in the ancient 
 age then, as mentioned earlier, are defeated by the sword) . Don't even think about alt-tabbing 
 to your desktop unless you have a relentless desire to restart your computer. Very disappointing 
 finish (hopefully) to a very promising series. Sierra should be ashamed of releasing this garbage. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magusat999
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  NONE - just a boring, drawn out 3D version of Risk, basically - but at least Risk has a story. 
 You (in the SP Campaign) are thrown out to a 3D view of the Earth and then just "start conquering". 
 If you don't know this, you realize it in a few hours - along with the realization that you have 
 just wasted a large block of time in monotony purgatory...
  
  Graphics:
  Nice, slightly above average - close-up view reveals characters are not very detailed, though. 
 The world isn't what I would call "photo-realistic" by any sense of the world, but rather highly 
 detailed illustration. It does, however, have a generic feel to it... you'll see.
  
  AI:
  Your "factions" are stupid. Sometimes they will go waaaaaay out of the way when there is a shorter, 
 yet harder to traverse path right there! Sometimes they do it for unknown reasons. The PC opponent 
 ALWAYS seems to find the most prudent path.
  
  Gameplay:
  Well, all you do is jump back and forth between skirmish and world view. You can only make adjustments 
 and upgrades in world view, so if you mess up and go to skirmish your out of luck (restart at earlier 
 save) . The skirmish mode is interesting enough, and fast paced - but commerce, exploration, and 
 the countless other parameters present in most RTS games - including EE III's pedecessors - were 
 sadly either not there or severely crippled. They took most of the micro-management out, but in 
 doing so, dumbed up the game as to take all of the challenge and fun out of it. On top of that. 
 the rewards are very slim, and bsing dumped back into skirmish mode with an army back at "level 
 1" every time is not very satisfying.
  
  There are only five epochs and three races - reams of complaints have already been lodged at that 
 decision - less game of an already yawnfested endeveor...
  
  Sound:
  Good.
  
  Summary - game is broken and boring. I'd avoid it or wait until they fix it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eehlert
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 26, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  I preordered EE3 thinking it would be a deep, intense RTS experience that would combine the best 
 of EE2 with the ingenuity of Rise of Nations, Age of Empires 3, and Civilization 4. The introduction 
 video and title screen certainly help establish this expectation, but the actual gameplay quickly 
 shoots down those hopes.
  
  The box art of EE3 betrays the actual game graphics and mechanics. The realistic and dramatic box 
 art hides the cartoonish and overexaggerated unit and building models in the game. Very little 
 strategy is involved in the actual gameplay as well; a trained ape could easily take the place 
 of the stern-faced strategist on the game box's front and win battles. 
  
  The "witty" quipes of various units, much like those of Warcraft 3's units when you click on them 
 enough, are cute at first but get old VERy quickly. You can't help but roll your eyes and think 
 "Wow, another attempt to rip off Blizzard." The differences, though, are that the Warcraft 3 lines 
 were actually humorous and only occured when you purposely clicked the unit multiple times in a 
 row, while the EE3 lines are fairly lame and almost unavoidable.
  
  The game quickly leaves you expecting more, but there is no more to it. It's too over-simplified 
 to have any real replay value. Too few playable factions, units, technological improvements, buildings, 
 resources, and customization options makes the experience lacking.
  
  It is obvious that EE3 is meant to have mass appeal that goes beyond RTS fanatics. What the developers 
 failed to address, though, was the fact that most people who purchased EE3 were RTS gurus who played 
 through EE2 as well as several other RTS games while waiting for EE3. While I cannot speak for 
 other RTS players out there, I can safely say that I was expecting so much more and am very disappointed. 
 
  
  This game should have not been sold as the sequel to EE2, but rather a dumbed-down spinoff of the 
 Empire Earth series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mykeran
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  In an age where computer RTS games are gaining in depth as well as breadth, its staggering to see 
 something like EE3 which has taken the notion of 'lite' to an all time low. Fewer units, fewer 
 ages, exact same gameplay engine . . . and a hefty price tag, all combine for a supreme disappointment 
 from a franchise I once considered to be among the top three. Oh how the mighty have fallen. Age 
 of Empires 3 has gone into the Asian Age, rise of nations at least tried something new with their 
 expansion, bug EE3 went the tried and true way and stuck with what was already there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akhmatov
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  I have read on the internet that the new approach to Empire Earth was a response to gamers feeling 
 overwhelmed by the number of factions in Empire Earth II. I believe that gamers love a big number 
 of factions and different architectural styles (CIV IV, AOE III) ; the only thing overwhelmed by 
 Empire Earth II was our hardware. Even on my new PC, a quad-core Dell with two 8000 series NVIDIA 
 cards in SLI mode, Empire Earth II degenerates into a slide show if all of the graphics options 
 are turned on. Empire Earth III is a whole lot less than EE II on every count, however. 
  
  First, the graphics are not as attractive. The trees, for example, are downright awful looking, 
 like lettuce wraps. They look even worse than the trees in World of Warcraft. The units in the 
 game look like big blocky toddler toys (but a few of them manage to look relatively cool anyway, 
 like the Tripod Herc) . Aircraft formations look ridiculous, like aerial traffic jams, and you cannot 
 build roads or churches. There are no priests, at least in the Western Faction. The variety of 
 units is dramatically reduced from EE II. 
  
  I could not figure out how to find idle builder or military units, and formations were not available 
 either. There were also only five epochs, not eight or ten. And I could not figure out how to make 
 distinctive sub-factions within the three factions, for example I could not create French civilization 
 that seemed in any way French. There are no wonders either. 
  
  This game is so much less than EE II, I will probably continue to play the latter. EE III makes 
 you want to play EE II! Nevertheless I am looking forward to the other factions; perhaps they will 
 be more interesting. The game is not bad, really, but it is astonishing how much less there is 
 in the box. 
  
  Vlad Akhmatov 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hanno555
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  This game seems to have taken a step backwards. The graphics are so-so, the sound is so-so and 
 the game play is so-so. Technically, its a flop. The game is labeled as "Games for Windows", but 
 kept crashing on my Vista machine (which, btw, I played the Crysis demo on full graphics with no 
 problem) it keeps crashing-to-desktop for no reason and no error given. It feels like they were 
 trying to woo the WoW crowd with the cartoonish graphics they used for the buildings and troops. 
 I originally gave this game a 6.5, but had to lower it quite a bit after sitting through 20 hours 
 of this total crap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atraydies
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 12, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I've played the previous Empire Earth games and enjoyed them. Like the name Empire Earth was about 
 creating an empire on Earth with Earth units. This game might as well have been Empire Pluto since 
 there was no understandable relationship to Earth. I found it hard to determine what unit to build 
 because I found it hard to know what they were and what they did. I had this game for less than 
 one day. Since playing the game I have just ranted about how bad it was to anyone I thought would 
 be even slightly interested. This game reminds me of Master of Orion 3 and how bad that turned 
 out to be. The makers of this game made a mistake. Lets remember that Master of Orion, a once very 
 popular game serious is now gone after the release of the last horrible version. The makers of 
 this game may have to learn the same lesson. Master of Orion was replaced with Galactic Civilization, 
 a market and money, that Master of Orion could have had. People do remember when garbage is produced 
 and they show it with their money. The rating section only allowed me to rate it a one instead 
 of a zero, it does not rate a one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorenf31
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  I really wanted to like the game, love a good RTS and love world domination mode. Sadly Empire 
 Earth 3 is mediocre and plain boring most of the time.
  
  With the lack of any real story, graphics that are really subpar, maps that seem crowded and maze 
 like and units that are plain boring, Empire Earth 3 does not seem like a AAA title to me.
  
  The graphics are downright poor. The units are difficult to see (unless you zoom in on them 
 - and why would you want to do that in an RTS?) and distinguish from each other. The gameplay becomes 
 quickly tedious with the same maze like maps in province after province.
  
  Empire Earth 3 is certainly a bargain bin buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elrond2003
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 3:33 am PT
Review:  Was looking for a nice new RTS but EE3 isn't going to be it. I might as well reload RON as that 
 was much better. The strategic view adds a nice twist but didn't wow me too much. The province 
 battles aren't any different although it adds some storyline by adding actual missions which gives 
 a little more depth. Still I haven't seen mission to follow more than 1 province so it isn't really 
 integrated but probably backed by some random engine.
  
  The graphics let me down as well. These days with the powerful graphics I'm surprised that buildings/units 
 are still so 'crudely' drawn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LupusMagus
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:39 am PT
Review:  When you need an 8800* to play a game that plays little differently to Warcraft II (which was a 
 better game in my opinion) you have to ask yourself when developers will wake up and realize eye-candy 
 alone is not what gamers want, Hell I'd trade some of those purty graphics for a more enjoyable 
 game that was just more fun. 
  
  The ridiculous future units, the incredibly lame (and annoying) voice acting, and the poor quality 
 of buttons and interface elements all contribute to a feeling that you really didn't get what you 
 paid for.
  
  Me, I'm uninstalling it and going for an old classic on my shelf. It's the sort of game that can't 
 be fixed with patches and updates. It's just fundamentally 'boring'. 
  
  To be blunt EE3 felt like it was made by a bunch of overpaid ad execs bouncing off the walls on 
 Coke. Certainly the end of a very slow death for the EE franchise. 
  
  * - No, you don't 'need' an 8800 but this game certainly runs very poorly on my rig. At the default 
 levels it doesn't look much better then Warcraft II. And 15 minutes into each game it would tell 
 me it was switching to low memory textures because it was running low on memory. (That's with the 
 patch applied) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boneknocker
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 10, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  - Use too much system for play.
  - All AI are super stupid.
  - Unit 's design look weirdly.
  - Nothing good in gameplay.
  - Very confused interface. 
 
  
  - Use too much system for play.
  - All AI are super stupid.
  - Unit 's design look weirdly.
  - Nothing good in gameplay.
  - Very confused interface. 
 
  
  - Use too much system for play.
  - All AI are super stupid.
  - Unit 's design look weirdly.
  - Nothing good in gameplay.
  - Very confused interface. 
 
  
  - Use too much system for play.
  - All AI are super stupid.
  - Unit 's design look weirdly.
  - Nothing good in gameplay.
  - Very confused interface. 
 
  
  - Use too much system for play.
  - All AI are super stupid.
  - Unit 's design look weirdly.
  - Nothing good in gameplay.
  - Very confused interface. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin_of_Borg
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 27, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  I've played Empire Earth since the first one came out. When the second one came out, I thought 
 it was good, but in a way I still preferred the first. Both games had lots of options in the way 
 of resources, diplomacy, tech tree, and units. While some gamers didn't like this, I always loved 
 the freedom. Empire Earth III is not so great. Sure, the graphics look better, but nothing special 
 by today's standards. Nearly all the different eras are gone, and the tech tree has been reduced 
 to a handful of options. Diplomacy is now just war or peace, no options in between. I couldn't 
 play too much of this game. It was too painful. I'm glad I still have my copies of Empire Earth 
 I and II. Empire Earth III is going to be one of my games that collect dust until I throw it away. 
 There were always many simple RTS games out there, and Empire Earth wasn't one of the. Now it is. 
 If you really want to play this game though, try the demo first. If you like the demo, then you 
 might be able to justify spending $30 bucks on this game. But wait for it to go down in price a 
 lot. $50 is just a ripoff for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeno123456
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  So Empire Earth 3 is the best in the series by offering 268 units (counted)
  and over 80 buildings. Over 200 different campagin objectives that will fore u to go aroud the 
 globe. there are 3 region that are different in everyway even in the animation. THere are also 
 15 imgame civilization like the British, german and russian etc. But u can create your own thing 
 in seconds. The map editor is 9.0 out of 10. ANd u can customize the stats of any unit wich is 
 cool. The campaing in incretebly long. And different for each faction. I personally loved the western 
 herc hero with the black whole. and the asian insect monsters and the super cool spies of Middle 
 East. The game multiplayer is 8 out of 10. The Campaign is 9.6 out of 10. The skirmish is 8.8 out 
 of 10. THe graphics are 9.9 out of 10. But they dont beat the age of empires 3. The physics suck 
 so badly. They are not even physics just animations. Other than that there are a couple of small 
 issues but the game is tottally awsome and ill spent probably 5 months playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andromeda7M31
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Empire Earth III is really one of the best RTS games I have ever seen. The graphics are ok, but 
 all the new ideas they have put in are awesome. The game is easy and fun to play! You can make 
 you're own maps and civilisations and also spanned all of time, which makes it interesting and 
 unique. I have already played allot, and started the campaign, in which you can navigate the globe. 
 There are plenty of maps to choose from in the single player mode.
  Some think the graphics are "cartoony" and aren't good, but I think it is just a different type 
 of game and it is still realistic looking (eg. Trees, Buildings) and if you put everything on high 
 graphics, you get lots of detail.
  
  I really recommend the game ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmightyGeo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Well, to start off this game offers some new interesting ideas that haven't been in many real time 
 strategy games in the past. First of all would obviously be the Global Domination game play, which 
 plays very similar to a game of classic risk. Empire Earth III also has 3 very distinct factions, 
 which is obviously an improvement of the previous games, only having generic units in every faction.
 
  
  The graphics aren't any better than the previous games and are even going to the childish side. 
 Obviously if you're looking for a beautiful game, look elsewhere.
  
  As for the sound quality and voice acting, from what I've heard in game the ambience sound is pretty 
 good and the voice cast also meshes pretty well.
  
  The standard game play is just like any other real time strategy games on the market, although 
 this game can boast the new Global Domination mode. This mode, although innovative in some ways, 
 lacks real depth and gets awfully tedious having to battle out every turn. It will allow you to 
 enjoy it for some time and then it gets old. The skirmish mode is not all that exciting, but it 
 gets the job done. Empire Earth III also has a more complex diplomatic system than the former games, 
 but it's still not as fancy as let's say Europa Universalis.
  
  So to sum this up, I wouldn't recommend going out and buying this unless you've run out of games 
 in this genre. If your looking into the Empire Earth series, I suggest you look to the first in 
 the series as I don't know if it was just me, but I thought the 2nd didn't do honor to the Empire 
 Earth name and now the same for number 3. Maybe they'll have better luck with IV, who knows? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Towarf
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 9, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  The concept is exactly what the genre needs but the execution is way off the mark. Adding a risk-like 
 world domination aspect to a real time strategy game is a great idea but for the following reasons 
 this is very weak:
  
  - Clunky graphics
  - The strategy component in skirmishes is weak and in world domination almost non-existent (again 
 very simplistic)
  - Unit movement is terrible and seems quite buggy even with the patch (specifically army control)
 
  - Can't zoom out far enough to effectively control large battle areas - Bugs (like a builder getting 
 stuck in the building he has completed - No way to suicide a unit that is either stuck or simply 
 not wanted
  
  In the end, battles seem long and tedious with development of your civilization being quite linear 
 and boring. There is no excitement interest or challenge to this release. I honestly think if they 
 had stuck with the EEII model, upgraded it and added a more interesting World Domination mode this 
 game would have been incredible. It almost seems like this is a strategy game for the 12 and under 
 market.
  
  If this is the kind of game you are looking for, unfortunately EEII or AOE III (or even galactic 
 civ II: Dreadlords if you can get into the space thing) are far better. I am very disappointed, 
 as I was very excited about this release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sidek_lover
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  I must be one of the only people to purchase this game. And that's very sad. Everyone should enjoy 
 this hit. The demo and 1.0 patches suck, but 1.1 is going good for me. The 1.1 patch alone jumped 
 my rating to this from 7.8. The game is crying for an early expansion, and if they can get a small 
 10 buck one out by February, this game will be just as good, if not better than Halo 3, Bioshock 
 and just tip past Command and Conquer 3, which is just as good at this game. It is a bit late in 
 the year, when all the expansions to the earlier released games come out. Now to the actual review. 
 The graphics of this game are worse than most 1999 games, so if you want a game that looks fantastic 
 buy C&amp; C instead. The pathfinding for AIs is fabulous, easily makes up for graphics. The voices 
 for West and Middle East are great; Far East players may want to wait until a mod gets released 
 for better Far East voices. Ya know, you could always rip the Chinese sounds from Generals...... 
 The Gameplay is pretty average of A-List RTS. I had a little trouble with the corner interface 
 and the fact that you couldn't zoom out, but if you ask me this game is the new RTS to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrTaco016
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  I think that the game has inproved in graphics and fixed many bugs. The downfall though is that 
 the game is less like The emapire earth game because they take out pretty much all of the factions 
 except for 3 and take out many unit types. This game is more like warcraft by blizzard because 
 you can't mass units like the last one and there are limited choices of things to do. This game 
 is not even close to being like EE2 and its a shame. The thought of world domination was good but 
 they changed around too much in the skirmish part. It makes the game less likely for those who 
 liked EE2 to buy this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
