-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Empire: Total War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/empiretotalwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Impressive and ambitious historical scope.
 A huge amount of content, online and off.
 Both land and naval battles are fun to play and fun to watch.
 Addictive gameplay will keep you glued to the monitor.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 An array of artificial intelligence issues.
 Numerous bugs and performance hitches.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  9, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.9, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 2,549 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Creative Assembly
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Mar 3, 2009 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This strategy sequel is incredibly deep, broad, addictive -- and a bit rough around the edges. 
 

  Like diving into a murky lake from the rocky cliffs looming above, plunging into Empire: Total 
 War is an intimidating prospect but an exhilarating experience. As with previous games in this 
 strategy franchise, there's an overwhelming amount of content to unearth, though now the clock 
 has been spun forward hundreds of years. Technological advances have made bows and arrows weapons 
 obsolete, the British colonies strive for independence, and major empires approach their inevitable 
 collapse. These historical waters are deep, but also a bit turbulent. Empire is the biggest and 
 broadest Total War yet, and like an aging historical parchment, it's brilliantly ambitious in scope 
 but somewhat tattered at the edges. Nevertheless, the game's historical breadth, turn-based tugs-of-war, 
 and enjoyable real-time battles (both on land and at sea) will transfix series fans and newcomers 
 alike.  

           You'll put a lot into Empire: Total War, but it gives a lot in return.      

  The 
 grand campaign is the meat of Empire: Total War, and it's there where you're likely to spend the 
 most amount of time. The game stretches across the 18th century and lets you choose from a number 
 of world powers, from Great Britain and Russia to fallen domains such as the Maratha Confederacy 
 and the Ottoman Empire. Once you choose an empire, you can select from a few different campaign 
 types that determine victory conditions and campaign length. Whichever you decide, be prepared: 
 Even a short, 50-year campaign can take a good amount of time to complete, given that each turn 
 requires strategic thinking on multiple fronts. Battles usually determine how regions are won and 
 lost, but diplomatic relations, economic strangleholds, assassinations, and many other subtleties 
 must be tweaked and considered at each turn, and they have noticeable impact as the years progress. 
 If this sounds overwhelming, or if you're an American history buff, you'll want to check out the 
 Road to Independence campaign before jumping into the grand one. This is essentially a long American 
 tutorial that slowly introduces you to the basics and culminates in a grand campaign of its own. 

  The factors you must consider run the gamut, starting with an important new feature: the technology 
 tree. Three areas of research and multiple subtrees let you improve your military, industry, and 
 philosophy; in turn, your choices may benefit your economy or your success in battle. The benefits 
 may seem minor at first, but as the campaign wears on, their effects are more noticeable, and your 
 choices within these trees must be informed by the strengths and weaknesses of your particular 
 empire. Do you concentrate on industry and use sheer numbers of troops to overwhelm your enemies, 
 or do you focus on naval improvements and reap the ensuing benefits of successful trade-route blockades? 
 As your campaign wears on, your needs may shift, whether because enemy blockades require a stronger 
 navy, because you are spreading quickly across land, or because your economy is unable to sustain 
 your growing army. Technology is also a limited diplomatic option, given that it's a commodity 
 that you can not only trade during negotiations but also steal from foes. Additionally, it's not 
 easy to convince a friendly nation to offer technology. Even when offered multiple technologies 
 or monetary compensation, your closest allies rarely accept a request to share even a single technology, 
 which makes it a limited political tool. In Empire: Total War, knowledge is more easily stolen 
 than shared.  

  In fact, your more successful political dealings are the underhanded ones. Your agents may differ 
 between nations (for example, gentlemen and rakes for the British, scholars and hashishin for the 
 Ottomans) , but the tasks are similar: covertly disrupt the affairs of your enemies and potential 
 enemies. Religious agents such as missionaries will slowly but surely convert the populace, staving 
 off potential rebellion in newly captured regions. On the other hand, the impact of religion is 
 not as deep or impactful as in the Europa Universalis series, in which social and diplomatic events 
 are more fully explored. Regardless, it's great fun to cripple whole economies, especially when 
 your strategies work in tandem with each other. Sending in a naval fleet to seize enemy trade supplies, 
 sending another directly into an enemy's port (and therefore obstructing incoming goods) , and dispatching 
 an agent to sabotage commercial ports can have profound effects. In cases like these, an angry, 
 resource-deprived public and cash-strapped armies then ease the way for a quick triumph.  

           The puny Austrians are no match for the might of the Ottomans.      

  Nevertheless, 
 this is Total War, and though assassinations and sabotage lighten your wartime load, there are 
 no diplomatic, religious, or technological victories. Might is right, and as such, your armies 
 and navies drive the quick spread of your domain -- and if you want to meet the campaign's success 
 requirements, you'll want to be aggressive, right from the start. The artificial intelligence doesn't 
 always take sensible steps; smaller countries may declare war, only to be quickly steamrolled, 
 whereas major foes can seem almost oblivious to your spread across their regions. However, campaign 
 AI is good enough to keep you occupied across multiple theaters, and minor nations and rebels can 
 often keep your hands full, leaving room for major foes to invade. You will review every fleet 
 and army at every turn, and now that army recruitment, resource production, and other aspects of 
 play are spread across multiple locales within a region, mobility (and therefore, roads) is an 
 important strategic asset.  

  Unlike with most turn-based historical games, battles can be played out in real time, and though 
 the autoresolve option may look tempting, you should, at least on land, manage any battle in which 
 you have a reasonable chance of winning. The most obvious reason is that they're enjoyable to command 
 and enjoyable to watch. Thousands of units clash in a dizzying mass of artillery and bullets, camels 
 and swordsmen, and as in prior Total War games, it's more about position, formation, and geography 
 than about unit micromanagement. Garrisoning musketeers, and taking heat off of cavalry by keeping 
 enemy gunmen occupied with melee infantry, are just a few of many possibilities to consider. Once 
 armies clash, these prebattle decisions generally have far more impact than any midskirmish choice, 
 and it's as enjoyable as ever to zoom in close to your troops and watch them engage. The landscapes 
 are on the bland side, but soldier animations and the general amount of model detail make for a 
 wonderful visual treat.     

  The other reason you'll want to play out most battles in real time is that the real-time AI is 
 weak and can be exploited to your advantage. Enemy troops often fail to engage you, even when under 
 direct fire. It isn't uncommon for your AI opponent to use only a few units at any given time and 
 let you get an early upper hand, particularly when you have taken care with your formations during 
 the deployment phase. This is especially true on settlement maps, in which narrow paths must be 
 taken into account and buildings can be used for garrisoning. The AI is often confused by garrisoned 
 troops, letting cavalry get pummeled by gunfire without taking any steps to reposition, even at 
 higher difficulty settings. And at times the artificial intelligence is outright broken. On multiple 
 occasions, we watched units refuse to engage or respond to attack commands, our own troops and 
 the enemy troops milling among each other as if they were at a cocktail party rather than in the 
 midst of battle. Other battle quirks -- such as rare moments when movement across the map occurs 
 in slow motion, as if troops are moving through mud instead of a grassy field -- may also crop up. 

           Naval battles may not feature the most impressive AI, but they're sure awesome to watch. 

  Real-time naval battles are another new feature, and they are the most impressive visual offering 
 here. The water is absolutely stunning and the ships are incredibly detailed, down to the movement 
 of sails and oars, as well as the movement of troops on the decks. As ships take damage, debris 
 falls from the hull and litters the water, all while fireships may be volleying flames into the 
 air. It's the best-looking naval combat in any game, and it is compelling when in top form. Like 
 land battles, naval warfare benefits from smart positioning, and you can further micromanage by 
 choosing different ammo types, firing your cannons manually, and even by grappling and boarding 
 another ship. But as with land warfare, the AI seems incapable of managing the battle with much 
 success on normal and hard difficulties. In dozens upon dozens of naval battles, the enemy deployed 
 ships in the same exact manner and always focused on doing hull damage, but never on alternate 
 strategies such as using grape shot to whittle down a crew and then initiating boarding. In a stand-alone 
 naval skirmish using default deployments on normal AI settings, we won a battle after issuing a 
 whopping two commands during the entire match; if you want a challenge in one-off naval battles, 
 crank up the difficulty level to expert.  

  As problematic as the AI can be, both types of battles are fun to play, and the addition of oceanic 
 combat fleshes out the package well, making for multifaceted gameplay that encompasses a lot more 
 than it could be expected to. This includes a number of multiplayer options, both over a local 
 area network and online. You can battle both on land and at sea in a one-off skirmish for up to 
 eight players; take part in a one-on-one siege in which one player defends a fortress while the 
 other attacks; or engage in a historical scenario, such as the battle of Brandywine Creek. Sadly, 
 a full multiplayer campaign like the impressive 32-player extravaganza featured in Europa Universalis 
 III is not yet part of this package, though developer Creative Assembly has announced that a multiplayer 
 campaign mode will be added later.  

  The strengths of the core gameplay are far more apparent when you're playing against real people. 
 As with prior Total War games, you get finite resources to spend on units of your choice, you can 
 customize weather, and you can narrow unit selections to early or late 18th century. Without the 
 bizarre AI behavior, you can concentrate on real battlefield tactics and not on exploitation, and 
 matches can be an absolute blast. The measured approach and attempts to flank, the intimidating 
 presence of a rocket troop, the final standoff of two fatigued units: These moments make Empire: 
 Total War's multiplayer options worth returning to again and again. Naval battles are also much 
 more fun when facing a human opponent, who will be likelier to slow your frigates by using chain 
 shot, and to take advantage of tactical positioning and effective deployment.  

           Camels are never not cool in strategy games.      

  However, you may very well need 
 to turn down your graphics options when entering an online match, lest the frame rate drop to a 
 crawl under the weight of the game's ambitions. Indeed, Empire: Total War requires a lot of horsepower 
 to run, and it's prone to peculiar behavior, even on systems that exceed recommended requirements. 
 We experienced a few crashes on several machines, and the game tends to slow the longer that it 
 has been running. On two test systems, the soft haze applied to distant objects also blurred out 
 some ship geometry and the onscreen compass, and various other graphical bugs cropped up from time 
 to time. At least within battle, however, it seems that this power is being put to mostly good 
 use; hundreds if not thousands of individually animated troops can be onscreen at any given time. 
 Pleasant weather effects, the din of clashing swords, the pop of gunfire -- all of these elements 
 make for an enjoyable audiovisual experience during battles.  

  It's impossible to condense an experience as broad and as rich as Empire: Total War to a few thousand 
 words. Its complex amalgam of turn-based empire building and real-time skirmishing is exciting 
 and involving, and it's both fuller and more streamlined than its predecessors. But like those 
 predecessors, it inspires that compulsion to accomplish just one last turn, even when your eyes 
 are bleary and your body longs for sleep. Although some rough edges are in serious need of sanding, 
 this is a complex and rewarding game that will keep strategy fanatics tied to their keyboards for 
 months at a time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (171 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sindi84
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 4:59 pm PT
Review:  It is like taking a rocket ride half way to moon. Gets too hard because of the bugs too early on. 
 Especially situations where you get stuck in missions if you do something "wrong" is too bad a 
 flaw for my gaming sessions. Getting punished not walking on the real thin story (line) is not a 
 walk in the park: not relaxing, not fun, not rewarding... Wait 'till you hear they've done a great 
 (not good) job with the patches, then consider buying. I don't know who Sega bought to get this 
 buggy game out with great reviews, but this is not the way to make a game series. Hold the quality, 
 even though the economic times are not the best and budget is tight!
  
  Irregardless, the design is good, if only would the execution work. It is a must buy for RTS fans, 
 when it is patched. I will shelf it myself for the time being... it was an expensive error with 
 the special version packaging, but will be there waiting for the right time, which will hopefully 
 come soon! (Come on Sega, pathc patch patch!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belgariontietje
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 10:13 pm PT
Review:  While the Total War series has been generally enjoyable to strat fans over the years, the newest 
 addition to the line up suffers from so many bugs and flaws that it is simply not worth playing. 
 
  
  To begin with, the sound is bugged, when you run it right out of the box, and the steam auto-updates 
 provide no relief from this issue. The music is boring, and most sounds, while the files remain 
 present on your hard drive taking up precious install space, do not play during the game. Attacking 
 an enemy is lackluster when there is no sound of musket fire, screams of death or any other discernable 
 audio except for the dull repetitious music.
  
  Additionally, the game crashes alot. Mostly right when you're on the verge of tipping things in 
 your favor on a particular map.
  
  These are just the major two issues encountered during an unjustifiably long play session. Overall 
 the game has a strong feeling of not being finished or adequately play tested before it's release. 
 Shame on the publishers for trying to make money without quality control, and shame on the developers 
 for allowing this horrible piece of substandard software to bear their name on the shelves. which 
 is right where it will stay in my home: on the shelf. 
  
  Bottom line: Review the home site and check for bug fixes to address these specific issues before 
 purchasing or attempting to play this game. Sad. Just sad. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moovile
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2009 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Empire: Total War is a great game in my opinion. Unlike many others out there I have only had my 
 game crash about 2 times in a month. This game added onto an already good style of strategy by 
 adding gunpowder units to the mix and naval combat. The graphics on this game are very good as 
 well with the more diverse and interesting enviornment as well as the units. The AI in this game 
 is not that good but its definitely better than the previous games. The new technology chart is 
 a great way to make want to keep progressing and see what all these new benefits do for you like 
 platoon firing where all the troops in one line fire then crouch to let the next line fire. All 
 the same details put into this game when it comes to animations in battle such as the musket men 
 takings out ramrods and reloading their muskets, same thing with the cannons and howitzers ( yes 
 howitzers were around in the 18th century) . But also some of the problems are small such as that 
 when a battle begins, the general has no opening speech, I liked that in Rome and Medieval II. 
 The generals are not born but recruited this is very interesting but I do like. There is so much 
 strategy to this game that you can play things out anyway you want. At first I was a little overwhelmed 
 by all of the things on the map like how they spread out all the buildings in the region for the 
 most part. This map is huge, in all my time playing this game I have never even reached India, 
 which is one of the three continent in the game including North America and Europe. There are some 
 glitches but I haven't really encountered them so I think the patches that have been coming out 
 have worked and if they haven't they will soon with more and more patches coming out. 
  
  Please comment if you like my review or don't 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ele975
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2009 5:48 am PT
Review:  Good: Great immersive campaign, better realistic battle AI, still delivers great grand campaign. 
 No money cheat needed!
  
  Bad: Is ruined by several bugs such as: crash bugs, freez bugs. Some performance issues in the 
 cinema when dueling someone in Americas Campaign. some AI issues in your army.
  ---------
  
  First of, i would like to say that i LOVE the Total War series since Rome: Total War which 
 we all can agree is best in the series since it started the franchise and help build it up where 
 it is today. Then Medieval II came up with so-so dumb AI but still a great remake and a good addition 
 to the franchise.
  
  Then they announced Empire: Total War which left us all Total War Fans screaming like girls when 
 attending a Backstreet Boys show. And now that it's out and we can play the game... sometimes, 
 many of us love it but is haunted by bugs that i mentioned, even though i brought in the Holy Book, 
 the Holy Cross and the Holy Water shouting "Begone you filthy Bugs you DEMON SPAWNS!" And pouring 
 the Holy Water on the CD.... nothing worked. So let's get the good stuff in first!
  
  What made all Total War games great is there, the building, the battling but WAY better AI. It's 
 all there so don't worry, imagine Rome: Total War only 5 times better. Alright, so the good stuff 
 is there , let's talk **********
  
  When they said they would work on the game for an extra month i was happy, because i thought "less 
 bugs is great!" However, they should have atleast worked 3 extra months instead of one because 
 of the annoying bugs.
  
  The game can freeze at any time and right at the worst time possible. BEFORE i sendt the PC in 
 for the fix which i accuse the game for becuase the PC started to act defectly when it crashed, 
 frozed, frozed, frozed and crashed again.
  
  So, i would give it a 7.5 but after some thinking it does deserve 8.0 but no more. If you are thinking 
 of buying a copy, wait until the first patch comes out so it fixes MOST of the bugs. SIGNING OUT! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreativeWay
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 7, 2009 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I have been an avid Total War fan from the start. with Shogun, Medievall 1 & 2, Rome and all the 
 add-ons. I have spent more time than I care to admit engrossed in these outstanding and always 
 innovative historical games.
  
  Empire Total War is the most ambitious and innovative of any previous title.... and that is saying 
 an awful lot. Unfortunately, it was clearly released well before it was ready. There is absolutely 
 no way the designers and testers were satisfied with this product as it obvious it never finished 
 beta testing. I have never experienced a Total War game as buggy and flawed as Empire..... not by 
 a long shot.
  
  My sincere hope is Creative Assembly is readying a major software update to address these many 
 frustrating problems..... and I'm not referring to the three minor updates that are automatically 
 downloaded when you log onto Steam.
  
  But the short story is ......... I would buy Empire again, even knowing its many flaws and bugs. 
 If Creative Assembly addresses and fixes the bugs I would immediately raise my score from a dissappointing 
 7 to a stellar 10. Which is what this should have been originally.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coldplay
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 12:58 pm PT
Review:  The game was released too early and in an unfinished state. Extremely buggy and missing many features 
 that were originally advertised. Already has 3 patches released and game still unplayable. Many 
 CTD errors that have yet to be addressed. AI is embarrassingly bad. The graphics can look good 
 if you have the right drivers for your graphics card. Game not compatible with all Nvidia drivers, 
 also has sound issues, even if you have your latest sound drivers. Seems almost as if the game 
 went untested. CA just started a Beta program for a game that was released a month ago. I thought 
 most companies do beta testing before a game is released. 
  
  This could be a great game, hopefully CA gets their act together and fixes the many glaring issues 
 that seem to be plaguing the game thus far. 
  
  If you are interested I suggest you wait 4 to 6 months before purchasing.... I'm hoping by then 
 the patches for the game will make it what they had intended it to be. 
  
  I'm not making all this up, as of right now after the latest patches I have not been able to play 
 the game. My game crashes on every land and naval battle, as well as during AI turns and when selecting 
 units. Still waiting for it to be fixed. Please check the official forums for Empires if you still 
 have questions, but my final word is to wait for this game to be finished and polished with future 
 patches unfortunately that may be a few months away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RetroBros
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 10:05 am PT
Review:  Starting with the positives, it looks pretty good on any settings. The music is very mood matching 
 with time period; (1700-1799) . The different cultures are very fun to play with, each presenting 
 quite different play styles. Diplomacy is much more advanced, with a much prettier UI than previous 
 titles. As the game progresses, factions emerge and others fall, making it dynamically changing. 
 A nice little touch is that units speak their native tongue and not in the players regional language.
 
  What's great is the new building system, where you can station units inside buildings to fire 
 upon the enemy, which also leads us to the cover system, which provides a nice bit of realism. 
 The new trade theatre system is also quite interesting and gives you an excuse to use the new naval 
 combat. Revolutions are fun, but can be a bit stupid to an extent where I once received a general 
 and six units of artillery when I sided with the rebels, which really just fails.
  The AI can do some things well such as ambushes; but it has quite a few broken bits, 
  (including 
 some game breakers in the campaign) . In battles for example, they may stand outside a stationed 
 building and just get gunned down. They also have an annoying habit of knowing where your cannons 
 can reach and stop EXACTELY outside your range.
  I can be sympathetic on the game's bugs, as it is much less than previous total war games and they 
 will likely be fixed by the patches. The lack of all factions playable is already possible with 
 the fantastic modding communities of the Guild and TW-Center, although there will likely be some 
 annoyances that can't be fixed (possibly the Native Americans fighting in file and ranks, which 
 looks extremely pathetic.) . I'm not going to complain like many others "OMG!!!!!!!!!!! steam suxxxx!!!" 
 as I support its internet activation. What I will say however is it would be a hard thing to download 
 at 15 GB without the expansion which is almost certainly in the works.
  The actual campaign is very well done. With different names for agents depending on their factions, 
 for example. Western  Gentleman, Indian & Arabian  Eastern Scholar. The difference between the 
 two is that Gentlemen can duel, where as the latter can not. The actual purpose of these agents 
 is to speed up the research rate in schools, which unlocks new building and recruitment abilities, 
 and also income generation rates. The other class types are Assassin\Saboteurs and Preachers (which 
 play a strong hand in keeping control of the populace) .
  The ships also differ very much like they should, and late in the game you have some little pieces 
 of awesomeness, such as the rocket ships. These combined with the Smoke & Fire mod make naval battles 
 berly dramatic. The land battles are still very good, using generated maps based off real height 
 graphs, making them the most accurate in any RTS. Unfortunately this time there is only one additional 
 Historical Battle than the demo, adding to a sad total of 3. But it seems quite likely that they 
 will be added via DLC or hopefully Modders. 
  The Achievements seem pretty good. Online is fun, although people know a few things that give "unfair 
 advantages" that I won't go into detail, as this will very likely be fixed soon.
  
  Well, that's it. Overall, if you like either RTS or Strategy games it's definitely worth a try. 
 If you can stand bugs, get it now. If not, try it in 3 or 4 months time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theoander
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 6, 2009 4:51 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the Total War games since Medievil 1, and have loved every game since. Since 
 now that is. Empire: Total War does have allot of potential, but at the moment it's nearly unplayable 
 for many people, including those with high end computers. 
  
  On the technical side of things, CTDs (crash to desktop) is one of the biggest problems faced by 
 gamers of all PC types. Imagine just finishing an epic battle, pulling out a key victory and just 
 as you're about to celebrate... crash. This is an expierence all to familiar to Empire: Total War 
 players. Other techincal bugs faced by large numbers of players include artifacting, missing textures, 
 sounds coming and going, and delayed sounds. The list goes on and on.
  
  Game play issues also take away from what Empire: Total War should have been. First of, the AI is 
 incapable of naval invasions. Meaning it will never load an army into ships to go fight abroad. 
 This makes Britian invinceable to the AI, reduces the importance of naval battles, and greatly 
 detracts from the campaign while playing as any faction. The land battle AI is fairly solid, when 
 it works, which it seems to do only in rare circumstances. Youll frequently see the AI just mass 
 infront of your line without firing back, or get bugged on a fort wall doing nothing.
  
  Empire Total War has lots of potential but the latest patches have only the game worse. My advice 
 is to wait a year, by then the game should be worth playing.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urlacher54
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 6, 2009 12:43 am PT
Review:  Empire Total War is one of many games that I wish I could give two scores to. One for the design 
 of the game and another for the actual implementation and technical side. This is definitely a 
 game that could have used another couple months of fine-tuning. Hopefully at least some of these 
 issues will worked out by patches.
  
  The first hold-up is Steam. You must have Steam installed and running in order to play the game. 
 Unlucky me, Steam just doesn't want to seem to work right. It insists on downloading the game and 
 installing updates and stuff even though its installed on my machine and I have the disk in the 
 drive without giving me any option to skip it. It spawns mutliple processes and dialog boxes that 
 I can't close. and which lock up my computer. I don't like Steam.
  
  Next up, the game has insanely long load times. Once you open up the game, you'll be treated to 
 a static splash screen that might stay glued to your monitor for as long as 5 whole minutes before 
 you even get to see the opening intro movie and credits. Entering and exiting land battles takes 
 a similarly long time. Fortunately, naval battles have ralatively quick load times, but expect 
 to spend at least 30 seconds on those too. I guess once you see the size and detail of the battle 
 maps, you'll start to realize why the game takes so long to load, but if you're just fighting two 
 battallions of soldiers against two, it really doesn't feel worth it. You can simulate battles 
 if you don't want to wait for the load screen, but you'll probably take a lot more casualties and 
 maybe even lose battles that you could have easily won.
  
  But once you actually get into battle, you are treated to one of the most enjoyable historical 
 strategy experiences you'll even find. Like I said, the battlefield map is huge and very detailed 
 and looks very nice. It is populated with hills and trees and buildings, all of which provide tactical 
 advantages or disadvantages. Units can hide in forests to ambush enemies, or take cover behind 
 walls or fences, or wait at the top of hills so that approaching enemies have to tire themselves 
 out by climbing. Units can capture certain buildings and fire at nearby enemies. Unfortunately, 
 you can't walk into any building, only large warehoused, barns and some other buildings. 
  
  The action is usually pretty slow paced as units will often have to march across large sections 
 of map before they are within each others' very limited firing range. But having artillery present 
 can at least give you something to do in the meantime, and you can always fastorward through the 
 marching parts.
  
  Naval battles are also very fun to play and great to watch, as the ships are very detailed and 
 behave very realistically. If you zoom in, you can even see little people on board doing thier 
 things. At one point, there was a lull in a battle in which I was just sitting with my ship anchored 
 while I waited to see if my enemy retreated or came back at me, and I watched the ship's captain 
 pace back and forth along the deck, watching the enemy ship from afar. Wind direction plays a big 
 part in naval battles, and you have to keep in mind that your ships fire from their sides. You 
 can target the enemy's hull, sails or use scatter-shot fire to try to kill crew. And once you've 
 done enough damage, you can even try boarding an enemy ship, at which point, you're unit will pull 
 up next to it and you'll see your crew throw hooks to pull the other ship in, then lay down boards 
 to run across and fight the rival's crew. If you win, you can add the captured ship to your fleet 
 after the battle is over. The downside though, is that when you try to manuever mutliple ships 
 selected at once, they sometimes do weird things, and the battle map is always just an endless 
 stretch of water without any decorations.
  
  Unfortunately, the game is not without other flaws. In addition to the long load times, I have 
 had to deal with frequent crashes and even the corruption of save files. In fact, in my most recent 
 saved game, I cannot progress any more because the game crashes at the end of processing the next 
 turn. 
  
  Buggy AI is also a problem, and sometimes, units just don't do what you want them to do, or even 
 what their instructions say they are supposed to be doing. One instance of note came when I was 
 seiging a fortress. After a turn of seiging, the enemy came out to attack me, and when the game 
 loaded the battle map, it had placed my troops inside the fort. Which made the battle a hell of 
 a lot easier than it should have been, but was totally wrong. In a later battle at that same fort, 
 The AI came at me without any seige weapons, which made it impossible for them to get into the 
 fort unless I was stupid enough to open the doors and go out to them. So without any way into the 
 fort, their units just stood there right outside their own weapon range, but still inside mine 
 (since the fort comes equipped with small cannons) , letting my militia pick them off one by one. 
 They didn't even bother to seige the fort, they just attacked directly. In fact, the AI never seems 
 to bother seiging. At least, they haven't tried it on me yet.
  
  Also, the reinforcement system is pretty jacked up. You can only have a max of 20 units on the 
 battlefield at the same time (which is actually pretty small considering) . And whenever you fall 
 below the 20 unit limit, if you have reinforcements available, they will march int. The problem 
 is that reinforcements walk onto the battlefield one at a time in straight lines, and usually start 
 with artillery units. Which leaves them completely undefended especially if they are coming from 
 the opposite direction. It would really be nice if you had the option to deploy your reinforcements 
 when you want, so you can wait until you can bring in several units so they don't get mowed down 
 as soon as they enter the field of battle. Also, the units have to walk onto the battlefield before 
 you can take direct control of them. During this time, they are completely vulnerable to attack 
 if the enemy happens to be nearby. Of course, you can take advantage of this nuance if your opponent 
 brings in reinforcements, but its still a pretty nasty oversight.
  
  Other issues include sound that occasionally cuts in and out. I have problems with frequent crashes, 
 and many of them occur after fighting battles, but BEFORE getting back out to the campaign map 
 and being able to save. Which means the battle has to be fought all over again. The designers were 
 kind enough to give us the option to save before entering a battle. It would have been really nice 
 if they had allowed us to save immediately after a battle is finished, but before loading back 
 out to the campaign map (or at least autosave at that point) . The game also gives you the ability 
 to save battle replays, which is nice because I had really nice ambush that I had set up and I 
 saved the replay because it was a very cool little skirmish. However, the replays are saved as 
 .EMPIRE_REPLAY files, which means they are probably not playable in any standard media player. 
 But, after a close inspection of the main menu, I could not find any place to view saved replays. 
 Did the developers simply forget to include a replay viewer? Also, when you seige a city, the game 
 give you the option to demand the city's surrender. Otherwise, there is a set number of turns that 
 a city's food supplies will last before they are supposed to automatically surrender. However, 
 I have never managed to get the AI to surrender a city (even if I have 20 super-powerful units 
 and he has one unit of rag-tag militia) , and the AI always attacks me before the auto surrender 
 occurs. Did the developers also forget to include the surrender? Is this an option that simply 
 doesn't work? One more little bug that I noticed is on the save game dialog, if you type in a longer 
 filename, the game will display the name and date in the list on two lines, but will still only 
 put it in a frame that is one line tall, so that the top of the first line of text and bottom of 
 the second line of text are cut off. Very had to read. Very sloppy.
  
  Which is my overall opinion of the game. It is a very sloppy program, which is apparently unfinished. 
 But what does work, works very well and is a lot of fun to play. In the end, I give this game a 
 "9" rating, but then take away one point for the sloppiness of the actual implementation.
  
  If you're a strategy fan or a history buff, I highly recommend this game to you - but only 
 if you have patience to deal with long-drawn out battles and frequent performance issues and glitches. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubbaNZ
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 5, 2009 4:13 pm PT
Review:  It's such a shame. ETW is a rarity these days; an ambitious and intelligent game of enormous scope, 
 but marred by a botched delivery that's enraged many of CA's most loyal customers and damaged the 
 firm's reputation. But it's not all bad: 
  
   The scope of the turn-based campaign is vast, encompassing Europe, India and the North-East America 
 and the Caribbean, and the Road to Independence campaign gently introduces the novice to the game. 
 
   The new ship battles are tricky to master, but once you've read up on the forums, they can give 
 you a whole new flavour of the epic battles TW's previous titles delivered. 
   The battle (as distinct from campaign) AI often puts up a decent-enough fight; it tries to flank 
 and sends cavalry deep into your rear. Cover is useful, although it trips up when it unit path-finding, 
 especially if there are any buildings around. 
   The new technology research tree is well implemented and integrated with unit abilities. However, 
 it's too short or too easily researched with multiple universities on the go, meaning that you 
 can get all technologies half to two thirds way through a grand campaign. 
   Trade is much improved over TW: Medieval II. The problem is that it's not been balanced, so half-way 
 through a grand campaign you'll have so much more money than you can spend that it renders the 
 4X dimension of the campaign pointless, even on the harder settings. 
   Diplomacy is a bit better than TW: Medieval II. Unfortunately that's not saying much. It's pointless 
 later in a campaign since everyone seems to hate you. If you compare it with, say, Stardock's peerless 
 4X Galactic Civilisations II, it's still got a long way to go. 
   Many gamers have a visceral dislike of Steam. I'm not sure why; aside from a bewildering inability 
 to tell you what it's up to, to me it doesn't seem as intrusive as EA's woeful DRM measures, and 
 at least it ensures the much needed patches are applied automatically. 
   The sea looks great on ultra settings, as do the land battles. Although that's a bit like reviewing 
 a play and finding the only positive thing to say is that the set design's lovely.
  
  The negatives? CA seems to have run out of time and the game is, as many others attest, perilously 
 close to beta. I'm sure the programmers wouldn't have wished this; perhaps credit crunch-induced 
 financial pressures drove its release in its present bug-ridden state, many of which are critical. 
 The problems are legion, as at the 30/3 and so far fifth (!) patch: 
  
   I've been relatively lucky on an Intel dual core, 2Gb RAM, ATI 4870 and an aged Creative X-Fi 
 SB, but many posts on the TW forums suggest there are widespread compatibility issues on both XP 
 and Vista machines, particularly with SLI and quad cores. It doesn't seem to have been tested across 
 more than a handful of PC and driver configurations. This means some can't even start the game, 
 and many experience crashes to desktop (CTDs) for no good reason. As it stands it seems to be a 
 lottery whether it will work on your PC.
   Gamebreaking campaign CTDs: save games can become corrupted at any point, leading to premature 
 campaign endings; CTDs occur during AI turns, sometimes; clicking on fleets of large ships can 
 cause a CTD unless you remember to include a small ship. All these problems may be due to memory 
 management problems acknowledged by CA. 
   A woefully supine  even nonexistent  campaign AI that can't invade by sea or put up even a 
 half decent fight. So you can take over the Americas and India at your leisure. Occasionally you'll 
 spot AI armies standing around on borders for move after move, or a silly bug where the AI spams 
 tens of single unit armies who crowd around a town. The campaign AI seems to have been left until 
 'post-release;' CA has halfway admitted this. There are none of those aggressive factions such 
 as the barbarians in Rome BI or the Mongols in MII. Occasionally a tiny faction will declare war 
 on you, but then does nothing, so it feels like a cheap AI fix. The game feels like a flabby sandbox 
 because of this omission. 
   A lack of battle features previous (patched) TW titles had, such as the sensible entry of AI-controlled 
 reinforcing armies into a battle (meaning it's pointless orienting your armies up on the campaign 
 map, and your reinforcements dribble in piecemeal as ones in combat rout) ; no stirring speeches; 
 no night battles; no wear and tear during battles; no weather options; and no prisoner options. 
 Ditto the turn-based campaign: there are no decent graphs and tables. no missions; no unlockable 
 factions; no epic battle markers; and no cutscenes. 
   A vanilla feel to all units across all factions, even taking into account the history of the 
 time. 
   Many slightly more minor but untidy issues with units' values and agents' behaviour. 
   Multiplayer 
 is beset with cheats and no way to deal with them. 
   Sound: sound that peters out and then disappears in long battles! The battle takes place in silence 
 or birdsong. Much cut-back and vanilla music.
   A pitifully incomplete manual. 
  
  So to fight your way through a grand campaign you'll need to enlist luck as your ally. You are 
 likely to have to duck and weave your way through a variety of CTD workarounds. For example, you'd 
 be well advised to patch your (grunty) machine with the latest graphics and sound drivers; you 
 have to eliminate some Indian factions early; later in the game you have to add a sloop to fleets 
 of large ships; you have to save regularly, and every time a patch comes out it's a wise move to 
 reset your sound and graphics settings lest your saves become corrupted. In short, be prepared 
 to spend quite a bit of time looking for workarounds on the TW forums. 
  
  Despite all its flaws, is it fun? Occasionally. Previous TW titles have suffered their fair share 
 of quality problems, but not like this one. ETW doesn't have the character of previous titles, 
 either; perhaps it's the lack of missions, cut-scenes, and unit variety. One approach might be 
 to wait until a good few patches have come; or to wait until the inevitable and hopefully more 
 robust expansion and 'game of the year' editions; and finally to keep an eyeout for user community 
 mods that patch the more minor issues. 
  
  The sea does look lovely at ultra settings, though. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrake01
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 4, 2009 4:40 am PT
Review:  Basically, this game crashes and freezes at an alarming rate, which renders it unplayable. With 
 the combination of the bugs (video, sound, and basic function) and having to play though Das Fuhrer 
 (Steam) , I am basically at my wits end. I have never, never, had this many problems with the PC 
 game. I bought this game to play, I did not intend to pay SEGA to hold on to my cash while they 
 figured it out.
  
  In the ever so brief moments that the game has worked, I can say that it looks great, and looks 
 to have the depth that Total War fans love. But I am not sold on the ranged combat focus. To me, 
 this series peaked with Rome, and has been in steady decline since.
  
  Put this downhill trend in the series together with the unexcusable bugs in the game, which lead 
 to crashes and other such fun, I must say that this game is a no go reccomendation.
  
  If you are a fan of the Total War series, as I am, and you feel the need to buy this game, then 
 my reccomendation is to wait until they fix all the bugs. If you buy now, you will wait with the 
 rest of us who have suffered unexplaned and prolonged bugs.
  
  Do not plunk down $50.00 for this train wreck. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2009 2:30 pm PT
Review:  BUYER BEWARE: The first thing you need to know is that Empire: Total War is suffering from a ton 
 of bugs and technical problems. CTDs, lock ups and in general, the game isn't working for a lot 
 of people. I've yet to run into a single significant issue, so results will vary. This review is 
 based off of the 3/30/09 update.
  
  For 10 years now, Creative Assembly has been churning out Total War games, with each installment 
 boggling the mind with its sheer scope. For 10 years now, the AI, notorious for being erratically 
 moronic in every installment, is still fully present in Empire: Total War, but it did little to 
 actually take away the sensation of being a megalomaniac. If anything, I praise Creative Assembly 
 for pulling that off with aplomb, because rarely have I played a strategy game that feels so rewarding 
 when I really haven't exerted much of an intellectual effort. Empire: Total War is massive, grand, 
 big, really big and massively grand. It suffers from fundamental problems that almost undermine 
 the entire point of the game and technical problems that will vary among users. It's ultimately 
 a game worth playing and if you're new to the series, this is easily the most viable break-in point.
 
  
  Just like the Total War games before it, the Grand Campaign is where you will spend all your time 
 in. Pick a nation, each with its own unique starting point, and then go on to your military and 
 economic conquest by planning out your macro-scale plans on the turn-based strategy map, handle 
 thousand-man skirmishes on real-time maps and finally get to have direct control in the brand new 
 naval battles. 
  
  The turn-based portion is where you get your Big Picture of Wartime Fun Plan in motion as you recruit 
 men, enter in diplomatic relations, attack opposing nations and build brothels to keep the public 
 order. Raid trade routes, boot ministers you don't like, invest time in research and development 
 to gain a technological lead against other nations and more. This is all familiar territory for 
 anyone who has given previous Total War games an iota of their time and attention, but a couple 
 big changes are introduced.
  
  Regions are now completely decentralized. Everything used to be housed in your region capital, 
 but now, many structures can only be built on villages you accrue as the population in a region 
 increases. Logistically, this can become a total nightmare as your empire expands, because you 
 need to keep track of what has been built where and what can be improved and upgraded as you browse 
 the building list or by scrolling through the map of your empire.
  
  And that's kind of it. Empire: Total War gains little from this. Opposing armies can attack and 
 take over outlying settlements, but the conquered structure still adds to the region wealth, which 
 means you still collect tax from that settlement, a settlement that isn't in your control. Yeah, 
 that doesn't make any sense whatsoever. What this could have done was introduce the concept of 
 economic warfare. Taking farms and steel mills and ruining nations by crippling and destroying 
 profit margins. This is what should have happened. This is possible with trade routes, but tax 
 is where most of the income is drawn from, so it's more like losing a minor bonus. A simple gameplay 
 tweak and decentralized regions would be extremely relevant. As it stands, it only simulates the 
 amount of paperwork, approving and disapproving of building proposals any one monarch or president 
 has to go through. I suppose that has its own kind of appeal. Really, it does. It is undeniably 
 fun to manage a huge empire and this adds to the amount of things you need to keep track of. It 
 is micromanagement, but micromanagement can bring both good and bad connotations with it and here, 
 it is kind of good.
  
  A completely new addition is the technology tree. While not a new concept, it is for the Total 
 War series and this is easily the best new gameplay inclusion the turn-based portion has received. 
 Three branches  military, industrial and philosophical  all have technology and ideas that can 
 be researched through schools to hopefully gain a lead on other nations. Some of it opens up new 
 build options, some, like fire by rank, improves the efficiency of your line infantry tenfold and 
 others cut back on your expenditures. It is implemented extremely well and the general dislike 
 of schools from the lower class means you can't spam regions with them, adding to the game's layers.
 
  
  Diplomacy, an always important facet, feels like it suffered from oversights. It is perfectly functional 
 and the ability to instantly make contact with other nations rather than sending diplomats is convenient, 
 albeit a bit odd. I imagine guys chatting with jawbones, sealing trade deals while inside the 18th 
 century equivalent of Starbucks, but I digress. It works and while nations are intensely adamant 
 with even the most lucrative of proposals, alliances, region exchanges and technology trades are 
 important and they can and will be agreed with. The problems have to do with the lack of what seem 
 like obvious functions, like demanding allied nations to keep their troops off your turf or ask 
 recently-allied nations to join your war after you've already started one.
  
  There's a lot to do in this half of the game alone. It's no Europa Universalis in terms of sheer 
 depth and involvement, but Empire's turn-based game can stand up as its own stand-alone game. Some 
 of the more minor issues, like the time disparities (it takes nearly 3 Total War-years to reach 
 America from Europe) , are just queer quirks and the game does suffer in the late-game, because 
 you probably will fulfill all victory conditions way before you hit the time limit. Still, it manages 
 to pass the "one more turn" test. So much so that you can easily auto-resolve all your battles 
 to fully concentrate on the war and not the battles that are born out of your conquests. If you 
 were to do that, you'd miss out on the series' trademark  the gigantic, colossal real-time battles.
 
  
  Total War has always been known for its frighteningly huge battles, where you control literally 
 thousands of men to charge right into thousands of others. Obviously, with the time period shift, 
 the way you approach combat is different, because of nearly all units having access to really, 
 really fast projectiles. As much of a game-changer this might sound like, the way I approached 
 combat didn't really change. Instead of direct melee, units just fire rounds into one another. 
 Just imagine the muskets are swords that are yards long and you shouldn't need to trash all the 
 knowledge you culminated with previous Total War games. Flanking is still the most effect tactic 
 for victory and cavalry is slightly less tank-like. As a consequence, these titanic clashes are 
 less exciting to watch, because all they're doing is lining up and shooting each other. At least 
 it is appropriately bizarre, especially if you know little of this time period and the scale of 
 said bizarreness still make it a spectacle of a strange, obtuse time in warfare.
  
  There are some parts that feel incomplete, though. The town invasions are laughably pathetic. Towns 
 are cheaply put together with generic town assets pasted onto the map in some arbitrary formation, 
 with no roads or any signs of basic infrastructure. It's kind of funny, if only for its sheer incompleteness, 
 but from a gameplay standpoint, they barely impact the game. Forts are more problematic than incomplete, 
 because pathfinding problems make forts more of a death trap than protective sanctuaries. It's 
 hard to wonder why these features exist in the game, because of how undeveloped and unpolished 
 they are. 
  
  Naval battles finally make an appearance and this is something that either needed more time to 
 develop or just needed a complete redesign. Wind is the crucial factor. You will need to fuel your 
 sails and to just make a 3-point turn takes time and gusts of air will make things go a bit faster. 
 Wind is what the naval battles are entirely based around. So, it should all work, except its gameplay 
 foundation is severely borked. Pathfinding is a major issue and ordering a ship to just attack 
 another will not get you any results. Your ship will float around aimlessly, without ever taking 
 the direction of the wind into consideration. This is an aspect of the game I so want to see work 
 correctly. In the brief moments when they do, they are refreshing tactical exercises and they look 
 spectacular. Using formations definitely helps, but there are too many elements that are too unreliable 
 for this slice of the game to be genuinely fun. As of now, I'd rather slam on the auto-resolve.
 
  
  The two sub-genres are direct antithesis of one another, but they meld into one logical and cohesive 
 whole. It just makes sense to play the game on a turn-based map when you want to look at the macro 
 scale of your conflict and the battles that culminate over time in your war effort should be played 
 over on a real-time playfield, if only for the punctual excitement it provides.
  
  This can all initially be daunting, but Creative Assembly eases the player in with a very long 
 and layered tutorial campaign, Road to Independence. Consisting of four episodes, each one will 
 take place in a certain period of time before opening up to the founding of the 13 colonies. The 
 first episode will provide you a primer of the basics, like the harrowing task of adjusting taxes 
 or teaching you the relevance of troop morale, before it throws you into a full-blown Grand Campaign, 
 where you play as America. It's extremely well-done and it will teach you everything you need to 
 know before you dive into the other nations.
  
  You can imagine with a game so intensely focused on tactics and strategy that shoddy AI could completely 
 undo everything Creative Assembly was shooting for. And for the most part, it comes awfully close. 
 The AI is flawed in some way or another on every single aspect of the game. Nations you are at 
 war with are extremely bi-polar with their actions  occasionally, it'll stun with stacks infantry 
 attacking many regions at once, but mostly, they sit back, harassing your outlying settlements 
 rather than directly attacking your capital. It'll never call peace even when all they have is 
 just one region bound to their name. Arguably the biggest blunder is the lack of naval invasions, 
 making many of my coastal regions completely safe. The list drags on. On the real-time side, it 
 fares much better, but it has a tendency to get confused when it is flanked on both sides. The 
 idea of retreating and reforming doesn't seem to be coded into their thought process.
  
  And yet, it's still a whole lot of fun to completely clean house. It's something when my Sweden 
 campaign starts with two regions and then takes over most of Western Europe in a matter of 65 years. 
 There's a satisfaction in zooming out in the strategy map, full knowing that my empire won't be 
 displayed in its entirety, because it's just so dang big. The stories and narratives that are naturally 
 generated from just playing alone warrant a purchase, if only to you show your friends how awesome 
 you are and how awesome your system is.
  
  Empire is a system hog if you plan on cranking up all those settings. It's almost hard to justify 
 it when on the land battles, because when zoomed out, it's hard to judge if Empire has a true graphical 
 advantage over Medieval II. Without a doubt, Empire looks great, but it can occasionally feel unjustified, 
 at least on land, because the naval encounters are something else. These look fantastic. The undulating 
 waves, the way massive frigates capsize and explode  really amazing. A great-looking game on all 
 fronts, but the performance leaves something to be desired. And for a game that advertises Intel's 
 i7 processors, you'd think it would have multi-core support. No such luck.
  
  The soundscape in the Total War series has always been excellent, but in Empire, it's slightly 
 less so. The sound effects don't have the same amount of attention to detail or loudness. When 
 everyone gets locked down in melee, the audio doesn't really convey the craziness and chaos that's 
 going on in the game. You can sort of hear bayonets clashing and men yelling their guts out, but 
 it's nowhere near the standards set by its predecessors. Strangely enough, the game's loading screens 
 house the best battle sounds in the entire game. I don't really get it, but if Creative Assembly 
 put as much effort into the actual sounds in the game as they did for the loading screens, then 
 these audio criticisms would be non-existent. Fortunately, Total War continues to house some really 
 awesome music. Fantastic atmospheric and melodic strings grace the strategy map and bombastic epicness 
 pounds on in the real-time shoot 'em ups.
  
  Empire: Total War is a lot game. There's a multi-player mode, which fluctuates between working 
 and not working, but really, this game is meant to be played for its sprawling single-player campaign. 
 It's a game that's springing leaks in every conceivable layer of its design, but it somehow sails 
 on, always sure of what it's setting out to do, even if it falls short on some areas. Maybe hold 
 off until a lot of the pathfinding, AI and other technical problems are ironed out, but what exists 
 now is an ambitious and huge product, that's easy to admire and just as easy to enjoy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: samth3slay3r
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 10, 2009 3:03 am PT
Review:  i have played most of the totalwar series and personally rom total wra was the best one it had 
 everything i wanted battles were great not to easy not to hard 
  campaign the curruncy was very hard to maage but easy when you mastered it. diplomacy was not a 
 problem but not as detailed as medieval 2 which wasnt a big problem it was satisfying. empire total 
 war is another story. the games that have big hype and dont for fill it fall the hardest it seems 
 empire total war one of them and there are so many more. 
  
  campaign map
  lets start with the map resourses were surpposed to be a more important in the the game they werent 
 much more of factor as they were in medieval and it became a chore rather than a game when you 
 made a advancment in a technologie you had to go round every single one in the game. diplomacy 
 i gave up with no one posed a threat i just let them talk to me and for some reason they thought 
 if i denied getting 10000 gold for one of my regions 5000 would be a better offer and they did 
 this every turn. technologies were alright they they had some in the wrong places but i wasnt bothered 
 that much it was there first try and i hope in there next one they will be much better. factions 
 they had rushed one of most important part of the games the factions and there army they had just 
 copied and pasted basically all across except for like 5 factions and the some unique units in 
 rtw there was a bout 20 units that were used by the different factions the rest were unique in 
 this it is the oppsite. money this is so easy to control it is beyond belief it is so easy i hardly 
 ever had problems every turn i had 6000 at least i could just spend it all get it back and i could 
 have 4 fully equppied armies walking round sieging what they like. the ai this is the worst point 
 i was austria i had took greece and i was thinking that was to easy this is surpposed to be the 
 ottoman empire for god sake they must have more than just throwing a three unit army at me and 
 then i though i guess they ran out of money when i got to turkey i found that they had four fully 
 functional armies to throw at me and i crushed them and only about 4 turns before they would of 
 hammered me as i had lost a lot of troops in the last campaign across five battles and only had 
 scraps to re train this shows how many problems the ai has it is stupid and to forgiving in a cease 
 fire.
  
  battles
  now the battles graphics are let down skating men we have heard it all before and i wont grumble 
 about it lets just say the graphics are another over hyped part of the game which has fallen hard. 
 ai in battles was hard at first but when i hag got the basic mechanics of the game the ai was stupid 
 i mean in one battle the ai could of easily made it very hard for me by going in to the city and 
 going into every building no instead they let me do that and i was able to engage them with my 
 better rifleman killing them.
  
  naval battles 
  now i have one complaint about this for some reason they implemented the galley which is better 
 than the huge ships they can dodge the canon balls and you cant hit them it becomes annoying to 
 play these so i just do auto battle taking the point of doing naval battles right out the window
 
  
  multiplayer
  the multiplayer is crap one battle told me that
  
  steam 
  has ruined it if games countinue to use this sought of piracy protection i know that games are 
 going to become so boring that i will never think of gaming again mods make so much of a differance 
 in a game and steam has made one the most popular moded games un moddable 
  
  conclusion 
  hype has killed this game even more that it would of been killed if TW have learned 
 from this im happy because they wont make the same mistakes just do wat you did with rtw thats 
 wat i would say to them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerryatricrejec
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 8:37 am PT
Review:  An enormous frustration for me is when a game forces you to install something just so you can play 
 the game. This game does that.
  
  I absolutely detest Steam. I hate it so much my teeth grind every time I see or hear the word. 
 It slows my system so I need to disable it at startup. I need to wander through the tools and settings 
 to specifically tell it not update this game and that game Its a mission to install because now 
 my legit copy needs to be 'unlocked' before it actually starts installing
  
  At this point you may be asking where's the review? That's exactly how I felt when I purchased 
 the game - where's the game? I consistently say that this form of 'protection' frustrates legit 
 gamers.
  
  The game is not a traditional strategy game in fact I feel there should be another genre for this. 
 You build nearly nothing except units. If you've ever played Battle for Middle Earth you'll see 
 a noticeable resemblance. It's like pushing pieces on a map to where youd like them.
  
  LAN is pretty rubbish in my opinion - you don't have the option of playing against other AI 
 players.
  
  Graphics are the most impressive I've seen in this type of game it looks great
  
  Sound: Ok 
 to good in places
  Graphics: Fantastic
  Gameplay: Good single Player
  Multiplayer: Rubbish LAN
  Technical: very buggy
  Bottom line: A great single player experience 
 if you like using only units. If you enjoy building a large base from scratch then this is not 
 the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daseagle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 2:22 am PT
Review:  Two weeks or so, I've been playing this game. First, I was in awe because of the depth of tactics 
 and strategy, where every poor decision can and will be exploited by the AI, at least on the grand 
 map. Then, the quirks started to surface and slowly I started wondering, how can the developers 
 release such a great game in such a pitiful state of engineering?
  
  Everything in it is almost there... but not quite getting to the finish. The most annoying parts 
 are the campaign failure issues, where after ending a turn, the game just gets stuck in some AI 
 characters movement, or some other related element. And then, your only hope is to have a save-game 
 close enough, so you can play that particular scenario in a different way, hoping to get through 
 this time.
  
  Then, there is the real time battle, where weird things just keep showing up.
  
  Artillery 
 has a mind of its own, refusing during a heated battle to disengage and stop firing and move to 
 a new location. It will unlimber then back again, keeping you busy for precious moments, that would 
 be better spent directing that flanking move you started just moments ago.
  
  Also the enemy cavalry is quite predictable, it has a clear movement pattern, always trying to 
 attack your artillery units. After you catch on, its pretty easy to protect your guns with two 
 infantry squares and be done with it (as cavalry has also a reluctance to attack infantry squares) . 
 A very good tactic is to create dedicated artillery support groups, with quick firing guns up front 
 for protection, while your mortars and howitzers pummel the incoming enemy to small bloody bits. 
 A few well placed exploding shots, with cannister to top it off for close combat, can turn overwhelming 
 odds in your favour.
  
  The enemy infantry is decent, but I fail to understand why it will not flank, or react so slowly 
 to being outflanked. Most of the times it would just sit there, take volley after volley, while 
 the AI fiddles its thumbs, trying to figure out what to do. Then suddenly, with only a few men 
 left, it charges into my lines, instead of running for dear life.
  
  Other than that (and the annoying STEAM issues) its a well balanced game, that needs a few patches 
 to clear its campaign issues and some minor flaws with unit management. These issues, while not 
 fatal, ruin what otherwise would be a blockbuster.
  
  Also, as a sidenote, it is a very bad day for gaming, when the cracked / pirated version of a game 
 proves to be more stable and playable then the beautiful legal version. In my case and in so many 
 other gamers case, its exactly what happened. We kind of expect to get some quality for our money.
 
  
  Clearly the developers hoped to release the game in whatever state, making the projected release 
 date and the pre-orders on STEAM and others, cashing in on the buzz and hype, later releasing the 
 necessary patches to make the game stable and playable.
  
  Also, clearly the developers need to be reminder that gamers are customers and not beta-testers, 
 and need to be treated as such. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalebpeaden
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2009 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Great game, Get it if you like any kind of strategy games. This will blow your mind away! All strategy 
 games with sea battles have all screwed it up. But this really is realistic. When i take two ships 
 on both sides of and enemy ship it really does do a ton of damage instantly. Its also really realistic 
 in every battle u will loose men whether u want to or not and there is always a chance that they 
 might win if you dont play your cards right.
  
  Move your soldiers, find thier weak spot and advance it. This is no ordinary game, this is revolutionary. 
 Make your own defenses on the battlefield and move your soldiers in to to cover your cannons. The 
 cannons dont just kill 4-5 men like in midieval 2. This can take out 10-50 if you know when to 
 shoot it and where. 
  
  Really not sure to get this game or not?
  
  Go to youtube and watch hunrdreds of videos over it and see if you would like it or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shaar_Asri
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 2, 2009 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Alright, First and foremost. The Steam feature is a royal pain. In order to play medievil total 
 war you must log on to steam to play (even though you play the one player version.) The game play 
 on the battle field and see is unmatched in graphics and is every exciting. Stratagy is the same 
 as any of the other total war games. Straight forward and direct. Now for my explination of Empire 
 total wait. Outside the battle feild gameplay is dull. When you create a unit and are out of money. 
 You end turn. The game will then show you what all is going on in the near world. This is dull 
 and can take several minutes. I found it perticualy dull watching boats sail circles around Crete, 
 which took three minutes. When my factions turn came around. I had enough money to make one unit 
 (30 seconds) then back to watching boats sail around Crete for 4-6 minutes. So therefore if there 
 are not any battles you may sit at the computer for a half hour watching the other side of the 
 world. 
  Some my shun me saying this next part, but its true. I play the total war games sometimes just 
 for the fun of the battles. One Rome total war and Medievil total war I used the "~" key and would 
 cheat. Which is ok. I am only playing to have fun, if thats how you like to play, more power too 
 you. Sometimes its just fun to dominate a enemy. On empire total war. There are no cheats. Steam 
 will not allow mods either. Which limits the game to a long turn based stratagy. Which is cool, 
 however I enjoyed the total domination cheats of Rome Total War and Medievil Total war. Sometimes 
 I just want to rule. I mean what would GTA be if everytime you caused a traffic accident you went 
 to jail. Dull.
  The gameplay in battle is divine, on the campaine map "total wait", however you will need to be 
 a stratagy fanatic. There is no domination, however I will say this. There is nothing more satifying 
 than taking a battered faction, with the world against you, no help, no cheats, and triumphing 
 anyway. That is Glory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jahjeremy
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 2, 2009 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Yes, it is true. The game was over-hyped and the final product is not all it was cracked up to 
 be. I basically just have some questions.
  
  Why does artillery get unlimited ammo? Isn't this completely unrealistic?
  
  Why can't I directly 
 produce spies, priests, etc. directly? Waiting for them to spawn is a lame game mechanic.
  
  Why are 90% of a faction's units the same as all the others aside from the color of their clothes? 
 Some factions have only one or two unique units in their entire roster. Where is the replay value 
 in that?
  
  Why does it take SO LONG to run through the computer's turn on the campaign map? (Go make yourself 
 some tea, seriously!)
  
  Why can't I seem to ambush/block opposing armies from walking right past mine? Oh yeah, the non-tiled 
 campaign map. Well that sucks.
  
  Why does the battle AI still suck when it was stated that it would be drastically improved? 
 
  
  Why can't the AI form a coherent firing line with its front line infantry units? You'd think that 
 would be one of the first things coded up by the AI team, but apparently they missed this basic 
 tactic.
  
  Why is the AI completely broken in siege battles?
  
  Why are the land maps so generic, uninteresting, and barren? Contrast this with Company of Heroes, 
 Men of War, etc. which have detailed and varied land battle maps.
  
  Why was this game released with so many bugs?
  
  Why does it run so slow even though the graphics 
 are nothing special? The campaign map is egregiously clunky and sluggish.
  
  Why are my best naval ships so underpowered?
  
  Why does the AI never really attack me in force? 
 It just masses units and SITS THERE DOING NOTHING. If it does attack, it is one set of units at 
 a time.
  
  Why does the AI leave many of its cities undefended?
  
  Why is there no longer negative income?
  
  Why does it take so many turns to research anything?
 
  
  Why does the AI continually pester me about obtaining the same territories for 20+ turns in a row?
 
  
  Why do all the units in a formation look exactly the same?
  
  Why are basic tactics like "Fire by Rank" so far down the tech tree?
  
  Why does the much hyped 
 new graphics engine look so poor in land battles? Why do units look like they are sliding around 
 when viewed from a distance?
  
  Why don't my reinforcements come in relative to where they actually are on the campaign map rather 
 than being spawned seemingly at random?
  
  The answer to all of the above is that CA spent most of their time implementing sea battles and 
 the new campaign map, and the rest of the game suffered as a result. The game was obviously not 
 extensively play tested or at least there was not an effective feedback mechanism from the play 
 testers back to the development team.
  
  The naval battles seem pretty good, but they are exceedingly rare. I am one quarter through a campaign 
 with Poland, and I have not gotten in one yet. Does it make sense to spend so much time on something 
 that rarely occurs in practice? Meanwhile, the land battles became the red-headed stepchild.
  
  Would it have been too much to ask for the different factions to have more unique units? Prussian, 
 French, and English infantry of this period were not the same. They did not dress the same, use 
 the same guns, have the same name, or have the same strengths and capabilities. A basic lack of 
 research is evident here. And if there was concern about balance, then you patch it up later. As 
 it stands, nearly all the European factions, with the obnoxious and stupid exception of England 
 which has 6 unique units (or so) , have almost entirely the same rosters. So there is almost no 
 incentive to replay a campaign as a different faction, and definitely not one of the European ones.
 
  
  Contrast this with the much lesser known RTS Men of War, which has four completely different, fully 
 fleshed-out factions with NO overlap in units. Presumably that game had a tiny budget in comparison, 
 too.
  
  I do not recommend this game, unless you have a high tolerance for frustration. Basically, the 
 more you dig into it, the more you discover its shallowness and lack of polish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wejj
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 10:20 am PT
Review:  The more I play this game, the more disappointed I am.
  
  To me, the Total War series of games are among the best, and certainly most re-playable, games 
 ever produced. 
  
  ETW, however, is -- and it pains me to say so -- the worst of the series. Part of the problem is 
 that it is the victim of very high expectations, the prior games being in a class by themselves. 
 This one -- though extremely ambitious and with lots of potential -- just doesn't meet the standards 
 of the prior games.
  
  TECHNICAL/BUGS:
  
  -- One of the great things about the prior Total War games, particularly Rome and Medieval 2 -- 
 was the stability. I very rarely -- if ever -- CTD with those games. ETW is just the opposite -- 
 it is one of the most unstable, prone-to-crash games I've played, particularly in the latter stages 
 of the 200 turn game. For instance, I learned through painful trial and error that clicking on 
 a particular set of my ships on the campaign screen would cause the game to crash. The game was 
 otherwise playable. So, after spending thousands on eight top of the line ships, I had to let them 
 sit, without clicking on them, for the remainder of the very long game. Also, my trade and other 
 ships would sometimes get stuck in the trade ports - for example, on the Brazil coast - and those 
 too would be unusable for the game as they were producing no trade and could not be moved. 
  
  Clearly, this game was released too early. Of course, the developers/distributor knew about 
 the bugs and released the game anyway. The bugs are too numerous and uniform to be one-offs. They 
 obviously decided the negative reviews and player outrage is worth the extra revenue they would 
 generate from an earlier release. But I hope that the gaming community can teach them a lesson 
 by not buying this game in its current form to demonstrate that this shoddy of a product should 
 not be released. They've tarnished their reputation and the stellar reputation of the Total War 
 series.
  
  And I know a lot has been said about Steam, but I disagree with the fanboys who say that we shouldn't 
 be blaming the developers and distributors for Steam sucking arse. The developers/distributors 
 made the decision to use that Internet bloodsucker and they should take responsibility for that 
 decision. I HATE STEAM WITH A PASSION. Other top games are doing just fine without resorting to 
 using Steam so please don't tell me it was necessary. Again, another decision made by the developers/distributor 
 that they knew would piss off gamers to no end but they did it anyway for the purpose of making 
 more $$. I just hope in the end it is proved to be a bad bargain for them.
  
  And the time it can take between moves, once you hit the turn button on the campaign map, is outrageous. 
 In the later stages of the Road to Independence campaign, it would sometimes take 5 minutes to 
 cycle through all of the factions. It's not quite that bad in the regular game but it still is 
 the worst cycle time of any game I've ever played, particularly in the latter stages of the game. 
 It fundamentally and negatively impacts the enjoyment of the game when there is that long of a 
 delay between each campaign turn. 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  There is something missing - maybe it is the lack of atmosphere but I just haven't been able to 
 get into ETW as I have with Rome and Medieval, or eve Shogun. I don't feel the atmosphere I did 
 with the past games and that is a real shame. After move 100 or so, it just feels very repetitive 
 and mechanical, and I find myself hitting the  button much more 
 often than with past Total War games.
  
  The addition of the tech tree is a net positive, except towards the latter stages of the game when 
 they become less important as a player increases his or her dominance over the other factions and 
 the techs become less and less relevant to the game.
  
  In the prior Total War games, you could choose to end the game or play on once you completed your 
 objectives. Now, you can only complete your objectives once you've held those objectives for the 
 entire 200 turn game. In other words, you cannot "win" until you play the whole game, every time. 
 This is unfortunate since I've played three complete games and found that it gets quite boring 
 and repetitive towards the last third. As I mentioned, the game is very easy, even on the hardest 
 settings, so a decent player should be completely dominating the game two thirds of the way through.
 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  I've read a lot of reviews about the graphics being amazing. I couldn't disagree more. Yes, some 
 marginal improvements over Medieval 2, and, yes, the naval battles and seas look nice. But as for 
 land battles, I see little improvement and sometimes the infantry/cavalry look worse than Medieval 
 2 as they appear to be ice skating in unison across the landscape instead of walking/galloping. 
 I expected more from the "next generation" of computer games.
  
  I could go on but I think I've said enough.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geodeath
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 2, 2009 1:21 am PT
Review:  I am not going to waste a lot of time reviewing the exhaustive efforts that I have gone through 
 to get this game to run. Suffice it to say that I more than meet the minimum requirements for hardware 
 to run this game and that I have gone to many, many tech forums for fixes. When I try to run the 
 tutorials, this game (100% of the time) locks my system and I have to cold boot. I have attempted 
 to run it from the lowest graphical settings to the highest and it simply will not run. 
  
  After several weeks from launch, there still has not been an update from Steam that fixes this 
 major bug. I guess my only option is to wait patiently for the magic bullet update that makes this 
 game playable. Until then, my advice is to wait until the game comes out in a gold edition and 
 then give it a couple years when you can get it off the $10 pile of crap games at WallyWorld.
 
  
  Bottom line: Buy this game at your own risk! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraigDeaton
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 1, 2009 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Empire: Total War is everything it was cracked up to be - and less. When it's working, it is a 
 beautiful game. It's scope is vast, allowing players to play as the fledgling American Colonies 
 or to try their hand at conquering India. Of course, the usual suspects from Europe, Africa and 
 the Middle East are also playable. Naval combat is gorgeous, although a little too fast-paced for 
 me, it is still a very nice addition to an already fine franchise. On these merits alone, I'd have 
 given the game a rating of something around a 9.
  
  The game has some really steep hardware requirements if you want all that eye candy, so players 
 with mid-low end systems will probably see that a bit differently.
  
  The real problem is that it tends to crash repeatedly. From what I have seen and heard, it doesn't 
 really happen that much in the early phases of the game, but later - when much is going on - it 
 seems that there are some sort of system conflicts that start to creep in and crashes become increasingly 
 frequent until the game reaches the point that you just aren; t willing to sit thorugh another load 
 time on the off chance you might actually be able to complete a turn. This happened to me on the 
 India campaign after I had conquered all of India and was finishing off the Middle East and Africa. 
 A long-time gaming friend of mine in Sweden reported that he has had similar problems with the 
 American campaign. We're both pretty savvy when it comes to hardware and OS issues, so I have to 
 believe it's just a buggy product.
  
  My verdict: Get it if you are a complete Total War junkie, otherwise wait for a patch to address 
 these issues or wait for it to hit the bargain bins and you will feel less taken advantage of by 
 Sega. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexed1
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 31, 2009 7:07 pm PT
Review:  In 20 years of gaming this is possibly the most unstable, crash-prone product I've ever taken home. 
 I've played alpha builds full of debug code off of developer boxes that were easier to play. Be 
 afraid. Be very afraid of this product. This kind of bug-ridden experience suggests fundamental 
 flaws in programming style and engineering. It may take months to make this playable.
  
  And don't get me wrong, I'm a HUGE TotalWar fan. That makes this all the more bitter.
  
  
 
  What an embarassment!
  
  Apparently my review has to be longer to qualify for posting. I'll spend a bit of time railing 
 on Steam. Steam is a cool concept. But why don't they tell you more clearly which patches are installed 
 and which aren't? One screen says Empire is "100% ready" but the very next screen says there's 
 a patch that will install when Steam is restarted. Except that nothing seems to happen when Steam 
 is restarted. Or maybe something's happening and there's just no feedback, 'cause Steam is too 
 cool to actually tell you when a patch is being downloaded. Argh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfnehr
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2009 7:36 pm PT
Review:  The game has lots of potential, given the ways in which it seeks to expand the Total War series. 
 It has all the right new ideas - naval combat, gun battles, a multi-level campaign map, extended 
 trade, research, etc. However, it seems that the game was rushed out the door far too quickly. 
 
  
  The campaign map is unsubstantial in comparison with previous Total War installments. Key European 
 nations consist of only or just a few regions, leading to Risk-like gameplay instead of complex 
 strategic decisions. Likewise, the AI's inability to conduct naval invasions makes the campaign 
 map fall apart into three different theatres (Europe, Americas, India) with few real connections 
 between them. 
  
  Naval combat is strangely unsatisfying, due to the problems involved in coordinating large groups 
 of ship. A different interface for aligning and moving ships would have been necessary to fully 
 flesh out this part of the tactical combat. 
  
  Land combat is let down by the fundamental similarity of most European units. This removes lot 
 of the tactical depth of previous Total War, which consisted of countering the particular strengths 
 of the 'national units' of different countries. Also, land combat seems strangely ahistoric, with 
 line infantry line formations being hard to maintain and far too much running going on on the battlefield. 
 
  
  Another glaring omission is the lack of a proper manual. Both Rome and Medieval 2 had long, detailed 
 manuals setting out the interface and the rules of the game in some depth. Empire comes with a 
 short booklet more appropriate for a shooter than a deep strategy game. Key parts of the game, 
 such as trade, remain altogether unexplained, and other parts are only barely described.
  
  My impression is that Creative Assembly rushed Empire before it was truly finished and tested. 
 The game is clearly below the normal standard of Total War games, and the long list of persistent 
 design problems and bugs must have been obvious prior to release. Given the frequency with which 
 buggy, broken PC games with lots of potential are released these days even by big publishers, the 
 future of PC gaming might not look good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJLebrun
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 29, 2009 2:34 pm PT
Review:  The game looks good and should be fun to play but the problem is that it crashes all the time. 
 I havn't been able to finish a campaign game yet. i tried ten times with a different campaign, 
 i play for about 2 hours and then it start to crash. At that point no matter how many time i reload 
 a saved game it keeps crashing. It seems that when it starts to crash there is nothing you can 
 do but restart a new game. I am running vista 64 bit so i don't know if my issue is related to 
 the use of vista or not, eventhough i read a lot of reviews and comments from other people and 
 it seems that the game does crash no matter what OS you are using. This is extremely annoying considering 
 the money the game cost me. i wish i could get my money back. Another thing i noticed is that i 
 can't play the game at the highest resolution (2500x1600) . When i set it up at that resolution 
 the all screen flashes. I don't know if there is an issue with the Nvidia 295GTX cards (i have 
 two of those in SLI) . Eventhough i have to say the game looks good enough at lowe resolution so 
 it if was only that it wouldn't be a problem for me
  
  Intel Quad core extreme I7, 2.93 Ghz
  RAM 6GB
  2x Nvidia 295 GTX in quad SLI
  256 GB SSD 
 drive. I terra HHD
  30''monitor (2500x1600 res, 8ms frame rate)
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtorres
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 9:43 am PT
Review:  I love Total War. And this game is one of the best games I've played.
  I love the "horse & musket" period, the first thing that I noticed was that the scale isn't right 
 to the point that when i finished Bunker Hill battle in road to independence (the tutorial campaign) , 
 i was thinking that I had made a mistake in buying this game. But then i found the unit size in 
 graphics option. By lowering the unit size the land battles became more fluid and more "real".
 
  I was disappointed with the preset group formations (to simple for this period) and the handling 
 of artillery units, but they are still fun to play as all the other games of the series. The campaign 
 map is amazing! But I'm not sure why a neutral fleet near Gibraltar can prevent my fleet to enter 
 the Mediterranean sea...
  The Naval Battles are amazing! Great effort! I was waiting for a naval battle game form this period 
 and got one for free included in this Total War game! I love this addition to the series.
  I am waiting for a Napoleonic Total War next, with better control of artillery and complex group 
 (Company and Corps) formations.
  Keep up the good work! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ulvin
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 6:34 am PT
Review:  If you're new to the total war games, this newest installation might offer a challenge and a good 
 experiment - for some time.
  
  Experienced total war gamers should postpone this for a while, it needs some patching before it 
 can be appreciated. The AI is dumbed down significantly from the state Medieval 2 was in once fully 
 patched. 
  
  The AI army control on the campaign map is non existant. It will send small swarms of 1-4 units 
 against fully stacked cities/armies. Often you'll see a single cannon unit moving into your territories 
 eventhough the AI has a full army stack in nearby cities. With behaviour like that you'll be able 
 to steamroll the campaign map with little risk of retaliation. After aprox 20 turns you'll be able 
 to transform your nation into a powerhouse that no other nation can touch, you'll be able to reach 
 total domination on highest difficulty long before you enter endgame campaigns.
  
  Merchants have been replaced by trading ships, these ships are left alone once it's placed on a 
 trading note - even if an enemy has a strong fleet on a neighbouring node.
  
  As with previous total war games, the AI wil NOT try to launch seaside invasions. In a game where 
 both India and America has been incorporated into the campaign map you'd expect that major nations 
 such as GB and France would try to colonize the world. Dissapointing that this doesn't happen. 
 If you as a european nation set out to conquer India, it'll be yours for the taking. No competition 
 whatsoever from the rest of the major nations.
  
  Many features from previous games have been left out, some new has been added. I'm fairly neutral 
 about that as some of the new features makes up for the lack of good old known ones.
  
  If campaing AI is being fixed in the near future, this could very well be transformed into a masterpiece. 
 There are allready one mod in existance that solves many of the AI problems, unfortunately not 
 yet to a degree where the game might present a challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigershuffle
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Played all the Total War releases since Shogun. This seems the most broken out of the box.
  Im sure it will improve with a substantial patch. 
  Still annoyed at the moneygrubbing 'extras'. 
 CA why dont you just release a fixed game to begin with instead of a plethora of 'exclusive releases' 
 to every Tom, Dick n Asda.
  
  The addition of naval warfare is a nice extra if a little flawed. Still it beats those auto resolve 
 seabattles that always seemed to cost you your best generals/armies. 
  I think for a bit of historical accuracy they should have gone for more pre-set formations. All 
 this stretching/shrinking the line etc just isnt historically correct. 17th & 18th C. battles were 
 all about holding formations to maximise firepower. More Barry Lyndon then Sharpe.
  
  Oh and expect a 'Napoleonic' edition just in time for Christmas.. cynical moi?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chiefming
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2009 10:38 am PT
Review:  Creative assembly as ever creating innovative games worth keeping, with hours of entertainment 
 waiting to be explored. Great new additions to the game which include the see battles as well as 
 a chance to exploit world economies. Land battles have also changed with the incorporation of artillery 
 and musket firing troops. The game is unfinished, Creative Assembly have no excuses, it's still 
 in Beta form and is a shame as well as a disgrace as many a Total War fans have been let down by 
 the state of the game - unplayable at the moment as a Campaign game as the constant crashing interrupts 
 and takes away from the gaming experience. Save games get corrupted which means hours of playing 
 are lost and is pointless if you're playing a strategy game that can last months.
  Many have been complaining (Don't be misinformed - look for yourself www. totalwar. com)
  This 
 has the potential to be a classic - but this game has become unplayable which is a fantastic shame.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThronedFlame21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 8:44 am PT
Review:  Let me begin by saying that my computer runs this game without a hitch and the graphics look great. 
 I know some people have been having problems with the game due to technical errors, but i know 
 that Creative Assembly will fix these problems in the near future so dont despair! This game is 
 awesome for those of us who can run it (just make sure you can before you get the game, because 
 stores nowadays are really b1tchy about letting you return computer game!) If you have ever played 
 a total war then you know the general feel of the game. If you havent, the game is simply a top 
 down map of most of the world in turn based play with the ability to zoom in and fight the battles 
 3d. The game is very epic in scale (there are so many terriories, technologies, and units it will 
 make your head spin at first) , much more than any of the previous games, but it is very realistic. 
 the addition of ship battles is confusing at first, but eventually you will get the hang of it. 
 I really enjoy playing this game and i would recommend it to anyone with a computer able to run 
 it. that said the game is tough to run, and the graphics on medium are worse than medium on medieval 
 2 so it is much better if you can put it on high. also the ai is not very good at some points in 
 the game, and seem to be very dumb. but im sure the ai will be fixed at some time, and is a great 
 game for anyone who enjoys the rts genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: machrisr2000
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 7:38 am PT
Review:  Empire Total War features a beautiful campaign map, incredibly detailed battles, a variety of units, 
 several ways to achieve victory, and many more features that have made the Total War series some 
 of the best games of all times. However, Empire Total War is in desperate needs of a serious upgrade 
 to the AI. It doesn't fight. After playing Prussia and then England and easily overrunning any 
 area I chose, I played what should have been, based on the historical record, one of the most difficult 
 positions: the Marathas. This small indiginous nation on the Indian subcontinent should lack many 
 of the advantages of a European power. However, played at the most difficult settings, no cheats 
 whatsoever, I easily overran the continent, ate up half of Persia before I got bored and invaded 
 Europe itself. I was easily cutting a swath through France before I gave up in disgust. The AI 
 had not put up any fight worth talking about. Its armies usually just conducted small raids on 
 outlying structures rather than taking on the invading horse itself. The European powers calmly 
 allowed a massive overseas empire to grow and invade, something that would never have happened 
 in the real 18th century. 
  
  No matter how excellent the graphics, regardless of how many interesting features a game provides, 
 its real test is whether it provides a realistic challenge to the player. Empire Total War fails 
 miserably. I can only wonder what kind of playtesting the developer performed. However, the game 
 is far from a loss. A revision to the AI should turn this dog into a champion without much diffficulty. 
 My recommendation: wait until Sega or a modder steps up with an AI upgrade before spending your 
 money and time on this one. Once that occurs, this game could be a 9 or a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kordox
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 2:19 am PT
Review:  I can not get around saying that the game is great. I would have handed it a solid 9. The gameplay 
 sucks you in and you lose track of time. In my case games this time consuming only comes around 
 like once every 5 years.
  My score though ended at a 7,5 which I may set higher as they release patches with bug fixes. At 
 least the last fix I got solved the many crashes and some sound problems but furthermore ,looking 
 away from the fact that AI is very flawed, there are still some serious topics for the game crew 
 to solve. Yesterday I played a Great Campaign and Austria ended with having turns taking several 
 minutes even though they only had one region and all of their activities were covered by the fog 
 of war. 
  What concerns me the most about this release is that a company of the gaming industry would release 
 a game before it is ready. Makes it seem like the economic crisis has reached them and made them 
 release before date to raise cash fast. But that is more politics then game.
  I'm very confident that if they can release a patch to solve some of the greater AI problems this 
 will turn out as a game I will play for a long time. 
  Really worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jim4604
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 27, 2009 11:48 pm PT
Review:  I beg of you do not buy this game. At least not now. The total war series is one of my favorite 
 series. I looked forward to Empire Total War like a child looks forward to Christmas. Sadly I have 
 never been more dissapointed in a game. I have been playing pc games since I was about 10, I'm 
 20 now. Never once have I had such issues with a game. I use to have games mess up but it was mostly 
 hardware issues like my comp sucking. This time it is the game itself. I'm not saying everyone 
 who buys this game has trouble but I have a high end rig and this game crashes every 5 minutes. 
 The most I played was 20 minutes without it crashing. Please don't buy this game. $50 dollars is 
 too much to gamble with whether a game will be playable or not. I can't believe CA and SEGA even 
 did this. It's like playing a Beta of a game or something. They keep releasing mini-patches but 
 they aren't helping. For god sakes don't buy this game yet. Just play Medieval 2 for a bit longer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniperf0x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 10:56 pm PT
Review:  The game plays great, however, steam is horrible. When i got it during the launch week. Game constantly 
 crash, i wasn't able to beat the game due to it crashing, and somehow corrupted my saved games. 
 
  
  This is something Sega and CA need to take a look at. Steam is horrible.
  
  BTW you need internet just to play single player campaigns, yes you need it. 
  
  I love the 
 feel of 18th century warfare. And finally naval battles!
  
  This one you can research the technology, either you want to make money, make power army/navy or 
 progress in government. This ETW is has a very interesting take on politics. However the game play 
 doesn't feel realistic (diplomacy wise) . Also if you want to change from Monarchy to Republic just 
 tick the lower class off and a revolution starts. Sounds great, however, i was expecting large 
 scale civil war. But... it doesn't... As soon as the rebel forces capture the capital city, the 
 whole country change government without other gun shots. 
  
  There are several foreign influence during your kingdom's rule. If let's say your king dies, and 
 the heir is someone the other kingdoms don't like... they will help to lead a war of succession 
 against you. Which is kinda cool :) 
  
  This game is interesting to play and own. You should get it. Replay value to me it's high, but 
 the only thing that tick me off is the stupid crash. But now after the patches it's gotten a bit 
 better. So have a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FearMeLess
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 6:18 pm PT
Review:  I seriously thought this game would be really good and something to refresh my experience as an 
 RTS player, but I was completely wrong. This game has unique aspects such as, controlling huge 
 armies, naval battle, and a love and hate campaign missions. So the negatives of this games is 
 as follows; CTDs, Bad AI, line of sight for troops is terrible, and units don't follow my clicks 
 at times, which results my line troops complete anihlation due to poor AI. 
  
  Multiplayer is far the worst experience I've ever had with an RTS. The Multiplayer window is bad 
 no designs at all. The server for ETW (Steam) is very laggy. Rockets and Mortar completely destroys 
 units there is know way to fight aginst them when well defended and positioned well. Quick match 
 sucks very bad, because it can give you a disadvantage regarding troops; you may have more or your 
 opponent may have more troops than you, which result in an very unbalanced game.
  
  This game could've been more if the developers focus on a decent game instead of a half a$$ed product 
 that seriously ruins the gameplay. This game would've got a higher score if they fixed the CTDs 
 and multiplayer, because as of now the online experience is terrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimate132
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2009 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Many reviewers are giving the game a score of 1 or other unfortunately low rankings because of 
 the glithces and bugs. Understandeable right? Well it's understandeable it would affect the score 
 but low ratings as such are completely untrue to the game's gamplay nature. If many people can 
 play this game, then giving it a low ranking because of incompatability issues shouldn't destroy 
 the review score ( this is why critic scores are higher than user reviews)
  
  On to the actual game! It's actually extremely immersive and abundant with many gameplay options. 
 CA did a great job of expandng the region upgrade/building aspect of this game, giving it a much 
 more in depth feel. Now players are allowed to customize and improve regions much more efficiently! 
 This can be auto-managed too however. THe actualy battles themselved take the same idea as pervious 
 TW games, with the difference of 18th century tactics included. This actually allows for a much 
 greater depth of ability and strategy useage. As for Naval battles, they definitely are a great 
 addition but lack enough substance. I think there definitely were many areas of gameplay that might 
 have been improved but as a whole E: TW managed to capture many hours of undivided attention.
  
  Graphics are pretty cool too, better than previous TW games.... if you can run this beast of 
 a game on good settings. Sound is ok, could have been better loading screens lack the presence 
 of music and simply include war sounds ( which is cool but music would ben ice too ) . 
  
  To be honest, this game is far from flawless but it's still a masterpiece in terms of gameplay. 
 If your a fan of TW games or strategy games this game is definitely worth a look into! If your 
 not sure about performance then.. perhaps wait till the patches start rolling in. Great game on 
 its on though!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: p0ck3t
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 26, 2009 1:56 pm PT
Review:  DONT BUY IT!
  Only 60% complete and being sold buy steam with no refunds NO MATTER what. Law suits proceeding 
 and court! you also must have an Internet connection at ALL TIMES to play offline as well as online. 
 Please read the post on steam forum before you make the mistake of buying. So many people are realy 
 anoyed with C. A, SEAA and steam. Although the game has the right idea of what you would want from 
 a totalwar game, it has SO MANY bugs and reasons to crash that the last patch C. A released ahs 
 made the game WORSE! yea worse! they rushed out a patch on the 24th of march and it fixed nothing. 
 I LOVE total war games... I have them all... I couldn wait for E. T. W to come out but its no were 
 near complete. It will take at least a year before it will be ready. If you think im over reacting 
 go check out steam forum. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricScionti
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 7:08 am PT
Review:  Since my initial rage and concern with this game and its bugs has subsided somewhat, I am more 
 inclined to give an appropriate review differing from what I initially wrote (Which will be posted 
 after this review) However, merely because the issues are partially resolved now does not justify 
 nor excuse the fact that the buggy "beta-like" release Since a fair amount of time has been allotted 
 for Creative Assembly to get their sh*t together, and after countless hours of trial and error 
 on my part, it is only fair that the game be reviewed as is.
  
  Anyways, enough of the introduction, the game, that is when it can be played, is great. Although 
 some things have changed since earlier titles the game largely remains the same and yet refreshingly 
 new. Some of the good major changes are the ability to engage in Naval battles first hand, (rather 
 than simply allow the computer to "auto calculate" the outcome) , tech tree, a vastly expanding 
 campaign map including "most" of the known world, a revamped diplomacy system (no more moving around 
 dozens of diplomats) , and having resource buildings being built outside of the region capital, 
 (which is a good thing because armies no longer could simply cower behind their capitals walls 
 and defend everything internal and necessary for your empire)
  
  I should stress the fact that often times the raids on your "outside" establishments often times 
 can be overlooked and ignored unless it is a major source of income, so it kind of loses it's point....
 
  
  These are a few of the major noteworthy changes to the series which I enjoyed seeing, however, 
 there are many other changes that Total War fans may not enjoy seeing implemented, for instance 
 the absence on a family tree (And subsequent lack of choosing heirs, obviously) , lack of unit variety 
 from nation to nation, generals are now simply hired instead. The ability to recruit agents is 
 also lost which also makes for somewhat of a less involving game. Agents such as assassins now 
 spawn at set rates depending on a certain building being constructed, in the end this only results 
 in too assassins and too few agents to assassinate. For all the cheats and modders out there, there 
 is currently no ability to open a console as well.... not an issue for myself but for some it is, 
 so it deserves to be mentioned.
  
  There is also the issue of things that have remained unchanged despite popular claims, a big one 
 being the enemy's AI, both diplomatic and on the battle screen. Although sometimes I have witnessed 
 strokes of tactical genius, most of the time the enemy resorts to a rather unorganized cluster 
 fawk, which is a let down.
  
  For instance during one siege battle the engaging enemy army attacked my fort with nothing but 
 cavalry and one artillery unit, they then proceeded to park their artillery unit behind a hill, 
 as too fire at the hill non-stop, in turn accomplishing nothing. Since their cavalry obviously 
 couldn't scale the walls (I'd sh*t a brick if they could!) the end result was a pointless stalemate 
 which lasted 20 minutes with the game on the triple speed setting, after which the enemy army was 
 completed destroyed (lol?) . Regarding the AI for diplomacy many of the old issues still exist, 
 such as utterly stupid and repetitive demands from the computer nations which occurred so often 
 I face palmed my own head off (You give me 5 territories for 300 gold plz) . There is also the issue 
 of enemy AI being uncompromisingly stubborn when attempting to make fair deals, as in previous 
 titles.
  
  Lastly on the subject of AI, the difficulty levels beyond hard refuses to be anything beyond unfairly 
 balancing the strength of the enemy nations, and although that may be the point, I am under the 
 impression that a harder difficulty entails a smarter enemy which is what I would prefer, a more 
 strategic enemy, not one that is light years ahead of me in research, construction, and has an 
 endless treasury. The worst about it all though is probably the fact that the enemy army will almost 
 never rout, and will 80% of the time win any auto-resolve battle. I even had 5 groups of peasants 
 completely ANNIHILATE 2 whole stacks of units, one of which was in a fort, the other in a fully 
 upgraded region capital.... what the mother fu -- Harder yes, but to me that is just lazy on the 
 side of developers, it's worse than Mortal Kombat's input detection.....
  
  Alas, For avid strategy gamers such as myself, being able to steam roll the Very Hard difficulty 
 within the first hundred hours of game play seems a bit unrewarding. The biggest concern on them 
 all however, are the completely bogus bugs and instability issues with the game, many of which 
 still exist as of today's date, memory leaking issues, corrupt saves, vanishing saves, and crashes 
 to desktop are all still very common among users, while I have been lucky not to have to endure 
 such needless obstacles as of the most recent patch, that doesn't negate the fact that I once did, 
 a game that costs full retail price should not feel like a beta. The load times are also astronomical, 
 but this is probably largely due to the memory issues.
  
  I'll go ahead and sum up this review with a quote, taken right from Empire total war itself which 
 sums up the whole issue, and one that Creative Assembly should of read themselves.
  
  "By preparing to fail, you are failing to prepare."
  -Benjamin Franklin
  
  ORIGINAL REVIEW
 
  ___________________
  Basically the game is this... it's like trying to play a game of Risk that is locked inside a car 
 on the moon while your stranded at the bottom of the ocean. You know the game is awesome, and it's 
 out there.... but there is no way in hell you will ever successfully play it.... at least, as the 
 current situation stands.
  
  Seriously It appears to be a great game, but only if you could ACTUALLY play it, you can sit there 
 and stare at all the glory all day, but you will never be able to play it like you are supposed 
 to until you rise up from the depths of the sea and ride a rocket ship with the word PATCH on the 
 side of it too the moon and meet a martian who knows car to either pick locks or hands you a giant 
 friggin' moon rock so you can bust open the window of the car and get the game out and play.... and 
 even then you'd probably still be unable to play it because you forgot your oxygen tank and you'd 
 suffocate to death... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 2:11 am PT
Review:  I caught a glimpse of some of the other user reviews and noticed that a lot of fans were upset. 
 Apparently, they had pretty high expectations and the game let them down... I suppose I can understand 
 this actually, and some of their points are rather good.
  
  For example, I think the biggest complaint is about bugs. I find this rather valid, because I myself 
 crashed to desktop numerous times (so I spammed the quick-save function) . I guess another problem 
 was that the AI was rather easy, which takes the fun out of battles for hardcore-players. All in 
 all, I understand where these fans are coming from, I think.
  
  That said, this is my -FIRST- ever Total war game. Thus, my review score probably reflects this: 
 I had quite a bit of fun. This isn't to say ETW is perfect; far from it, actually. But the thing 
 is I've never 'experienced' this kind of game before, and I have to say, it wasn't half bad.
  
  Controlling armies, messing with the economy, expanding your empire. This was all new to me, 
 and I have to say I now know why so many fans like the series overall. The gameplay is rather addictive, 
 and you'll find yourself wanting to go "just for one more turn" over and over again. Menus are 
 intuitive, gameplay is relatively easy to learn via the tutorials, battles are attractive/fun, 
 and presentation is (fairly) good.
  
  I guess I don't really have much more to say beyond this. Empire Total War was a new experience 
 for me altogether, and I was generally impressed. Not much frustration in this game (like I was 
 half-expecting) ; just pure fun. 
  
  That said, I see where the other fans are coming from. Most likely if I had been a fan of a previous 
 Total War game, I'd be complaining too (due to higher expectations) . I did experience crashes yes. 
 The game does feel like it could use more polish yes. And yes, the AI is embarrassing sometimes 
 (though I didn't really complain about this because I'm not much of a military strategist to begin 
 with) .
  
  All in all, I liked this game, and found it rather enjoyable for the most part. But that said, 
 I more than understand why other fans might be upset. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_Shad
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2009 9:50 pm PT
Review:  As everyone has already noted, AI and random crashes are an issue. I was also disappointed in the 
 limited number of unit types. Three or four infantry units for each faction, one of which is Line 
 Infantry and one of which is Light Infantry. Kind of makes all the factions play the same. The 
 exception is the Ottomans and the India factions. They still make heavy use of melee units to spice 
 things up a bit.
  
  So far, I have really enjoyed the "Road to..." campaign. Adding a bit of story and history to your 
 grand campaign is a nice touch. It was also a nice way of ramping up the learning curve for the 
 friend I introduced to the series with this one.
  
  I am somewhat disappointed in how unlikely naval boarding is to actually work, considering the 
 AI controlled ships contiue to pound into your lower decks and sink you mid-melee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukemaneiro
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2009 5:51 pm PT
Review:  This is the first time I've ever played a Total War game before. And after about 10 hours on the 
 Road to Independence campaign you realize how epic this game is.
  
  First of all, on the battlefield tactics are more important than any other RTS I've ever played. 
 Big armies don't result in an instant win. If you don't know how to use your troops, you will most 
 likely lose on the harder difficulty levels. Flanking is as useful as ever, and making up a plan 
 for attacking a fort or defending a city and seeing it work successfully has a huge sense of accomplishment 
 into it: specially if your forces are outnumbered, which will inevitably happen in some battles.
 
  
  The map used for control of troops and building is easy to use, but you can do so much with it. 
 Build cities, upgrade shipyards, block trade routes, make allies, start wars, control taxes, attack 
 enemy placements...
  
  Battlefields are detailed and they are all different from each other. You will be fighting in many 
 different places and you will notice one place is always different than the other. The terrain, 
 the vegetation, the water... Of course, all those characteristics can help you or the enemy in 
 the battle. If you start the fight on the lower side of a cliff, your troops will have to go all 
 the way up. And they walk VERY slowly when climbing those cliffs, allowing the enemy to suppress 
 the troops with high ground.
  
  About the bugs... yes, I've run into one or two, but a couple of minutes searching on google and 
 I successfully fixed the issue. I just wrote this review because I saw all those people complaining 
 about the bugs in this game ... I bet they don't know patch 1.2 is already up, fixing a bunch of 
 stuff. Great game, should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkwolfdemon
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 4:25 pm PT
Review:  I felt nostalgia, confusion, more nostalgia, then frustration. First of all; if you never played 
 a total war game it will take awhile to learn the basics because there is no tutorial for the campaign 
 (just for land and sea battles) ; and buying a over the net copy I had no book to read the 'how 
 to'. The tutorial could be the 'Road To Independence' but if so then it still leaves a lot out 
 and is just a sandbox for you to figure out how to do.
  But don't worry too much, the AI is pretty dull. One experience is when I was assaulting a fort 
 and they sent out troops one after another at my men that easily dispatched them with gunfire and 
 artillery. And if they are attacking youyou will only get one or two shots off with a cannon before 
 they climb your walls.
  I have experienced several crashes consisting of telling a second fleet of mine to double time 
 it to the enemy but that was small. The major pain was when I took over a Caribbean island and 
 sent my ships into port for repairs but then soon found out that the ships were trapped their because 
 when I tried to select them the game crashes. This not only happened once but twice with another 
 island; leaving two expensive fleets in a non usable position; even after the patch. Now this is 
 on my new "state of the art" laptop than can run the game smoothly on high graphics, so it is most 
 likely not your computer, it's the game code. There are a few other bugs but the game killing bugs 
 are the ones you have to watch out for. There are a few people whom don't seem to get bugs or game 
 killing bugs; pray you will join them.
  For campaign you have some things to learn (like people get angry with schools) . Even I have several 
 things to learn. In my campaign that I cannot finish due to a glitch I still don't know how to 
 make one of my provinces able to make something other than pike men (useless to me) and light horsemen.
 
  Another problem is the custom battles, and I use "custom" lightly. In the older games you could 
 have 8 factions on 2 to 4 teams or even a free for all; you could have as much as 999999 gold (far 
 enough to supply an army of the most expensive men with the most experience and weapons and armor 
 two times over) or as few as 1 gold; you generally had two or three seasons of technology and the 
 units to them; you could pick from a large number of battle arenas (including hills, rivers, bridges, 
 desert ,plain meadows and more) ; you could pick from 3 out of 4 of the arenas to make a somewhat 
 custom forts, cities, and fortresses; almost all factions playable whether campaign playable or 
 not; and a few other things to play with. Now; introduce Empire total war You have a small list 
 of arias to fight in, and they are 1 vs. 1 and two 2 vs. 2 maps, you cannot change how many or 
 how few can play and sides are even. Money wise, you have a choice of large gold or medium gold; 
 this means you get an army of 10 units or an army of 20 units, and this is without the experience. 
 With technology wise you have the choice of having less than your faction would actually have in 
 the beginning of the actual campaign or have every technology (not a big problem, but would like 
 more variety) . How about the choice in the aria; grass with trees, grass with more trees, or grass 
 with trees and a wall (and don't get me started with the 4 naval battles on nothing but water, 
 put in an island or something!) . No custom sieges; its fort, star fort, Indian fort, and maybe 
 one or two others. And playable factions, you only get what you can play in campaign (besides pirates) 
 which cuts out half the factions in the game (including Native Americans) . Oh, and there is no 
 inspiring speeches at the beginning of battle.
  No cheat codes. It seems to be a fashion that there are no more cheat codes; but sometimes you 
 just want watch the AI piss themselves when they see 1,000,000 men calling for their heads.
  Now with all that bashing there are some good things. It looks nice; I love the beautiful sight 
 of when the enemy ship's sails light aflame and then the ship explodes in two and sinks to Davy 
 joins'. When the soundtrack doesn't have a hiccup it is somewhat inspiring. If you look past all 
 the bugs and maybe are slightly high you might enjoy yourself.
  This game could have been much much more. I had such high expectations for the game but I ate $80 
 worth of crap. If you want to a good game like empire total war just play medieval total war but 
 only with cannons and people with guns; and for naval battles play with boats in your bath tub. 
 Guns were a gamble but guns were not the problem; it is the fact they gave too little and what 
 little we got was full of bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dx900
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 25, 2009 9:50 am PT
Review:  WHY SELL A GAME THAT PEOPLE CAN'T EVEN FINISH PLAYING BECAUSE OF BUGS AND GLITCHES ???
  
  I played 76 turns, invested a week and 54 Canadian Dollars Plus Tax and all that i have paid for 
 is that i have been used as a beta tester for SEGA.
  If i try to play another turn in my campaign (Winter 1737) , all i get, like many other suckers 
 who bought Empire Total War, is a white screen and a crash to desktop.
  
  I am far from being the only one with this problem, a LOT of people are unhappy with this latest 
 release from the great Total War series and say that the game reeks of a botched job.
  Go visit the Steam Forums and you will see what i mean. 
  
  Do not visit the CA (Creative Assembly, 
 creators of this game) website or CA forums for information about those issues.
  CA deals with the fanbase reaction to their unplayable product by censoring any and all posts that 
 criticize the numerous bugs and problems Empire Total War was sold with, something that is only 
 going to make people very suspicious of any new product from this company.
  
  To me this has a lot to do with the fact that Creative Assembly, the franchise that gave us all 
 those great Total War games was recently bought by SEGA, who doesn't seem to care about anything 
 else than milking the franchise for every penny as soon as possible
  . 
  Even if the game is, for many who bought it, like me, unplayable.
  
  
  THE MANUAL, OR LACK 
 OF IT.
  
  For a game so expensive and that requires such an expensive computer to play, they could have included 
 a manual that i can carry with me and read while i am not in front of the computer.
  Something that explains how to play the game so you wont have to search all over the internet to 
 find what other people have found out, by trial and error, to play such a complex game.
  That is what i got with ALL the previous Total War games that i bought.
  Instead you get nothing 
 more than a imprecise .pdf summary. 
  If you want to use it without your computer you have to print it yourself. 
  Cheap.
  
  An 
 example?
  The Indiaman. This is a commercial ship. First i sent one to India, as logic would suggest of course, 
 hoping to improve my trade.
  Well if i tried to land anywhere in India with my Indiaman it was considered an act of war, why? 
 
  They don't mention it in the manual. 
  Actually if you do a search in the pdf document that serves as a manual, nowhere in the document 
 do they mention the Indiaman. 
  You have to find by trial and error or rely on someone else on the internet who found out by trial 
 and error. 
  Cheap. 
  
  The same goes with every other unit in the game.
  Where is the unit guide that came along with all the other Total War games ? 
  Where does it 
 say in the manual how to use the indiaman ?
  This game was released too soon, buggy and without the proper tools to play it. 
  
  Units pop 
 out into existence, like the gentleman or the rake, but you have no idea where they came from or 
 precisely what they do and how they can do it better. 
  In all the previous Total War games that i bought i got a nice little poster with all the units, 
 what building they came from, what they do, their strengths and weaknesses and how to improve them 
 by getting better buildings, not in Empire Total War. 
  Cheap.
  
  STEAM
  
  You have to install Steam if you want to play YOUR game. And if you want steam to work, you have 
 to connect to the Internet. No internet you can't play YOUR game.
  I HATE Steam, and a lot of other people do as well. From the moment you turn YOUR computer on, 
 Steam connects to the internet by itself, vampirising your bandwidth, your RAM and your CPU processes 
 as if all you wanted to do in life was to connect with Steam and buy their games.
  
  They use the fact that you need to connect to their useless services to play YOUR game to bombard 
 you with publicity and ads about their other games. Unfair practice.
  
  If you want to avoid all of that you either have to run MSCONFIG, and find out where you can deactivate 
 Steam when Windows boots up or uninstall Steam completely and reinstall it whenever you want to 
 play your game. 
  Steam is totally unnecessary to you as a gamer and many many other games are profitable for those 
 who make games without that pesky, annoying software that many people would not install on their 
 computer otherwise. 
  Greedy and cheap.
  
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  The game looks great, the graphics are superb, but if you don't have a top-of-the-line computer 
 you can't play the game, as many found out after they bought it even though they had the minimum 
 computer specifications.
  
  And by the way a game is not simply a nice thing to look at, and this is where the problems continue 
 on and on. 
  The artificial intelligence is as idiotic and suicidal as possible, especially on the campaign 
 map, no improvement there at the fifth installment of the total war series.
  Small countries attack yours with no hope of winning and you have to fight back, upsetting all 
 your trade partners that are allied with that little country in the process.
  And if you lose your trade partners you have no more money coming in, you can't fight your way 
 to victory like with the previous Total War games.
  How hard can it be to program the game so that a little country doesn't attack a country so disproportionally 
 stronger than itself ?
  Or that a single unit army waits for reinforcements before throwing itself in front of your cannons 
 and cavalry ?
  
  NAVAL BATTLES:
  
  A selling argument for this game according to the previews.
  The ships are also very hard to 
 manage, as soon as you get into a big fight, you get ships that don't attack, ships that attack 
 your own ships, boarding crews that kill themselves because they jump on a much smaller ship, enemy 
 ships with one crewman left who keep firing ALL their cannons etc etc.
  
  When the prospect of another hour of trying to control floating chaotic furballs arrives, the temptation 
 of letting the computer resolve the whole mess at your disadvantage is almost impossible to resist. 
 
  
  But the absolute, absolute worst par of the game, after all your miseries playing turn after turn, 
 after searching the internet because there is no decent manual provided, and after having forked 
 out 54 bucks plus tax of your hard-earned money is the fact that you can't even finish your campaign 
 and the crushing disappointment over what was advertised to be the best game of the series.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zinderin
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 23, 2009 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Being a programmer, I'm not one to bash games about early bugs. And usually I start with the good 
 and finish with the bad. But if you only read the first three sentences of this review, then I 
 want to make it clear this game is not ready for prime time (translate: Totally broken in the campaign 
 mode) , and unfortunately (in my opinion) the game seems to not be a priority Creative Assembly.
 
  
  The game is beautiful. The game has a huge number of new innovations that takes the Total War series 
 to the next level. And unlike what some have said, the Navy is a huge and important part of the 
 larger and harder campaigns.
  
  But if you can't finish the game, who cares?
  
  I have yet to get Prussia, Britain, Russia or Persia past 1780. Most times the AI locks up (making 
 the game non-responsive) around 1775. Two efforts with Spain have resulted in an AI lock-up in 
 1725, and another in 1727.
  
  Its really unfortunate. I **LOVE** the Total War games. I have been addicted to Rome: Total War 
 since its release. I have been waiting for this game since it was announced, and for the few rounds 
 you can play a campaign, its very rewarding and challenging (past the easy setting) . 
  
  But how many of us here want to spend 20+ hours playing a game you cannot win?
  
  So I give 
 it a rating of 2.0 with a sad heart because that rating will follow this game here on game-spot 
 forever in the user review averages ... and that's exactly why I waited and waited to review it. 
 But the entire reason for putting up with the Steam requirement (in my opinion) is to be able to 
 get quick and small updates immediately. I've been waiting 3 weeks now for CA to fix a game that 
 can't be played to conclusion. So its time for me to rate it, dump it, and move back to Rome: Total 
 War.
  
  If you have not bought this game yet, don't. Wait until you hear that it has been fixed.
  
 
  Also know, you aren't playing this game without an Internet connection ... meaning you aren't 
 playing it on the plane, you aren't playing it in your mobile home on vacation. This may not be 
 a biggy for you ... but it is for me, even tho I am a Steam member and an SDK user/modder.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenriKFM
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Empire Total War is an impressive game regarding its ability to create huge and impressive battles. 
 This is combined with a turn based campaign map where you have to work in economy, trading, diplomacy, 
 espionage, technology, etc... At first glance, it looks very promising.
  
  However, the AI is completely incompetent, specially in the campaign actions. I will put some examples 
 I consider to be critical enough for not understanding the high ratings around the web. In my opinion, 
 this game hasn't passed a decent AI quality testing.
  
  One of the most stupid issues I found (high difficulty) : a faction declares me the war, I neutralize 
 its attack and I counter conquering one of their provinces. Having a much larger army, I make a 
 peace treaty with them, but demanding 10k gold, and 6 technologies (including military) . They accept 
 my demands. On next turn, they declare the war on me again. No comments needed...
  
  In ground battles, I was able during several battles to fire to enemy troops which didn't take 
 any action. They just stood there while dying, not firing nor trying to run out of range. They 
 took loses until routing away from the battlefield. I would like to specially mention I won a whole 
 battle this way without taking substantial loses.
  
  The moving of the units in the campaign map is foolish too. Playing with Russia (highest difficulty 
 settings) , Dagestan declared me the war. They took its whole big army (20 units) to rush one of 
 my farms, while leaving its capital with 2 troops. I conquered it on the next turn with a 4 unit 
 army. As being the only territory they held, the nation was destroyed and all its army disappeared 
 magically from the map...
  
  Naval battles seems to be the strongest point of this game, they are spectacular and fun, and I 
 haven't found any important issues. Indeed, this is what saves this game from not being a clone 
 from other Total War games.
  
  After several hours of gameplay, you find out the most efficient way to beat your enemies is exploiting 
 the AI problems. That's disgusting. I think this game has much more potential left and a lot of 
 things to polish. But like most of the game industry does in these times, the graphics is the only 
 thing it matters... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doombringer175
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2009 1:52 pm PT
Review:  I was hesitating on how to write this. I found it a great game. I had no real problems wit the 
 game. The only problem is that I was hoping for large scale lighting fast battles. Instead I found 
 long, complex, sluggish, decent graphic battle. I noticed they did realistic movements. I have 
 not seen all the types of actions yet so I still want a few surprizes. The biggest pet peive of 
 mine, the loading screens. they take for ever (read this part slowly times that by ten and you 
 have a small fraction of the loading time) . Now that the negitives are out of the way the good 
 can come in. Goods, Concept was a great idea. Playing as that many cultures smoothly was a great 
 idea. I found it to be very historicly acurate. The who hated who was spot on. But I noticed that 
 diplomacy was near imposible. I tried very hard to understand that, but to no avail. An example 
 is in the Road to independence chapter 2. I made allies fast with the natives. The problem they 
 never helped me once. I had ot fight the french with no back up. I considered stopping the assault 
 on the french for a couple years and kick the virtual natives butt. But I doubted if I could so 
 i left them alone. Another problem is that the AI does not contact you, they supply no help as 
 to what they want. If you want to aid them, you must attack them by going on their land. But back 
 to the good. The battles on sea are a great touch. All the ship types, shot, formaiton. It makes 
 it a great strategy base. Good for land battles are that their are so many units that you needed 
 to diversify. Keep in mind this is the first time I decided to pick up a Total War game. My final 
 problem was that the whole world was not open to play. That would have made it harder. On second 
 thought maybe the small map is better. Overall this game was very tough to judge. because it was 
 so back and forth. I enjoy the game because... well just pick it up and you will see.
  P. S. the quotes are sometimes humorus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malekithau
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2009 1:10 am PT
Review:  Worst of the series for me. I honestly wish I hadn't bought it and I've never felt that way about 
 a Total War game before. The worst thing is I can't put my finger on why it's not fun. I keep trying 
 to like it but it just doesn't do it for me. 
  
  Battles - fairly standard fare. Just MTW with more guns. This period was all about formations. 
 Just dragging your formation doesn't cut. There's the grognard coming out in me I guess. Everything 
 moves too quickly still. I only play battles as part of a campaign normally so I thought I'd try 
 the scenario or pick up battle. No still nothing special.
  
  Campaign - The factions are fairly boring to honest. I tried playing Marratha and Turks just for 
 some variety. Most of the time it feels like I'm forever chasing little armies pillaging my territory. 
 Got over that quick smart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morganja
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 22, 2009 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Unbelievable bugs. Simply unplayable. I can't believe that a company that has spent so many years 
 building up a reputation would carelessly flush it away with this unplayable beta. I feel like 
 an idiot for buying this game. I had real issues with purchasing a game with Steam, made much worse 
 by having to view ads when I start up my game. That is absolutely inexcusable. But the bugs in 
 the game are just mind boggling. Since the last patch I haven't had a single agent spawn. They 
 die, but never spawn. Since that is the heart of the research and religious conversion aspect of 
 the game, that is a game-breaker right there. But that is just the beginning. Just about everything 
 is bugged right now. 
  
  It has promise if they fix the bugs. It seems like it would be fun. I wish I could play a game 
 as it was suppose to work. Do yourselves a favor and buy this game after it has been patched and 
 is on the bargain bin. Or better yet. Stay away from any game with Steam until they have the common 
 decency to not show ads when you start a game. I really loved this series. I am so disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonedude
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 5:18 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing the Total War series since Shogun - I never wait for a review of a new game in 
 the series, I go straight to the store and buy it as soon as it's released. And I've never been 
 disappointed - until now. What's wrong? Where do I start? They've removed some of the favorite 
 keyboard shortcuts. How could the developers remap the M key for Merge? Or Alt-Right-click on the 
 battlefield to move your entire army in one click while retaining formation? 
  
  Naval battles are cool, but micro-managing each individual ship is ridiculous. If I give the command 
 to turn to the leader of the group then all the ships should turn "in-line formation" like real 
 naval squadrons, not what they currently have wherein each ships turns at the same time wherever 
 it is - that just creates a mob. It's the only way to manage fleet battles. Otherwise it turns 
 into a brawl where you're so busy managing individual ships that you can't enjoy the beautiful 
 battles. 
  
  Land battles are missing something... I don't get that visceral thrill I did with the other titles 
 in the series. Cavalry charges seem ... anticlimactic. If the enemy infantry aren't in square formation 
 then when I smash two cavalry units into them they should be decimated as in real life. Instead, 
 my cavalry are usually routed and the enemy unit takes some casualties. And smoke - in the historical 
 battles there was so much smoke on the battlefied that it affected commanders' tactics. I was envisioning 
 more smoke, more noise, more high drama. Also, my stupid generals seem to get killed way too fast. 
 In previous titles the leader was hard to kill - as it should be.
  
  The gane seems to crash a lot. And sometimes like others have experienced my save games are corrupted 
 and will crash the game if I load them. Everytime I want to start the game back up I have to shut 
 down my computer and start fresh otherwise the opening screen commercials go haywire. 
  
  I have a very powerful computer that is used for CAD/CAE work with all the latest patches and drivers 
 loaded, plenty of RAM, plenty of hard drive space and a top of the line Nvidia gaming card.
  
  I am one of your most loyal fans and you've really came out of left field on this one. Did 
 all the original programmers retire on their earnings? I don't blame them if they did, but can't 
 you keep some of the time-honored interface methods that we've all come to know and love? And the 
 bugs and crashes are just downright unacceptable and rude!
  
  Say it ain't so Creative Assembly!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fletchdog
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 10:24 am PT
Review:  I like the game a lot, i played it so i could stop playing for wow and I been successful. I would 
 recommend this game to anyone that has a interest in history, and turn based real time strategy 
 games. This game has been buggy as hell, but it doesn't take away the fact that i cant get enough 
 of it. If the creators continue to address the issues in future patches i see no reason to be upset, 
 and prosecute the game. It is still a great cause for a purchase, and it might be worth waiting 
 a few weeks to the majority of the bugs are fixed. 
  The battles scenes seem like they are straight of a history book. Navel battles might be to realistic, 
 and take along time due the slow maneuvering ships. So the fast froward options can be a great 
 option if you want to get straight to the action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sextus1
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 5:10 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are about 80% compared to Med-2 Total War. Playability is so-so. The idea of naval 
 battles, which I was very interested in needs a lot more refinement. Sorry but a broad side from 
 a ship of the line should put a sloop into Davy's locker after two passes- no such luck. I think 
 the scope was just a bit too much to handle for the developers in the time frame that they wanted 
 to launch this baby. Very disappointed and will stick to Rome-Total War and Medieval -2 Total War 
 along with the expansion - Kingdoms. This is the first in the line of TW games where I can say 
 that the developers should know what we expect from them and they should deliver. Let's try Shogun 
 for another go around. I would wait t buy this one until it goes into the cheap bin or until they 
 bring out a decent patch to fix all of the problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yossarian14
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2009 2:53 pm PT
Review:  The story of the Total War series has been one of consistent improvements and innovations, dating 
 back from its early days of Shogun. Complementing this continued evolution in the gameplay has 
 been its ever expanding fan base and mainstream appeal, to it now becoming one of the biggest strategy 
 franchises in the gaming community. Empire: Total War manifests this evolution by way of expanding 
 in a never before touched upon period of time (the 1700's) , the incorporation of real time naval 
 battles, and expanding the campaign map to include areas outside of the games main focus of Europe 
 in America and India. Continuing in the tradition of the series, it is the definition of an epic 
 strategy game with its massive realtime battles and immersive campaign containing many different 
 facets of a country in the era including war, trade, politics and diplomacy. The game has these 
 improvements, but detracting from them are some annoying bugs and some times idiotic AI. It is 
 a must have for fans of the series, and for people who enjoy games like Civilization and strategy 
 gamers who want to have an immersive experience.
  
  As a fan of the series since its ground breaking Rome title, I had high expectations of the game 
 going into the game. And in some places, these expectations are rewarded. The 18th century proved 
 to be a great direction for the era to go in. Previous Total war titles had great Real time battlesd 
 for its players to fight in, and offered a great variation in the units one could use to accomplish 
 your goals, however, the basic tactical principles of flanking with cavalry to win were always 
 present. With ranged infantry now being the standard and artillery playing an important role, the 
 tactics present a new challenge for players to innovate. And of course, the graphics are now just 
 top notch, the soldiers look realistic and the battlefields themselves now contain numerous buildings, 
 fences, hilles and other landmarks to take in. You can now fight from buildings that are on the 
 battlefield, and you should be able to position your forces behind walls
  
  There are some problems with the real time battles however. For one, the AI for your opponent remains 
 as vexing as ever. The computer has very little variation in its tactics. Especially embarrassing 
 is its approach to river crossings, which become massive duckshoots as your enemy attempts to push 
 all its forces into the crossing. The computer also appears to believe that your cavallry is its 
 biggest threat, often times dispatching half there army to chase after them. Its upsetting on the 
 higher level difficulties to find that computer does not become smarter with their troops, but 
 instead get unit enhancements. In additon, your own troops have some issues. Its pathfinding leaves 
 much desired, as they no longer charge into enemy flanks but directly in their center. There is 
 also a bug where your men won't fire if their behind walls.
  
  Battle AI is not the only problem with computer though. The grand campaign also has frustrating 
 flaws. The computer appears to have problems with signing peace treaties. The diplomacy on the 
 whole is better then previous games, where the computer would often out of the blue betray you. 
 This time at least you have an understanding on their feelings about you if you look on the diplomacy 
 screen. Unfortunately, it would appear that any territorial expanison you embark on is viewed as 
 hostile, even by your allies. 
  
  The sea battles were an eagerly awaited improvement to the game, and the amount of detail put into 
 the ships is staggering. However, its implementation in the game is slightly clunky. Often times 
 it comes down to just clicking on ships and hoping that your ship will make an intelligent decision 
 when it comes to attacking another ship.
  
  The multiplayer is good, it allows you to fight people who actually make intelligent tactical decisions. 
 One problem a person may encounter is a common strategy by players to wait on a hill in defensive 
 position pounding them with artillery. This can sometimes cause a match to become a massive waiting 
 game, with both sides waiting for the other to move.
  
  The good news with the flaws with this game is that they are fixable with a few patches from CA. 
 Its not like the problems here are inherent in the game and not improvable. And once these improvements 
 do come out, the game will be able to be viewed in relation to its achievements as oppossed to 
 its imperfections. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stoneface1
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 21, 2009 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is a huge disapointment, it was in developement for around 3 years, it was then 
 delayed for 5 months before coming out. Was it worth the wait? Well i'm a huge total war fan, really 
 a huge gay fanboy but i still have to say no. 
  
  The game is buggy as hell, for me on a good day i can get an hour out of it without a crash, but 
 somtimes its as high as 5 min after i'v resumed a campaign. I dont have a bad rig either, lower 
 high end i'd say, quad core a 8800 GTX and 4 gigs or high end RAM. If that isn't good enough then 
 CA can keep their money. 
  
  Now if u believe whats been posten by the total war team then only a small number of people are 
 experiancing bugs, however pretty much half the people on gamespot have said its not that great, 
 and pretty much everyone on steams forum have panned it, so lets be nice to CA and say only 30% 
 of people are suffering catastrophic crashes, thats still a huge number of people. Some people 
 have made excuses "well u cant expect CA to test on every rig out there" well first thats a rubbish 
 excuse YES CA should test on every rig, since when did people start excepting games that only worked 
 on 70% of rigs? they haven't is the answer. My second point is that if only 2% or 5% had problems 
 then yeah, ok the rig thing may count, but with the number of people complaining, it cant be specialist 
 gaming equipment causing the problems, just crap programming. 
  
  The bugs and crashes are many and major, here are just a small amount:
  
  ."White screen of 
 death"
  .Terrible Path finder AI
  .game crashes loading a battle and a messege with insufficient video memory comes up
  .battles 
 randomly flicker then crash and wont recover
  .campaigns wont work after the 1750's or later on
  .as the campaign carriers on the CPU keeps 
 creating units, which it cant handle, leading to the campaign crashing more and more often and leading 
 to be becoming unplayable. 
  
  if i sound angry over all this is kinda am, i spent 30 odd quid for it and its only half playable, 
 its a beta, and anyone who says it isn't is either very lucky or CA employee hah. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_slayer_s
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 10:58 pm PT
Review:  First I must say, FINALLY we have ship battles and may i say they're great! They look incredible. 
 The controls are easy to get used to (all the buttons are on the right side just like always) both 
 in the sea battles and land battles. The online play seems great although i've only been able to 
 play like three matches online. The AI in the game still has some problems though like how when 
 you become really powerful they all gang up on you and you pretty much lose all your allies. Sometimes 
 i feel as though no matter how much i give to a faction they won't except my offer. Overall the 
 Grand Campaign mode is much better than before and this game is a worthy game for the series. Did 
 I mention you have technologies now. Civilizationesque except for the part where you can research 
 more than one technology or philosophy at once. Oh yeah and the lack of variety in troops surprised 
 me. I knew they were all kindah the same but I didn't think that almost every country in the game 
 had the same basic unit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aussie_gamer13
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2009 4:16 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Total War games since I was 8, including a lot of competitive RTW and M2TW 
 online; so I know how to compare this game to its predecessors, and well, what can I say, Empire: 
 Total war is an extraordinary game! It has fully matched my high expectations, with brilliant gameplay, 
 graphics, AI, and lasting appeal. It has everything someone could ask from a strategy game, however, 
 there are a few gaemplay bugs and performance bugs; but if you have a decent dual/quad core you 
 should be fine in terms of performance.
  
  When you start ETW, after taking the short tutorials, you can either throw yourself straight into 
 that new and slightly confusing (even for me) campaign, or take Road to Independence, a tutorial-like 
 campaign which eases you into the games new features. I took the latter option, and after about 
 2 hours of Road to Independence I was perfectly sure of myself in handling the Grand Campaign, 
 however I happily took another 8 hours to complete it, and then continued on the the Grand Campaign 
 where I first chose The Russians, whose kingdom was large and yet meagre. My empire went from the 
 steppes to the farmland of Ukraine, and yet I had a sense of vulnerability, as I had few armies 
 on my borders (made up mostly of militia and Cossacks) , and my population with a 'yellow' demeanor 
 about their boring controlled lives. 
  
  Straight away I had to come up with a strategy for this situation, so I quickly got to researching 
 farming technology to upgrade my many yet poor farms; and start building up my defences.
  
  If I had selected the Prussians, I would quickly need to think about applying my strong military 
 with haste on the smaller factions to expand my small area of land.
  
  As the United Provinces (Dutch) , I started with one place in Europe, one place in Sri Lanka, one 
 place in South America, and was forced to attempt to hold fast these areas and then slowly expand. 
 
  
  These few examples show a great aspect of Empire: the ability for different types of situations 
 with every faction, to be forced to come up with different strategies for every one. 
  
  For the multiplayer game, I was very pleased. After years of trying to find a game with dodgy gamespy 
 in Rome, or playing a stuttering Medieval II game, Steam is absolutely a treat. Every game I played 
 online ran smooth, including a brilliant 4v4 battle. If you don't like battle AI for some reason, 
 then you have no excuse in denying the online battles. They really do make you appreciate the RTS 
 element of this game so much more. Chatting strategy to your team, forming your own types of messy 
 yet deadly battle-lines in between low farm walls and forests, even managing to suprise the enemy 
 with a few units of grenadiers atop a cliff as they march their infantry beside it at what they 
 thought was your whole army. 
  
  In the opinion of myself, and many others I know, Empire: Total war is the very definition of an 
 epic strategy game. But try out the demo first to see how well your rig plays it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanabagonias
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 20, 2009 12:31 am PT
Review:  This game is practically unplayable because of all the bugs and crashes. Which is a shame as it 
 has the potential to be a great game. The road to Independence campaign is a bit of a waist of 
 time because once you've played it you'll not want to bother again. The Grand Campaign on the other 
 hand could keep you busy for months if it worked. The sea battles are a welcome improvement over 
 previous TW games and for the most part work well except for boarding (my favourite) where sailors 
 jump from the top masts on to the other ship committing suicide. There are dozens of bugs and basic 
 game play things CA could have done better which you'll find on the TW boards.
  
  Trade routes have improved over the last TW games but have borrowed heavily from the civilisation 
 series. At first there doesn't seem to be much scope for tactics in the battles but once you get 
 the hang of it you'll find that there's new options over previous TW games. 
  
  All in all the game needs a lot of work to be playable and enjoyable to date CA has released some 
 general promises regarding patches but has not commented on the details or why it published a faulty 
 product.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krugen
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2009 11:25 am PT
Review:  Once again i find myself compelled to write a review. The last time i did, i gave (the highly overrated) 
 sins of an unoriginal solar empire what i felt was a very fair 6/10, and had my review deleted 
 and a warning from Gamespot.
  
  Fair enough.
  
  I'm quite concerned how easy it is for games to get 8/10 and above these days; it really just take 
 an absolute disaster to drop below 7. Anyway, i digress..
  
  This review may focus somewhat on the negative, but there's been enough sycophantic reviews by 
 people that are clearly used to playing games as taxing as C&C3.
  
  Empire: Total war is nothing short of disappointing. The design team don't seem to have realised 
 that no matter how intricate and detailed you make a game, if the 'I' in AI is somewhat lacking, 
 it ain't going to cut it.
  
  I thought the AI in MTW was dire, and while in E: TW the enemy units don't line up outside the city 
 gates waiting for you to annihilate them, they may as well. I have witnessed armies literally spinning 
 in circles in a series of neverending manouvres, units wandering off over the hills, and countless 
 units becoming irresponsive to commands. Charging a regiment of cavalry at the enemy flank causes 
 their entire army to shift to that flank, while something as simple as a change to cannister ammunition 
 can send an entire army walking in the opposite direction. Armies circle fortifications before 
 attacking, while your troops get to whittle down their numbers at leisure.
  
  This lousy AI isn't limited to the tactical battlefield either. I'm 62 turns in on VH/VH as Britain, 
 and i have all of Europe from France to the border with Russia. Portugal (with its lone province) 
 had been my long and faithful ally up until that point, where they randomly decided to attack my 
 stacked fortress in Spain. WHY? Why do minor countires suddenly develop a death wish? Why do nations 
 refuse to sign peace treaties despite being vastly outnumbered? Why do countries send stacks of 
 3 units against a full stack on a bridge? Who knows, but i could play this game in my sleep.
  
  The problems aren't limited to the atrocious AI. Cavalry is virtually useless, more so after 
 the invention of square formations. Generals die on contact with the enemy. The designers' idea 
 of faction variation seems to consist of giving identical units names in different language, and 
 nothing more, to the point of being sloppy. French Green jackets? Please. I don't know why Prussian 
 units have a default of 150 men on high unit count as opposed to the normal 120, maybe they breed 
 more? I don't know, but it seems more likely to be a sloppy oversight. Artillery is virtually useless, 
 try taking an army of 20 units of rocket artillery against a single unit of foot. Foot wins. Also, 
 can someone tell me what difference veterancy actually makes, because all my playtesting seems 
 to suggest that it makes absolutely none, and how do you get units above three chevrons in the 
 campaign? Unless the enemy insists upon using blank rounds, your units are inevitably going to 
 suffer casualties and need to be reinforced.
  
  Ship battles are a fantastic concept, but again terribly implemented. Woe betide anyone that actually 
 clicks the 'board' (17 men can repel 180?) or 'grapeshot' (1 man dead for every 60 cannons?) or 
 'chain rounds' (does what exactly?) buttons. In fact, just don't click anything, it may be hazardous 
 to your units' health. Just move everything grouped in a straight line and try not to breathe. 
 Do not micromanage, do not innovate, do not pass go, do not collect 200.
  
  I've no doubt missed out a few things, but my chest feels somewhat lighter and i think i've compensated 
 for the starry eyed reviews of a number of 'game critics' that haven't seen the light of day in 
 several years.. and i don't mean a nocturnal lifestyle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwofi
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 10:38 am PT
Review:  Cons and Pros 
  
  I'm going cons first because after a few hours they really start to detract from the overall experience. 
 While I have no doubt CA will eventually iron out a lot of the issues, the state of the game out 
 of the box is a stinging disappointment.
  
  Cons: 
  Most unfinished, unpolished, unstable TW release CA has ever subjected its customers to. Its broken, 
 untested and you are the beta tester. bugged, bugged, bugged.
  1. For many the game crashed to desktop constantly -ETW's forums bear this out-. 
  2. save files 
 get corrupted constantly
  3. AI is as bad or worse than previous TW games. 
  -AI troops make very odd decisions 
  -Campaign AI is terribly passive
  4. pathing is as bad 
 or worse than previous TW games 
  5. sieges are particularly riddled with bugs, makes the whole scenario/situation unplayable
  
 6. custom battle options are unnecessarily restrictive... 
  7. in battle cover doesn't really work
  8. occupyable buildings compound the bad ai and pathing 
 issues
  9. naval battles formations and pathing is also bad. Ships require a lot of micro management making 
 big battles a real chore.
  10. Trade routes and specially created trade zones are also bugged. 
  
  Pros: 
  When it works 
 the game is fantastically broad, and deep. I've bought all the total war game and a couple of the 
 expansions, and this game is by far the most ambitious...
  1. the era is awesome
  2. battle graphics are spectacular 
  3. the naval battles look simply amazing
  4. the interface 
 is simplified, providing more options with more subtle campaign effects with fewer clicks once 
 you really get into it. Vastly improved IMHO
  5. The game is beyond HUGE! A lot of potential gameplay packed into one release
  
  
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KellyMc26
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 7:40 am PT
Review:  According to my profile statistics on Steam, I've played E: TW for just under 60 hours over two 
 weeks. By my calculations, this means an average of 4.3 hours a day ... and I work full time with 
 two kids! In some sense, that tells you a major part of the story - E: TW, despite its many flaws, 
 has taken the massively addictive TW formula and made it even more addictive. 
  
  Of course, a no small percentage (5-10%?) of those hours I've invested have been spent reloading 
 the game after a video overrun error, or after a sudden crash, or after any number of rather serious 
 bugs that cost me an important battle. The quick patch CA released fixed some of the more glaring 
 issues, or at least made them less frequent, but I should note that I've been playing on Very Hard 
 / Very Hard, so every little detail counts when the human player is being given less money to work 
 with while the Very Hard AI is a) more aggressive b) capable of huge stacks of units and c) is 
 given huge morale bonuses. Even lowly units will hang in to the bitter end for the AI at this level, 
 and elite units become Super Men. The margin for error is slim under those conditions, and E: TW 
 unfortunately has errors in great abundance.
  
  OVERALL IMPROVEMENTS:
  There are many great things to say about removing diplomats from the game (just use a diplo screen 
 any time you want with any nation in the game) , removing the need for generals to govern your cities 
 (though this was an option one could turn off in previous titles, if you wanted) , allowing units 
 in the field to recruit and reinforce. In return for this reduced micro-management, CA put in place 
 a truly interesting and rather deep technology and building tree. Throw in the fact that not all 
 your important buildings safe behind city walls but actually exist, exposed, on the main map, and 
 you have a real recipe for strategic goodness. 
  
  You WANT to get at all those juicy techs, but you also NEED to protect your buildings to do so, 
 which requires military spending, which limits your investments in upgrading those buildings, but 
 which really do need to be upgraded in order to generate the money and research points in the first 
 place. There's a wonderful Guns or Butter mini-game to balancing this, one that comes close to 
 modeling some of the best aspects of the Civilization series. A decent AI could easily make this 
 dynamic almost pathologically enjoyable. However, let's talk AI.
  
  AI:
  If you're like I am, a challenging AI is the core of a good strategy game experience. As I mentioned, 
 you can craft a rather artificial challenge by playing on Very Hard / Very Hard. The problem that 
 I experienced with that, at least as the British, is that it seems nearly impossible to take those 
 last few territories for campaign victory because by the point in the game those remaining groups, 
 be they in India or from North American Indian tribes, have had too good of a chance to amass huge 
 stacks with quasi-invisible (in those numbers) morale bonuses. You can win individual battles, 
 but even a killer economy quickly fails to cover the costs of such repeated battles of attrition 
 within the timeframe given. So while this journey can be quite compelling, the destination feels 
 supremely disappointing. The Prestige Victory option, which doubles the turns allowed while including 
 Prestige (relative tech level, relative military accomplishments, etc.) as an element of victory, 
 looks doable, but I haven't tried it yet.
  
  I've now kicked the difficulty down to Hard / Hard, and the experience so far seems disappointing 
 in the other direction: Already I'm steamrolling India, have dealt a knock out blow to the Huron 
 in Canada, and will apparently coast toward victory. I hope that I'm wrong, of course, but this 
 indicates to me that anybody playing on Hard or below will rather quickly find himself bored by 
 a series of mop up battles. And kicking things up to Very Hard doesn't really make for a good experience, 
 either. Now what? 
  
  Wait for a patch.
  
  On the broader AI front, diplomacy is effectively still borne. Nations simply aren't working toward 
 a common goal or against a common enemy. The AI also has yet to launch an invasion against me even 
 when I have repeatedly left the British Isles protected by all of 3-4 militia! No navy. No generals. 
 Nothing. Yet the AI cannot capitalize. Only the Swedes have even declared war on me ... but they 
 never showed up for a fight. 
  
  On the tactical AI front, the horror stories you've read in other reviews are basically true: Units 
 will sometimes refuse to fight even as they are being attacked. Grouped units won't always respond 
 predictably to a common command; one unit will interpret "Go Here" to mean "Go Wherever You Feel 
 Like," for example. Units will wait to fire until ALL their members are in exact formation. This 
 means that if you have 120 members in a unit, if one of them is stuck on a tree, or a fence, or 
 behind another unit, etc., the entire unit is open to catatonic slaughter as it sits there comatose. 
 Stuff like this also means simple matters like moving your pikemen to protect your cannon against 
 a cavalry attack can end in campaign-breaking ruin as Pikeman #134 got stuck on a pine cone, so 
 the rest of his buddies refused to fight without him. At least they're loyal to each other! 
  
  NAVAL BATTLES:
  My hat is off the CA for finally tackling naval combat! This has been a glaring 
 omission in all previous titles, and I'm thrilled at this addition. The visuals are outstanding, 
 and the potential for greatness is here plain as day.
  
  However, ships, particularly when grouped, don't follow orders properly. Boarding seems broken, 
 as the units won't actually board but will sit there and be blown to bits by cannon fire. The AI 
 doesn't seem to use formations or vary its type of shot. Reinforcements, even when game time is 
 sped to maximum, can take whole minutes just to show up for battle! Still, there are moments of 
 brilliance here, and the potential is huge. As it is, though, it's a bit of a (ship) wreck. 
  
  USER INTERFACE:
  Overall, this works well, but some basic game mechanics weren't addressed 
 very well. For example, I have spent countless time just cycling through buildings looking for 
 what can be upgraded / what I can afford to upgrade. Whoever decided that the little spinning hammer 
 icon above upgradable buildings would be enough to solve this tedium clearly never zoomed out the 
 map to a useful degree. What I need is a better building browser that lets me call up the type 
 and status of the building I want: "Show me all agricultural buildings waiting for an upgrade." 
 From that one screen, let me upgrade all that I can afford or care to upgrade. 
  
  Oh, and when I have a school sitting there researching NOTHING, please tell me. =) 
  
  Again, 
 in the 60 hours I mentioned at the start, no small amount of time (5-10%?) has been spent on this 
 kind of interface mop up stuff. Combine that with the 5-10% wasted on rebooting, replaying battles 
 you should never have lost, etc., and you have some SERIOUS time lost to silliness and tedium. 
 
  
  STEAM:
  Can I just echo other players' distrust and distaste for forcing players to launch the game through 
 Steam? Does CA realize who its audience is? While I haven't had any problems technically, on principle 
 this really bothers me. Who and why is Steam to be my online gatekeeper for giving me access to 
 my single player game I paid U$ 52 for? CA made a deal with the devil on this one. The only positive 
 I can say about this is that I like not having a CD check, though you replaced one huge annoyance 
 with another. If I ever can't launch my game because of Steam, I will refuse to buy another TW 
 game with the Steam requirement. That's not a threat, just the truth.
  
  CONCLUSION:
  I was much, much more upset with the game when I went through the Tutorial and Road to Independence 
 learning campaign. At that point, I rated the game an F (55/100) . I have cooled down considerably 
 since then as the Grand Campaign was much, much better, but I am reproducing my notes below about 
 the Tutorial/RtI Campaign. It's pretty revealing about the apparent rush CA was in to sell this 
 game in time for the stock holders' luncheon this quarter.
  
  In conclusion, there are two very clear things that we can say about E: TW - 
  
  1] Its potential 
 for greatness is clear and compelling. 
  
  2] Only some superb patching will allow the game to achieve greatness. 
  
  Therefore, Buyer 
 Beware. If you buy the game ready to be patient with problems, and if you buy the game ready to 
 trust CA's patching effort, then you'll have much to explore and enjoy. My prediction, given CA's 
 track record, is that we will eventually see one of the best games ever made, though we're many 
 a patch and an expansion pack or two away. 
  
  [Only read on if you care about my experience with the Tutorial and Learning Campaign Review]
 
  
  SUMMARY: 55/100 Yes, this means an "F," for all the reasons you'll read below. Overall, the tutorial 
 / learning campaign are a completely bug-ridden, often illogical mess that makes you wonder (in 
 your kindest moment) "Why the heck did they even bother?"
  
  CAVEAT: Who cares about tutorials and learning campaigns? If you don't, then this particular review 
 section might hold little meaning for you. If nothing else, however, the horrible showing in these 
 areas could portent similar problems in the Grand Campaign.
  
  TUTORIAL:
  I was simply unable to advance from the very first session. My guess is that there was some problem 
 with the computer accepting keyboard commands. Perhaps more attempts would have fixed this, but 
 even then the tutorial was third rate. Read on.
  
  The very first mission tells you to rout the enemy units. Fine. But some of the units have taken 
 cover in a building. No mention of this or how to get them out. I would have stormed the building 
 with troops or moved my cannon closer to blow it up, but none of these commands was accepted, as 
 apparently a pretty severe bug kept me from doing what I needed to.
  
  Perhaps there was some more advice going on, but the audio kept cutting out. Advice also shows 
 in text (though sometimes just briefly before you can read it!) , but I'm fairly certain this whole 
 affair was just an afterthought for the devs / publisher. Also, pop-up text sometimes makes no 
 logical sense: "We're heartened by friendly units nearby..." ... when the unit is by itself. 
 
  
  Good one.
  
  GRADE: F
  
  LEARNING CAMPAIGN, "Road to Independence":
  In this campaign, you take the fledgling British colonies through to a brand new American nation. 
 In theory, this should be fun. In practice, it was an utter mess.
  
  After slogging through all the garbage I talk about next, the game Crashes to Desktop literally 
 the turn of final victory. I guess the victory movie is supposed to trigger, but I get CtD. Fine 
 reward for my patience.
  
  "Your path has been blocked by another character. Under the circumstances, it would be better to 
 find a different route to your destination." Except, of course, I am planning to attack that unit 
 with my vastly superior force ... in order to achieve the goals of the mission you gave me. Genius!
 
  
  Audio advice still cutting out or non directive. In one mission, you are asked to form an alliance 
 with the Indians, but the diplomacy interface isn't introduced to you until another mission. Good 
 thinking!
  
  Routed enemy units can sometimes get stuck on the edge of the battlefield, forcing you to hunt 
 them down. This is a great use of time.
  
  "Close Victory" battle results when you've completely decimated the enemy or made them flee from 
 the field en masse.
  
  Naval battle results screen will sometimes show "0" enemy lost when, in fact, you return to the 
 main map to see that unit sink. Immersive!
  
  Entire armies are sometimes autoplaced on terrain that keeps them from moving in anything but slow 
 motion when the battle starts.
  
  Troops sometimes rout, uhm, on the first SECOND of battle. Talk about fear!
  
  Troops can be 
 trapped on ramparts with no means of coming down or of being killed to end the battle. So if you 
 set the battle time limit on 60 minutes, be sure to enjoy them all ... waiting around. Worse, the 
 enemy could get credit for winning this battle (if it's on the defensive) as long as those units 
 on the wall don't rout at the fear of their total invulnerability.
  Water tile graphic will sometimes pop in (and stay) on the battle map. Quality.
  
  Units garrisoned 
 in buildings will happily wait in the building while cannons are destroying the structure. Result? 
 All units die (too bad they didn't have any way of knowing when to run out, say, when the cannons 
 first started hitting them) .
  
  The enemy will also sometimes continue to waste (limited) ammo on buildings ... that you've already 
 left. I'd like to think that this is some sort of advanced AI denying you *future* use of that 
 building, but call me skeptical.
  
  AI leave arty unprotected ALL the time. Your single unit of cav can effectively, therefore, change 
 the course of an otherwise lopsided battle just by circling behind the enemy and killing all his 
 arty. Even worse, the AI will sometimes then pull ALL its units to try to chase down, on foot, 
 your marauding cav half a battle field away... all the while turning their back on the line of fire 
 from your dug in troops. Rinse, repeat.
  
  Oh, and enemy cav will sometimes sit and watch the carnage of its arty just a few yards away. Maybe 
 the cav and arty hated each other?
  
  Sometimes movies will play, sometimes not. For example, before each dual, you seemingly should 
 get a movie. It's random whether or not you'll actually get one.
  
  The "expert" part of the manual will give amazing advice like: "You can only build ports and dockyards 
 on the coast." WOW! Holy cow, that's helpful for an expert to know.
  
  Even the time stamp on saves is wrong. And the quotes you get on load screens operate under an 
 auto-font-sizing proposition, so if the quote is long enough, you literally can't read it. Beautiful 
 to behold this stuff in a $52 game.
  
  The only positive I have to say at this point is that naval combat is a visual treat and has the 
 potential to fill in a huge gap in this series. It's a bit simplistic, but that works in its favor 
 it seems. Wind, type of cannon shot, etc., are plenty enough to make it interesting. I've had no 
 real chance to evaluate the AI, though.
  
  I'll also throw in that a deep tech tree, certain improvements being placed on the main map and 
 not all behind your city fortress, show real potential.
  
  GRADE: F
  I'm now on to the Grand Campaign, which apparently is the source of all these "A" grades and 5/5's 
 out there in review land. Hard to imagine the many problems I outlined above aren't going to show 
 up in the Grand Campaign, but I suppose stranger things have happened.
  
  So far, though, I'd have to drudge out that very (overly) tired phrase when I say: "They charged 
 us to be beta testers." I have no doubt that some amazing patches will come and that this game 
 will set a new bar for the genre, but for reviewers to rate its current state as highly as they 
 have is truly baffling to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGisTHEbest
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 11:08 pm PT
Review:  First off i have not experianced any performance issues other than one crash because i hade unit 
 scale on hudge and i had 8 armies in one fight, on a seige. my computer is not a gaming computer 
 my settings are set on custom mostly mediums and some high graphic selections) . 
  
  Second, The combat is still very strategic but there just dosent seem to be much intensity, almost 
 infantry other than pikemen are using guns and it is just bang bang back and forth until you have 
 lost a unit and when you try to flank about 60% of your men are shot down, and your calvery are 
 usaly turned into bait when charging unless you are willing to wallk all the way around the map, 
 many battles now relay on artilery support and one swift charge of calvary than rather sending 
 in heavy swordsman with peasents behinde them for support and then firing arrows at the surounding 
 enemies and using calvary to charge into the generals Unit.
  
  Third, the campagin I thought was the best total war campaign of them all, it fixed alot of annoying 
 and the usual "give me a brake" enemy movements. also your allies are much more helpfull and all 
 it takes is one click of the mouse to get them to aid you in a war with another empire
  
  Graphics- 9 (depends on your computer)
  Gameplay- 8 (lost alot of intesity)
  Challenge- 8
 
  Replay Value- 10
  Multiplayer- 9.6 (great multiplayer battles) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: galactafunk
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 18, 2009 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Way too many glitches and bugs, almost unplayable. And the AI is pathetic. Tiny little countries 
 with no hope of winning will declare war, large powerful countries will be passive. I can't even 
 list all the flaws in the battle scenes. Right now I can't even play the game I'm stuck in 1764 
 and the game crashes every time I play.
  And let's not kid ourselves Steam is malware pure and simple. Have you seen the list of programs 
 that conflict with it?
  
  In short you will spend have your time trying to get the thing running and then play a game that 
 is horribly easy with weak AI and constant bugs (trade routes, battle scenes land & sea, navy in 
 the new world and many others) .
  
  Somewhere in there was a good idea for a game. Either Creative Assembly bit off more than they 
 could chew, or they're just plain incompetent. Whatever... I hear Europa Universalis is good... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ettar079
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 6:03 pm PT
Review:  A note on bugs
  
  I am sort of disapointed in the fans a few of the reviews are disgrace full. the game does not 
 freeze every time you do something. some bugs you learn to deal with until the patches come out. 
 or if your so frustrated do somtething else till the patches are released. 
  
  Reveiw
  
  i personnaly have not tried out multiplayer, i am mainly a campaign person but from what ive 
 heard its great. i love the revolutionary aspect now if say... spain is taken over by say... portugal 
 and your france you can invade and make a revolution happen then spain is free :) and the management 
 stuff is so easy i barely do anything on that. one thing that i hate is i find myself massivley 
 more techniologicaly andvance then my enimes. the sea battles are very engageing but i prefer 1 
 ship v 1 ship instead of massive fleet battles. land battles are way more fun then i remember in 
 any previous total war game. i love just going down and watching the little deuls then i remember 
 im fighting a battle and look over and seeyour general has been killed" : ( but there just amazing.
 
  
  Conclusion
  
  some things need to be improved but over all this is a another great game by the creative assembly. 
 i cant wait for anapoleon expansion: D
  
  
  
  By: ETTAR 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kushet
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2009 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Total War series for a long time, with Rome being my favorite. E: TW has 
 a lot of potential to be a great classic, up there with the Civilization series, if the it wasn't 
 so chalk full of game ending bugs. It took rolling my drivers all the way back to the 178. xx series 
 before I was able to efficiently run the game and by that I mean it only crashes every couple of 
 hours during a random naval battle.
  
  The game play itself is exquisite and engaging. As in previous series, a comprehensive guide is 
 given for just about any action to help players learn the ropes.
  
  The way naval battles play out is very similar to Sid Meier's Pirates! and is a nicely integrated 
 feature. Land battles are just as engaging and involve a significant amount of thought and planning 
 to prove tactically successful. 
  
  On the campaign map, the scale is huge encompassing almost the entire globe and giving the game 
 a very grand feel. The layout is basically the same as Rome. A 'tech-tree' was also added to give 
 the player options as to what field they would choose to excel in.
  
  Overall I love the game and I can only hope the designers will find a way to remedy all these problems 
 in the near future. It's a wonderful addition to the series and another glorious blending of turn 
 based and real time strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kro_429
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 3:51 pm PT
Review:  The Total War series has always been known as one of the best RTS series to date. While it has 
 always been best known for its massive battles, the turn based high level strategy is also commonly 
 admired. Empire: Total War builds onto all that the game has previously done, as well as giving 
 even more in many areas.
  
  Graphically, the game is superb. I run the game on high settings (one below highest) and the game 
 looks fantastic in almost all situations. While I do get lag in some closeup situations, I expect 
 and endure it without complaint as my computer is not that high end. The sound is wonderful. In 
 many other RTS games I have played (such as Age of Empires 3) , the cavalry hardly make any noise 
 and you lose much of your immersion. However, when you have 300 cavalry galloping at full speed 
 towards the flank of an enemy in ETW, the ground thunders with their movement. When muskets sound 
 off as each lines fires from some infantry, and subtle yet mood setting battle music plays in the 
 background, it defines a magnificent level of immersion within the game.
  
  The gameplay does have its flaws. In the battle sequences, more than once I have been able to cause 
 the AI to do very stupid things in situations where they have major tactical inferiority. In other 
 situations the enemy will leave an infantry battalion in a bad position where they are useless. 
 However, these occurrences are rare, and hardly noticeable or memorable after having successfully 
 beaten a force three times your size with minimal casualties. Perhaps the only issue that has any 
 lasting effect is the path finding. The battalions move where you tell them, in the formation you 
 tell them to move in. Unfortunately, because of this, they will oftentimes spend a long time climbing 
 over a wall you wanted them to avoid or cavalry will charge into anti-cavalry spikes you wanted 
 them to avoid.
  
  The overall all map strategy is wonderful to play. While the enemies' turns can take a long time, 
 it's not really that bad, as you will probably be spending about 10 minutes on every turn (at least.) 
 The level of depth is perfect, creating a balance between complexity and streamlined simplicity. 
 The only frustrating thing about the turn based portion is the time limits which exist in every 
 single campaign you play. It creates an unneeded stress level to the game and stretches the fun 
 as you are constantly trying to achieve goals within a certain time, instead of being able to relax 
 and conquer the nations you need without worrying that you only have a few turns left. Another 
 thing missing is the obvious lack of world domination. If there was one thing I wish that CA would 
 have added, it would be the ability to play a no limit world domination mode where your sole goal 
 is to conquer the entire world with unlimited time in which to do it.
  
  Empire: Total War is an excellent achievement in real time strategy, and, as long as your computer 
 can handle it and you have some patience, the massive replayability will not only make it worth 
 the money, but keep you engrossed for many hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robert430
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I am a PC strategy fan from the days of Dune II, having played numerous games as well as most games 
 in the Total War series. 
  
  As with all other Total War games, this product is a combination of CIV-style turn-based strategy 
 and real-time tactical combat. 
  
  The biggest addition to the series in Empire is naval combat.
  
  While other reviwers as well 
 as gamespot already covered the details of the gameplay, I wanted to concentrate on the value of 
 this game against others.
  
  Simply put, my exprience has been a joyless one. This game reaches for the stars, but it's poor 
 execution (numerous bugs, poor AI, almost non-existent documentation) but altimately fals short.
 
  
  If you are looking to buy this game, I would suggest waiting for a few month, in hopes that CA 
 (developer) will patch the current mess and makes this game more of a product it should've been.
 
  
  I would also suggest a pretty powerful PC, otherwise you would not experience this game the way 
 CA meant it to. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wael3000
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2009 12:46 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game specially if you compared it with previews parts example (medieval total war) 
 the game is design to people that like battle fields and strategies the best thing i think in the 
 game is Grand Campaign and also the new 3d battle .
  
  Grand Campaign you can choose any country and invade make peace or send gifts to other you can 
 make trade with countries
  you can declare war in sea or land
  
  for land units example Elite Light Infantry, Clansmen,24-pounder Howitzer Foot Artillery, Grenadiers
 
  
  navy units example First Rate largest type of ships
  Razee
  Fifth Rate
  Sloop
  
  This is a great game specially if you compared it with previews parts example (medieval total war) 
 the game is design to people that like battle fields and strategies the best thing i think in the 
 game is Grand Campaign and also the new 3d battle .
  
  Grand Campaign you can choose any country and invade make peace or send gifts to other you can 
 make trade with countries
  you can declare war in sea or land 
::::::

::::::
UserName: browe007
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2009 11:37 am PT
Review:  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  I'm a big fan of the series and what I've played of this one is definitely promising. Unfortunately 
 I rarely play for more than about 20 minutes before it crashes. It's enough to make the game virtually 
 unplayable to those who aren't a die hard fan. It's so much fun when it works, though, that I find 
 myself trying to put up with the crashes. If you're like me and you love the franchise and really 
 want to play this one then I've got one major tip. Control+S. That's the key combo for quick save. 
 You'll need it if you want to make any progress. Thankfully the saves are extremely quick and don't 
 interrupt play at all. Hopefully the bugs get fixed soon. Until then, this game will sit atop my 
 most run programs list. I run it about once every 20 minutes.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aquaintus
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2009 1:42 am PT
Review:  This a great game to play. It isn't as good at RTW or M2TW but its still fun. The Ship battles 
 are very awesome, I love them. The graphics are great. The game has a few features I do like over 
 previous TW games but some I don't like. I'll just cut to the chase and tell you the stuff I don't 
 like. I'm sure the stuff that is liked is well known by now.
  
  The AI, its been complained about repeatedly You have AI's that try and trade you pathetic territories 
 for really good ones, every year of the game. I've had Spain ask me to trade Paris for 4-6 terriries. 
 Combined they are all over the place and I couldn't protect them fast enough even if I did trade 
 for them, so I would only end up with a few I did trade since a nearby AI will see no troops in 
 a city and attack it immediately if its a territory he wanted. Now if Spain wanted Paris so bad, 
 and after 30 years of being denied a trade, they would want to go to war to attack and take it. 
 Since there isn't that big of a garrison in it in the first place. The reason I wouldn't trade 
 Paris is because it is too rich. Certain areas like London and Paris are just way to rich in this 
 game. They are like super powers capable of 5-6 ports and 10 towns each. Most other territories 
 are lucky if they have more than 1 port and 2 towns.
  
  That is what I don't like in the game. Alot of areas in the game have set number of Towns, Ports 
 and Buildings the city can build. AIs like Knights of St. John in Malta that have a tiny island, 
 no towns and only 1 port are pathetic in power. They are pushovers really. The port won't even 
 be for trade it'll be a military port to build ships. So they earn only what they gain in taxes 
 and they are too poor to do anything else.
  
  Also, the AIs cheats big time. You can have 10 colleges and be a reasearch master while other nations 
 never have more than 1 college. Only they will have 80% of the techs you have in most cases. But, 
 I don't really mind they need the help because they are just pathetic.
  
  The AI wont allow you to trade techs at all after awhile unless you sell your soul, they wont want 
 peace even after 20 years of war and 50,000+ in tributes, and you won't be able to buy any territories 
 for theirs. Its just plain stupid to have diplomacy in this game. Nothing of it seems to work past 
 20 turns unless it is a trade agreement. Imagine Civ 4 Diplomacy only allowed you to trade maps. 
 Big wooptie doo.
  
  Now lets get down to the AI initiative. They never mount a massive naval assault and they never 
 mass an assault on your Nation's Capital ever. Your safe from the moment you start the game till 
 the end. The only time the AI attacks is when they've been programmed too. It is easy to see that 
 French would want certain territories, and they'll trade the Thirteen Colonies for them. And the 
 other AI will be all too happy to accept worthless provinces in return for helping out another 
 AI like France to get their good cities. But once France has done that they go right on and start 
 attacking the Thirteen Colonies, and TTC passively let them take them over unless Great Britain 
 lands an Army and repells France. 
  
  Conclusion: Some AI's are programmed never to attack, never to expand, never to recover lost territory, 
 but to trade away all their good cities. Some are programmed to mass major armies and just continually 
 attack like some of the Native Americans do. Which is fun, but once you conquer Huron and Cheerokee 
 there is nothing left of an aggressive AI. I will say Sweden was aggressive trying to gain territories 
 around its capital and regain lost land. Thats cool but now they have the land they wanted, they 
 haven't done anything for 20 years. 
  
  I remember in M2TW playing as France it would be 20 turns in I realized I'm at war with 2-4 nations 
 all wanting territories I've captured from Rebels. And once they had that they would pick easy 
 picking targets and continue on. In ETW they capture a city they wanted, or they trade for it, 
 and then they sit on the bench and warm it up while you conquer the world with no units in 90% 
 of your cities lol.
  
  Now CTDs are happening all over the place, it is horrible. I'm sure that the AI and CTDs will be 
 fixed in due time with patches and updates from graphics drivers ect. But don't expect that for 
 3 months or so. Wait till then but then buy the game.
  
  Most of their previous games were tolerable with just the CTDs, you'd think they would fix the 
 engine by now or something. But they haven't, we'll have to wait the 3-6 months until that is fixed. 
 But the AI, come on it is worse than M2TW and RTW. You know if I was a professional reviewer and 
 I wanted respect and actual credibility, I would ask one question. "How can you get utterly noob 
 at programming an AI in all the years of making strategy games?
::::::

::::::
UserName: JasonFahQ
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 9:05 pm PT
Review:  I am a classic Total War junkie, I love the Total War games. Shogun was before my time in the group 
 but I played Medieval, Rome and exhausted Medieval 2. When I learned Empire was coming out I couldn't 
 wait. Wow am I disappointed. 
  
  Problem - I understand wanting everything in 3-d, but they ruined the landscape. I hate the angled 
 view of the map and I do not understand why games continuously move to that format. With the exception 
 of Warcraft 3 I have never found it to be an improvement. Adding to the fact that enemies can now 
 attack multiple different buildings throughout your province..... my opinion is that it just looks 
 messy now.
  
  Problem - They took away some of the details of management. I have seen some people compliment 
 this feature but I miss it. The also have switched to a format with terribly small text on anything 
 you try to read. 
  
  Problem - the instructions stink! I have mastered MTW2 ... played 100's of hours. Even with this 
 experience I am confused on all of the agents and characters and what they do. The book gives you 
 nothing, just tells you they make themselves.
  
  All in all I just think that Total War has always kept a particular style that has made it so popular 
 over the years and this time they changed it..... I hate change!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beanie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 6:09 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the TW series from Rome through Medieval II, and including expansions. I have 
 been impressed by the depth of each game in the series, and have always held Total War games at 
 the top of their genre (indeed, above all including Civ 4 -- until Sins came out) . My experience 
 with Sins of a Solar Empire, and in particular their interest in the opinion of community members 
 and commitment to quality over timelines and quantity of games produced over 'x' years, has perhaps 
 pre-disposed me to a high standard going into this most recent Total War Experience.
  
  Moreover, all the hype that this game received, and the early reviews coming out from reviewers 
 like IGN (which obviously had not spent enough time with the actual 'finished' product) certainly 
 set my sights high.
  
  Then I hit Steam, spent a good whole day downloading (not as bad as other horror stories) , and 
 got to playing. Thankfully I started in a brief lull in my semester, for it could have been otherwise 
 academically devastating. Like prior TW games, this is one of the most addictive games out there 
 -- though this 'one more turn' mentality that I have had to get used to playing it has certainly 
 not made it worthy of the reviews many have been giving it. 
  
  First, let us entertain what remains of the good (or even, the great) . The campaign map is massive. 
 Just, really, really, big. And not so much so that you just HATE getting from point 'A' to point 
 'B', but pleasantly, realistically, awe-inspiringly big. This makes the game feel like the most 
 massive and the most potentially all-encompassing game of the genre's history.
  
  Secondly, the game is complex. There are many fascets to good administration and leadership, and 
 they are managed in the most stream-lined and enjoyable interface of any of the series. The elimination 
 of tedious diplomats and merchants from the map makes for a far more enjoyable experience, where 
 one is far more likely to look to diplomacy and consider trade in the grand scheme of things.
 
  
  Graphics, sound, presentation -- all great. I won't go into tremendous detail on these because 
 they have been raved about substantially enough by the mainstream reviews.
  
  What most of the mainstream reviews leave out, and what Gamespot only scratched the surface of 
 (do all the ads that Sega bought from these review websites entitle it to dictate 'no scores lower 
 than A!) is that this game has been released in a Beta version. Unlike Ironclad's honourable approach 
 taken recently with their expansion (Entrenchment) for Sins, where they let customers pre-order 
 and pre-play the Beta, but openly let everyone know exactly where it was in terms of development, 
 encouraging feedback along the way, Sega/CA (who deserves more of the blame can be hard to tell) 
 have decided to simply drop a Beta on the public for the exorbitant price of 60 bucks, without 
 any warning that this product is unstable, unfinished, and at least a month away from being ready 
 for release.
  
  And so commences the bad news....
  
  The AI is broken. It is half-tested, half-completed, and wholly stupid, even on the more difficult 
 levels. The AI has never been the strong-suit of CA's games. Unfortunately, once you have reached 
 a point in each of the TW games, you know that then next 50+ hours are a cake-walk of simply strategic 
 management. The AI is not nearly aggressive enough, cannot manage to think creative around geographic 
 barriers (the English Channel has always crippled them) , and engages in diplomacy mechanistically 
 (at best) . Once you have fought of immediate threats in the campaign, you are basically condemned 
 to an experience of tedious, slow, and unchallenging 'progression' -- adding first this territory, 
 then the next, the next, the next. No other empire expands to meet you, no alliances are formed 
 to restore the balance of power, no requests to trade territory or technology for a needed peace 
 are made -- just a totally underdeveloped AI.
  
  Some functions in battle are simply broken -- things that should never have gotten past a typical 
 Beta test have been left for the public to work out (at least Sega/CA is cutting costs, in outsourcing 
 the testing of their products to an unwitting public!... though wait, I don't remember a reduction 
 in cost!) . Once you have upgraded to technologies like fire by rank, your infantry will no longer 
 know how to fire properly when behind a wall or fence. When garrisoned, troops will sometimes suddenly 
 become pacifists and refuse to fire at all. Be careful if your infantry or cavalry are engaged 
 in a melee encounter... they may not fight back at all unless you specifically tell them to defend 
 themselves!
  
  The seas are a pleasant addition, but not particularly rewarding. More than half the times I have 
 went to board an enemy vessel my troops will succeed in launching the grappling hooks, lining up 
 broadside against the opposing ship, dropping the ladders... and then sit... just sit, and watch, 
 and wait, to be slowly blown to pieces by the enemy's guns while not boarding at all! The AI in 
 naval battles is also rather bland. I have not yet seen (after at least 20+ battles) the AI use 
 anything but traditional round shot, regardless of circumstance. They never use interesting formations, 
 and the battle almost always invariably devolves into a skirmish of one-on-one battles.
  
  Beyond the totally underwhelming AI, both on the campaign and battle maps, the game is overloaded 
 with bugs. While you may commence your campaign for global dominance with high hopes, as it usually 
 does START off good, you will invariably encounter a number of glitches, crashes, and other absurdities 
 along the way. I have had ships disappear... literally, just vanish. But when you go to search 
 for them in the lists there they are, invisible off the coast of Spain! Moving agents out of structures 
 will sometimes move the army instead. Later in the game, a series of memory leak issues will cause 
 you to experience long waits for units to be simply selected, and some units' selection (naval 
 units are what most people have problems with) will even trigger uncontrollable crashes. In the 
 1769, my campaign was finished, as I could not continue on without crashing under the selection 
 of a good 75% of my naval assets, and incapable of docking any of them (somewhat debilitating, 
 as the British Empire) . Thankfully I managed to reach my campaign objectives before that year was 
 met, and had finished researching all the techs -- only had to hold out for another 31 years (62 
 turns) to actually 'win'... but was it worth all the frustration to do so, especially in light 
 of the fact of my TOTAL dominance of the world (already controlling all of North America, 80% of 
 the carribean, 90% of the Indian subcontinent, the UK, the Netherlands, and the Prussian territories.. 
 along with a few scattered European Islands, North Africa, Egypt and Gibralter. Yes, I managed 
 to easily accumulate this massive global empire, and without any difficulty. 
  
  What a let-down. After all the hype, the expectations, and the fact of the AI bar being set so 
 much higher for strategy games in recent years, this TW is definitely the least impressive in the 
 last 7 years. Maybe in a month, even two, after some serious patching (and after beta testing is 
 actually completed) , this game will be playable - even challenging. At present however, those who 
 buy should beware: you are paying for an unripe fruit, and all the bugs that are a part of it promise 
 to make for a frustrating experience indeed.
  
  Best of luck to the testers, I will be finishing my semester before entering back into the world 
 of Total War for what I hope will be the real deal. In any event, I am looking forward to Ironclad's 
 next expansion to Sins of a Solar Empire more than ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogermao
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 2, 2009 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Empire Total War was one of THE games I wanted for 2009. I was excited, the ship battles looked 
 amazing and epic, and though i wasn't too excited about the era it was in (just a personal preference, 
 i hate gun battles in strategy games) , I was still quite excited about it.
  When I got it, my computer could barely run it on low. My computer is decent, and is only maybe 
 1.5 years old. I was expecting it to atleast run smoothly on low (as m2tw was no problem) . Though 
 this made the game incredibly laggy, I kept trying it out.
  
  GOOD:
  1) Apparently good graphics (if you've got a good machine)
  2) Same total war epic battles
  3) Sea 
 battles were good
  4) Many factions
  BAD:
  1) Need a really good machine
  2I) hate gun battles
  3) Sea battles were a bit hard to control (maybe just needs practice)
 
  4) The campaign map was supposed to be more streamlined, I found it incredibly hard to use. Tedious, 
 confusing, and spent ALOT of time on each turn
  5) bugs, glitches, it crashed a few times
  6) steam.... wtf were they thinking, this is just plain retarded
  7) hard drive hog
  8) land battles 
 weren't as fun for me, probably has to do with #2
  
  Overall, empire total war is the worst total war game ive ever played, maybe in a couple of years 
 i'll try it out on a computer that can actually run it smoothly on medium or high. 
  Though then again, maybe not, as i've never enjoyed a strategy game with the units focused on gunpowder 
 weapons more than one involving mostly swords and arrows. 
  The campaign map was not a revolution, it just made a good layout more complicated and tedious. 
 I did not enjoy managing my empire as I have in all the other total war games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kozzy1234
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2009 12:26 pm PT
Review:  FIrst off i am not the biggest RTS/Strategy fan. I have enjoyed a select bunch over the years, 
 but RPGS and FPS have always been my favorites over the years.
  
  Yes Dune2 blew me away and had me up till 4am numerous times when i was a young lad, Warcraft1 
 and 2 where a blast aswell, then of course Starcraft, Age Of Empires and Company Of Heroes i enjoyed. 
 
  
  I have played the Total War series in the past and enjoyed them, but was never BLOWN away by them 
 so to speak. There just seemed to be something missing in the earlyier games to push it into AAA 
 or AAAA status. Im not sure what small things where missing from the earlyier games in the series, 
 its hard to pin point it exactly. But what ever the series was missing before, now has it and CA 
 has finally made the total war series a total package.
  
  First off, if you tried the demo for Empire and where a little underwhelmed like myself, dont worry, 
 as the loading times, etc are fixed in the final version. The demo was a old version and the waiting 
 times are fixed now for me at least in the final version.
  
  Also if you dont have a fairly good PC then you might ahve some troubles with runnign this game.
 
  
  I have played over 35 hours of the game and not 1 single freeze or crash. Im not sure if people 
 are trying to play this game on 5 year old labtops that barely meet the requirements or what, but 
 this game runs great on my pc and my 3 friends pcs. Clean your computer, check for new or older 
 drivers, defrag, upgrade, do one of those things if not all and see if it fixes anything. Like 
 i said above, im over 35+ hours into the game and not one save curruption, crash or freeze (things 
 ive been reading about online from people having issues with the game) . So overall it runs great 
 for me and my mates.
  
  The gameplay in empire is top notch, with epic battles going on in the WAR/BATTLE part of the game, 
 and the strategic "risk/civilization" part of the game where you decide who to trade with, what 
 ot build, who to recruit and where to send spys to destroys enemy citys. The game might be a bit 
 overwhelming for some people at first, but try teh Tutorials first and then do the "Road To Independance" 
 game, followed by GRAND CAMPAIGN later on. There is also teh addition of the new OCEAN/SHIP battles 
 for this game in the Total War series.
  
  The only negative things i have to say about the game are very small issues at least to me. Once 
 in awhile there are some problems with the AI and how they handle situations, that is more annoying 
 then a game changing issue though. Also sometimes pathfinding can be a bit annoying (once again 
 a very small issue that doesnt happen all the time) . And lastly, the SEA BATTLES, while a nice 
 addition, are a little on the basic side, i would like there to be more options on the ships personall. 
 But once again that is just a very small issue and not a big problem. 
  
  Overall this is the best singleplayer game ive played in ages, its got epic gameplay, strategic 
 planning, great graphics and is just a ton of fun to play.
  
  This game is a beast though, so i advice people to make sure you have a good enough computer to 
 run it (not just meet hte minum requirements) . This game is on Crysis's level as far as graphics 
 and how tasking it is on some systems, so make sure your computer is way above the minimum requirements 
 and that your not trying to play this game on a 5 year old labtop. I dont advice people with labtops 
 that have on board videocards to try playing this.
  
  Awesome game that i am addicted to like no other. Get ready for late nights of epic battles trying 
 to take over the world! I cant wait for an expansion pack and the user mods! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RodinaRossija38
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 9:31 am PT
Review:  Easier than any total war game before. I conquered all of Asia and Western Europe with Russia in 
 couple of hours! When you do auto-resolve for battle you can have 10 losses and 1000 enemy kills 
 because is so easy. I also don't like that my game get white screen when trying to attack Bavaria 
 or Saxony or Prussia and I always get "no response from host" in multiplayer for no reason. I also 
 find it stupid how you must reasearch triple line fire and bayonet tactics when this was invented 
 since beginning of gun warfare! I also do not like it takes 2 minutes for unit to bring their weapons 
 to their shoulders and fire and how sometimes they will never fire. I also hate you cannot have 
 option to have each line fire when you want by clicking on button like in Cossacks 2. I also sometimes 
 see cannonball fly into unit by nobody dies. Also, how come maybe 10 men die when 120 men fire 
 from 5 meters into oponenet? 
  
  But game is very fun and different. This is my favorite age so I like it. Naval battles are perfect 
 but not very fun for me. Campaign is easy however but alliances and diplomacy intelligence if much 
 better! I just wait for patches and mods to make this game perfect!
  
  Sorry my english,
  
  
  Ivan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dantheman102100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 12:05 pm PT
Review:  The latest entery in the Total War series is far and away my favorite thus far. If you have even 
 the most fleeting interest in history, you owe it to yourself to pick this beast up.
  
  In this historical strategy game, you take up the mantle of one of the leading powers durring the 
 1700s, turning them into truely global powers. For those who are old TW veterans, you should know 
 this game packs the punch of all previous titles plus many inovative additions; to the new comers, 
 come feast on one of the most in-depth strategy games you will ever find.
  
  Only complaints I have against it are the technical problems. Bugs mostly, but also the substantial 
 system requirements. This is not a game for those with weak computer systems.
  
  Over all, I'm giving this game 9.5. One of the best games to come out in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimalau
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 5:29 am PT
Review:  The game feels as if it has been worked on. When you charge your ghoorka's into the enemy's flank, 
 you know you got your money's worth.
  
  Myself, I bought the special edition, it is really fun to play multiplayer battles with. Battles 
 tend to take approximately half an hour online. The best ones I've had I didn't save because, for 
 some reason the game crashed out of play before there was an option to save the battle replay.
 
  
  So far I've played about 16 online multiplayer games, and the game is still sweet. I don't want 
 to spoil anything. But sometimes it's just fun to watch the animations. They trip over, try to 
 choke opponents from behind and are quite brutal.
  
  A lot of fun to play, some minor crash glitch. Hopefully solved with the next patch. Installation 
 is easy with steam. Just make sure that when you buy the one with the special forces units, you 
 unlock them. Or they won't be available.
  
  The campaign as a final note, I haven't had a chance to play yet. I'm on The Road to Independence, 
 because I'm more of the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: y_roland
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2009 3:54 am PT
Review:  I have been playing the total war series since the Rome: Total War, and have been greatly pleased 
 with the evolutions brought by following titles/ expansions, and I must say that this latest leaves 
 me a bit more perplexed. Some new additions are amazingly interesting, such as the fact your buildings 
 do not center in a specific city , or the technological researches, others... are maybe more problematic.
 
  
  The changes I have most issues with are inevitable in a way, it's the fact that ranged units have 
 taken over, and melee combats scarcely happen. This brings are certain fell of lack of intensity 
 as you will in certain battles just watch lines of units trading shots, which if it gives an increased 
 importance to unit placement, does take some of the satisfaction off.
  Another much more annoying issue is that the time the AI takes to make it's moves is ridiculously 
 long sometimes (party due to the fact there's loads of minor factions) , sometimes taking up to 
 2 minutes (my rig isn't all that new, but i'd expect it to be faster on a 8 months old comp) .
 
  Other changes again make some frustration, such as the fact that native indians in the American 
 theater have longer range with bows ans muskets than your own units and can hide in any terrain, 
 which makes them extremely frustrating foes, specially considering the fact that from the start 
 of the game they have big armies.
  And finally the pathfinding is often ridiculously bad, specifically when attacking a fort (I just 
 saw a group on Line Infantry Regiments stack on the foot of the wall without climbing the ropes 
 they had just thrown up, or go down the same rope as soon as they were up.)
  
  The good points now, thankfully there's more of those. First, the additions of naval battles, which 
 has been a request by the fans for years now, allow you to finally have a chance to hold your own 
 on the seas without having to rely on auto resolve, which was strangely biased sometimes in previous 
 titles.
  Next is the graphics which have been upped quite a bit, you'll see a difference IF your computer 
 can handle it, which is by no means certain, as a comp which could play M2TW at full settings will 
 only be able to have this one at average.
  There's also the additions of constructible villages and ports outside of town, which an enemy 
 can attack. They can be upgraded in different way and will give different advantages, for instance 
 Metalworkers will give you money, while coaching inns will make the people of the region where 
 it is built happy and schools will allow you to research new technologies. This forces you to keep 
 a certain balance, as constructing the same building everywhere will have you lacking elsewhere.
 
  Which brings me to the technologies: in ETW, you can research technologies divided into 3 tech 
 trees (Military , Economic, and Philosophy) , these are essential for instance economic technologies 
 will allow you to upgrade metal works, mines, farms, while military will gives you access to cannons, 
 better units, unit formations (square, diamond, wedge) or tactics that for instance allow your 
 infantry units to fire one rank after the other, instead of only having the front rank firing while 
 the others watch.
  The trade feature has also been given an interesting boost, as now you know which factions you 
 trade with, which goods you're trading and how it is transported. Sea trade can also be cut off 
 by placing a fleet on a trade lane, effectively cutting off all ennemy trade.
  The map has also been considerably expanded , with the american and indian theaters, which add 
 an interesting variety, and the newt trade theaters, like the Coast of Brazil , or Southeast Asia 
 which allow you, by placing a merchant ship on a specific location, to obtain considerable resources, 
 though the danger of pirate ships is always lurking.
  The AI has been redone, both in good and bad, you'll noticed in battles that the opponent is smarter 
 (you'll see them placing skirmishers in trees to ambush your forces , or using their cavalry to 
 flank your line of infrantry.) But on the campaign map it's more complex, you'll see factions engaging 
 in suicidal wars, or just staying back and watching you destroy their allies without reacting even 
 if they declared war on you.
  Much of the tedious city management has been cut down, with a generalized tax rate, and a reduced 
 number of buildings inside the cities themselves to build, a symbol will appear over the city to 
 show when buildings can be built, which gives a clear and simple way of checking on your cities.
 
  
  As a last word, I'll add that i've heard many claims of bugs, crashed and so on (I've had a few 
 on the demo until I lowered the settings, and haven't had a single crash since then) , and most 
 importantly I've also heard people whining about the DRM, there is NONE , steam is NOT a DRM, it's 
 simply a software that handles a set of programs (I use it for Painkiller, Half-Life 2, Left 4 
 Dead, Red Orchestra) and I've never had any problems with it and it's useful for it's autopatching 
 feature, if nothing else (also allows you to play the game without CD or install it withouth CD) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wait321
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 15, 2009 5:57 pm PT
Review:  The game is good but not as great as I thought it would be. Ignoring the bugs, it seems like most 
 of the development went into making the game look good instead of making the gameplay more enjoyable. 
 The landscape and battles look great but, once the novelty wears off, I realized that the game 
 has a ton of poor design decisions.
  
  The main problem is that there's too much waiting involved. Watching my armies walk across the 
 map or my units slowly shoot at enemies gets old fast and breaks my concentration. There's absolutely 
 no reason to force me to watch boring animations. The only bright side was that I could do other 
 things while my armies marched, but that broke my concentration and I often forgot what my plans 
 for an army was. Even the simplest battles took so long that I ended up using the auto-resolve 
 every time.
  
  Another major issue is that the UI makes management a pain. There's no central control to manage 
 the build for your entire empire, so you have to click through every city and province. I must 
 have clicked at least 3000 times for the first game that I played. I knew what to construct, but 
 the process was so tedious that I just ended up letting the AI decide and clean up after it when 
 its decisions were bad. The developers could have at least put in some shortcut keys to make the 
 process easier.
  
  Lastly, there's also not enough variety between the different nations and almost no replay value. 
 The few unique units don't matter enough to change any strategies. I won with England, Russia, 
 and India using the exact same strategy. The only difference was the unit graphics and icons.
 
  
  This game combines real-time battles with turn-based strategy, but doesn't do either better than 
 other games that focus on one or the other. It's worth playing for awhile, but there are way better 
 games with much better UI and replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jemfest
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2009 2:28 pm PT
Review:  This is really a great game. Graphics aren't too overdone which is perfect when dealing with so 
 many troops. I especially love the way you can arrange your troops and the vast differences between 
 horse-mounted and foot soldiers. They complement each other very well. It took me about 4 hours 
 of play to get the hang of it and there's lots going on outside of battles but it's easy to manage 
 after some dedication. This is a very addictive game. 
  
  However, there are too many crashes. It seems most of the CTD's happen after I have routed the 
 enemy and am about 1 minute from completing the battle. 
  
  I always put the game to the test by ALT-TABbing when I need a break. Sometimes while the game 
 is idling it will occasionally CTD. After about 30 hours of playing I have seen about 8 of them. 
 Save often, as auto-save might overwrite itself at the wrong time.
  
  Also - the AI isn't very impressive. If you try to move a bunch of troops somewhere and not pay 
 attention, you might find them moved in the opposite direction at the end of the battlefield. Plus, 
 it might be a good idea for the troops to auto rank and file when trying to move past narrow spaces.
 
  
  I do recommend this game after the developer releases a patch to fix the problems. I rated this 
 a 8.0 and would have rated it a 10.0 if it wasn't for the bugs and crashes.
  
  Another great game for the history books! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sundeer
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 15, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This version of total War is a HUGE step backward for 
  Creative Assembly. One of the buggiest and slowest games I have ever played. The AI can only be 
 described as retarded. Between the frustrating crashes and the painfully stupid AI, I found myself 
 not even bothering to play out the battles myself. It became far less frustrating to just hit the 
 auto button to resolve battles. Load times were abominably slow and the game seemed to just crawl 
 at times. The manual is a disgrace to say the least and gives you almost zero preparation to manage 
 the complexities of this game. The worst part about it is the fact that the thing just crashes 
 just about every turn which make it total unplayable, assuming of course anyone would want to play 
 such a terribly put together piece of software. The developers should be ashamed!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: turtlenab45
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2009 12:49 pm PT
Review:  The thing that I really like about this game is that, when you command a naval battle it virtualy 
 real. I have played this game for at least 5 minutes and thought this was the real deal. With just 
 about 5 minutes of playing, you will get sweeped away with the amazing naval combat graphics. On 
 land there is barely a difference (one of them is that its not on water, but thats beside the point.) 
 Just by firing your cannons once you'll laugh in delight of the damage. Multiplayer mode is excellent 
 when you get to pick battles with other people and see if you can really command the seas (one 
 thing for sure I didn't!) online you can find out if the computer was really tricking you of how 
 good you actually did. Another cool feature is that you can destroy trading ships for no reason 
 at your harbor. Sometimes I think of this game like the colonial grand theft auto! One thing for 
 sure is that this game is totally badass and is the real time strategy game that I have always 
 been waiting for 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Julius777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 10:05 am PT
Review:  I finally got Empire Total War to work, and contributed just over 20 hours of experience. I must 
 say that the new political map is by far the best design in all the series. If you like the past 
 total war series political play, this will either rock you or turn you off. For me, I found it 
 very enthralling -- the best part of the game. Politics, regional construction, and research make 
 the campaign map addicting.
  
  Naval battles are also exciting. Unlike "Imperial Glory", who made impossible, frustrating naval 
 warfare, Empire did it right. Managing naval warfare requires totally different strategy than land 
 warfare. The downfall, however, is a constant crash whenever I try to board an opponents ship. 
 Other than that, I have found no other glitches. Perhaps more time playing would reveal more.
 
  
  Land warfare has its ups and downs. The graphics are ugly -- Medieval 2 had better graphics. And 
 the AI isn't exactly intelligent. But the usage of buildings is great, and that units can move 
 around buildings instead of having to follow the streets is a great, added plus. I love watching 
 my men hop over fences. 
  
  Overall, Great game, well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yesmoore
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 6:25 am PT
Review:  The game suggests your settings, which my high-end PC should be able to handle with everything 
 turned up to the maximum, but will only run at the lowest settings.... It's not just me but check 
 our the Forums and I found out that I am not alone.
  
  The game is unfinished, starting a campaign causes a crash, single player games crash, multiplayer 
 games crash, everything crashes!
  
  Some of the comments on the Forums indicate that the Demo is more stable than the shipped game.
 
  
  Don't buy it unless you like rebooting your computer, watching cool introduction movies, tinkering 
 with every possible combination of your Drivers and Set-up Options and ending your battles just 
 when it starts to get good!
  
  A patch is needed and fast! I wish I didn't have to post this, but I didn't want others to go through 
 my pain and suffering.
  
  Wait until Sega fixes these issues, if ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andy112382
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Well, I am glad I wrote this after having the game a little over a week, because if I had graded 
 it right off the bat, before the first patch came out, I wouldn't have been very nice in the overall 
 score department.
  
  I was getting crashes to my desktop, very buggy gameplay with flickering graphics, and even had 
 a memory dump that restarted my system. I run an AMD X2 6000+ 3.0GHz, 3GB RAM, 8800GTS just to 
 give an idea that I had enough system to where the gameplay should not be as sluggish as it was, 
 especially since I even conceded that I could always upgrade and just let the game pick the best 
 settings without trying to push it too much (so high instead of ultra, basically, in the graphics 
 department.)
  
  After the first patch came out, I was setting the bar very low, expecting it wouldn't help enough 
 to notice, but amazingly, ever since the patch, I have not had a single crash, and I have put in 
 several hours of gameplay since then (mush to the displeasure of my wife) and have gone from cautiously 
 optimistic to pleasantly suprised. And with more patches on the way according to the developers 
 themselves, it should get tweaked even more to help some of the areas it tends to be slightly choppy, 
 which is mainly on the campaign map when scrolling around.
  
  The game itself, once running, is awesome. I have been playing Total War since Rome total war and 
 love how everything ties in together, politics, trade, the elections, the revolutions..... I love 
 it! It is nice how the countries are divided up on the diplomacy menu between major powers and 
 the minor countries, that way you aren't trying to sort it out yourself, with the number of countries 
 on the game, you tend to take the help with open arms. 
  
  Really, I could describe the gameplay all day, the stuff you can do, the graphics and details are 
 amazing, so don't even worry about that department, if not 100% sure, play the demo, you'll be 
 impressed.... if not, you don't appreciate a great strategy game when you see one, period.
  
  One thing I look to be improved in the patches to come would be the AI, it tends to be a bit 
 suicidal in battle...... then again I was fighing indians and pirates in the two big battles I am 
 thinking of saying that, and I know the indians don't hold back and come right at you, and the 
 pirates were a bit better on the water than fighting in mobs against the red coats..... soo, I will 
 have to see how my upcoming battle with the french goes. 
  
  If you are a fan of the total war series, pick this game up, now that it is patched and will have 
 more fixes coming, it is worth it. If you don't know the game and you like strategy games, try 
 it out as well, at the least play the demo and see what you are missing.
  
  UPDATE: Naturally, after writing the review about being able to play for several hours without 
 a crash, I have had about 5 CTDs in 24 hours. Here is hoping for another patch asap! For now, I 
 will keep my score as-is since the developers have acknowledged the problems and promised patches 
 according to their official forum. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homeboyuri
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2009 7:24 am PT
Review:  The Total War series has never failed to impress it's fans, and Empire: Total War is no exception. 
 Addictive gameplay and a massive campaign map make this game well worth purchasing whether you're 
 a Total War veteran or a complete newcomer. BUT if you're not willing to sit around for ages tweaking, 
 tuning and screaming at your PC then steer clear. ETW take me a long time time to get it running 
 smoothly and it is still laden with bugs including stuttering cinematics and, one occasion, a good 
 two thirds of the crew of one of my 2nd rate ships falling off the masts to their death when boarding 
 another ship. As well as this, the game seems to run slower and look worse than Medieval 2 does, 
 which I really don't understand.
  
  Overall, you can do a lot worse than buying this game and the ranged combat provides new challenges 
 to veterans and newcomers alike, but the numerous bugs and glitches prevent this game from beating 
 the previous titles in the series. In fact, you'd probably be better off buying Medieval 2 and 
 the kingdoms expansion pack for half the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swiftstrike5
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2009 11:20 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoy this game, but there are so many issue that need to be patched.
  
  Strategy: I originally thought this game would somehow lack in comparison to Medieval and Rome, 
 but it's all there and more. The strategy is much more involved. You have to decide if you want 
 to continue fire or rush all your lines at once and rout them. The tech tree adds a lot to the 
 game as well. Each ability has it's advantages and disadvantages. For example, Square formation 
 is amazing against cavalry, but is extremely vulnerable to artillery fire or rangers. Rangers have 
 a 'light infantry' mode. This allows them to duck while reloading making them more difficult to 
 hit, but this makes them much, much more vulnerable against cavalry.
  
  Diplomacy: Some improvements, but some issues need to be fixed. I'll start out with the best improvement. 
 AI will no longer break Alliances the next turn. In fact, I don't think I've had an AI break an 
 alliance yet. One of the major issues with Diplomacy is that the AI is soooooooooo unreasonable. 
 They'll want to give them a huge colony for 1000gold and a few tech. I want an option to say '***k 
 no' so they don't ask again next round. If the most friendly nations won't trade technology in 
 the very beginning and when you become a super power, they want to give you tech for land, which 
 is completely unreasonable. 
  
  Multiplayer: Meh, I didn't buy the game for multiplayer, but it's nice to know it's there. I can't 
 wait for them to release the GC multiplayer.
  
  AI: Major improvements. That's about all I can say. They'll constantly flank you. One major flaw 
 is that they're WAY too aggressive against your cavalry. They'll chase one unit around the map 
 indefinitely. I constantly use this tactic to wear out the infantry before engaging them. This 
 is a serious flaw.
  
  Other issues:
  -Natives are extremely overpowered. They can remain hidden while walking and their bows have a 
 longer range than even the best units in the mid 18th century. Their cavalry is probably the best 
 in the game because they use spears.
  -Constant crashes and graphical errors. Can't play a game for more than an hour without a crash.
 
  -Ship power (the bar that shows how powerful a group of units is) isn't correct. A group of heavy 
 first rates will lose to light galleys just because there's an error in how it ranks power. 
  -Not enough unit variation between nations.
  -LOAD TIMES ARE RIDICULOUS!
  
  
  I'm looking 
 forward to when this game is patched and at it's full potential. I'll update the score when they 
 do that, but I still recommend this game regardless of how I score it at the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Micaelis13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 11:14 am PT
Review:  In the first place, I should classify my system. I am running Windows Vista x64 (system pack 1) 
 on an nvidia nforce 790i ultra mobo, geforce 280x1 gpu, intel quad core @ 3.33mhz, 4gb patriot 
 memory (10500 @ 1333mhz) . With all of the settings maxed and checked, the game has noticeable lag, 
 especially in large battle sequences. So I run the game at Ultra with a few of the effects, such 
 as SSAO and depth of field unchecked. It runs smoothly except in large battles, where there is 
 significant lag, though still playable.
  
  The campaign map is impressive. With 3 different theaters and a couple of trade theatres, the map 
 spans the entire globe. That is a huge step up from previous titles. However, western North America 
 is missing, you won't get much further south than Colombia (good-bye Brazil) , and Africa is almost 
 entirely absent (excepting the typical Arabic north) . The addition of India is a must, given the 
 prominence of that era, though the Far East and Pacific Orient is also absent. These areas are 
 "filled in" as trade theatres, which means you can position trade vessels on certain locations, 
 and that is about it. Areas such as the Azores and Canary Islands are "unexplorable." Unfortunate. 
 Still, considering previous titles, it's a major step in the right direction.
  
  The trade resources themselves are upgradeable on-site, though you'll have to protect them from 
 marauding foes. One of the most disappointing aspects is the elimination of opponents. For example, 
 in the Spanish campaign I was able to capture Lisbon, which wiped out all of the Portuguese forces 
 entirely. They had several vessels positioned on trade routes in the eastern Atlantic and a few 
 armies scattered across their terrain. They were all magically removed upon capture. Hmmm...
  
  The naval battles are an exciting edition to the game. The graphics and mechanics are superb, 
 though it might take a while to get used to tactics and formation positioning, as movement on the 
 high seas is very different from movement on land, which is fairly well represented in this first-time 
 effort from Creative Assembly, though not without its flaws.
  
  Land battles are very good as well. There are a few noticeable problems, however. At moments, units 
 do not respond to commands, which is very frustrating when trying to reposition your units. The 
 sound effects for missile fire (bow and musket) sound very cheaply done, something I didn't expect 
 considering the quality in Medieval II. Some of the animations are missing, giving the impression 
 of units surfing up to position rather than walking or running. Again, not something that I expected 
 from Creative Assembly given the quality of previous series. The attack of the clones is back, 
 though there are a few (very few) differences in horse spots, or patches on uniforms. The native 
 American units are almost entirely clones. On a positive note, Creative Assembly did a great job 
 with transitioning from melee (hand-to-hand) combat to ranged (musket) combat. The cannons are 
 awesome, especially cluster shots, which have devastating effects on units. As your military skills 
 progress, musket infantry become more synchronized and devastating, which makes it all worth it, 
 as you dominate your opponents with minimal losses. Grenadiers are excellent as musket infantry, 
 though the grenades are tossed rather awkwardly, and you don't get the feeling that their explosions 
 have full effect, as most of the opponent is able to walk away from them unscathed. Still, the 
 combat is very exciting and intense.
  
  Overall, the game feels incomplete. It is superb, mind you. The ability to micro-manage your government, 
 from taxes to ministers, and dealing with revolutions and government changes is a very welcome 
 feature from previous series. The ability to learn skills and improve technology at your choice 
 is also very welcome, and the skills are noticeable in campaigns and make a huge difference. This 
 is a great game and I recommend it to anyone interested in the title. Buy it. Just remember to 
 keep your patience intact. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2009 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Since i hate long reviews i will get my review to the point and as short as possible.
  
  GOOD
  - Great graphics for the genre
  - Excellent scale of battles
  - Deep tactical mechanics
 
  - Impressive land and naval battles.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  BAD
  - You need that spyware 
 called Steam installed
  - Bugs and CTD issues
  - Disappointing AI
  - Some pathfinding issues
  - Average historical accuracy
  
  CONCLUSION
  Unfortunately this 
 title is not the best game of the series because of the issues that i state above despite that 
 it is still a great tactical game and with some patches things might be improved.
  By the way i think Steam is a waste of software and it is not going to protect the game from getting 
 cracked by software pirates (Already the game has been cracked from what i have been informed...)
 
  
  Final score = 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scorehound
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 12, 2009 11:55 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for Empire for over a year and was very disappointed in several key areas of 
 this game which made it feel very different from a classic Total War game.
  
  The GOOD:
  
  - Excellent Graphics
  - Cut scenes are exciting and fresh
  - Campaign map is a monster 
 with 100s of regions and cities to conquer
  - New Research feature allows you to research new technologies, breakthroughs and advances (similar 
 to Civilization and AOE)
  - Naval battles are truly amazing
  - Diplomacy is vastly improved over previous titles
  
  The BAD:
  
  - Bug ridden and causes 
 mysterious crashes
  - AI is laughable and pathfinding is a joke
  - Land Battle animations aren't all they're cracked up to be, with several types of units moving 
 as one instead of individuals just like in older TW games
  - Less than stellar sound effects, and you hardly feel like you're in an 18th century conflict.
 
  - Land battles are boring and with frustrating AI makes battles even less enjoyable.
  
  The UGLY:
  
  - You must have a Steam account and must use Steam with this game at all times. 
 You cannot sell the game or it won't work on another's machine. If Steam goes down, your game goes 
 down. Steam secretly sends information about your machine without your consent.
  
  - Two versions of this game is ridiculous. No printed manual. Why didn't SEGA and CA simply make 
 one version of the game with a printed manual? It would have saved them money and made people a 
 little happy about buying the game aside from its internal problems. CASH GRAB.
  
  
  OVERALL: The game is enjoyable through the campaign map, naval battles and general overall strategy. 
 But land battles make you feel like you're playing a cheap $10 knock off war game and not a Total 
 War game. The Steam and multiple versions problems leaves a sour taste in my mouth and I feel like 
 this game could have used another 6 months of beta testing and polishing to make it a more enjoyable 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: talknight2
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2009 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Empire: Total War Special Forces Edition review by talknight2.
  
  Graphics. 
  Depending on your machine (mine isn't top notch but runs smoothly on highs and ultras as long as 
 Hardware Shadows and stuff like that are off) , the game is spectacular to watch, All the units 
 have deep detail and the smoke and fire from guns and muskets looks amazing. Some clipping issues 
 with charging animations, especially with cavalry . Loading time are OK. Never had more than about 
 45 secs of wait. People who complain about 5 minute waits have old PC's (mine is 1-2 years old) . 
 Same thing goes for those who complain about broken cinematics.
  
  Audio:
  Sounds of bullets flying and muskets firing never gets old. Unfortunately the melee combat has 
 bugged sound, with death screams unheard and charging screams usually hard to locate and sometimes 
 no-existant. Road to Independence soundtrack sounds like a horror ghost movie alot of the time...
 
  
  AI:
  Very big improvement, but still not perfect. The AI will try to flank you once in a while and won't 
 shoot it's own units, but sometimes units charge at you only to turn back 20 feet away and just 
 stand there with their backs to your firing line. AI is completely incompetent when handling walls. 
 Also tends to get into every building they can find when defending and are reluctant to exit, even 
 when being bombarded all to hell by artillery.
  The only problem I noticed with allied AI is that your artillery crews are dumb as rocks. They 
 fire the guns straight into passing units of cavalry (occasionaly specifically targetting their 
 own friggin general or their own pack horses) and always seem to try to fire while facing the enemy 
 in a single file rather than a line (AKA shoot each other in the back) .
  At sea, AI is reluctant to board or use any ammunition other than solid cannoballs, and form any 
 other formation other than the single file, but the battles look wonderful nevertheless.
  
  Gameplay:
  VERY fun game.
  Having the regions' resources spread out adds a tactical and economical 
 element (most oftenly used by your enemies, as there's no point really in targeting little farms 
 around the city while your enemy builds up an army) , and also simplifies city-building while adding 
 considerable depth to the game. Having multiple ports in a region is real nice.
  Diplomacy is completely changed, to the point where it's almost impossible to get an alliance withought 
 offering your whole treasury and military access for life, while in Medieval II you could get trade 
 agreements for free and alliances in exchange for maps... And the even more annoying thing is that 
 the AI is fiercely against actually telling you what it wants. I only got a counteroffer about 
 2 or 3 times so far, and only when the AI decided it wanted me to pay them to establish a trade 
 route.
  The ability to pirate trade routes add more context the new naval combat feature, which is excellent 
 by itself. Nothing like seeing a battleship go boom, surrounded by dozens of your little frigates.
 
  Oh, there's also several specific things that cause crashes. I found 2 in Naval combat:
  When boarding
  When ordering all your ships to attack the enemies last one (uncertain)
  It 
 also randomly happens in the campaign map, and there's many reports of crashes during turn processing 
 that make the entire campaign go to waste, although any crashes at all are quite rare.
  BEWARE anyway.
  Can't wait for campaign multiplayer so I can do some real strategy.
  
  
 
  Anyway, it's a great game, absolutely worth the waiting, aswell as your 50 bucks and the Steam 
 requirement.
  
  Get it while it's hot! 
  (And hope a future patch stops the game from crashing.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinijax
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2009 11:43 am PT
Review:  I love it. The first game after a long time that I can play for a couple of hours without getting 
 bored or feeling stupid. It's not for everyone since it demands attention and strategy if you want 
 to succeed in the long term, but for guys like me who need a little active distraction (as opposed 
 to mindless shooting and driving...) every now and then, this is it. The only thing I initially 
 disliked was sometimes clumsy ai and the fact that the game crashed once after a couple of hours, 
 but otherwise, it's great fun and a great way to pass time. The graphics are amazing if you can 
 afford a good machine and it plays really smooth with all the good from it's predecessors and a 
 little extra added. The Road to Independence is a great buffer for everyone new to the game since 
 it takes you slowly through all the aspects of the game teaching you the basics, and it's fun also. 
 I don't really care much about ai issues since I mostly play online battles that are great fun, 
 but even playing single player I hadn't noticed much wrong with the ai besides the fact that it 
 acts a bit stupid now and again. The Creative Assembly is supposedly dedicated to supporting the 
 game post release and is already planning a second patch for next week, so I like to think that 
 most issues will be resolved with future patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ell333
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 12, 2009 2:48 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the series since Shogun: Total War. I have been a fan of the realistic style 
 RTS over the arcade style RTS for many years. The Total War series has always appealed more to 
 the strategy gamer in me, since I prefer to play the whole picture versus single battles. Every 
 game in the series has progressed much to my pleasure over the years. The next game an improvement 
 over the prior. I was hoping this game would fulfill the disappointment I had with AoE III. I pre-ordered 
 based off of the good reputation this series has developed with me over the years. I was disappointed. 
 Not entirely on the game play, but on the overall experience.
  
  Let me preface this by saying that I have a home system built just for gaming. High-end Intel proc 
 and mobo and nvidia vid-card, etc. I know it isn't my system, I do this for a living. The install 
 of the program started off buggy. It froze my system up near the beginning of the install. Rebooted 
 and tried again. 
  
  Much to my dismay it requires Steam. Fine, I have a high speed internet connection, I guess I can 
 deal with that. After the installation I try to run the game and the opening cinematic is choppy 
 and the sound is skipping. I have plenty of system resources, fine, maybe the crash in the initial 
 setup corrupted the cinematic files. I can overlook that.
  
  I play the land tutorial. Mostly just to test out the video settings. I see how choppy it is and 
 I bring the system settings down. I finally settle on a custom setting part of the way between 
 medium and high. Some land battles and the tutorial runs fine. I am eager to check out the sea 
 battles. This is something I have been wanting since Rome. I am doing a small 1 vs 1 battle with 
 about 8 ships on each side. Everything is running smoothly and then a Blue Screen of Death. I never 
 had one of those on this PC until this game. Fine... I'll bring my settings down (again) . I'll update 
 the drivers, I was one version behind. Tried it again and I was able to complete the sea battle 
 the second time around. This time with even more ships. Other than the path-finding on the ships 
 being AWFUL, it was a beautiful ballet of destruction. The images were great. It could have been 
 more realistic... sorry but if there is debris off of the ships in the water there should also be 
 floating bodies. It didn't have that realistic bite that I felt with Medieval II. Also for some 
 reason the AI thinks it necessary to run into disable ships instead of go around them in pursuit 
 of an enemy ship. Let's just say the land path-finding isn't all that much better. There is a lot 
 more micro management needed than the previous games in the series. The terrain is more of a factor 
 since the units relie of line of sight much more. But, it sure makes trying to position a unit 
 tough when there are lots of small terrain features that prevent you from forming ranks. Also forget 
 trying to move large groups of units, the pathfinding will scatter them all over in an effort to 
 try to arrive in the same formation.
  
  I start the first campaign and I get thru the first chapter. In the second Chapter, right after 
 I siege the French fort and I return to the campaign map the game crashed on me a few seconds later. 
 Fine, I take the video settings all the way down. I go back and play the siege again. Crash. 
 
  
  I would really like to give my impressions of the game itself. But, I can't stay in it long enough 
 to get into it deeply enough. I hate to do this, but I am going to have to shelve it and hope future 
 patches resolve the issues I am having. I have a high end system, I would hate to see what others 
 with mid-level systems are dealing with. 
  
  But, at least the little I played was fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trumpwnb
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 8:48 pm PT
Review:  The gamespot review said this game was rough around the edges and so far that is true. I have tried 
 this game on my desktop and my laptop which are both decent machines. The game feels so choppy 
 it's like driving a car in need of a tuneup. I just feel like kicking the screen and yelling" come 
 on". I don't know if it's just me but the loading times on this game make me just want to shut 
 it off. The graphics are great and I love the size of the battlefields but if they can't get it 
 to work any better than this I'll just move on to the next game and chalk it up as a loss. I want 
 to play this game but if these people think everyone out there is going to run out and buy some 
 $3000 dollar computer just for a game they're on dope. I've already burned $50 bucks so I'll see 
 if the patches work. Don't buy this game if your computer is not extremely powerful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laughterensues
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2009 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Total War empires picked off shortly after the second Medieval II game and now it is the 1700's. 
 The game does most of what Medieval II did including turn based grand map strategy as well as playable 
 RTS land battles. The game also brought naval warfare into the series and the graphics really shine 
 in this area. The grand campaign is immense and covers three spheres: India, Europe and the Americas. 
 
  The game play for the most part is great, the land battles are are fantastic and the siege battles 
 in contrast to older Total Wars are actually a challenge now. 
  Unfortunately there are some serious bugs with the game. After playing the French campaign for 
 several turns after trying to load the game the game would crash. I was later able to get a consistent 
 campaign going but loosing those hours was frustrating. Additionally, the battles allow the AI 
 control far more units than you can in a battle and if you have a reinforcing army and a full army 
 the reinforcing army will only trickle in as your squads from the original die off. Furthermore, 
 the diplomacy isn't perfect but it is a step in the right direction from the all but broken Medieval 
 system.
  Despite these setbacks Empire Total War is still a great game and if you are a fan of the series 
 or just like strategy games it is a must buy. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryster092
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Empire is my very first Total War series purchase, and at the rate things are going it will be 
 my last.
  
  While the scope and features of the game are nothing short of breathtaking, the implementation 
 falls way below par in many respects. The most notable issue is the crash to desktop (CTD) that 
 occurs at random points during the grand campaign. I've got a saved game that played as far as 
 turn 115 that now CTD's on the next turn, while processing the Iroquois Confederacy's AI movements. 
 I'm hesitant to begin another game and run the risk of potentially hours of time being wasted.
 
  
  The first patch released by Creative Assembly (CA) , the makers of the game, alleges fixes for several 
 crashes and other bugs, however the official forums tell a different story. For some, the new patch 
 release on Tuesday 10th March actually makes the game worse, with campaign turns taking minutes 
 to process, and the game spending large amounts of time on the loading screens.
  
  On the whole the game has oodles of potential, and the graphics and scale of the game are very 
 impressive, but all of that is let down by the release of an unfinished and (for some) unplayable 
 game. Quite when customers will stop blindly accepting products of this quality is a mystery, and 
 how the game managed 90%+ scores in it's current state is equally baffling... I'm wondering if 
 the other reviewers out there who gave 9/10+ scores actually spent any significant amount of time 
 playing the game, or just rushed the review out there after merely scratching the surface of the 
 game.
  
  One final word goes to the horrendous decision to require the use of Steam to activate the game, 
 even with boxed copies. It becomes an unacceptable situation when you spend nearly 50 on a physical 
 boxed product, only to have to put up with the inadequacies of Steam in an effort to prove you 
 are not a lowlife pirate. And the "Steam is currently busy and unable to process your request" 
 message when all you are trying to do is launch the game you purchased is frankly disgusting.
 
  
  Treating your loyal paying customers as potential pirates by forcing this DRM rubbish down their 
 throats is not the way to maintain that loyal customer base, especially as the pirates out there 
 don't have to put up with any of it as they have cracked versions of the game without DRM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nomailx
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 11, 2009 10:21 am PT
Review:  Deception.
  
  Total war series are always nice to play, and improvements are always welcome, but they should 
 have make less noise on this one. If you're a hardcore fan of the series than u will surely like 
 it.
  
  If you're not, and you just like to play total war casually, you can wait until it's prize comes 
 down.
  
  why?
  
  Well, The strategy map is as usual: Many options which you don't really need. Assassination, politics, 
 etc, never really mattered in this game, where you can amass thousands and crush any country you 
 want. So there is strategy only if you're into Role Play. otherwise you don't need any strategy.
 
  
  Field battles. Nothing new in this one too, just cannons and riffles. that's all. AI as idiotic 
 as usual. I saw cavaliers trying to rush into the infantry, and cancelling their action at the 
 last second without any reason? (didnt even give any order at the time) .
  
  total war never really could set properly the Panic triggers and frequency in their series. They 
 fail to adapt the real mind of a soldier in a battlefield. They should hire some war strategist, 
 and retired generals to explain them how infantry acts, feels and think on the battlefields.
  
  No new tactics, nothing new in the gameplay of battlefields.
  
  The Sea.
  
  Have you 
 played sid meier's Pirates? Well, it's the same thing but with better graphics, and little more 
 details. The sea battles could have been better if the crew on the ships were not there just modeling. 
 They should have been actively synchronized with what the ship is doing. (You can see crew members 
 just standing and staring right in the border of the ship without any reaction to a canon ball 
 hitting their ship, even if it's right next to them) .
  
  So the crew on the ships are just there for eye candy. The only thing synchronized with the ship 
 they do is to die sometimes if a canon hits right on their had, and jump into the sea when the 
 ship sinks. It would also be nice if we could here some orders and shouting in the sea battles, 
 instead of a deep silence when u zoom into the ships.
  
  The only reason you should buy empire total war, is the look. It looks great, and units details 
 are great. Nice clouds, lightning. But you're not their for sight seeing right?
  
  Don't you players have enough of this new generation consoles and graphic cards scheme: All the 
 new games are the old games we played again and again, same concepts re-heated with the only difference 
 of better graphics?
  
  Come on do something, buy such games way after they out of the markets so they can come up with 
 more creative and less Look oriented games.
  
  Nomailx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinz_17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 11:39 pm PT
Review:  I've been a great fan of Total War ever since they've released Rome: Total War. Medieval 2 is one 
 great game too but Empire is just unbelievable. I salute the creator of this game, the details 
 not just in graphics but the research team that made this game a great experience. 
  
  The Graphics is already expected especially with its predecessors but this game really is all about 
 the gameplay... it might be a simple one for hardcore gamer or those guys used to FPS kind of game 
 but this makes me really want to play PC. This what makes PC stands out against console gaming. 
 Strategy games... with a BANG!
  
  The gameplay is almost the same if you've played other total war games but what make this game 
 outplay them is the naval battle, love every bit of it.
  
  Caution: you might need to upgrade some parts of your PC to make it a more enjoyable game for you. 
 But if you have a great rig already, your ready to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixtycastlec
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 3:35 am PT
Review:  The Grand Campaign goes beyond the other total wars, in that your not restricted to one locale, 
 but the whole world. The Road to Independence is very enjoyable as well. The fact you dont have 
 to worry about the finances for each individual city is a big improvement in itself. The game lets 
 you focus on building your infrastructure and armies instead of worrying about each cities taxes 
 and governors. The battles are not bad as well, and very detailed.
  However, the game was released with a major bug in that you get to a certain point and it crashes. 
 The fact you need Steam to play itself is almost a turn off. The other series, you could start 
 without it, wish they would can Steam. Hopefully they will come out with a fix to the instability 
 soon. Until they do enjoy the game until the crash and then wait for patch, I wouldnt rush to return 
 it, however I wouldnt rush to buy it either. I would say because of the bugs and the lag and Steam 
 I would rank it 7 out of 10. Without these issues it would be 10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dubcat_se
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2009 3:11 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Total War since the first one in the series hit the shelf; Shogun. I spent hours 
 marching my samurai armies around the immensely beautiful battlefields. Since then I've played 
 every single one of the Total War games. So my hopes were high when I downloaded my Total War: 
 Empire from Steam. And at a first glance it looks promising; the campaign map is more beautiful 
 than ever and the battles are amazing. I'm going to list the basic building block of this game 
 below and how they do in this latest franchise. 
  
  Campaign map: the improved campaign mechanics, with deeper diplomatic and trade options is great 
 (although it still has room for improvements) . The new region system, where you don't only develop 
 your region capital but minor cities and industries as well, is great and adds a depth to the campaign. 
 The most disappointing thing about the campaign mode is the lack of different units you'll be able 
 to recruit. The bulk of your army will always be "line infantry", littered with some cavalry on 
 the flanks and some specialist troops available later on in the game as you unlock new units with 
 the help of the new tech tree mechanic. I was utterly disappointed to be honest. Ok, so maybe everyone 
 wore a three-cornered hat and colorful clothes during the 18th century, but come on! The developers 
 were too lazy this time around! Granted; if you play a country in India or the Americas you'll 
 be presented with a few more options. There are a few bugs on the campaign map, especially with 
 trade ships (new type of unit that can bring in a lot of cash for you if you keep your trade routes 
 open from pirates and enemies) .
  
  The land battles: after a few battles you'll notice that the AI is ridiculously idiotic. The AI 
 has always been the weak spot of the Total War series. And it's understandable, with the complexity 
 of it. But should not the AI be smart enough to avoid WALKING straight into a line of cheval de 
 frise (wooden stakes placed defensively to prohibit cavalry from charging) , massacring the whole 
 unit? Place a unit behind a wall and sometimes they won't fire back at attacking units. Man the 
 walls at a fort, littered with guns ready for your men to use, and watch them stand there in a 
 stupor, not even firing their muskets. Sometimes they man the guns and start shooting at the attackers, 
 but it will make you sweat to make them do so. Over all battles are ok compared to the previous 
 series, but with the lack of a diversity in units, it makes them look a bit static. 
  
  The sea battles: I was totally confused during my first few battles. Try changing a formation after 
 deploying, you'll see your ships crashing into each other like a demolition derby. The AI needs 
 some wok here obviously. It's almost impossible to win against the AI when you have an evenly matched 
 armada, it's just too messy. Sea battles look absolutely amazing though! It's a joy to see your 
 ships getting totally humiliated by the AI! 
  
  Overall: the gameplay is still as addictive as ever, but I wanted more from Empire! It's obvious 
 the developers put their most effort into developing the sea battles, which if you ask is a nice 
 feature but has little effect on the outcome of a campaign. Hopefully we'll see some fixes to the 
 AI in the near future, and an expansion pack with at least a couple of new units unique for each 
 major playable nation. Until then I'll just Rome: Total War. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDGorby229
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2009 8:32 pm PT
Review:  A lot of units are the same for all factions and single central cities account for too much territory. 
 The battles are all immersive and the strategic picture is engrossing. The terrain has lagged behind 
 in development however, and the naval battles are oversimplistic. In 1700, the starting picture, 
 both tech and resource wise, between the nations is too similar, not capturing the different strengths 
 each nation had at the time. The game could use some tweaks, but still is a treat nonetheless. 
 
  
  Accounting for unit differences, each nation has line infantry with different uniforms. These units 
 have the same fire rate and melee characteristics which historically was false. The Prussians could 
 reputedly fire 5 shots a minute and they WERE the best. The British could fire 4 and the French 
 3. Equalizing the troops to that extent fails to capture the historic picture and the different 
 advantages each nation has in its power. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikki3_87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 6:29 pm PT
Review:  The games is really good, it's my first total war experience and in the begining it's a little hard 
 too understand but if your like me you will learn fast how to play this game.
  
  the goods of the game:
  -really good graphics
  -2 game in one
  -like all total war games 
 its always question of strategies ! now with the naval battle ! the bads of the game:
  -AI need to be more improuve
  -need internet (steam) to play the game
  -if your new to total 
 war series it will take you time to understand the game.
  
  why I'm saying that the AI need to be more improuve its that the AI in normal its like playing 
 at easy and when your putting it on hard well like the word say it its hard. The navals battle its 
 new in the total war series and its fun too play it but I prefere the land battle but this its 
 my opinion. 
  
  to conclude, I think that this game will be the best strategie of the year and the best rts of 
 the 18 th century time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: varkdm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Empire: Total War, PC
  
  The Creative Assembly have been rolling out the Total War games for as long as I can remember and 
 every single one has been a success. My love of these games actually began before the first of 
 the series (Shogun) , with a little remembered game called Centurion: Defender of Rome. This amazing 
 game was built for the 486 range of PC's and featured a turn based strategy map with real time 
 strategy battles. Obviously somewhat more limited by only having a staggering 4mb of RAM to play 
 with on the average PC of the time, it still managed to achieve an awful lot. So for me that was 
 the birth of the genre  one that very few companies seem to get right or move forward, but CA 
 have managed to do that so far and with the amazing screenshots, videos and press reports about 
 their newest offering, it would seem they have done it again. Unfortunately Empire is a case of 
 two steps forward, one step backwards.
  
  
  The premise of the Total War games is simply to pick a faction from the chosen historical period 
 and then, through a combination of diplomacy, strategy and of course, conquest, proceed to bring 
 your faction to dominance within a set time period. 
  
  Each successive game has shifted time periods and added new depth, but stuck to the fundamentals 
 and Empire is no different. The game is still split into two key parts  the strategy map and the 
 real time battles. 
  
  The strategy map is where you will spend most of your time in the game and it is the largest map, 
 in terms of global coverage, to feature in a total war game so far. The game is set between 1700 
 and 1800, and therefore the map covers what were the key regions of conflict at that time  the 
 Americas, Europe and India. There are also four small sea based trade zones  representing areas 
 where little land conquest is to take place, but historically nations made huge amounts of money 
 by dominating sea based trade in those areas. 
  
  Geographically speaking, the map is bigger, but in terms of game play size, I don't think it is 
 much bigger, if at all, than the previous game in the series  Medieval 2. Whereas in that game, 
 a single country may have anything up to six or seven controllable cities or castles, Empire has 
 done away with that system and replaced it with a single region hub in each zone. For example, 
 whereas before Great Britain consisted of London, Caernarvon, Nottingham, York, Edinburgh, Glasgow 
 and Dublin  it is now just Dublin, Edinburgh and London. 
  
  The region hub is the main point of control  lose the hub and you lose the region. They have also 
 drastically cut down on your choice of buildings to construct there. You have five types of building 
 to choose  military/governing, naval, artillery, leisure and fortifications. You can also recruit 
 your armies from these hubs, depending on what level of advancement you have  higher levels offer 
 access to better troops and artillery, as well as the ability to recruit more units at the same 
 time.
  
  Outside of the region hub, you then have towns and ports. These spring up as your population grows 
 and you can choose to specialise them in one area  towns can be set to focus on trade/industry, 
 religion, education or leisure. Once you have made your decision, it cannot be changed (at least 
 not that I could tell) , its function can be upgraded as you unlock new technologies. Ports work 
 in a similar way and can be specialised to trade, food or military purposes. 
  
  Towns and ports can be attacked by your enemies, usually resulting in damage that you then have 
 to repair, for a cost. Other than this minor loss of funds, temporarily losing the benefits of 
 a town is usually nothing much more than a mild irritation, and I found myself only attacking enemy 
 towns when I couldn't reach their region capital or needed to wait for more troops to arrive and 
 join the army before laying siege. 
  
  Blockading a port has more of an impact, completely cutting off the trade income that it generated 
 (and as this is the era of global trade, that can really hurt your finances) , as well as blocking 
 in any ships docked there. 
  
  Which brings me onto trade. Whereas before trade was a passive thing, going on in the background, 
 in Empire it's a key consideration of your campaign. A huge amount of your income is generated 
 through trading the goods produced in your towns all around the world  providing they are linked 
 up to your ports, which in turn are then linked up to your capital and your allies/trade partners 
 ports. These trade lanes are vulnerable to piracy, either to outright piracy (although there is 
 virtually no pirate activity compared to previous games in the series) or to privateering, by the 
 navies of your enemies. Keeping your trade lanes free is essential and drives much of your naval 
 activity. The trade zones I mentioned earlier, are regions where you can send special merchant 
 ships to establish trade there, generating a substantial income, as long as you can keep those 
 ships alive and the trade lanes open. This new focus on trade and security means that your naval 
 forces are now an essential part of your strategy, rather than something you only bothered with 
 when having to transport your soldiers long distances.
  
  There are three other key areas of the strategy map portion of the game  characters, research 
 and diplomacy. Diplomacy in previous TW games has been a bit of a joke, your allies would always 
 inexplicably turn on you and minnow nations would attack your military behemoth when not even threatened 
 by it. This made alliances worthless, but it is something they have improved on with Empire. Allies 
 wont now turn on you, unless you really push them (I still haven't had an ally break their word) 
 and they will aggressively come to your aid when your enemies are within reasonable distance of 
 them. The rest of the diplomacy is not so good though, I've often found it impossible to negotiate 
 something as simple as a trade agreement with some nations, even when they were listed as "friendly" 
 to me, where as some that were openly hostile would happily accept a trade arrangement or military 
 access to their lands. I appreciate that diplomacy isn't an exact science, but it just seems a 
 little bit off in this game. 
  
  What is good, is that you are now given access to a useful set of diplomatic tools  interactive 
 maps that give you an instant break down of each factions standings and relationships and what 
 is causing harmonious or strained relations.
  
  Empire also has a new take on agents and generals and sadly the changes they have made are a huge 
 step backwards. The character classes are split two ways  civilian characters and military ones. 
 Civilians include the missionary, the Rake and the Gentleman. The missionary is there to help convert 
 people to your religion and they are recruited from towns that you have specialised to religion. 
 The gentleman can challenge other characters to a duel, aid in research or attempt to steal the 
 research from other nations. Research is now actively managed by you, rather than occurring naturally 
 through population growth, the advancement of time and constructing appropriate sets of buildings. 
 Towns specialised to education produce gentleman and can be tasked to research a specific new technology. 
 The Rake is your nefarious type, he can assassinate other characters or infiltrate and sabotage 
 structures. He is recruited from towns specialised to leisure.
  
  Characters are no longer actively recruited by you, for a fee. They now spawn randomly and in limited 
 numbers. However as most characters, except the gentleman, have no real impact on the game (and 
 even then, the gentleman is only useful to speeding up the research process by sitting idle in 
 your educational towns) it doesn't really matter. I use them as scouts to pull back the fog of 
 war and not a lot else. I definitely miss recruiting armies of assassins and terrorising my opponents. 
 
  
  Military characters are those in charge of your navies and your armies. Generals and Admirals are 
 now actively recruited, rather than waiting for family members to come of age and take on the role. 
 This is an accurate reflection of the time period, as it is when the shift from privilege to merit 
 began. Apparently recruiting too many generals and admirals reduces their quality. There are also 
 brigadiers, which I believe are characters who end up in charge of your armies, when no general 
 is present. They are given a name, but no unique unit card. If you have a unit that has been through 
 a few battles and gained some experience, you can promote that character to a general and he should 
 be higher quality, because of his experience. In practice, I've never seen anything other than 
 a 3 star general with no character traits recruited by any means (in other words, a default general) . 
 I would also get confusing messages about brigadiers passing away in towns where there were no 
 armies, no agents and no navies  I have absolutely no idea who they were or where they came from, 
 and certainly could not seem to get any kind of access to them when they were alive. I can't help 
 but think that this feature is broken, it certainly doesn't seem to work how it states in the manual. 
 Perhaps I am missing something?
  
  A huge disappointment for the characters is their lack of individuality. In previous games there 
 were hundreds of traits they could pick up and many accomplices that travelled with them, altering 
 their stats in some way, good or bad. Empire offers a dizzyingly bland and narrow array of these 
 traits, I can't have seen more than twenty across all character types. This is a crying shame, 
 as building up a unique and powerful 10 star general was one of the most satisfying achievements 
 in previous games  seeing how their performance on the strategy map and in the battles then translated 
 into traits  cowardice, bravery, battle scars, an unnerving love of violence, corruption and honour. 
 Even better, these traits would often come out during the generals pre battle speeches  blood 
 thirsty generals baying for.. well blood, drunkards slurring their speech and talking gibberish 
  it was great stuff. Sadly that is another feature inexplicably missing from Empire  there are 
 no speeches by your generals before a battle anymore. It is true that I often skipped the speeches, 
 but not always and certainly not early in the game when they were all new  they were a great feature 
 and sorely missed from Empire.
  
  The big hook with the Total War series, is their huge battles. Literally thousands of soldiers 
 on screen, pummelling each other to death. This is the area that makes the Total War games such 
 a success, a brilliant combination of action and strategy. Units have specific strengths and weaknesses, 
 they have to work together and careful decisions have to be taken about how best to use them, the 
 terrain and your enemies movements to your advantage.
  
  Previous games have suffered from AI problems, both in terms of the strategy map AI sending hopelessly 
 outnumbered foes to fight you and the battles themselves  not reacting to massed ranged attacks 
 properly, initiating an attack on your army and then sitting stationary on a hill  forcing you 
 to attack them instead (or wait until the timer runs out) . On a smaller scale, units behaved oddly 
 at times  getting a cavalry unit to charge properly was more luck than judgement and negotiating 
 the walls and streets of a city could be an interesting experience. Fortunately, many of these 
 issues have now been resolved. Cavalry are much better behaved, the AI factions use small armies 
 to raid your towns and large ones to defend or siege your forts and region hubs. When too large 
 armies meet, there will be heavy casualties on both sides, all you can do is try to minimise the 
 damage they do to your army and out manoeuvre and outgun your opponent. 
  
  The battle maps are now much more varied  there are still open fields, hilly terrain and forested 
 areas, but now there are also towns and structures to be fought over and around. Some buildings 
 can be garrisoned, making the troops inside resistant to everything except artillery and melee 
 assault (but drastically reducing their firepower) . Troops can take cover behind walls, although 
 this feature seems pretty flaky  often they simply would not fire out from behind cover, despite 
 being well in range of the enemy, I often had to manually pull them out of cover and line them 
 up as normal somewhere behind the wall, just to get them to fire. It sometimes worked.. it sometimes 
 didn't, but it's a real pain having to focus on these troops just to make sure they are defending 
 themselves, when you should be concentrating on moving your units around to face or cause new threats. 
 All in all, the inclusion of buildings and walls/fences into the game is great, but the feature 
 needs some work.
  
  Generally the battles play very differently to previous games, artillery is the king of the battlefield, 
 especially later on, when more advanced ammunition types make an appearance  shrapnel and scatter 
 shot are effective killers and tactics generally revolve around how to neutralise their artillery, 
 maximise your own and control your casualties in the process. Battles last much longer, due to 
 the nature of ranged warfare and require much more micro-management of your units  their positioning 
 is vitally important now  elevation and orientation have to be carefully considered. Units have 
 to be moved to plug gaps in your line, before that gap is exploited by enemy forces rushing through 
 - destroying your weak artillery pieces or hitting the rest of your forces from behind. Similarly, 
 countering enemy attacks with your own flanking moves is essential, as is waiting for their mobile 
 units to become engaged, before unleashing your cavalry against their artillery. The battles are 
 highly satisfying, at least those that take place between the modern forces. Fighting the Native 
 American forces is, quite frankly, like pulling teeth. Their archers somehow manage to outrange 
 rifles and muskets and most of their troops are hand to hand, it simply isn't enjoyable fighting 
 them  a big problem when for many of the big factions, the early part of the game is spent fighting 
 nothing else but them  something that has a big impact on the initial enjoyment on offer from 
 the campaign game.
  
  There are a mixture of technical problems that dog the battles  the AI still does some very strange 
 things, although nowhere near as often as it did in previous games, but that isn't annoying, it's 
 just a shame. What is annoying is the appalling path finding units display when navigating walls 
 and buildings during sieges  it is actually far worse than ever before. For example, one of my 
 units had successfully scaled the wall of a fortress, I issued them a command to move along the 
 wall to the next section, ready to fight the defenders there  a simple case of running along the 
 wall. Not so for these energetic super soldiers  they decided to climb back down their scaling 
 ropes, run along the base of the wall to the section I had ordered them to attack, and then rescale 
 that wall  repeating the difficult scaling process all over again. Genius  and they come up with 
 these amazing ideas to fox the enemy all too often. Other AI issues include things like a serious 
 lack of either consideration on the behalf of your gun crews, or self preservation for your infantry. 
 Ordering units to move around behind your lines is a risky business, guns will fire regardless 
 of what is around them. If you've ordered a unit to move behind the lines in the heat of battle, 
 you will often later find a large pile of them around your artillery pieces, where they blasted 
 them at point blank range. I'm sure in M2TW the guns refused to fire when surrounded by friendly 
 infantry  why the gunners of ETW are any less considerate is beyond me. 
  
  Sound is also a big problem  I'm certain the sound for me was bugged  infantry charge into combat 
 in total silence, the yelling and screaming that took place in M2TW are nowhere to be heard here. 
 Musket fire, drums and the clashes of swords are all very quiet, whereas the sound of marching 
 soldiers and cannon fire is extremely loud (as it should be for cannons, but I can't quite see 
 how the marching of 50 soldiers is louder than those 50 soldiers firing their guns?) . The music 
 is also pretty uninspiring, which is unusual for a Total War game, as they traditionally have had 
 excellent music to accompany the battles  I ended up turning it off, in the hope that maybe it 
 would help with the sound situation (it didn't) .
  
  This poor implementation of sound, combined with the removal of blood and gore from the battlefield 
 (please.. please bring this back!) , combined with some dodgy animations (which are more intricate 
 and detailed than before, but there are many instances of units sliding around the map, which I've 
 never seen before in a TW game) can often lessen the impact the game would otherwise achieve.
 
  
  The other battle area is new to the series  you can now play out the naval battles in the same 
 way as the land battles. I really enjoy the naval battles, they are simple but satisfying, with 
 lots of pleasing detail. You control up to twenty ships of varying sizes, and much like the land 
 battles, the objective is to sink, rout or capture your opponents force. The damage modelling on 
 the ships is really impressive  people, structure and rigging react realistically to incoming 
 fire, with visible damage and visible effects on the performance of the ship itself. 
  
  The tactics of a naval battle are very different to those on land, typically you have to be very 
 aggressive, hit your opponents hard, split up and isolate their forces and then gang up on them. 
 The positioning of your ships is key, as they fire from their sides, with shot designed to damage 
 the hull, the rigging or the sailors. I thought the damage modelling was extremely impressive, 
 watching masts and rigging falling part, or spotting a sinking ship, sometimes as much as a minute 
 before it's status actually indicates it is in trouble, all show a great level of detail that has 
 been achieved here. 
  
  Unfortunately the naval battles haven't escaped the bugs either, the major one here being a frequent 
 crash whenever boarding a vessel  so much so that I simply don't issue the order to board vessels 
 anymore. 
  
  It takes a little while to get to grips with how the naval battles work, but it is well worth the 
 effort to do so, they are a great deal of fun  it is just a pity that there are not more of them. 
 
  
  I've had the opportunity to give the multiplayer a go and I'm pleased to find that it works well 
  there isn't much lag, the game making system worked first time and without problems and they've 
 introduced a ranking system also. Where they have really messed up with the multiplayer is in how 
 they have cut back on the customisability of your games.
  
  You have two choices that limit the size of the battle  standard or lots of money. You can't specify 
 how much you have to buy  which means there is no way to handicap for a weaker player, or design 
 your own scenario on the fly by tweaking what is on offer. The number of maps is also significantly 
 smaller than in previous games, with only two or three large maps for 2 v 2 type games  and no 
 siege maps for 2 v 1. I could also only find three set piece battle scenarios to play  two of 
 which were included on the demo  this is also significantly less than in previous games. This 
 hamstringing of the multiplayer game seems bizarre to me  why on earth would you cut down on the 
 options available to your players  giving more game play options is surely the easiest part of 
 the development process (maybe not for ranked games where balance has to be maintained, but certainly 
 for unranked games) . This lack of options is also something they need to address in the main single 
 player campaign game. For reasons of historical accuracy, each faction beings the game with certain 
 allies and certain starting regions and forces  it would be nice to have a feature to start the 
 campaign with all factions on an equal footing. For example, I'd like to play a campaign as Britain, 
 that is actually challenging, rather than a walkover due to how easy it is to quickly dominate 
 transatlantic trade.
  
  Technically speaking Empire is hugely impressive to look at, the graphics are stunning, although 
 even on Ultra settings they are not nearly as good as the pre-release screenshots would have you 
 believe, it also uses a very heavy handed LOD system, resulting in many units looking no better 
 at moderate distances than they did in Shogun  particularly in large battles  and this is on 
 a 285 GTX, not exactly an underpowered graphics card. Still, even with these irks, the smoke and 
 lighting effects look incredible, the animations (when they go smoothly) are fantastic, and the 
 overall look and feel of the battles is spot on. The sea battles are a particular success here, 
 the water look and ships look simply stunning, with impressive levels of detail up close. 
  
  The price to pay for this graphical prowess is in general performance  which, is acceptable 
 for the most part  and lengthy load times, which is not acceptable, especially when you consider 
 how short the load times were with M2TW; Empire doesn't appear to be doing that much more, that 
 the load times are some five times greater. Even the campaign map, which is largely static, suffers 
 from constant stuttering and delays  for some reason selecting my fleets or ports in the English 
 channel, often results in a twenty second pause; navigating around the map usually results in frantic 
 hard disk activity that stalls the game (and I defragged it especially!) .
  
  Despite all these problems, I still very much enjoy playing this game  once I've finished writing 
 this I will load it up for a battle or two. Battles are tactically challenging and visually satisfying, 
 even if their audio needs a lot of work. The strategy map, whilst lacking the beautiful simplicity 
 of previous TW games, still offers considerable challenges and reasons to think carefully about 
 your next move. The joys of playing the really big battles with friends, cannot be overstated. 
 If you c an overlook the bugs, and get your head around the many new features and ways of doing 
 things, this is a rewarding game, that I'm sure will only get better as it is patched and mods 
 are released online to add some of the missing functionality  just don't expect it to reach out 
 and grab you from the offset like other games in the series might have. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RhoDaZZ
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 12:45 pm PT
Review:  It all seemed great. I've been playing Medieval Total War 2 and other games in about the same genre 
 for a long time. Despite that it wasn't historically accurate, also had some duplicate troops, 
 it was still a game where you could actually think about what to do instead of waiting for the 
 damn cursor to go around the map. 
  
  Don't misunderstand me, I love when it gets complicated, with depth. I just don't like when it 
 makes you unable to play the game and enjoy it.
  
  Still at the moment I'm writing this I just can't get it into my head why CA decided to make such 
 lousy controls for the campaign. I want to god damn go from Sweden to the end of the Ottoman Empire 
 in a second if I want to. I don't want to wait 10 seconds just till I can get down there. I looked 
 through all the controls and still nothing happened. Only zoom can be changed. Hurray... LOL! Who 
 would want to zoom FASTER? I just want to use the damn map in the first place.
  
  Now, that's the basics of the game for me. Since I'm not a person to give up all that fast and 
 I had high hopes because I simply love this era and historical warfare, I kept on trying to see 
 if it all really was that bad. Yes.
  
  When I gave the campaign my last try, I thought to check out diplomacy. But... where IS diplomacy 
 I thought? Aparrently, you have to click on a special designated button for diplomacy to enter 
 such with a country. Now that is what I call mind blowing. Why not just have the good and simple 
 system: you click on a country's possession and you enter diplomacy mode. No? Well then there would 
 certainly be another function for that? Nope, it just did nothing. Great design.
  
  There were numerous examples of this all over the campaign UI with the clumsy design.
  
  Feeling 
 I had been run over pretty bad by the campaign, I decided that surely battles alone would probably 
 give me some sort of fun seeing as they are an independent mode and feature not connected directly 
 to the campaign technically.
  
  Again I was let down... not only are most of the units EXACTLY the same except for a SHADE in their 
 colour, but the animations being as crappy as they were took the final straw. I can simply NOT 
 enjoy something that looks like two identical robot armies marching against each other in some 
 nice clothes. And cavalry. Hah. Their commands work so bad I had to flee on my very first charge 
 were I was only supporting the rest of my army.
  
  That's just the tip of the iceberg though. Here's a few more for those who are still reading:
 
  
  Why would you want a skill rating system for something that does only have that one skill? You 
 can only go up and down the same scale. Honestly, I always felt the character system in MTWII lacked 
 quite a bit (though most was later fixed by mods) , but now it's just worse. Example: Priests/missionaries 
 are just as un-dynamic as they were in MTWII, and therefore quite useless in terms of trying to 
 do something yourself.
  
  What's up with the starting factions? Why not let players who want take their favourite a bit easier 
 (!!!) ? Maybe they're not interested in fighting a boring campaign for some "Kaiser" somewhere. 
 Denmark/Norway, just an example.
  
  Why is there such a closed-ness about the way the files are made in the game? Surely this could 
 with time become a mighty fine game but apparently CA decided it was time to make a new file format 
 of their own, so that no one can mod the game in the nearest future since there's no mod tools 
 (planned) either.
  
  Technical issues... I can say this. Why does the game have loops once in a while with ALL settings 
 turned down (yes, I have quite a decent PC) ? It doesn't lag, but it feels clumsy and unprofessional. 
 More like a beta release.
  
  Besides that I had some crashes, but there I will speak for myself. More on this in the conclusion.
 
  
  Space. When I realised all these facts I just wrote down... I thought well even then I might play 
 the game, you know, once in a while. Just because I love the history of the time and it's spirit. 
 But... I checked my hard drive and hell no! 14 GB for something once in a while. I'd rather have 
 a bunch of albums and movies that I use sometimes.
  
  So... all in all. If you really want this, I would recommend that you have $10000 for a new PC, 
 especially hard drive and the very very newest graphics card, otherwise it doesn't even come close 
 to being a pleasant experience except that the theme of the game is of course all right and there 
 should be more made of it. An alternative is to play it at a good netcaf chain where they frequently 
 update their hardware to the newest. Then, with some multiplayer action too perhaps it is deserving 
 of a 5'er.
  
  Otherwise though, I give the 6 points for the theme alone, which is realised extremely badly in 
 its gameplay, and the 0.5 for the experience you COULD get if you MIGHT get a 20k PC someday 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avenger1212
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 12:46 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to start out by saying this is a difficult review to write. My personal feeling on the 
 game is that CA has streamlined the most tedious parts of past Total War volumes, while making 
 the strategy portion more robust and engrossing. So, as a whole I think this is an excellent next 
 step in the evolution of the franchise. That said, the game really did need more time in beta testing 
 as others have said. And, as much as I'd love to grade this title based on its potential, which 
 I fully expect to be realized in a patch or two, I must proceed based on the game as it was released 
 and plays to date. 
  
  I'd like to start out by singing the praises of CA and the Total War team before I stab them in 
 the back. Empire TW as you know takes place during the Revolutionary war era, starting during the 
 early 1700's thru the Napoleon's days on earth and the American Revolution to the earliest stages 
 of the Civil War era when steam driven machinery took off. It's an evolution of the melee based 
 combat to ranged combat, which sets apart this release from previous Total War games. It's enough 
 to say old strategies will not always work here, such as using your cavalry to flank the enemy 
 and take out cannons before nearby defenders can save them. Cavalry was up to now an all purpose 
 unit that just had to avoid pikemen. With Empire, cavalry must be used carefully as a simple line 
 of gunmen can wipe them out with a head on charge. This example is to show, your skill as a strategist 
 will be tested in this game, and poor decisions will be punished more than in past TW games. It, 
 in my opinion, makes the combat more authentic to the era, even to the point where the width of 
 your line affects how much firepower that unit will have (you might recall from history class that 
 only the first line or two of infantry was able to fire, with the rest waiting to move forward 
 to fill in gaps as others are killed) . The strategy combat seems well done and while staying based 
 in previous games game play, offers the change you would expect from this era.
  
  Ship combat is another new element to the strategy offering. It is similar to other games in this 
 regard like Sid Meyers Pirates. It's fun, so I'm glad they added it, but at the same time I find 
 the game play to be cumbersome with larger fleets. I find myself losing battles I might have otherwise 
 won simply because I am unable to micromanage all my ships in real time. Letting the AI run them 
 does not seem as effective as the AI runs the opponent. So, you really have to be on the ball with 
 the ships. But, for an analogy I quote C3PO from Star Wars A New Hope in saying "Curse my metal 
 body, I wasn't fast enough." Trying to board a ship is just not worth attempting. For one, there's 
 no time, and secondly it's easier to sink the opponent than wear them down to just the right moment 
 where boarding them won't result in your own demise at their broadside. Maybe I'll learn some strategy 
 to make this work in time, but for now it's something I avoid.
  
  The tactical map is where the majority of significant changes come from in ETW. I know some of 
 you like the array of options available in previous TW games. I tip my hat to you and leave that 
 argument to your review. As for mine, I absolutely love the slimmed down campaign map. They have 
 elected to revamp almost entirely how this part of the game works. While you do still build add-on 
 buildings in your cities that allow new unit creation or buff the cities stats, there is only one 
 city per region which is the capital of that region. As your region grows, you are given new build 
 nodes for commerce, food, or education/culture. Each of these areas have options that favor the 
 aspects of civilization (survival, commerce, culture and military) . 
  
  In ETW the devs saw fit to bestow upon us a tech tree that you get to elect how it is followed 
 via building schools, colleges, and universities on town nodes, and ordering those facilities to 
 focus on a particular upgrade. Each town that is set up for schooling is able to research an item 
 in the tech tree. The tech tree contains upgrades that benefit the before mentioned aspects of 
 civilization and is where anything that could give you an edge over your opponents is researched. 
 Everything in this tree is useful and makes for a richer tactical aspect for the game. 
  
  There's much more to go into in the tactical arena, but I don't want my review to go on indefinitely. 
 You'll have to discover them for yourself if you end up buying the game. I found the changes to 
 the tactical map intuitive and easier to manage while adding a surprising amount of depth to the 
 game via the tech tree. Good work CA, you really improved the series here!
  
  The snap of the trap:
  
  This game has so much going for it, I hate to report it's not finished. 
 It seems like games get released all too often these days without proper testing and coding. From 
 a marketing perspective, I can see how delaying a release could result in lost sales each time 
 you do so. However, releasing a frustrating, buggy and unfinished game on your customers isn't 
 much better. I believe CA to be a company that prides themselves in their work, and I expect the 
 upcoming patches will address the problems fully. However, for this review I must report the following 
 issues:
  
  AI: The AI in ETW is fickle. I've literally watched the computer run melee units back and forth 
 15 feet in front of my lines as I shoot them down. Had the computer engaged, they probably would 
 have beaten me back. Instead, I am handed a victory that should not have occurred. In fort sieges, 
 I've pinned the enemy unit in a corner of my fort and wiped them out as they stood with their backs 
 to me doing nothing. I guess with nowhere to run, the computer elected to not act at all. They 
 could have turned and fired back. There are tons of little issues like this that will probably 
 be worked out in time. For now, it's regrettable but forgivable really. 
  
  Also, when you siege a city, you have an option to demand they surrender. I've only had that actually 
 work once, and it bugged out forcing me to attack the city anyway. In most cases, this option is 
 worthless since no matter how bad they are outnumbered, the enemy would rather fight.
  
  Crashes: This past Friday night I began the 4th episode of the Road to Independence. In this mission 
 you are tasked with expanding the 13 colonies to essentially form the USA as we know it through 
 war and diplomacy. After 6 hours of advancing across our great nation, I was heartbroken to be 
 greeted with a white screen and fatal exception of empire. exe upon the resolution of an end of 
 turn phase (following all the factions taking their turns) . Upon reloading the game and even after 
 rebooting my computer, that turn always results in a crash, and nothing I've tried will allow me 
 to progress any further than ending that turn from the autosave. In short, my campaign is now over, 
 and my evening wasted.
  
  Load times: Next to the demo, these are a lot better. However, taking command of battles becomes 
 a bit less exciting given they are not short either. I can't really say they are awful, but I think 
 they could be shorter with some optimization.
  
  Performance: The campaign map is choppy. I believe the devs are addressing this in the next patch. 
 For what the game is, I think it requires more of a computer than it should need. However, TW games 
 of the past had similar drawbacks at release. These games may not pack the graphical punch of say 
 Crysis, but there is a lot going on. But, I would warn the performance does need tweaking, and 
 encourage that the devs are on top of this one.
  
  Faction turn phase (yes I have CPU moves turned off, so I'm not seeing their movements) : This is 
 the part of the game that makes me not want to play it. There is a large list of major and minor 
 factions which each get a turn. The time it takes to cycle through all the factions can at times 
 be staggering. As a faction grows, it's turn takes longer (the British took nearly a minute themselves 
 to resolve their turn once up to speed) . I timed a 3 minute end of turn phase in an advanced campaign 
 where several factions had emerged as leaders. Mexico became a faction at one point, causing me 
 to curse since I knew there would be one more faction in my EOT phase. Without some optimization 
 to this part of the game, I'm not sure I'll be able to play it much longer. It takes 30 seconds 
 to spend your cash, an hour to build an army and 3 minutes in between turns. This is unacceptable 
 IMO.
  
  Diplomacy: The diplomacy options are actually very cool in this game. The diplomacy menu is well 
 done and makes sense. However, the diplomacy AI is retarded. Nearly every turn I have to refuse 
 England or Frances offers to buy my territories (the same ones) . Enough! I'm not selling! If you 
 become too powerful, your strategic partnerships will deteriorate to the point where everyone is 
 against you. While I agree, real life has a tendency to be this way, it can be somewhat crippling 
 to the diplomatic features of this game. China probably hates us, but they'll still sell us their 
 stuff and buy ours. Some AI tweaks here and I think this will be the best diplomacy to date in 
 a TW game. But for now, it's kind of broken.
  
  Empire TW has the potential of being the best TW game to date. There is so much good stuff there, 
 it would pain me to see them not fix the problems. I think games like Star Trek Legacy (which was 
 abandoned after release by the Bethesda) make us weary of games that are released in poor shape. 
 I don't think CA will do this to us, but to those ends I'd recommend not buying the game until 
 it is polished. Once it is polished, I think I'll sit back and marvel at what CA has done. This 
 is truly a well thought out game, even if the execution needs a little more work. When the bugs 
 are fixed, I'll come back and review my score. For now, buyer beware, this one comes "as is".
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: John-Smiths
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2009 8:45 am PT
Review:  As you've probably guessed I love RTS games and especially Total War games, I've played them all, 
 enjoyed them all and have been blown away by this. 
  
  Graphics:
  Simply beautiful. If you have a PC which can run this game even on a mediocre level it looks fantastic, 
 the most detailed land based amries, especially on the muskets. The faces look real and enable 
 you to connect with the men under your command. The Naval aspect of the game is also beautiful, 
 even with water details on low, they look better then most games out now, and the ships and even 
 the men on the decks are fasinating to watch it's as if they're real. The campaign map is the best 
 yet, and looks great and in itself is also taxing on the computer, but it works very well.
  
  Sound:
  Very well done. With a decent bass system the cannons on land are impressive, but 
 50+ guns going off on the biggest ships rocks the house, making you fell like you're on the ship 
 itself. The men shouting orders are better then before and the drums during the battles are very 
 effective. The muskets sound real and ships moving in the sea sound incredibly detailed. The music 
 is as always very good and helps set the scene during any battle.
  
  User Interface:
  The easiest yet. Some have complained that the game gets a bit confusing, really? If you've played 
 the previous versions you'll notice a massive change straight away on the campaign map, and even 
 I a Total War veteran had to take some time to adjust. After the intial shock has passed, it's 
 so much of an improvement over the past, you'll wonder how you played the others before. Very often 
 the little changes in the game hit you the most, like buildings outside the major settlements. 
 Setting taxes is much easier and so is troop management, which compared to other versions is so 
 much nicer and just right. The battles are run the same way, but this helps, especially when some 
 big battles get confusing, simplicity helps a lot. Diplomacy is now much easier and you no longer 
 have to waste time, chasing random bloody characters around the map, and you can go straight to 
 the nation for deals, it's brilliant. Not having to worry about governers is very helpful as the 
 computer automatically assigns them, which is much easier. The way that priests or gentlemen are 
 recruited is extremely helpful and means you no longer have to take the time to produce them.
 
  
  Battle:
  Thankfully, the same interface is present from the past games and though you may not think this 
 is good, it's great as the system worked fine, so for Total War fans it's a great help, with a 
 game with so much change. The land armies are very different, or at least the ones I've fought. 
 Against other great powers, gunpowder and range are major factors and well timed tactics make cavalry 
 and charging infantry about as useful as Communism. Against the Native Americans, you can, if you're 
 careful and smart enough can beat much larger enemies who have melee infantry, and sometimes not 
 fight in close quaters, but about half the time, you end up fighting by hand, which is fine as 
 it doesn't happen too often.
  
  Navy:
  I've given this it's own section as it's my favourite part of the game. I'm not sure why people 
 say it's not that rewarding but when my ships manage to work togather and smash enemy fleets of 
 the French or Spanish, it feels bloody good. The big naval battles with the bigest 122 gun ships 
 is exciting as you wait for the lumbering giant to fire a broadside and decimate anyhting in range. 
 If, like me, you enjoy the age of sail, due me being a historyy student you'll love the navy side 
 ot it.
  
  Criticism:
  The few things that make the game a tad annoying are its clunky feeling as you end the turn, as 
 the game cycles through what seems to be an infinite number of nations. How at the beginning of 
 the game, money can be very hard to earn, but most of all how as your research level increases, 
 you'll notice that the enemy seems to be able to advance at pretty much the same level as you, 
 which is frustrating, especially the time it takes to research everything. Sometimes this makes 
 it irrelevant but when you complete something and realise you're fighting with something the enemy 
 doesn't have, it fells like you've earned the fight and the ensueing victory. 
  
  Overall:
  If you like RTS games, you'll love it, and of course as long as it can play the game 
 at a decent level. Very few things now remain from the originals and nearly everything is a major 
 improvement. The battles are endless fun and the number of playable nations as always means you 
 can play for the rest of your life. The criticisms that some people have pointed out like IGN and 
 of eventually Gamespot as it poorly rates the game on the samllest of things are in the end irrelevant, 
 this game is for me, the best RTS ever and best PC game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unknownblob
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2009 6:51 am PT
Review:  ETW is an amazing game and is quite different from Medieval 2 TW. There are revolutions and a more 
 in-depth diplomacy, plenty a battle will be fought on this game. So is it any good?
  First I will run through the good bits about it:
  It is fun and highly addictive.
  It differs 
 from the previous Total war games (well you don't want them to be exactly the same) , there are 
 50 factions, but not all of them are playable. 
  The revolutions will keep you on your toes, just in case a new faction appears suddenly out of 
 one of your regions or if your lower classes want a change in government. 
  The Road to Independence gets you started for the Grand Campaign and on the last episode is a campaign 
 for the United States. 
  The diplomacy is realistic and the actually AI honour alliances and your allies (well ex-allies) 
 won't try to smash your face in. 
  Amazing graphics!
  Sea battles are a great addition to the game.
  
  Now for the Bad bit:
  There are quite a 
 few bugs with it and may crash even with high spec computers.
  The graphics are great but they won't work on low spec computers.
  There arn't many unique units 
 in the game, for example the United Provinces have no unique units at all.
  Installing is a pain.
  The interface is a little hard to get used to.
  
  Overall this is 
 a great game and as you can see the good outweighs the bad, so if when the patch comes it will 
 be even better! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hvypetals
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 6:53 am PT
Review:  CA has trimmed the fat and pushed everything that makes a TW so much fun.
  
  The Good: excellent attention to detail, zones of control for forts and armies, a quasi attempt 
 at logistics with generals recruiting ability, easier to refit delpleted units, winning battles 
 ups happiness, graphics are superb, the motion capture guys deserve a pat on the back because the 
 hand to hand stuff is really amazing and never gets old, units can hold certain houses, beautiful, 
 music is good and subtle, you can now name your units and luscious maps/terrain to fight on. Lastly 
 - Im american playing chapter 4 now of the RTI and Im loving every second of it.
  
  The Bad: manual is to scrawny, game CTD every ten minutes to half n hour forcing a power cycle 
 on a now unavailable OS, slight buggy behavior in artillery limber/unlimbering, cant rename general 
 or admiral units OH and did I mention the game CTD every ten minutes?
  
  Conclusion: Even with the nasty CTD the game is still a masterpiece. I think only a TW game could 
 pull this off. And only this version. When they isolate and patch this bug Ill give it a ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LawMan87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Alrite so i am an RTS finatic. I love all sorts of RTS game. SOOO, yes this game has been on my 
 rardar since announced.
  
  Its very, very fun. Very few rts games allow you to control hundres of units at once, and this 
 game lets u do it with ease. 
  
  My gripe with it is the multiplayer. Theres no community, the only chat takes place in the pre 
 game lobbys. Im sad they didnt really put more effort into it, its a game that could honestly thrive 
 and progress through multiplayer. For me at least, i play games for multiplayer, and this game 
 will get boring because its impossible to make a community of support for this game. 
  
  Aside from that, the single player is AWESOME.
  
  Land battles are fun, SIEGE is a blast!! 
 Im not a fan of the naval /= Its sort of boring to me. 
  
  An in all this is a good game for any RTS fan out there. But if your like me and buy games for 
 the multiplayer experience, its there, only in a very small dose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulwyton
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2009 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Pros: 
  Great graphics
  Enjoyable music
  Good AI
  Fluent gameplay
  UI and new system tweaks are great
  Players have more controls than previous titles
  
  Cons:
 
  Only one facial texture for every type of recruits
  Group pathfinding in naval battle is weird
  Some weird units settings
  Steam is not the best 
 way to present a game this big
  
  Before you can enjoy this great game, you need to pray that steam works for you. Many people said 
 that we are just commenting on the game, but I think a game should be judged from box design to 
 un-installation. 
  
  I am going to write this review point by point, hope it will be easier to read.
  
  Collector 
 Edition:
  
  1. Good design
  2. Some rough handling (scratches on the wooden box)
  3. Special units not immediately accessible in game
  
  Installation:
  
  1. Steam is a bit 
 buggy
  2. Hard-copy installation doesn't take too long
  
  Starting game:
  
  1. Long loading time and no indication of loading progress
  2. Cinematic is alright
  
  Road 
 to independence:
  
  1. Good guide for new players
  2. Too short, players should be allowed to play as US instead of G. Washington
  3. More historical 
 details needed
  
  Country management (Turn Based) :
  
  1. Reduction in micro-managements 
  2. More time to spend on major events
  3. Much better UI
 
  4. Tech. tree is great and logical
  5. City is more alive than previous titles
  6. Little problem with stacking pirates over trade routes
  7. Pirating should not always be successful
 
  8. Better troops deployment (can spread troops to defend different sections of the state rather 
 than accumulating them on the map)
  
  Land Battle (RTS) :
  
  1. Great details and graphics
  2. Lacks diversity within the same regiment (body sizes, faces 
 etc.)
  3. Lacks army musicians (air pipe for example)
  4. Weird formations on rough grounds 
  5. Intense battle with limitless possibilities
  6. Strategy 
 and plans are more important than number of units (very realistic)
  7. Improved morale system
  8. Walls not completely destroyed when reaching 100% damage, troops 
 might get trapped sometimes.
  
  Naval Battle (RTS) :
  
  1. Great details and graphics
  2. Group path-finding needs more attention
  3. No problem with path-finding when controlling 
 one vessel at a time
  4. Positioning of ships needs great predictions or it will turn into a mess
  5. Battle always 
 starts at open sea (no fighting around coastline / dock assault)
  6. Great fun and exciting to watch the impact of cannonballs on enemy ships
  7. Interesting to 
 see enemy sailors jumping into the sea when their ship is sinking
  8. Great visual effects when ship explodes
  
  Closing comment:
  
  Empire: Total War is 
 definitely one of the best strategy games in the market. 
  All the tweaks with UI and player controls have definitely prevented the feeling:
  "Oh, just 
 another Total War game". If you are a fan of grand strategy games, this
  is the game you must have.
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  Sound: 9.0
  Gameplay: 9.0
  Re-playability: 
 9.0
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stikman1992
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 4:18 pm PT
Review:  empire total war is an amazing game, it just takes so long to do anything, its almost not worth 
 it. there are so many unnecessary animations which take way to long and just subtract from the 
 overall experience of the game. the campaign map is too complex and whilst very impressive, manages 
 to complicate building and managing provinces. medievil total war 2 got the balance just right 
 and i dont see why they decided to change it. im not being completely negative though, as the scale 
 is breathtaking, and the if it weren't for the ridiculous amount of time it takes to just go through 
 1 turn it would be brilliant. The sea battles which were so heavily publicised and hyped up are 
 confusing and hard to manage as well, though i think it's a hard area to do well and it is by far 
 the best attempt at sea battles. it is so irritating because CA had a brilliant game they soured 
 with little things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianj444
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2009 3:08 pm PT
Review:  E: TW has got a lot of new stuff in it that will keep you busy for a long time trying to see all 
 of it. The new Naval Battles are amazing, much better than the land battles in my opinion. Land 
 Graphics do not seem as good in E: TW as they were in M II: TW. Also the new AI seems to have quite 
 a few bugs that need to be patched, especially when your fighting aginst or behind walls. 
  
  The Campaign map is pretty amazing and completely redesigned from any previous TW game. They 
 really did a nice job with it. The new trade system is innovative and sometimes a pain, especially 
 when you constantly have to defend against people raiding your shipping lines. 
  
  The new technology tree is good too, it opens a much more complex aspect in what you may want to 
 develop first, and before anyone else. 
  
  And lastly Diplomacy seems to be much improved over MII: TW, when you enter an alliance and open 
 trade routes with outher countries they seem to last until you do something to change that. Which 
 is a good sign considering anyone would turn against you quickly in MII: TW. 
  
  All in all, i look forward to playing this game for many many more hours and also look forward 
 to a patch!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voxsartoria
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2009 8:34 am PT
Review:  This is indeed a great game and I am enjoying every moment of it but many features from old Total 
 War games, that I, and many others, have enjoyed are missing. Even with this, the game is great. 
 A definite must-buy. For new Total War players, it might take a while to learn the way the game 
 works but once it is has been figured out you will enjoy the game.
  
  My only complaint is, you need like a supercomputer to run this game. And even people with the 
 latest hardware might experience some FPS drops in the game. But it's nothing too serious, game 
 is still very playable.
  
  The AI is a bit weird but in my opinion, better than in previous Total War games. One bad example 
 is, if you play on very hard, you will find at times that the AI has an advantage over you and 
 can own a unit of your riflemen with a unit of militia. 
  
  So, yeah this is my crappy review :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan6236
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 6:13 am PT
Review:  So here we go again with Steam. Why every game company feels the need to put people through Steam 
 I don't know but they do. You can get this game hacked from another source, steam or no steam, 
 so why they make guys like me out in rural towns that don't have broadband lug a desktop pc around 
 to get a game I spent 50 dollars on installed I'll never know. Moving on...
  
  The game is great, I love it. Here again though, bugs have really soured me to the game. My laptop 
 which runs Dawn of War 2, Company of Heroes, Bioshock, and the other Total war games just gets 
 a blue screen of death everytime I try to run the thing. 
  My desktop has no trouble with it, but then out of nowhere the game will crash to desktop with 
 no message or anything. And it gets more frequent over time. Now if you goto the TWC Forums, there're 
 about 100 people complaining about the same problem. So many that they've had to ask people to 
 stop making posts. 
  
  Now before you think that it's probably just the PC having graphics glitches, I run an Intel i7, 
 3 GB DDR3, a Radeon 4850, and a 750GB HD and I'm having trouble with graphic glitches? 
  A buddy runs it ok but with a little chugging on a desktop he's had for about 4 years with a new 
 GeForce 7600 and a Pentium 4, so it's across a spectrum and I think that makes it the software.
 
  
  Creative assembly has done an amazing job with the scope of this game through all the bugs. CA 
 has a history of making solid enjoyable games that run smooth and I have no doubts that any issues 
 that the game has will be ironed out in short order. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MackB835
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 10:11 pm PT
Review:  First off, if you have a computer with good hardware you should be able to run this game on high 
 or ultra. That said, it does stutter during some cut scenes and battles. The audio cuts in and 
 out at weird times for the tutorial, almost as if they are standing next to you one minute and 
 then whispering across a room the next. Trading feels a bit lacking and there is a waypoint glitch 
 that prevented my ships from even leaving one area because they were blocked in by ships of the 
 AI who were also stuck, the ships could not leave the area and could not move, so I ended up scuttling 
 my fleet at that location. Last I checked the AI fleet was still stuck in the transition zone. 
 Your friendly AI is of no use, and are not very friendly, in fact I found my enemy far more obliging 
 in terms of buying and trading goods than my own 'allies'
  The tutorials are MAJORLY lacking for new comers to the series, especially in the main campaign.
 
  
  I guess to sum it up, the game needs a patch, which I am sure will be out soon as total war team 
 was always pretty good at patching products. If your looking for a game with instant action or 
 a command and conquer type of play then look elsewhere, this one is more like chess where you must 
 position your pieces and strike.
  
  Actually, change that, the game is more like checkers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkknightFXR
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 7, 2009 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Alright, Empire: Total War, supposedly the best in the series... not quite. I find that this game 
 could have been much more improved, they said they would polish it that's why they extended it 
 well it doesn't seem as polished as they could have done. The A. I. is by far near idiotic, either 
 not attacking due to an enemy being slightly out of the attack angle and not having common sense 
 to re-orient themselves for a good attack or by having a disgusting overview look of the world 
 map, the graphics by far aren't as good as they should be. I find that when I set my eyes on the 
 overview of the world map... I think I get eye irritations compared to looking at Medieval 2, which 
 I find by far to be much more entertaining, fort battles are completely stupid and a waste, all 
 soldiers having grapples and forts with short range cannons, like what the hell is that? Forts... 
 *sigh* broken, sea battles by far the more interesting aspect of Empire: Total War, but I find 
 myself being bored even playing that... something I long anticipated but, I feel let down, graphics 
 for it sure are amazing by far I believe the best there is in the game but I don't feel it. Tax 
 system... it's okay... could be a lot better for government management... the government and policies 
 could be much better... but oh well that's the product we were given... I still feel I wasted money 
 for the pre-order. Either way agree or not this game has too much potential but so much is wasted... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duelgongo
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2009 8:47 pm PT
Review:  and btw.. to all those people giving it lows, apparently ppl r just jealous and cannot give credit! 
 10/10!! 100/10 if i could.
  amazing graphics, first game with realistic ship battles which depend on the wind and speed of 
 your ship, and what its packing.
  Great time line as it whips out the American Revolution and smacks u in the face with it, as u 
 manage it!!!!
  also, i like how they didn't rush to have 10000729381979 people to play as, only the major roles 
 (super powers) in this time of age; fantastic! also, as i played as the Americans, i laughed (being 
 Canadian) on how when they charged they howled and yelled like cowboys!! xD (im not far into the 
 play experience)
  i would like to congrats the best RTS by far! and will continue to stand out!
  i also like the 
 variety in the soldiers, from the fierce redcoats to the jabbering Ottomans!! Awsome gameplay, 
 and im getting happy to know in a couple of months online campaign... with this launched, many 
 of our lives will be molded into a computer chair!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shoot-d-shit
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2009 8:45 pm PT
Review:  This game sums up what the TOTAL WAR series means!! If you are a fan, get it!
  If you are new to the series, get it! 
  If you want to play one hell-of-a-RTS, guess what, get 
 it! 
  
  At high resolutions the game still preforms decently however the graphics really kick out and show 
 you what the engine is capable at these resolutions... I'm talking 1920x1200 ...
  The grand campaign can be a very long term game-play, giving more bang for the buck. I'm sure we 
 all know by now how the total war series game-play is but let me tell you about the naval battle.. 
 BOY IS IT EXCITING to have multiple ships swearing around shooting all they got at each other and 
 creating a "whirlpool" effect in the water (much like the pirates of the Caribbean one lol)
  Naval battles do not however play a primary roll in the game as most battles are fought on land, 
 but when they do occur, they are -in my opinion- the best part of this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: loki_rj
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 7:20 pm PT
Review:  It'll probably look weird that I'm starting this review talking about RPGs... Well, on RPGs you 
 allocate XP gained throughout hours of fighting on areas you'd like to focus on. You'd improve 
 on many different areas, while leaving certain features, unchanged, weakened even.
  
  Creative Assembly did just that with Empire Total War, and it brought mixed results.
  
  The 
 biggest fuss around this game was the all-new sea battles system, that promised, for once, to actually 
 make combat sea warfare both realistic and exciting. It did that... and it didn't. Confused at 
 that last sentence? It can be used a lot in the game.
  
  While wind and cannon mechanics work great, ship movements are "clunky" and confusing, and more 
 often than not you'll find your 'groups' of ships locked in a single place, the result of a complex 
 maneuver, while your enemy wilts away from you, turning faster and more efficiently, leaving you 
 struggling for cohesion when they're already preparing for a second pass through your formation. 
 My guess at what went wrong? Developers were reluctant to: a) portrait acurately how unmaneuverable 
 these ships were; and b) leave too little control in the hands of the player. We're talking about 
 massive wooden man-o-wars being moved by the force of the wind. It'd take almost two minutes for 
 ships to pass by each other's side. Battles were basically 90% maneuvering, and 10% combat. And 
 aboard each of those vessels was an experienced Captain, capable of handling the situations that 
 arrived before his eyes. On ETW, everything is in your hands. You'll feel somewhat overwhelmed 
 at how many different commands you're supposed to give just to get in range of enemy vessels. 
 
  
  The battles themselves, though, are beautiful to watch. Each ship is bustling with activity (though 
 too little, in my opinion) , and the chaos is fully despicted. The only problem is that if you've 
 played a single sea battle, you've played them all. They're repetitive, and the most fun thing 
 you can do, boarding a ship, is hardly ever done. Enough said that after over twenty hours of gameplay, 
 I haven't been able to do it once. After a while, in sea-battles Auto-resolve will be the norm.
 
  
  On land battles, though, the game really shines. It takes a while to research the technology that'll 
 make you gleam with satisfaction at each battle, but seeing your line coordinately firing salvo 
 after salvo of gunfire at helpless indians (both american and Indian) , leading a cavalry charge 
 right into the heart of a French line, climbing up walls in order to take over a fort... I hadn't 
 felt as pleased with a game since I saw gauls bleed into the shields of my legions back in Rome 
 Total War.
  
  By simple interface changes, CA has made land battles more intuitive, and formations more decisive 
 than in previous games. On Rome, if you had a deep enough square in your formation you'd probably 
 carry the day. With gunpowder infantry, though, you need wide ranks, to unleash as many bullets 
 as possible in a single strike. Closed up formations and encirclements will often be the most "pleasing" 
 victories, as you decimate your enemies from afar (if they choose to be afar, as they've all got 
 a tendency to run straight at your lines) , and to achieve those you'll get a new set of buttons 
 to try out on your battle pannel. For starters, at last we have a 'move forward' button, accompanied 
 by a 'move back'. "Turn" button will do just that, adjusting your soldiers to a new line of fire, 
 represented on the acual battle map - a welcome change to 'wait until the arrow is green'. With 
 two buttons, you can either make your formation wider or deeper, very useful when you're fighting 
 on urban or forest scenarios. With another, you'll group units together to act as a single force. 
 
  
  These features, combined, make the actual "fighting" the highlight of the game. The "battles" though, 
 in terms of scenario and graphs, have been stripped bare. It should be enough to say that while 
 the new 'cover' system works nice enough (though it's surprisingly hard to actually move your troops 
 into cover) the scenarios on Rome Total War, a game, what?, six years old, are vastly superior 
 to those of Empire. CA was right when they said that sieges were no longer the highlight of the 
 game, since cities are now unordely groups of buildings that look both awful, and awfully similar. 
 "Fighting in the streets"? Ha! I'd say: Find me a street... The only difference between Paris and 
 colonial Boston is the number of buildings grouped together. I can understand the logistical difficulties 
 of having a system based on building-cover, and hundreds, if not thousands, of hollow buildings 
 within every siege scenario, but hey, what they sold us was definately no better. Every city looks 
 the same. The only difference between the cities in India and America are the town halls. And the 
 armies! You know the difference between Prussian troops and Russian troops? None. Sweden and Spanish? 
 None. French and British? None. I know line infantries all wore colored coats (though militia troops 
 did not all wear the same plaid clothes) , but it'd be nice to see rank and insignia differences 
 between German and Spanish horsemen. (So, get to work you modding fanatics!) Elite and unique troops 
 are concentrated between the two powers of the time: England and France (France, actually, being 
 a single province in the map, easily conquered by my Prussian armies) ; and the rest appear followers 
 of the trends. Like Prussia and Austria didn't have concerns of their own (one another, actually) . 
 Like Spain and Portugal, main colonial powers a century earlier, now were nothing more than 'peaceful' 
 traders and colonists, happy with leaving the other European nations in charge of battling out 
 for control of Europe. 
  
  Damn... I've just spent close to half an hour typing this up, and still I give it a 9.0? Yes, actually. 
 As I said on the review deck: This is a Total War game, and Total War games come with a certified 
 8.0 mark, with every grade above varying between games of the series. The trademark combat and 
 addictive political games are still there. It's fun to weave up alliances with strategically smaller 
 countries, to make sure that your enemies know that if they attack this smaller country they're 
 attacking you. And if they do it anyway, go out there and take that little country for yourself, 
 making peace immedieately after, while keeping your enemies at bay and at the same time providing 
 your troops with a solid starting position for future campaigns. It's a blast the feel of worry 
 once you see that Great Brittain has disputed your right to the throne after your first monarch 
 die, and the desperate, exhilarating power struggle that follows can, for a fact, change the face 
 of Europe.
  
  Who cares about its major let-downs (including Steam downloads) ?
  
  It's grand-scale. It's Total War. It's just not fullly what everyone expected. But it's still addictive, 
 and it's still certain to declare war on my social life for the following weeks.
  
  Time to go back to Prussia... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2009 4:23 pm PT
Review:  This review will of course fly in the face of popular opinion, but someone has to play Devil's 
 Advocate. 
  I have to say that having played all the TW games since day of their first release, this one has 
 got me a bit stymied. I'm not sure where to place it in the series, except in a category of its' 
 own. Gone is the gritty, grimy look and feel of M2TW... replaced by a bright, colourful, almost 
 whimsical style to the units and map. Everyone has sung the praises for this game to the rafters, 
 but there really are serious downsides.
  For one thing a return of the clone armies of RTW that was promised by CA not to happen, has happened. They 
 promised that even the horses in a cavalry unit would be different. In fact all units in a class 
 are identical to their moustaches. Despite the advances made in M2TW with the addition of blood, 
 mud-encrusted uniforms and torched corpses, CA has opted to present a more "family-friendly" look 
 with only a field littered with unblemished "corpses" is an indication that battle has occurred. 
 Even on Ultra settings, the landscape, trees and units themselves can at best be described as average 
 (save for the ships which are quite glorious to behold) .
  Path finding is a serious problem, particularly with large armies. Try to get them to advance as 
 one large force and the path finding goes haywire with troops heading off in all directions. Ranged 
 gunfire is a very short affair when the two opposing armies meet, with the A. I. generally opting 
 for a charge as soon as it lays eyes on you. Not too authentic there, CA.
  The Campaign Map. If you've ever played a TW game you'll be surprised at just how simple and cartoony 
 it is. A bit like Civilization crossed with RISK. Despite what CA and many reviewers have stated, 
 this game has been dumbed-down for the mass market... don't be fooled.
  The naval battles, well they're a world of their own. While lavish in the detail, particularly 
 the ships themselves, the unit movements are simple, yet confoundingly bad in their implementation. 
 Ships behave poorly when not directly controlled and seem to enjoy sitting idly while they are 
 pummelled by enemy cannon fire. The AI here works against you remarkably well so micro-management 
 of your fleet becomes imperative. As pretty as it looks, it becomes repetitive all too quickly, 
 and the boarding of ships is difficult when the enemy quickly routs when you close and then you 
 cannot board them for some strange reason... that's when you should be able to board them. You will 
 tire of them fairly quickly in a protracted campaign, so the Auto-resolve will come in handy in 
 a very short space of time for TW vets. 
  Requiring Steam, in other words an Internet connection to even play the game is a poor choice. 
 There still are many in the world who have no Internet for gaming, or very low speed. This is not 
 Steam-bashing, this is just stating a fact that has already alienated many a potential buyer. As 
 an anti-piracy measure it has failed miserably, with the game already pirated within hours of release 
 on Steam.
  The addition of a Mini-Campaign (the American Revolution commencing with the establishment of Jownstown 
 in Virginia) is quite a good introduction to the gameplay mechanics of the game and a welcome inclusion. 
 While not always historically correct, it does make for a fun lead-in into what the player will 
 eventually (or initially for many) find in the enormous Grand Campaign. Kudos must be paid for 
 this.
  Overall, I was expecting the same leap from MTW to RTW with this release from M2TW. In the end 
 we get an odd assortment of many games under the banner of a Total War game. Its' fun, but nowehere 
 near as seriously detailed as previous titles. And everything has been simplified despite what 
 the majority of reviewers have claimed. This a is a good thing for many new players, but for strategy 
 purists its' a bit of a slap in the face. As for the bugs... I just pray a patch is coming quickly, 
 for there are many.
  Still I will play on, and look forward to the day the modding community get involved. They will 
 be the ones who make this game what it could/should have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assasin1008
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 11:43 am PT
Review:  I don't know why people are complaining about steam just get over with it people! Empire is a great 
 game, you won't find any better strategy game than this this game, and what makes this game still 
 better is that you can play online without downloading anything so you just go to the main menu 
 and press to play in multiplayer mode. It has a good campaign map too, but what let's the game down 
 are the graphics. It is one of the best games I have ever played and I think you should buy it as 
 fast as you can. But you should be sure that your computer has the requirements for the game so 
 the game wouldn't be slow. This game has better and new units for land battles compared to the 
 previous total war games and it you will have the opportunity to play sea battles as well. One 
 last thing that makes this game so great is that you will have the opportunity to play in America, India, and 
 in Europe. The last thing I want to say is that Steam haters should stop giving the game bad rates 
 just because you have to install Steam because Steam doesn't have to do anything with the  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRM114
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 10:27 pm PT
Review:  First Off I have been a Total War Nut since the days of Shogun. Creative Assembly's franchise is 
 easily my second favorite PC series after the Battlefield Games, and the Original Medieval Total 
 War is arguably my favorite game of all time. I absolutely loved Medieval 2 and Rome, despite their 
 flaws and eagerly anticipated the release of Empire Total War. While some people have bemoaned 
 the transition to gunpowder warfare, I've been excited for it, as I think it offers a different 
 tactical experience than the hack and slash gameplay that has been the staple of the series. Sadly, 
 while ETW is indeed a very good game with a some great improvements it is SEVERELY lacking in polish. 
 The developers should've taken at least 1-3 more months to work on fine tuning this game. As it 
 stands now, Empire is a solid game and still a lot of fun, but with a few glaring errors that, 
 quite frankly, should've been addressed before release. The entire product feels like an unfinished 
 beta at first. It's fun and addicting just like every total war, no doubt, but it definitely could've 
 used some more development time. 
  
  As for the game itself;
  
  The Good: The campaign map has received a complete overhaul. This is the best campaign map of any 
 total war. Worldwide in scope, the game is about empire management; technological advance, economics 
 and trade, and public order and taxation and the like, more than ever before. Victory on the battlefield 
 is still paramount, but true to real life the real advantage for a country lies in the creation 
 of superior technology and a strong economy. This is perhaps empire's strongest feature.
  
  Gone is the rebel territory land rush at the beginning of the game like in previous total wars. 
 There are fewer marginal regions, which is great IMO, as it keeps empire from becoming a siegefest 
 like Medieval 2. The capital city/town dynamic is actually a great addition to the series, and 
 it forces the AI to leave their well defended capitals and come out and face you on the field lest 
 they suffer economic strangulation. This is a fantastic step forward for the series, which, like 
 the game's revamped trade (with a fully depicted commodities market!) makes for both a more realistic, 
 and more enjoyable experience.
  
  Some people have complained about the changes to the campaign map, namely the decision to reduce 
 the overall number of territories and consolidate countries' regions. After 60 hours with Empire 
 I can say that these complaints are unwarranted. In fact, part of what made Rome and Medieval 2 
 so frustrating and boring was the fact that the sheer number of provinces meant that the battles 
 you fought ended up being of little overall significance. There was none of the tension of the 
 first total wars where battles were infrequent, but also massive, and a single battle could make 
 or break an empire. Empire doesn't quite recreate that feel from the first game, but it comes about 
 as close as possible with a 3d campaign map. Lose a battle early on, and you risk losing your capital 
 and crippling yourself for a long time. By the same token, defeat abroad can leave you dangerously 
 exposed back home, its a huge improvement from Rome and M2. Plus, now that entering another country's 
 territory is an instant declaration of war (again actually, for some reason Rome and M2 did not 
 use this system) there are fewer petty guerrilla incursions too. Battles are larger, longer, and 
 are more strategically significant. Its a welcome return to Total War's roots. 
  
  
  The Battles themselves are actually very good too, and the transition to the gunpowder era has 
 actually, in my opinion, strengthened the game's tactical complexity. Fire Zones, combined arms, 
 and proper maneuver are now more important than ever, and provided you aren't sieging a fort, the 
 AI does provide a good challenge on the higher difficulty settings. In fact, the last time I had 
 this much FUN with the battles was with the first medieval. Sure line infantry are practically 
 identical, the real coup de grace the battles doesn't come from arbitrarily different unites (medieval 
 2) . Instead it comes in the form of a perfectly executed enfilade, Cavalry charge, Grenadier Assault 
 or a butchering salvo from one of your artillery batteries. Units may look alike, but that was 
 true for Shougn too. And Like Shogun, the strength of Empire's battles lies in their tactical challenge 
 and overall fun. Do not expect to win a battle in 2-3 mins like in Rome. Most fights have taken 
 me 30-60 mins ( including time while paused to give orders) , and this is also a great return to 
 the series' roots (although I have yet to fight a 2 hour battle like those from the first Medieval) .
 
  
  The Bad: Unfortunately, despite these advances, there are a lot of things wrong with Empire. 
 
  
  1. The graphics. Graphics are good don't get me wrong, especially on a higher range system. But, 
 the New engine frankly feels like only a small improvement. Cities and Towns actually look worse 
 than they did in Medieval 2, which came out 2 years ago. Together with the return of clone armies 
 (not totally ahistorical for regular troops, I grant you) , this gives the feeling that CA has not 
 really made any advances as far as graphics go. 
  
  2. The presentation. A major step backwards from Medieval 2. The traditional Total War menu screen 
 with the marching silhouettes is gone, and the music and sound effects are subpar compared to Rome 
 and Medieval 2. A little more time on these minor things would've made the game more polished and 
 less aggravating.
  
  3. Major design flaws screw-ups, like the inability to delete save games! I can't believe CA missed 
 that!
  
  4. Lack of Unit Variety. Now don't get me wrong, this was an era of military standardization, so 
 the lack of a lot of unique units doesn't really bother me. However, when Great Britain and France 
 have 8 unique units apiece, while other major powers like Prussia and Austria have 1 each, it makes 
 for a little disappointment. If GB and France can have 3 varieties of Elite Infantry, why not Prussia? 
 Or Russia? The whole thing smacks of bias.
  
  The clone armies, which have been mentioned, aren't really that big of a deal considering the era, 
 but there should at least be some variety in uniforms for peasant rabble and irregular troops who 
 did not have standardized uniforms. 
  
  Finally, the decision to toss in a token game mode to appeal to North Armerican audiences (Road 
 to Independence) is also a terrible design flaw. The time and money spent developing this uninteresting 
 and inconsequential game mode should've gone towards polishing the grand campaign, which is what 
 Total War is supposed to be all about.
  
  Empire Total War is a good game, no doubt. But it sadly feels like a step back for the total war 
 series. With any luck, future patches and/or expansions will address some of these issues, because, 
 at its core, Empire is just as fun and addicting as the earlier total wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikey3
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2009 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Well its hard to state what hasn't already been said, but I will try. Using Steam or having slow 
 loading times between fights are not an issue for me. Im one of the lucky ones still running an 
 AMD 6000 , Win-XP home and using NTFS format I guess. The game is in dire need of a patch or two, 
 which they do claim is coming. Whats in those patches will shelve it or keep it on my hard drive. 
 My video card is an Nvidia 9800 GT and I have no issues with it. The game itself is pretty to look 
 at, and load times are within a minute for me.
  I dont like the Country animations between turns, but you do have the option to shut it off in 
 the options. 
  
  All in all there is only one major flaw here for ME... The whole AI is the weakest link for the 
 game, and needs not aggressive, but much smarter reaction to whats around it and whats happening 
 to it, at the time.
  
  
  For instance I shouldnt have to tell my troops to run when they are being stabbed in the rear end 
 while walking off . Nor should I have to double click a section of my army to hurry up and double 
 time it, while they are in full view of their brothers in arms getting the crap beat out of them 
 on the battle field. But when they loose a general and get "concerned" , they then run off uncontrolled 
 ? Seems the AI is half baked in lots of places.
  
  Although the high ground is used in an advantage and disadvantage AI wise, and the AI react to 
 you using it that way, the AI will still send in troops to be made dog meat if you back up just 
 a bit from where you started. And, I did see in one fight where 60 + of my Army was beating on 
 only ONE horse calvery enemy unit, and it took over 10 minutes to bring him down. Tuff skinned 
 I guess... And although so out numbered, he didnt try to run. 
  
  So, as you can see- The AI needs work ON BOTH SIDES, and lots of it. The game in a nutshell is 
 fun even with these issues play wise, but not in the sense of replacing your favorite game (so 
 far) . I believe with the right work done on the patches, we might just have a classic down the 
 road, but not right now. Not yet...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXxTonsoffunxXx
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2009 1:28 pm PT
Review:  This game does a great job on the immersion and the fact that its just like the old games, to a 
 certain point. Creative Assembly does a great job sticking to the original idea since the first 
 game. If you are a fan of the series this is a must have to add to your collection.
  Besides some path issues with the units and if you don't have a computer that is damn near a super 
 power it might take some time to load I think any one that hears of the game should at least borrow 
 it from a friend just to give it a chance. Veteran strategists should feel right at home with this 
 game. If you are a first timer with these sorts of games then you shouldn't have to worry because 
 the game does an aw-some job on introducing you to the new game controls. All in all i think this 
 is one of the greatest strategy games to date 
  go out and buy yourself a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kyrias
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2009 1:19 pm PT
Review:  There is so much potential for this game once the patches fix obvious issues. You do need a good 
 processor and Memory set to run it not to mention a semi top of the line Video Card. The game play 
 is deep, turns last after the initial set up in game, about 20 mins each or more depending on battles. 
 There are glitches and Bugs. There always are and this game is no exception. But when you look 
 at the game objectively it is a masterpiece. The engine is beautiful and the physics need adjusting 
 but will be perfect soon. You will need optimal settings to enjoy everything this game has to offer. 
 I can see how people dislike stream and the must have internet connection, but seriously there 
 are reasons for it, like auto updates and such. There are alot of games out there that sun with 
 these slave internet programs, Impulse is another that is easy to use. I did not have any issues 
 with the game playing or with Stream, i have had some Crashes but again bugs are bugs. Nothing 
 too bad. I still enjoy the game. The Battle Load times is disappointing, it seems the loading lasts 
 for me at least 3-7 mins depending on the battle. 
  
  Buy this game if:
  
  You are a Strategy game freak
  If you have the other total wars 
  If you like George Washington
 
  If you want to loose yourself in a game for about 20hours of your day 
  If you have a Decent computer rig and you want to enjoy beautiful battles 
  
  Don't buy this 
 game if:
  You like first person shooters
  You have a weaker computer 
  You are impatient
  You don't like George Washington. 
  If you can not devote at least an hour 
 a day to this addicting game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeanNYGUARD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 11:49 am PT
Review:  The Review:
  
  Graphics: 10
  Gameplay: 10
  Sound: 8 (Error occurred with Campaign Cinematic Sound)
  Replayability: Yes
  Fun Factor: 9
 
  
  So Ive been tracking this game since it was announced back a year or so ago. The reason being... 
 Im a big US history buff and fell in love with the idea of fighting in The American Revolution... 
 so Ive been very anxious for its release. 
  
  Getting the game on the 3rd... I opened it up and installed it. Now I dont have the best computer 
 in the world... but it ran ok. My specs go like this - P4 3.0 Ghtz, 1.5 MB Ram, 256 GeForce 8500, 
 80 GB Hard Drive (I Know I know) . It aint a monster but it gets the job done. I was able to play 
 the game with very few lags.... mostly occuring on major battles. 
  
  The views are incredible. If you zoom down, even on Low setting which is how I was running the 
 game, the animation and effects are stunning. You can see each blade of grass... soldiering all 
 marching, each holding their weapon a different way... bringing that little bit of realism to the 
 game. I particurally enjoyed the little things. Soldiers yelling, massive puffs of smoke coming 
 from a rifle volley, the incredible look and feel of the water and the massive ships dueling it 
 out. You gotta love it when your ship pulls up to a enemy ... throws the grapling lines over for 
 hand to hand combat... and just before the ships touch... you let loose a HUGE BARRAGE... seeing 
 their hull explode into their air... the gaping holes in their ship... it really brings it to life. 
 
  
  The only thing I noticied is that soldiers dont react much when fighting on a ship... many are 
 still and just staring aimlessly... but I contribute that possibly to the low settings I set for 
 the game. 
  
  The Campaign map and especially the user interface is AMAZING. Very streamlined. I played other 
 total war games and I hated the amount of work I had to do to pass a turn. Forgot to send a diplomat 
 to this nation or doing some economic work. Here 2 things you need to do. 1 is to build what you 
 want for that turn... thats easy and simple to do... takes about 2 clicks. The other thing you 
 need to do is adjust your taxes... every once in a while ... bout it. You can do diplomacy whenever 
 you want... as its always available, and you can move your troops just like in any other total 
 war game. The only thing I would like to see implemented is a little feature to tell me how many 
 soldiers are in each army. I mean with units that range from 94, 120, 60, 180, etc. its hard to 
 tell how many men you have ... right off the bat. Hopefully they can do something like this in 
 the future. 
  
  The only other problem I encountered is a sound bug that interferes with any cinematic video on 
 the screen. The Road To Independence cinematic videos and the Game intro both are affected. The 
 video doesnt lag or anything... the sound is fine for about 7 seconds... but then it lags and jams. 
 Hopefully this can be fixed.
  
  All is all Empire Total War is well worth The over $50.00 pricetag I paid. So should you buy it, 
 despite the bugs being reported on the forums... the answer is yes. If you have to work out a few 
 bugs, which soon will be fixed with a patch, to play this incredible and addictive game... Do IT. 
 Youll thank me later. Or probably not because youll be so glued to your monitor holding off a flanking 
 charge by the enemy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawkfirestorm
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Like many I've marked the game down because of the awful stability and numerous bugs, not something 
 you expect when you think of CA and the series.
  
  I'm 42 now and been playing every game and beta testing since the dawn of man as it's also my career 
 in IT.
  
  I've enjoyed the entire series of Total war, and was really looking forward to this one being released, 
 I had some concerns like many others did about a software house so used to producing games around 
 melee combat, this something being very new for them.
  
  Sadly it seems to have been proven correct.
  
  The Game is highly unstable on a awful lot of 
 systems, including mine, you can sometimes get a few hours out of it before it bites the bullet 
 and you have to reboot, but overall it's one of the worst titles I've ever played as far as stability.
 
  
  Now eventually it will get fixed, which is good, better it wasn't there in the first place, but 
 sadly those are the only problems.
  
  There's some really really bad design elements in the game, where Naval Combat has now been put 
 in which is great, sadly it seems to have taken all the developement time getting that right.
 
  
  While on the other have the meat and 2 veg of this series has suffered enourmously.
  
  After you get past the initial wow factor and the frustration of the game crashing every 5 mins, 
 and you have actually managed to play for a while you notice something really stark.
  
  The campaign or lack of it by AI nations, in fact now in this game the only threat on the Map is 
 you the player, because the AI is truely and utterly useless.
  
  Now for instance if you look at france you only have to capture paris and it's thanks for the ENTIRE 
 country, which is extremely easy.
  
  I walked through Portugal, spain , gibralter and morroco in a bat of an eye with just one stack 
 stopping only to build a fort to hold up till my unit replenishments arrived.
  
  This is the biggest problem, the campaign map while bigger which is nice is also critically flawed 
 design wise, the AI just can't produce enough units, to do anything much and can't replace them 
 quick enough if it looses which was a old problem of the series.
  
  If you broke the back of the AI's stacks you could walk unopposed virtually and take them over.
 
  
  In fact so much is the slant now toward the Naval side of the game it's completely borked the game, 
 Land and the overall campaign has become the secondary theme.
  
  The AI, though I've not seen much it still seems somewhat lacking on all fronts.
  
  Once you 
 get past the new shiny parts, and you get back to the strategy and you take a harder look your 
 left feeling empty.
  
  At the moment I'd avoid it because of the bugs, depending on CA's commitment to the title it may 
 be worth checking back.
  
  But right now some people at creative assembly should be extremely worried, your only as good as 
 your last product in this business, and sadly this ones not upto where it should be by any means.
 
  
  *Update*
  
  While CA have indeed released a 'patch' it has improved the stability of the game marginally, and 
 seems to have introduced a few new bugs in the process.
  
  Many have reviewed the game right of the box, and to be fair the game does have alot of wow factor, 
 but once you get past this and play a full campaign you see just how lack luster this game is when 
 compared to previous TW titles.
  
  You can pretty much forget playing many 3d battles, if you try after a couple the game CTD's giving 
 a out of video memory error and white screen.
  
  But by far the most stark thing you notice is just how pityful the Campaign is as far as land goes, 
 the AI does next to nothing on land and it's ships all over the place.
  
  It's nice to see the naval side of things comming to the fore, however the games totally slanted 
 towards this, to the point as a player you just steam roll the map with a few stacks, except in 
 some areas (those nations that have no navy) , and the 'AI' puts up a modicum of a fight.
  
  Develepers should take a leaf out of Mr Ramsey's book if it's not right don't send it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yakaspat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 6:04 am PT
Review:  Empire Total War is THE game for PC strategy games. Combining an epic (key word) grand strategy 
 campaign game with challenging, tactical real-time battles, Empire Total War defines the PC gaming 
 strategy genre. Indeed, it has set the bar so high I'm interested to see what Creative Assembly's 
 competitors come up with!
  
  If you are new to the Total War series, ETW may at first seem over-whelming. I'm a veteran Total 
 War fan and even I was, at first, taken aback at the sheer scale of Empire. The campaign map is 
 HUGE, spanning nearly the entire world. Once you get the hang of balancing your armies, your development, 
 diplomacy, trade, and so forth, you'll really begin to appreciate the depth and re-playability 
 this game has to offer. 
  
  The real-time battles, both on land and sea, are truly amazing to behold. Surprisingly, the game 
 performs well even on medium level gaming PCs. Soldiers and ships are highly detailed, nearly life-like, 
 and the smoke of musket and cannon, the clash of swords and pikes, and the vibrant realism of redcoats 
 and hussars charging across 18th century battlefields is simply stunning.
  
  I've played the game exhaustively for the past couple days and, aside from a few minor issues that 
 will soon be patched (some sound stuttering problems during video sequences, as reported by some 
 gamers) , Empire is technically flawless. CA spent years developing this game and it truly shows. 
 Nearly all review sites have given Empire an average score of 9.5... which is superb and well deserved. 
 
  
  I HIGHLY recommend Empire Total War! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps2chomicro
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 6, 2009 11:38 pm PT
Review:  The game is full of bugs and the time period picked does not forfill the Total War series' potential. 
 The game is much better suited with melee units instead of lines of gunners. Medieval 2 is about 
 as late as the game should go year-wise.
  
  The game has gone too far, and too close at the same time. By this I mean the maps are beautiful... huge 
 continents to cover. Down to the battle zone -- Each unit is wonderfully created for a realistic 
 fighting battle. What is missing is the in-between. The units are too focused on individuality 
 and that is what has let this game down. Rome Total War has been the best Total War game so far 
 IMO and if this engine was brought to the Rome game, it would be amazing. Nothing beats watching 
 phalanx walls of Spartan Hoplites hold a bridge against thousands of enemy units. Sorry.... Nothing 
 tops the sheer enjoyment of REAL battlelines and tactics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michael48742
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2009 10:43 pm PT
Review:  First of all i'll start out by saying i play a variety of games but really love strategy games. 
 I played civ 4 over and over cause i loved it. This game is even better than civ 4 because you 
 do battle like you did in world in conflict but you also run cities. I just played the game for 
 6 hours straight and its been a long time since i played a game that long with no break. Do yourself 
 a favor and go out and get this its a great time. If you like strategy games at all go buy it raight 
 now don't even wait. Its just a lot of fun and great graphics. It also doesn't require a super 
 computer to run. I have a pentium d in my old dell xps 400 and it works great. I upgraded some 
 stuff like ram and a graphics card but didn't cost that much and the game runs smooth as silk. 
 I can't imagine online play in this because its sooooooooo much fun just by yourself. If you can 
 swing it grab this game asap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevins3k
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2009 8:16 pm PT
Review:  It isn't quite up to the standards set by the previous games. They're trying to do a lot of new 
 things with this installment. Adding naval battles. Changing the way agents work. Creating a multitheater 
 campaign map. Transitioning to full gunpowder age units. 
  
  A lot of components feel out of balance or buggy. Units don't always function appropriately in 
 battle. Fort battles seem a bit awkward. The campaign makes it difficult to use agents and diplomacy. 
 The campaign also is a bit overgeared toward war rather than empire building due to the aggressive 
 ai of other nations. 
  
  Another issue is the forced use of steam which, even though I've been using steam anyway, feels 
 a bit uncomfortable. For example, will this stifle modifications? Also, sometimes with these games 
 it is helpful to choose which patches to apply. In addition, I assume this precludes playing the 
 game on a computer that doesn't have a internet connection. These were reasons why I had been planning 
 to transition away from using steam. 
  
  I think this might be an outstanding game by the time that the inevitable expansion pack is released. 
 Also, I hope that independent modifications will add a great deal to the overall quality of the 
 game. However, at this point, I don't think that it can be considered an outstanding game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axis_Sentinel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Well lets start with the basics, I'm a big total war fan and I think total war fans are the ones 
 you should be reading the reviews from. Theres a lot of points to cover so im gonna make this quick.
 
  
  1) STEAM, (not even gonna waste my time saying how rediculous this is)
  2) GRAPHICS, are very good if you have the latest video cards, for those who do not prepare to be 
 punished!! The game does not let you upgrade textures past Medium (Seriously were talking Rome 
 TW graphics!) which does not make sense because I can play medieval 2 on the maximum and the graphics 
 are 10 times better. CA should have taken a bit more time planning this out.
  3) GAME; Empire seemed like the logical choice for a continuation on the total war franchise, i 
 could not have agreed more. However this is something CA should have prepared for more. The campaign 
 in Empire is unike and new which is a refreshment. Anyone who likes campaing map more than battles 
 will agree with me. 
  Now for the other 80 percent of us who like battles, this game is rather dissapointing. Land battles 
 are clunky, jagged and do not reflect at all the atmosphere of 18th century warfare. In fact the 
 older TW musketeers are just as good if not better that the ones in this game. it is beyond evident 
 that CA spent ALL of their time designing the naval battle aspect of the game (which is the best 
 thing about this game) . Overall the game is rough and feels a bit incomplete, what more proof do 
 you need than a PATCH less than 2 days after it comes out!
  Final note; DO NOT belive the critics (play it for yourself, just dont break your monitor out of 
 anger at STEAM and dissapointment)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: duxter1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Empire Total War is a great game period. However, I have played the game on a bad computer and 
 a good computer, the difference is huge! With the graphics set to low, it looks worse than Medieval 
 2, and there is so much lag. But on ultra or high, the game it redonkuluously good looking. The 
 graphics are only part of it, the campaign map is new, the land battles are huge and require different 
 tactics than previous Total War games. Naval battles take some time to getting used to, but once 
 your good its really fun. New AI is surprisingly decent, and multilayer battles are fun as always. 
 I love the different factions the time period, but a lot of the units are similar between factions 
 and that is kind of annoying. Other minor problems are the slow camera movement and the many things 
 to learn in the new campaign map. This is my favorite Total War game (tied with Rome) and I cannot 
 wait for the promised multilayer campaign. A patch will fix the minor bugs and glitches that sometimes 
 occur. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PowderMunki
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 5:53 pm PT
Review:  First off, I have not had any problems downloading, installing, and running the game. Steam works 
 perfectly, and their DRM is better than secuROM.
  
  Empire: Total War is amazing. Huge grand campaign, large battles, and beautiful graphics. A game 
 that will take up months of time, and never gets old.
  
  Diplomacy like the previous total war games is deep but streamlined into the interface making it 
 much easier to get to negotiations. 
  
  Two Gripes with the game are long load times for battles. It wont matter how fast you processor 
 is, load times are slow. Secondly, naval combat really sucks. Pathfinding is really hard for your 
 units and any formation you try to keep breaks apart real easy. Now I just auto resolve the naval 
 battles.
  
  Those two issues don't bring down the score. and the 8.5 I gave it just says there is always room 
 for improvement. That said, this game is the easiest game to get into but the hardest to beat. 
 This game is epic and is worth any ones time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gargarensi
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I had long been an advocate for the Total War series of strategy games. The fast pace action on 
 the real-time battlefireld and the tactical view from the world map appeals to both strategists 
 and tacticians alike. This game, is huge. I mean very, very HUGE. The game alone is 13 GB (although 
 somewhat smaller than M2TW) but the minimum specs are drastically increased. One would require 
 atleast a 8800 GT to see this game in all its graphical glory. I tested this game on two PCs.
 
  
  PC A)
  - 8600 GT
  - 500 GB
  - 4 GBB DDR2 RAM
  - Intel Core 2 Duo T550
  
  This is my backup PC, I overclocked the 8600 GT and was disappointed with the results. Anything 
 above medium settings were grayed out (giving a fine definition of what video card is required 
 for this juggernaut) The game was pretty choppy and laggy but not to the point of CTD. But considering 
 the medium settings, the game still looked pretty (if not, somewhat jagged zoomed in) Naval battles 
 however looked amazing despite the somwehat low-range GPU. 
  
  PC B)
  -Q6600
  -9800 GT OC
  -4 GB DDR2 RAM
  -320 GB
  
  With the decent video card, I was able to max the 
 game out although lag is still around for battles with more than 6000 men. Maxed settings allowed 
 for a gaming experience I thought was impossible, such attention and detail in the most minute 
 of things. You'll see men leaping off ships as they're about to explode, men reloading franctically 
 and some pretty sic death and fight animations. Naval battles are pretty simplistic and works well. 
 They finally got rid of the lousy "quick battle" option noone ever used.
  
  My few complaints to come along include, the PC taking intense times during turns and the lack 
 of any real diversity among troops. Yeah theres a unique unit or two among each faction but either 
 than that, its just line infantry slapped on with their faction colour. The AI, boasted as thoroughly 
 upgraded, is kind of a lie. While there are some drastic improvements over the very, very horrible 
 AI from Rome and Medieval, one can defeat a whole stack with a few line infantry when defending. 
 The AI will make no attempts at strategy, when attacking will either throw all their troops at 
 you at once, or send one battalion at a time to be slaughtered. Although seeing attempts by the 
 AI to flank or defend from being flanked is nice to see.
  
  Steam is simply, a pain in the ass. I don't blame reviewers who give this game a bad review simply 
 due to the troublesome antics of Steam. However, while Steam is a major obstacle to overcome, you'll 
 be quickly blasting through some of he most vivid battles I have seen yet. .
  
  In general, this is a great game, worthy of all the current hype it has generated. Guess it's time 
 to not go to the bathroom for 20 hours straight again (Its Civ 4 all over again, NOOOOO)
  
  (Edit, I downgraded the score from 9.5 to 9.0. I encounter a few major glitches and bug on both 
 systems. On system A) A few CTDs randomly occur during Road to Independence campaign. System B 
 simply CTDs after turn 37 thus making the campaign unplayable at the moment. Hopefully the next 
 patch will correct these) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yzzycz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I'm not saying this game is bad... is actually good. Anyway not that good. I understeand battles 
 took time to time days months to finish. This is only game thou and i expecting more dynamic into 
 it. When attacking city i need go house to house just to defeat enemy hiding inside, enemy is not 
 attacking at hard mode... they somehow set themself as they think is great position and waiting 
 for your move.
  
  Map is very messy... sometimes i just click on city which is not mine. When you wana see enemy turn 
 better to take vacation for that to hapend so just uncheck this option.
  
  Steam... hmmm i was mad. Not that cause i canot afford internet: I move to my GF house and there 
 is just one cable conected to her Laptop so i have to drag my huge case with LCD from my desk to 
 her :) 
  After instalation U CAN PLAY without internet. Ppl who saying here u CANOT misleading others. I 
 understeand they are steam haters.. i don't like steam either, but you can play by seting steam 
 offline and just go to my games and simply double click...
  
  Overal it is good game... just too long for me. Last battle took me and hour... Medieval was like 
 15 minutes.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VideoGameNerd77
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2009 11:36 am PT
Review:  The Total War series, developed by The Creative Assembly, has long been known for it's huge battles 
 and excellent gameplay, but some issues, such as AI (artificial intelligence) and glitches, have 
 plagued the series. TCA has fixed those AI issues, glitches, and other issues, and has made a game 
 that has revolutionized the RTS genre.
  
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  The main goal of the game is to capture certain nations, such as Saxony, and to hold those nations 
 until either 1750 (the short campaign) or 1799 (the long campaign) , and you must also complete 
 other objectives. Thankfully, Empire: Total War is completely non-linear; you never even have to 
 complete the objectives. Besides the main objectives, throughout the game, you are usually given 
 random missions by the ruler of the nation you're playing as. You don't have to complete these 
 missions, but the consequences can be deadly to your nation; failing to complete a mission that 
 involves you bettering the condition of a colony, for example, may result in a rebellion of that 
 colony, and though it may seem easy to put down a rebellion from a small colony, other nations 
 may come to their aid. The action-consequence system also takes effect in diplomacy; you may attempt 
 to attack a weak nation early on in the game and fail to capture them, but if they become powerful 
 later on, they may attempt to get their revenge, and they may even destroy your nation. The system 
 is persistent as well; nations will remember attacks and cruel acts you make against them. Just 
 the same, nations will remember when you spare them, assist them, or make sacrifices for them. 
 The persistent action-consequence system is exceptional, creative, and well-designed. The AI is 
 decent. They are more than capable of defeating you, but on lower difficulty levels, it sometimes 
 seems that they don't even try to defeat you in land combat. On higher difficulties, however, the 
 AI is rarely easy to defeat. The land combat is fun, but two annoying glitches with land combat 
 are:
  
  1. Ranged small-arms regiments have to move into perfect formation before they attack, which can 
 be annoying when you're under fire. Even when they do get in formation, usually only the front 
 line of the regiment attacks at a time. Why not make the entire regiment attack at once?
  
  2. Troops act unresponsive to your commands. It's annoying how occasionally when under enemy attack 
 your units just stand there, even when given a command to fire. The unit AI is decent, however, 
 and your units will fire when neccesary (providing you have the "Fire at will" option on) . If enemy 
 units run into yours, your units automatically engage in melee combat, which is helpful since you 
 don't have to constantly turn on the "melee combat" option in the unit menu to make your units 
 attack. However, your enemies occasionally act oblivious to your troops. One regiment may be getting 
 slaughtered by your troops, while one right next to it sits there and does nothing.
  
  These glitches are somewhat common, but it only takes a few seconds for the glitches to stop and 
 for the game to continue normally.
  
  
  The naval combat looks good, but it's somewhat confusing.
  
  The game spans from 1700 to 1799 
 (depending on which style of campaign you select) , and there are 50 total nations in the world 
 map (all are playable, but 38 of them must be unlocked before you can play as them) . Again, the 
 AI development helps here. Nations don't act like bots, they act like actual nations, each with 
 its own personality. Each nation has its own style of play and its own unit and building designs, 
 which is good, though in battle the units are clones of each other, though each type of unit looks 
 different (grenadiers and line infantry look different, though each unit in each class looks the 
 same except for a few minor differences, such as uniform differentiations) . I do have two complaints 
 though:
  
  1. The time span is too short. The game should span from the dawn of the Imperial Age to the mid-Industrial 
 Age, in which case the game would span from the very late 1600s to the mid 1800s. This would give 
 more the player the chance to experience more events, such as the full Napoleonic Wars and the 
 War of 1812.
  
  All-in-all, the gameplay is excellent.
  
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  Not much to say about the sound, but the voice acting is exceptional and the other sound effects 
 are fairly good.
  
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  Even on lower graphics settings, the game looks and plays well.
  
  
  Overall: 9/10
  
 
  Despite minor issues, this game will no doubt revolutionize the RTS game genre and the computer 
 game genre itself. I honestly have never played a better RTS game than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boobno1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Unlike some reviewers on here, i have actually played the game for more then 50 minutes before 
 "uninstalling the game and ranting about steam and internet and price or "its not like the old 
 total wars"... but all these are for the better
  
  Firstly, lets get the bad points out the way. Steam, yes you have to create an account etc... but 
 when it comes to patching it should be fast easy and streamlined. SO STOP COMPLAINING. 
  
  Bugs... well any true fan of total war will know that the games were made to bug.. so i wont hold 
 that against them.
  
  And as for "its different". Ofcourse it is, they need to advance the game and change a few things 
 around to suit the time. How people can say the games been simplified i dont know. Here a list 
 of a few new bits that aid the game:
  
  Resources outside of towns: brings a new tactical element by straining enemy resources
  Politics: 
 ministers with different attributes can occupy positions and add more tactics
  Diplomacy through a button: Thank god, that is all i have to say (although the AI seems a bit dodgy 
 at the moment on that front)
  Sea Battles: enough said
  Cover
  Entering buildings
  Realistic balistic collision
  Research
  
  i could go on...
  
  The Gameplay
  is very 
 good. IF and only IF youve got the cojones to play for a good couple of turns. The learning curve 
 is steep but if you keep plucking away you get the hang of it and it is amazing. Comeplete revamp 
 of tactics 
  Sea battles are so difficult but oh so beautifull
  The AI is improoved, they actually flank
  
  Visuals: Breathtaking, im running it on low and 
 besides the dodgy models if you dont zoom in close enough... its one of the best looking strategy 
 games out there easily.
  
  Summary: Bugs, crashes... yes they are there but the bulk of the game works 99% of the time and 
 the 25 or so hours i have been playing have been amazing. Theres so much to see and do and think 
 about it just advances the series in a way i didnt think was possible. BUY THIS GAME
  
  p. s. IGN gave it a 9.5 and PC Gamer gave it a 94%... this is no coincidence 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Empire Total War has some good moments, but its really far away from being as great as the other 
 total wars. Especially Rome.
  
  First of all, the game is riddled with bugs, glitches and errors.
  Apparently you can still run 
 your troops through the doors of a fort even if the enemy is inside. The doors will magically open 
 up for them from the outside.... amazing.
  The enemy wont even bother climbing the walls of the forts to shoot at you, but rather just wait 
 for you inside? Whats up with that? 
  
  Your soldiers will take the amazingly complicated and long road to get to a place you want them 
 to go. Happens more often than not and its really frustrating since you have other important stuff 
 to pay attention to.
  
  Not to mention that sometimes your troops wont follow your orders rather just idle around and get 
 shot at.
  
  Naval combat isnt exactly optimised. You can just sit still with your ship and turn it on itself 
 while shooting the other ships approaching. Even when you attacked first in the strategy map... 
 which makes no sense.
  
  The strategy map looks good? Not really. It looks more like Sid Meier's latest Civ. Rome Total 
 War's map looks MUCH better. The battle map is good and makes this a Total War game but the ship 
 battles feel like another Sid Meier game.... Pirates. Which was also much more fun.
  
  I ran this on my gaming rig, 3.0 ghz dual core, overclocked and with a nice GeForce 9600... plenty 
 of ram and still this game is glitchy and skips frames all over the place. Latest drivers too.
 
  
  The sound comes and goes when your advisor tries to speak. Either in battle map or strategy map 
 i ended up muting them instead. I fail to see how someone with no Total War experience can make 
 sense of any of this.
  
  Overall, the game is a pretty big letdown. I think the modding comunity needs to step up like they 
 did with Rome Total War and make something happen with this. The entire scope of the game doesn't 
 feel half as epic as a game like this should be.
  Hopefully the developers should release a patch and make the game a little more enjoyable, it really 
 needs one.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: allinchrist7
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Note: Still need to play more into the game. This is just a few things ive seen so far.
  
  Graphics: The engine itself could use some work. requires too much power to run smooth. Im running 
 dual 8800 GTX in SLI, 4gb of sli ready ram memory and it is still a tad choppy when there shouldnt 
 be any choppiness at all. This however is only for the land battles. The sea battles on the other 
 hand run just fine. Overall the grapics themselves are very nice with some needed work, but in 
 no way should intice a buyer not to get this game. 8/10
  
  AI: the AI is this game could also use some work. Although better than most games ive seen where 
 you can learn the patterned AI in just a couple of play-throughs of a mission. This game however 
 does have some sense of variation in that the computer player will make moves that are more like 
 an actual person rather than a programmed robot. One of the main cons ive seen is the fact that 
 the AI isnt very aggressive. Declaring war means that you are to attack the other player... duh... but 
 the AI has a hard time learning that for some reason. Granted i still have a ways to play into 
 the game but thats just the jist of it for now. 9/10
  
  Gameplay: I love the gameplay. Land battles are as awesome as ever. I love the tactical aspect 
 of the battles: cannon placement, flanking, raiding ships and taking them for your own and the 
 like. The flexibility of unit placement is a plus. Sea battles are an amazing experience. overall 
 gameplay so far has been flawless imo. 10/10
  
  as of now this game for me is a 9.0 recommended to all who are a fan of TW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diehard_Si
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 11:36 am PT
Review:  In short, the game isn't finished yet. Myself and a lot of other people have had endless problems 
 with the campaing crashing to desktop. I'm now stuck on my campaign about 40 turns in because something 
 the United States does on their turn causes a crash, also wiping out the US to prevent that causes 
 a crash.
  
  A lot of others having similar problems, esp with the Indians.
  
  That said the campaign map looks great, and has upped itself from the previous TW games. I want 
 this to be fixed, because then it will be great!
  
  On the battlefield i can't really have any complaints, its good fun. Multiplayer quick battles 
 tend to be a bit unfair usually as one side always seems to be better weighted than the other.
 
  
  Naval battles are a bit of a novelty that soon wears off, and even then they are slow and the ships 
 just don't seem to do what you tell them.
  
  This needs a patch, and urgently. It feels like a beta, but a beta of a very promising game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicguy17
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 8:40 am PT
Review:  I have only two big complaints 1 the navy battles are plagued with path finding issues (but that 
 might just be me having problems with the wind direction) and 2 the reduction of the amount of 
 regions. because I really wasn't expecting much from navy battles the latter is the worst. For 
 example in the other total war games France was many regions (I think about 6-10 in medieval 2) 
 in this one it is only one which sucks majorly if your the French some one captures your capital 
 and all of your land and your out. as far as the navy battles go they made me feel like I was in 
 a Pirates of the Caribbean movie :) . the land battles made me feel like I was in the movie The 
 Patriot. In battles the AI is amazing it has set ambushes to kill off my men. It has used its weaker 
 men as bait to lure me into a battle going up hill waring out my men. It has used flanking movies/ 
 rear attacks. simply put it is the best AI I have ever seen in any rts game. as far as the navy 
 battle path finding issues go it doesn't make it impossible to win but it doesn't happen all the 
 time so it is more annoying than anything else. But don't get me wrong the game is extremely fun 
 and I highly recommend it I just hope the first patch fixes the path finding issues of the navy 
 battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjkrogs
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 6, 2009 8:16 am PT
Review:  Empire Total War has officially become the most frustrating, glitch-filled mess of a game release 
 I've ever experienced, and at 35, I've been around for the early days of PC gaming. The Total War 
 series has always been in my top-5, and if they ever get Empire fixed, it may very well be again. 
 But clearly this game was not ready for primetime. Did the economy push it out the door too quickly? 
 Was it even playtested? If so, the makers seriously need to revise their procedures.
  
  The game is currently broken, however you can still play enough of it to warrant the 6.0 score 
 I gave it until you hit one of the multiple game-stopping bugs. 
  
  Once it IS fixed, I'm steering toward a 9 or 9.5 and I will provide an actual review of the game 
 at that time. But for now this review stands as a warning for anyone hoping to spend the weekend 
 playing Empire.
  
  This game is still in beta, and the first real patch isn't expected until "next week" according 
 to the devs. While I'm sure next week's patch will fix many issues, there are just too many to 
 expect it all to be fixed for at least a month or two. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Walker_ba_basic
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 6, 2009 8:14 am PT
Review:  Navel battles are great. 
  Weak graphics - As you zoom in and out everything turns to block figures.
  Long load times. I 
 found the game to be very slow on installing. When I attempted to load the game it took so long 
 I did a Ctrl+Alt+Del to do an end task. I thought something was wrong. The longest load times of 
 all TW series i think.
  Micro managed battles... Close combat soldiers have to be told use hand weapons.
  I did the tutorial 
 for the fun of it. What a mistake that was. It took a long time for the game to catch up with you 
 and if you were actually following instructions
  The new GUI interface takes some time to get use to. I personally liked the old GUI better but 
 that is life. I hate the steam client. It takes up to many resources, always has to be running 
 in your system tray. I checks for patches before it will allow you to play it. So don't even think 
 of jumping on real quick for a battle or anything like that. I don't know why Sega went in that 
 direction but Steam has a horrible reputation from Counter Strike online requirements. 
  
  
  All in All I wish I did not buy it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hummedan
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2009 7:20 am PT
Review:  I have never played any of the Empire franchise games before but with all the glowing reviews and 
 with a new gaming system waiting for a good challenge I took the plunge.
  
  I got the game yesterday installed (two CD's not one DVD) it and went through all the Steam hoops 
 and finally got to game play after about 30 to 45 minutes of install time.
  
  On the options menu I cranked all the graphic settings to ultra and AA 8X and started the campaign. 
 My system (i7 920, nVidia 260, 6gb ram) never hiccuped at the graphic settings and the live battle 
 field and naval scenes look great.
  
  After about 3 hours of playing, I began thinking that this game campaign is really dragging on 
 way too long. The turn based play is really boring and detracts from any momentum or feeling of 
 accomplishment that the "Real Time" battles give you. 
  
  By the time you build up your infrastructure and army and negotiate with the indians one painstaking 
 turn at at time, your ready for a nap.
  
  When you do get into a "real time" battle, things look great graphically but the viewing controls 
 could do with a bit of tweaking. As the battle rages on and you have run off all the defending 
 forces, you are rewarded with a return to the turn based map and most of the time, you have to 
 fight the same battle again for the same piece of land, town, fort, etc.
  
  While I haven't gone that deep into the game (6 hours or so) , there really isn't much there to 
 really pull me back to go on in the game except the outside hope that I didn't flush $50 down the 
 drain.
  
  I will give it a bit more time and try the multiplayer side of it, but so far I just don't get 
 the hype. I really hope I am wrong, but I have had more entertainment from Empire Earth Art of 
 Conquest. I thought turned based games went out with checkers, Risk, and anything by Sid Meyer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matte979
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 12:21 am PT
Review:  26 hours later. We have crashes we have bugs and armies that are way to similar. But that does 
 not stop Empire - Total War from being an AWESOME game.
  
  The campaign mode has finally started to be less micromanagement and more strategy and choices, 
 tedious things have been removed like assassins and diplomats and the siege fest of old games and 
 hundreds of regions is long gone and replaced with a much slicker and faster game.
  
  Strategic depth has arrived with more choices and less build everything in every region.
  
 
  Add trade, research diplomacy and the maps large scope and you got an excellent campaign game.
 
  
  Then finally add great looking and playing land battles with grand scope plus the new sea battles 
 and we have a nice treat for PC gamers.
  
  Sure the game needs to find its sea legs, but when it does its a classic.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tetrasoft
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 6, 2009 12:08 am PT
Review:  I will state the facts as I know them to be about my experience with the title and my feelings 
 expressed here are simply that... My feelings and opinion about the title only. I have always tried 
 to give an honest and fair review to all titles I have ever reviewed. I have been in software for 
 years and thus have great respect for all in the industry on every front. I've seen great titles 
 come and go an sold my share of software and computers. I am to say at the least a huge fan of 
 RTS titles. I've played them since my first days on the computer and really fell in love with this 
 series from the start. To say that I was looking forward to the release of this title would be 
 an understatement. I personally own ever title in the series and have purchased them all on the 
 first day of release. So it was with blind faith that I purchased this new addition to the series 
 gladly. Upon installing the game I noticed something that I had not seen prior to installation. 
 The series has for the first time required an internet connection. Meaning if you do not have an 
 internet connection you can not finish installing the game to play. The requirement of having to 
 do so as well as create accounts with the service stated on the box does not sit well with me. 
 I proudly play MMO's and I expect to do such things while playing online. However I can hardly 
 see how this is used while playing in single player. The game itself is very nicely done with the 
 programming and polish that has made the series shine. The game mechanics have changed to fit with 
 the title and its period but anyone who has played any of the Total War games will feel quite at 
 home. The graphics are amazing and can push the limits of even the best video cards on the market. 
 I was pleased by everything I found save the installation requirement of the internet (I mean having 
 the internet is great for patches and multiplayer but I have had problems in the past with titles 
 that require internet connection or server side communication to play single-player games) . I have 
 avoided titles in the past that required such service. My biggest fear is that if communication 
 with the server does not work you don't play which for single-player titles is a killer. I also 
 tend to replay my titles for many years after purchase ( I still play Rome Total War on a regular 
 basis) and the thought of one day not being able to play my favorite title due to connection issues 
 worries me. (Yes I still have every piece of software I have ever purchased!!) All in all I will 
 say this.... I love this series very much and it is with great inner turmoil that I lower my rating 
 to match my feelings on this major change to title. Game play and enjoyment factor I rate this 
 title 9.5 over rating due to online requirement sadly 2.0
  This is my opinion on this title only. Please purchase the title for yourself and form your own 
 review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirrrus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 3:03 am PT
Review:  You want to know what this is like, especially if you're a hard-core Rome TW or Medieval 2 TW fanatic? 
 It's different, very different. If you're expecting an enhanced version of Medieval 2 the way they 
 enhanced Rome TW, forget about it, this is new, different and very intriguing.
  
  First off, I want to address STEAM because people are bashing the game left and right because they're 
 confused. If you have a store-bought copy, you DO NOT need ANY Internet access to instalI OR play 
 Empire TW. I bought a store copy rather than download. Install was about 14 Gigs and took 22 mins 
 between STEAM and game install. STEAM is part of the install HOWEVER you can click the "offline" 
 mode at any time. In offline mode you can play the Single-player version without but you cannot 
 receive updates or play Multi-player (duh) . The CD will no longer be required for any type of play. 
 Updates may be set to "automatic" or manual. The perk to STEAM is that if you setup an account, 
 you can log in on any other computer with Internet access and play the game. So just chill out 
 and give it a try... on to the Empire review.
  
  Took 55 secs to get past the opening load screen, much longer than Rome or Medieval, but this was 
 expected and the trailer was very good. Yes, the opening splash feels like the game is frozen, 
 wait it out.
  
  I jumped into a campaign, chose England. From here I hit my first roadblock. The "Advisor" who 
 was a pain in the butt in the other TW games never offered any information pertinent to what I 
 was doing at the time. I wanted to build an army and navy, she prattled on about how the enlightenment 
 would make people unhappy someday. The little circle with the question mark from previous TW games 
 was nowhere to be found. I read the manual, but there really was no help anywhere. There were so 
 many different scrolls, windows, buildings, etc. that I was overwhelmed with where to start. It 
 seemed like the game was designed for someone who already knew how to play and since it was very 
 different from Medieval 2 or Rome, I went through trial-by-fire, literally. Learning curve was 
 much higher than Rome or Medieval 2.
  
  I got it going near the end of my first campaign, which I lost, re-started from the top and won, 
 barely. Graphics in real-time battles were AWESOME, but graphics on the map felt a step backwards 
 from Medieval 2 (almost cartoon-ish buildings, land, people, ships, etc.) , game was choppy and 
 I'm running an upper-end machine, crashed a few times but no worries, the quick-save hasn't changed. 
 Lowered settings a bit and it seemed to help. The campaign map also has a lot of extra things on 
 it: text, flags, icons... it seemed a little cluttered. I liked the map in Medieval 2 because it 
 felt like a real life RISK board.
  
  The A. I. for campaign map AND battles seems improved but far from perfect (second time around I 
 upped difficulty to Hard) . There are some definite exploits in real-time battles. Also, as in the 
 previous TW games, auto-resolving usually ends with you getting beaten or losing most of your troops 
 with a "Close Victory". Load times for real-time battles are long but worth it to save your troops, 
 and thus, your campaign.
  
  Music is nice but I was hoping for a John Williams score myself, definitely contributes rather 
 than takes away from what's going on. The sound effects though... there are lots of new and interesting 
 sounds for the buildings, voices etc, but the sound of the gunfire, especially the cannons on a 
 Heavy First Rate are IN-CRE-DI-BLE. Zoom in on a naval battle, crank your volume and close your 
 eyes and you'll feel like you're on the deck of a real ship engaged in battle. Splintered wood, 
 explosions, the sound of a ship sinking in the water, it's all there, and it's good.
  
  Gameplay is, again, different. The core TW stuff is there; build the city, get trade going, increase 
 army/navy size, then conquer. 
  
  However the considerable changes shake things up. Building your settlement OUTSIDE city walls forces 
 a complete overhaul in tactics and strategy. There's no more diplomats, you can "Open Negotiations" 
 with any faction during your turn, more than once, and if you fail first time, ask again. The assassin 
 and spy have been combined in one man the "rake". No more princesses or merchants either (although 
 merchant ships act the same way) . "Gentlemen" have been added for the technology aspect of the 
 game. Gentlemen can duel other gentlemen or be sent to a college/university to study the next military, 
 industrial or philosophical breakthrough. As England, I had Sir Issac Newton, and he definitely 
 gave me the edge in technology!
  
  There are so many different variables and the A. I. is smart enough that you should ALMOST NEVER 
 have the same campaign twice. I quicksaved before a battle an on that particular turn, Denmark 
 offered me trade and an alliance, after the load to re-fight the battle I lost, they declared war, 
 definite variation. Lots of interesting historical goodies add spice to the familiar story of Europe 
 evolving. Also, while the battle scroll is open (the one offering auto-resolve or real-time) there 
 is a new and brilliant addition, a small save button that allows you to save with that scroll open, 
 in case you go for auto-resolve and get crushed. You can change your mind, re-load and set things 
 right yourself in a real-time battle.
  
  There are THREE maps to conquer, and they are divided into "theatres": Europe, Americas, and India. 
 Take one or all three, up to you. There's also South America, Ivory Coast (Africa) , Straits of 
 Madagascar and China, these maps are strictly for trade ships which you park on a trade spot to 
 collect cash from trade, but beware of pirates! You can, and sometimes must, pass through these 
 "theatres" to get where you're going.
  
  Technology is the newest thing and the greatest hurdle, you can't build the fun units/buildings 
 without the proper technology. Technology is broken into trees and you must spend time researching 
 each "leaf" on the tree in order to build the best buildings, units, and to further overall civilization. 
 To acquire technology, steal it from rivals, trade for it from friends, or develop it in settlements 
 with the help of learned gentlemen such as Sir Isaac Newton and others; then get out there and 
 play with the big boys!
  
  There are A LOT of NEW factions and HIGH number of TOTAL factions in the world. This makes for 
 better trade and more fun conquering everything, but long waiting between turns. Even with "Follow 
 A. I." turned OFF, sometimes it can take 3-5 mins. Some will be familiar and some are factions from 
 the past that have been broken up. The Grand Campaign only calls for capturing 35 regions but there's 
 A LOT of them, so you have much more flex room to complete the requirements.
  
  The royal family is no longer as important as it was in past TW games and you can create a general 
 in an army at any time for a price. Still the best ones are battle tested. You also have a collection 
 of "Ministers" which oversee things like the army, navy, taxes and public order. In England, elections 
 to replace these people every 5 years. In France, the King is the absolute monarch, no elections. 
 It depends on what type of government you play: Absolute Monarch (King) , Monarch/Democracy (King 
 with elected posts) , or a Republic - ruled by the people, for the people. There's no window to 
 view the Royal Family, I was kinda bummed about that. I would have liked to see who the new heir 
 was when my king was getting old, oh well.
  
  Empire: TW is an interesting adaptation of 18th century world history, only this time... you can 
 CHANGE it.
  GRAPHICS = 8
  SOUND = 9
  GAMEPLAY = 8 (higher if the Advisor would... well... ADVISE!) , STORY = 8
  THEME = 9 (Does the sound 
 work with the graphics? Does the time period match the language used? Etc.)
  
  OVERALL = 8.8
  
  BIGGEST GRIPE = Yelling "Help, I don't know what to do!" for the first 2 hours.
 
  BIGGEST GLOAT = "My navy has more cannons than the Empire of France has people."
  OPENING SCREEN LOAD = 55 secs
  NEW CAMPAIGN LOAD = 1 min 3 secs
  LONGEST BATTLE LOAD = 5 min 
 22 secs
  SHORTEST BATTLE LOAD = 37 secs
  WISH IT HAD = an un-packer for the files, a console (No, there's no cheats available yet!) , a longer 
 amount of time in the campaign (Back to Rome 6-month turns, but only 99 years = 198 turns, and 
 since you have a lot of waiting for new technology, this makes for a boring beginning and a hardcore 
 finish. It could have been more spread out.)
  WISH THEY CUT = the cartoon-like campaign map, some weird camera angles
  GOOD BUY FOR = anyone 
 into the TW series, adventurous people who like a tough challenge in the form of a strategical 
 duel with the world, people who like to play the game RISK.
  FINAL SAY = Not legendary, epic, or revolutionary (pardon the pun) , but still a damn good time 
 that will give you TONS of playback value for your money and should keep you drawn in long until 
 any expansion arises! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pantehre2
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2009 10:00 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely love the TW series and every game that has come out for it. While Empires looks great, 
 is set in an amazing period in history, and has sweet naval battles... The lack of variety is an 
 absolute killer. Once you have fought three or four battles you have fought them all. On top of 
 that there are so many issues plaguing the game that it kind of ruins the experience. On multiple 
 occasions I have defeated the enemy as an attacker in a battle routing their entire army and subsequently 
 not winning. Then I am forced to wait till time expires and I lose. There are very few special 
 units and they are relatively uninteresting. The campaign maps is pretty sweet and I like the new 
 ideas and the way some of the old ones are implemented this time around. I want to love this game 
 and it is good but not great there is just too much missing or broken! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ass128
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 7:35 pm PT
Review:  A great game that continues a good series really sets the bar for the next TW cant wait for the 
 multi patch. Much more strategy then just battles but dont get me wrong the battles are sexy too. 
 fighting with pirates and burning down opera houses to cause unrest makes me feel all kinds of 
 good inside. I have no real issues with the game runs great on my aging system the 15 GB almost 
 broke the back though.
  
  I really enjoy playing in the americas and india an entirely different scene. GJ CA. 
  
  A 
 great game that continues a good series really sets the bar for the next TW cant wait for the multi 
 patch. Much more strategy then just battles but dont get me wrong the battles are sexy too. fighting 
 with pirates and burning down opera houses to cause unrest makes me feel all kinds of good inside. 
 I have no real issues with the game runs great on my aging system the 15 GB almost broke the back 
 though.
  
  I really enjoy playing in the americas and india an entirely different scene. GJ CA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murandil
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2009 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Thanks to their amazing ideas and perfect planning, CA created a game that is worth saying "HOLY 
 CRAP!!!" and go into a rampage of happiness.
  
  The game is an excuse for all those non-strategy people to actually try something new, and see 
 massive land/sea battles go on. THAT'S a PRETTY BIG EXCUSE! 
  
  For the ALMOST (but not quite, I wanted to give it a 9.8...) perfect revie score is because of 
 the crazy loading times, that makes you want to go to the couch take a nap and get back 'til the 
 game loads... IF in future updates they could decrease the loading times, even by 1 min. IT WOULD 
 BE GREATLY APPRECIATED. But once again, the incredible experience is overwhelming when it's finally 
 loaded.
  
  Thank you CA, once again, for making an amazing game and keeping the cool strategy games on top 
 of other genres. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckyshamrs
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2009 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Definitely worth the wait. This game really does rock!! Except for a few things. I don't have much 
 experience with Steam so I won't get into that. My biggest problems come from the utter lack of 
 historical variety CA decided to put into the units for this game.
  A simple look at any Sharpe or James Fenimore Cooper novel or any other Napoleonic War era game/movie 
 and the variety of units available is astounding. I'm not expecting hundreds of different units 
 but I would like something more than 4 infantry units for some factions. 
  Even more so is the lack of difference between the units on different sides. I was really psyched 
 to play this game because I wanted to see how good the American riflemen would be up against British 
 riflemen. Was I shocked to see that not only are those two units the same but French skirmishers 
 have the same stats as well!! French skirmishers were armed with muskets not rifles and it really 
 hurts the accuracy of the game. The other TW games managed to make the units of each nation have 
 different stats and still balanced the game fairly nicely, why is Empire different?
  As with the other reviewers I agree that the AI has taken a step back from the M: TW2 and I hope 
 that the developers or modders can fix this at least to the point that a single militia unit can 
 not wipe the field of 4 regular infantry units ( I had to try and somehow succeeded) .
  All told the game is rather awesome, and can be made completely awesome if CA can just look into 
 their local library, do some research and release a few patches.
  I hope they are reading this.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mude
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2009 4:56 pm PT
Review:  The installation process was an unpleasant surprise, but that's not what Iam reviewing.
  
  The game has some minor glitches/bugs that need to be addressed, broken sound effects, faded text 
 to name some. If you have a machine that can handle the system requirements, you will enjoy the 
 game's huge game play content, the campaign map has been streamlined for less micromanagement, 
 which is a plus and it looks great. Lot's of different factions, not all playable from the get 
 go though, but hopefully to unlock as you progress further in the game. The naval battles are truly 
 amazing and fun, so are the land battles. But the AI really needs some tweaks in it's path findings. 
 I got an easy win in a close battle because the AI couldn't find it's way down a hill top.
  
  Overall the game is great, once you get over the installation issues, minor bugs and glitches, 
 you will truly enjoy yourself. I give it a score of 9.0 out 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P_R_E_Y
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 4:26 pm PT
Review:  I love stratagies, I always have, may it be Company of Heros or Dawn of War. And I have been a 
 fan of the Total War series. I was spectical about this game at first, felt like medieval with 
 a new skin on it. And it is esentially that, but it have good improvements, and some good faults.
 
  For me my first problem (that i was able to overcome quite easily) was installing, probibly the 
 weirdest instalation i have seen in a game. For a good bit i felt that it was pointless to buy 
 a hard copy of the game. To use steam was a fairly stupid idea.
  1st possible problem was if you didn't have the internet, for me that wasnt a issue, however even 
 if you did, having a poor internet connection would mean a good long wait to get into the game.
 
  2nd is that i wasnt given the option (when i first put it in the comp) to install from the disk. 
 I had to turn off steam in order to get that function (and yet i still needed to use steam for 
 this function...) so to install the game using a internet base source could be problems to fans 
 if they had no internet.
  So putting that aside, i had a issue in getting the game started. Now i got this issue in the demo, 
 so i blamed the demo being at fault, But when i got the full game, i got the same fault. 
  That fault is something i cant name, suppose loading issues i guess. But the information screen 
 that first comes up, remains on screen for a fair bit of time. Even a poor computer would have 
 no graphical issue with that page.
  Second fault (all this before the game has technically started) is poor sound during the videos, 
 it goes all jutty and pauses and it ruins the videos (and its the same with all videos) I dunno 
 what is at fault here, the game or the comp, but its still annoying.
  Now my score isn't based off these faults, as this is unfair if its my comp that is at fault. But 
 i shall name all the issues, in hope to get my message across.
  Gameplay, new era, new technologies. But is this new tech really something that is fun? Now that 
 most of you units have "guns" combat seems really slow. we all know that guns in those days were 
 nothing like todays, and it was pretty revolutionary back then, but its that poor quality of weaponary, 
 that makes poor quality gameplay. Firing guns takes a long process, fire, place the gun powder, 
 bash that powder in, then you can fire again. With this slow process taken place with all your 
 units, a fight can last a while. Indeed, there is melee, i havent forgoten that, but unless you 
 tell your troops to do this process, they will not do it on thier own, (unless possible they run 
 out of ammo, to which they might they might go melee, tho i have never been in that situation, 
 as i have gotten so bored at shooting i throw them into melee) . This isn't helped by the game's 
 AI, to which hasnt seemed to be improved tho i have never had much problems with the previous games 
 AI. The AI will not change to melee if the unit is a gun carrier, this will help slow the process 
 of fighting down as it relise on you to go melee, if you don't that process of firing will continue 
 until you/the AI have picked off all the troops. Which gives you a slight disadvantage, as you 
 will probibly be the one to swap to melee, and now your units need to cover that gap between you 
 units and theirs, allowing your enemy that chance to get a few ready rounds into units bodies.
 
  Adding (or keeping) cavarly in the game hasn't helped speed up the combat experience. All this 
 plus the realistic inaccuracy, makes land combat tediusly slow.
  Naval combat I have no real problems about, It has the realsitic factor of the slowness of the 
 boats (which i feel is a good implacation) , the types of shots you can do, and setting the sails 
 etc, make naval combat the most indepth fighting in the series so far. So naval combat gets a good 
 thumbs up from me.
  My computer is pretty "old" but i can handel this game to a acceptable standard, but i could handel 
 the other series game much better, and its that reason i prefere the grpahics in that of medieval. 
 Now i am not saying the graphics are bad, i know they are great (best in the series) but that is 
 a fault in itself. Most people might not be able to handle the new graphics, which will ruin the 
 experience.
  I played the old games for thier "grand campaign", i loved that aspect (very much like risk :) 
 ) , and i had a good feeling with the new added era that dominating the world would be a even better 
 experience. But to me its scaled down... yes i said scaled down.
  The map is now that of 3 main sub sections (Europe, American and India) with a further 3 mini subsection 
 to connect to each. Now to section map is the main feature that gave the game a scaled down impression. 
 But again the realistic detail of the world is something im impressed with. To travel between each 
 sector takes its merry time. You will be given parts on the map that is a bridge to another sector, 
 the few turns you use to get you navel unit to these spots, is extended by another turn to complete 
 the bridge journey. In which time you will loose acess to your fleet, until that turn is over and 
 you ships make it to your desired sector. I will add i am pleased that they made it one turn to 
 get your destination directly from the point you entered, expect going through each indevidual 
 sector, to which will make the movement more combersome and slow.
  Generally in terms if cities it's very much like its predesessors, but they have altered them a 
 bit too much in terms of using them. You cannot build what you "want" (so to speak) as you can 
 only upgrade what is given to you, and extra plots of land can only build things that the game 
 gives you. (e. g one plot will only offer you to build a wall, or a college etc, but you will have 
 no choice in which building to place) . This does make it easier to manage cities (which is obviusly 
 their intention) , but i prefered the "chaotic" use of cities in Rome or Medieval, sort of like 
 organised chaos. And it made youre cities seem vast as you see that you have 20 buildings in producion 
 ( :) ) , whiddled down to about 7, which you over lap a previous building with that of a better 
 version. I will bear this as it does make city management easier, but it will never be as good 
 as its predocessors.
  Apparently there is sound issues, however i haven't clocked onto any (bar the video problems) , 
 these issues mainly being inregularites (such as a man being able to scream over a cannon blast 
 etc) , but i shall not add/deduct that to my score as like i said... i havent came across any, havent 
 really being listening out for them.
  so summeries (marks out of 10)
  Gameplay:
  -Land:4-5/10
  -Sea-9/10
  Graphics: 7 (due to the fact they are the best in the series, but 
 I would only give them really a 5, as for a game like this, its a bit too demanding to want realistic 
 and great grpahics, there is simply too much objects to graphic)
  Grand Campaign:
  -city control: 5 (aka management)
  -improving cities: 3 (simply to simple)
  -map movement: 
 6 (getting across the map etc)
  -map (itself) : 8 (considering its devided, its realism and feel make it one of the best maps in 
 the series, tho would be better if not divided)
  Road to Independance Campaign
  Now i'm not going to touch on this, (reason why it isnt in the main review) as i havent "played" 
 it, i want to be able to listen and watch the videos, so until i can do that, i'm not playing it.
 
  But in saying that i'm going to give it a 7, mainly due to the idea, giving the game a bit more 
 story based to the game.
  This is my first indepth review, i have done other reviews, but i have gone a bit more indepth 
 with this. I'm not going to check spelling as it is midnight lol so please bear with it. I don't 
 truely hate the game, i play it, but i dont get the same feeling as i do with its brothers, Its 
 different but i will still recoment it to some1 who likes stratagies and people who like the period 
 style games.
  But any day i would choose Company of Heroes, over any stratagy game, as it has everything, I will 
 put a review on it soon.
  Theres my review of Empire Total War, be as harsh or as agreeable as you see fit, but an opinion 
 is a opinion and regardless of what you think, mine isn't as wrong or as right as yours.
  
  P_R_E_Y
  - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy098
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2009 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I've played all the Total War games, and this one is by far the best of them. I've only played 
 the revolutionary campaign so far, but all I have to say is wow. Yes, it uses steam, but we're 
 talking about the game here, not the delivery or launch method.
  The graphics are killer, especially with all settings at ultra. The battle sounds are great too, 
 except the unit responses when you click on them or order them are pretty cheesy. If you've played 
 the series before, you'll find that the diplomacy screen is a lot nicer and easier to use. Diplomacy 
 itself seems to be easier too. 
  You can now recruit units directly from the general. The units come from the nearest city, and 
 march to the general's army. This makes army building much easier. 
  The game itself is not easy; in the revolutionary campaign, you start with only one region. You 
 have to act quickly to take another, and then spend some turns establishing a hold on your first 
 two regions before you move on.
  The naval battles are a lot of fun as well. There's nothing like the feeling of setting up your 
 ships to deliver a broadside and smashing the enemy ships to splinters. If you're winning a battle, 
 you also have the option to board and capture an enemy ship. Victory also results in some prize 
 money. Raiding trade routes with ships is also a good way to earn some cash.
  Tactics do work here. In one battle, I spent a good amount of time deploying my units. I had about 
 1200 men, the British about 1600. I used the terrain to provide cover and hiding places for my 
 men. I killed 730 of the enemy while losing 133. I ended up losing the battle because time ran 
 out, which is pretty much my only gripe with the game. If it was this way in real life, WWI would 
 have ended A LOT sooner. Maybe the armies had to go home for tea.
  
  All in all, if you like strategy games, this is a really good one. There is no way you can go wrong 
 with this choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pdbn
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2009 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Great game. I have a few tech issues but I am confident that they will be fixed in a near future 
 patch or update. The land battles have been upgraded the graphics have been glorified and the game 
 play has a lot of new surprises apart from Medieval 2. The sea battles are great as well. I have 
 heard people having problems and things but it works great for me and the difficulty is kinda hard 
 so it makes it a lot of fun I got whooped the first time. My problem with the tech issue is when 
 ever I load a battle map only the sound comes up, I can tell everything is there and working but 
 I get only the load screen the entire time. By accident a figured out a way around it. If I change 
 from very high graphics to high it reloads the battle and presto perfect working game, I then have 
 to go back and forth every time I do a battle. It sucks but as fun as this game is its only a minor 
 issue looking at the big picture of the greatness of the working parts of the game. If you have 
 the patience wait until the patch comes out and then buy it. I on the other hand couldn't wait, 
 but I have no regrets :D enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terumune
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 11:15 am PT
Review:  Let's keep this short and sweet. The grand campaign of E: TW is as fun as we all expected; however, 
 the interface suffers from a clunky awkwardness that makes it hard to know exactly what you can 
 and can't do. The mouse cursors are not as readily distinguishable as they were in previous games, 
 so it's often difficult to tell beforehand whether you're attacking or just moving. 
  
  Even on my computer which can play Crysis on nearly the max settings without a hitch, the game 
 is incredibly slow. Load screens take so long that even though I always fought my battles on screen 
 in previous games, I find myself autoresolving almost everything just so I don't have to sit there 
 waiting for 5 minutes. Tons of factions sound like a great thing... until you have to wait for 
 each and every one of them to take their turn. There also seems to be some kind of bug (which I 
 assume they'll fix) wherein if you hit "retreat" on the campaign map, your army will most likely 
 fall dead where it stands. 
  
  If I had to sum up this game in a word, it would be: "clunky." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparkeh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 8:27 am PT
Review:  First and foremostly this game is down right amazing. It isn't perfect (no game is) but it is probably 
 about as close to it you will get for a Total War-esque RTS.
  
  The gameplay is possibly the best ive had on an RTS and is what I personally have been waiting 
 for a long time. Dreams of Europa Universalis map play with RTS action have finally come into place 
 (albeit on a basic level for map politics etc) .
  
  Its hard to really define a key feature in this game as its predominant good point. It has too 
 many and overall is a very welcome piece to the RTS shelf.
  
  One thing that needs clearing up however is the mass confusion with steam and the current rants 
 about it. I personally have no idea why they have put the game with steam but I also have no arguments 
 with it (it seems to be becoming the trend for new games to go there) . Now a lot of people have 
 been ranting about how the game is a huge failure because of the fact you require steam (fast download 
 if you dont have it) but I dont see any problem with it myself.
  
  The reason why steam has been asking you for an online connection before you can play the game 
 is so that it can make it up-to-date. There are ways around this but the many lemings of society 
 fail to use their common sense to find out and just throw the dummy out of the pram. Steam in fact 
 is a great base for the game to launch from for the simple fact that it will keep the game up-to-date 
 for you. If theres one thing that gets annoying with games it is endlessley searching for an update 
 only to find you have downloaded the wrong regional update. Steam takes care of all this for you.
 
  
  It is also worth saying that it is false that the game requires steam to play singleplayer. Again 
 this is just steam trying to make the game as polished as it can for you (just turn steam to offline 
 mode if you really dont want this or even pause update.)
  
  Again I cant stress how good this game is and there are few words in the english dictionary that 
 can really do it justice. However if you are a fan of RTS games I would suggest you go and buy 
 it.
  
  Great, great, great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rosbjerg
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 7:55 am PT
Review:  Now I won't go into lenght about the steam issue, other than I perfectly understand the resentment 
 towards it - personally I love steam, but it's always bad policy to force something like that on 
 consumers.
  
  But to the actual game;
  
  I assume that most of you have tried, or at least know of, the previous games in the series. TW 
 was trying to redefine the timetried turnbased 4x type strategy games by introducing RTS into the 
 mix.. and what a wonder it was.
  
  Ever since Shogun, this series have evolved with every new incarnation, from set pieces moving 
 around like Risk, to actual armies marching around in a dynamic map. Empire takes the next logical 
 step, by removing provinces and introducing regional capitals and larger areas, by adding actual 
 value to enviroment around cities. Now it's important to meet the enemy as he invades your land, 
 otherwise he will destroy your infrastructure, which will hurt you infinitely more than a short 
 siege.
  
  Adding growing towns, ports, workshops and commercial hotspots is probably the most interesting 
 alteration of this series yet. Because it forces you to rethink strategies and helps keep the series 
 fresh.
  
  And diplomacy has definitely improved, the AI now responds and interacts with you - offers deals 
 that at first seems very advantegous, but you later discover came with a greater price.
  
  To make a long story short.. This game is the next level and it delivers! It's deeper and more 
 complex, but ultimately also suffers from some of the safe mistakes that plauged it's predessecors. 
 
  
  For instance:
  The AI is still not very intelligent, it will now use strategy and react to your strategies, which 
 is very nice, but once it has made it it's mind it seems as if I does not like to change it again. 
 It will abandon important equipment to attack your weak spot, ultimately cauing its own defeat. 
 It's better, but still not very good.
  
  Pathfinding is as bad as ever, your horses will gladly run into deathtraps in order to attack a 
 foe or your infantry will face the wrong direction and seem reluctant to fire at times. And hunting 
 down a routing unit will at times cause the cavalry to play cat and mouse with the poor fleeing 
 soldiers, chasing them around, but never finishing the job.
  
  
  
  I fully recommend this game, even for newcomers - it has it's flaws, but it's still a very polished 
 and interesting game.
  
  Mods will come in time, even though CA decided to make it hard for the dear modders, which will 
 only lengten the joy.
  
  8.5 from me - for a great game, that overcomes it's faults. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wilco499
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 4:23 am PT
Review:  The graphics in the battle field are amazing so are the physics in the battle fields. The naval 
 battles are stunning and It just looks so realistic. A must buy. It is one of the best PC game 
 of the year if not the best. For sure it is the best strategy game of the year. There is many minor 
 nations and there is a good amount of playable nations. If there was more you would never be able 
 to play all of them. My favourite is The United Provinces. But I also like Russia. The map is "endless" 
 because you will never be able to see the whole map before you beat the game. The campaign is quite 
 good if not amazing. Too bad there isn't any North American playable faction that is probably the 
 only drawback to the whole game. There is never one moment that it is too boring it is always amazing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beemio
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2009 3:46 am PT
Review:  So ive played Total War for a long time, Shogun was ground breaking, Rome was better and the Medievals 
 were also great.
  
  Empire: Total War, however in my opinion is the best in the series, the new extended maps to the 
 New World and India are very welcome. At first the game seems far too complex when trying to simply 
 run your Empire. A few turns later you will be running it like a pro so no problems there.
  
  As far as Graphics go this surpasses CoH's well won strategy game detail level, highly rewarding 
 gameplay as you select open fire and watch a volley of smoke appear from your front ranks.
  
  Naval battles are also a welcome addition and are fun to play and add a new element to the 
 series, not overly complex but you still have the feeling you are pulling all the strings.
  
  This has been subject to some debate but I really like the new recruit General feature. This 
 saves shipping a family member around the globe to lead an army, now thanks to Empire you can simply 
 recruit a Colonel from your ranks, Impressed with this.
  
  Gone are the Diplomats! Diplomats are no longer needed thank god! now you simply open negotiations 
 with a country, this allows the player to get their agenda started as quickly as possible. Not 
 the slow wiating for your old man to go and talk to another old man in a desert.
  
  Steam. People please get over the fact its on steam! Surely if you play PC games you already have 
 it, if not, install it, I don't see the problem.
  
  So apart from the slight feeling of let down at the beggining of the game due to confusion i give 
 this game a 9.0. Due to the fact of the eventually compelling gameplay, Naval and Land Battles 
 and the simple fact its best in series. This deserves a 9.5 but the Steam thing appears to have 
 upset some people.
  
  Cheers,
  
  Gav 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameking5000
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2009 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Empire Total War is one of the best ever RTS to date. I've played many and I'm a "hardcore" RTS 
 fan and I have to say this is one of the best ever. However the ambitiousness of the game has caused 
 problems. Various bugs and problems are stopping this game from it's full potential.
  
  Single Player modes: As usual the Grand Campaign is included, try to conquer the world in the 18th 
 century. For the first time this game sees the introduction of real-time naval battles. And great 
 it is, superb graphics and gameplay in the single player however the AI needs improving as well 
 as other aspects of the game. 
  
  The Road to Independance campaign I've found is a bit "stuck". Only 4 episodes which inside have 
 3 chapters which doing them I feel a bit forced. But nevertheless the idea is great and stilll 
 the gameplay is outstanding. 
  
  I can't say anything about Multiplayer because not ALL of it is released. However the battles are 
 still good and the new features haven't done a thing wrong. It gets the AI problem out of the way 
 which is good. 
  
  I'm still wondering why STEAM but it's not done too bad however it's caused me a few annoyances 
 and minor problems but not too big a worry. 
  
  Overall the Gameplay level is 10, there's nothing bad about the gameplay, it truly is one of the 
 best games of the RTS genre.
  
  Innovation: 8/10 quite unique is this game in commanding massive armies in sieges and in battles. 
 The Road to Independance campaign is one innovative campaign which has made me adjust that to 8/10 
 from 7/10.
  
  Finishing polish: 5/10 m rating my change after the release of patches but so far it really lags, 
 the AI is corrupt and bugs are everywhere. It's just as hard trying to load this game due to loading 
 times and occasional crashes.
  
  Still you should buy this game. It's fun and will leave you glued to the monitor for very long 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Floridaguy74656
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2009 11:44 pm PT
Review:  This game meets the high standards set by the previous total war games. Its amazing. The addition 
 of naval combat really puts it over the top. The graphics are beautiful. Nothing like coming close 
 alongside another vessel at sea blasting them with a broadside and then seeing your sailors climb 
 across to board the enemy vessel the crew fighting on the deck and all. This game is amazing. The 
 best purchase I have made game-wise in years. The land battles are no less stunning the horn sounding 
 when troops charge (the british at least they are who I have played against so far) The roar of 
 the galloping horses is stunning on my surround sound. The troops lining up and blasting in rotation 
 with their muskets is like a scene out of a movie. To sum it up if you remotely care about this 
 time period and like RTS games then get this. Even if you care nothing about this time period and 
 like a good RTS game then buy this game. Its amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Lykouleon
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2009 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Empire Total War is the latest in the Total War series from Creative Assembly, and as such, it 
 plays along the same lines as a classic TW game.
  
  You move around the grand campaign map like a Low-End Civilization clone, and when two armies collide, 
 kabloomers, destruction, the game moves into a much more zoomed in RTS-style affair.
  
  The formula is a winning one, and so, the old expression "If it ain't broke" applies here. 
  
 
  The game is still wonderful, in fact, its better than its ever been, with the new division of various 
 buildings and settlements in a territory, the simplification of Rakes and Gentlemen, the ability 
 to make Generals and Admirals. The inclusion of naval combat. 
  
  So why the 9? What held this back from being a perfect game?
  
  A number of things. 
  
 
  The first is the shakey launch. CA decided to make a mandatory steam authentication for the game 
 in an effort to reduce piracy, the problem being that this didn't prevent piracy in the least, 
 and instead created a massive headache for the majority of the paying customers. I downloaded the 
 game at a rate of 2.1MB per second and still was angry at being forced into this. The release date 
 said March 3rd, but it wasn't released until March 4th. No pre-load meant that many people with 
 poor connections will be waiting for days to play.
  
  The second is the load times. They are bad. No two ways about it, they aren't good. 
  
  Thirdly, 
 the game looks nice, but it has a very different color palette compared against previous games. 
 Whereas Medieval II went for a gritty, realistic earth tone, Empires is more colorful, more vibrant, 
 more whimsical. The problem is that it is very jarring for previous players, and this color scheme 
 doesn't function particularly well in-game. 
  
  An example of this is the lack of attention to unit detail. Units look very pleasing from a distance, 
 but unlike medieval II, they do not stand up to close scrutiny as well, and they all look the same, 
 like we're back in Rome Total War. Costumes are somewhat accurate, but there seems to be a lot 
 missing in the realism sector.
  
  Also, as with all TW games, the bugs. I found myself nearly losing a key battle because all my 
 infantry decided to be trapped in slow motion whilst the french reacted in full time. Sometimes 
 units glide along the floor. There was an instance where a group of 30 rangers charged a cannon 
 squad, and for whatever reason, the rangers charged so hard that a member of the cannon squad was 
 flung, and this is not hyperbole, over an entire fortress. I tracked his body with my camera as 
 he went soaring. 
  
  Naval combat is enjoyable, but it seems a bit TOO involved, and it is rare you can leave your ships 
 to their own devices
  
  But the above problems never totally ruin the experience, and it is a testament to good game design 
 that a buggy game scores this high from me. I must urge everyone who was put off by the demo to 
 play this instead, as the demo is from an older build, and it is much, much different.
  
  Ultimately, Empire is a worthy successor to the Total War lineage, and we look forward the inevitable 
 expansions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dynamo11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 4:20 pm PT
Review:  First I'd like to say is, Steam is a piece of s**t and whatever drove CA to use it is beyond me, 
 however this review is about E: TW, not Steam so all Steam related grievances are now ignored in 
 this review!
  
  Empire Total War (E: TW) is great in the fact that it is the first of its kind, well sort of, I'm 
 sure many of you will remember Imperial Glory; not a bad game but not the best, however it was 
 the only Napoleonic/Musket RTS out there. Luckily E: TW incorporates all this into a classic Total 
 War themed game.
  
  Now the AI isn't the best I've seen and I can go as far to say that I believe that M: TW2's was 
 better, but it still gets the job done and puts your troops under fire. 
  
  The new naval battles have been getting a lot of scrutiny from professional reviewers lately and 
 frankly I don't see why! I found the naval battles incredibly enjoyable and as soon as I started 
 getting bored of them I captured an enemy battleship which is now the pride of my fleet.
  
  As far as graphics goes my 3.00 GHz processor and Nvidia 9800 GTX can run all settings on Ultra 
 (which is kinda obvious) , but I don't feel there has been a great technological improvement!
  In conclusion I find that E: TW brings something great to a world with barely no 18th century RTSs 
 and, despite a few MINOR grievances (Steam being one of these) I think it's a great game worthy 
 of purchasing.
  
  P. S - The MP also looks good but it hasn't been released yet so no comment from me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franko_3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 5:32 pm PT
Review:  I feel that some hater on this page need to shut up... Some are complaining about steam, while 
 this is definatly not the place. You judge the game, not the program. If you are getting slow download, 
 just change your region server.
  If you are too dumb to do that, return to halo: wars and go scream in your micro, pc gaming is 
 not for you.
  
  Also some people are giving atrocious score to a game when they only seems to have played road 
 to independance or just went to grand campaign without taking the tutorial ( I will give no name, 
 but you know who you/ they are) ... Some peoples should change their standard also O_o, you are 
 not going to see real soldiers in front of you cheering while you destroy all the country in 5 
 turns with a dozen of nuclear missile. This is a deep game that take more than 5 turns to enjoy...
 
  
  Let's review the game now. Since it's the same gameplay, I will not make a complete review and 
 just list the point that I am happy with and some that need more work. ( will probably edit later)
 
  
  Good:
  The AI is fantastic. Battle: Will try to aggressively attack your flank and weak spot. Fantastic 
 change over medieval. Campaign: I notice that the alliance are more important and more intelligent
 
  
  Less management. Some peoples have been complaining about that, dunno why... personally I am happy 
 to not have to manage every single settlement (especially late in Rome game when you got 10+ settlements)
 
  
  Good music and sounds.
  
  Diplomacy seems more effective.
  Bad;
  poorly optimized graphic. The grass is horrible on my 8800gts 512
  Road to independance is boring 
 (thankfully, small part of the game. Might be more interesting in MP) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Army4God
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 4, 2009 1:04 pm PT
Review:  The AI is just horrible. I can win pretty much every battle even against vastly superior odds only 
 because the AI is so bad. Medieval II seems so much more polished than this game. 
  
  Other than the AI something is wrong with the engine it seems. I have a top end machine and even 
 so the game stutters around. Intel core I7, 12 gigs of ram, vista 64, NVIDIA GeForce GTX 280 is 
 what I have. 
  
  Another thing is the sound. It seems pretty bad to me. I was expecting vibrant sounds and such 
 however, during battles the sounds are muted. Even when I scroll in right down among the troops 
 the sounds seem distant. 
  
  
  Overall, I'm not impressed with the game. I only give it a 7 because I half expect them to release 
 a patch to fix all the problems. In today's world of bad releases, that is probably expecting to 
 much. This game probably deserves more of a 5 or 6 if not lower when compared to Medieval II.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armalite1016
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 4, 2009 12:38 pm PT
Review:  I've been a huge Total War fan ever since playing Medieval Total War. Since then, back in the 2D 
 era, I've always thought the series were easily the best strategy games ever. When they announced 
 Empire, I thought it was going to be the second coming. 
  
  Let's just say this. There has only been once in my entire life where after playing a game for 
 a couple of hours I uninstall it. Well I did uninstall this game after playing it for an hour or 
 2, so I guess I have 2 of those games now. 
  
  Every aspect of the game seems watered down. It's almost like playing an alpha version of the game 
 or something. They cut out almost every feature known to Total War, except the very very basic 
 core elements. At first I was in denial, but the minute I saw that Great Britain was made up of 
 only 2 regions, and then the entire nation of France was only ONE region, I had to admit it to 
 myself- they've finally "casualized" my beloved TW series! 
  
  The graphics look better than Medieval II, true, but that is, only if you like viewing a slideshow. 
 To get the graphics to a smooth framerate, they look horrible. Even the campaign map, which looks 
 like dog crap by the way, runs slow at times, and I can run Crysis at high frames, so it definitely 
 isn't my computer. It's the new engine that just runs as horrible as it can look. 
  
  This game was a complete let down. For those of you new to the series, you'll probably like it, 
 but for true Total War fans, it just removes waaaaaaaaaaaaay too many options and features. It 
 was the biggest let down in gaming of all time for me. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dandadandan
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 4, 2009 10:45 am PT
Review:  Good: Guns on the battlefield, Naval Battles, a whole new world of Total War ready for the modders
 
  
  Bad: Seems like a lot has been left out, can't access high definition even with high end computer, 
 AI is appalling
  
  
  I, like most gaming fans, have certain needs when it comes to a new stage in the evolution of the 
 Total War series; I need the game to be so good that I feel my three year wait was worthwhile, 
 I need the AI to be so good I will feel like I am fighting an actual person, and I need to be so 
 drawn into a war game that I will literally spend days pushing the next turn button. That is why 
 I am disappointed every time a new game in the series is released and the development team don't 
 listen to what the people who buy he game actually want, they just do what they think is best at 
 the time, or they decide it is too late to fix something in the testing stage and just release 
 
  the game with all its flaws and bugs.
  
  It will only be a matter of time before the patches are released, and the suicidal AI actually 
 fights its own corner. The fact that even with a high end computer I cannot access the high quality 
 features in the graphics options just makes me want to send the game back (but oh wait I can't 
 because now STEAM has stuck its big nose in and made the game non refundable)
  
  The game is just like Rome, and Medieval 2; visually stunning at its time of release, but not so 
 stunning I feel I have to ring my therapist, if I had one. It has lots of new features that could 
 be terrifically implemented, if they were buggy and broken. The diplomacy is fairly useful, but 
 the other nations won't side with you to secure their own interests because of your power or influence, 
 they act like backwater communist states, just joining with whoever is not allied to you and only 
 wanting to deal with you if you are crippled economically.
  
  One really annoying feature I discovered is the way in which Sega has now decided to revert back 
 to clone armies. Though in this release its not only the members of the same regiment who look 
 the same, its the whole army, the soldiers aren't even dirty, or bloody. They all look exactly 
 the same. Sometimes you will even notice that a regiment from army looks just like a regiment from 
 a nation on a different continent. 
  
  That's not to say its all disappointing. The Naval battles are supreme. I had so much fun trashing 
 the French ships who same to close to my colonies, and the graphics in that part of the game are 
 without doubt the best I have seen for water based combat. 
  
  Wait for it..... buttttttt, I've seen it all before. Sid Meier's Pirates is the exact same mini 
 game, only without the graphics. The choice of shot is even the same, and the way you work the 
 sails; so how much research really went into this part of the game? more time could have been spent 
 individualizing units and making me, the gamer, feel like I am actually fighting a real war for 
 my country, rather than just playing a stupid game that looks nice sometimes and occasionally plays 
 well.
  
  Don't get me wrong fellow Total Warers, I'll be playing this game for many, many, many more hours 
 to come, and when a modder from the community like KING KONG gets hold of the source and starts 
 to tear it up and start again I will probably eat my words, I just feel a bit short changed at 
 the moment.
  
  Its really good, its just not good enough. Too many games today are making sequels and expansions 
 and forgetting what was great about the previous games, they should only add to these things, not 
 subtract. What works should not be fixed. It is the things that hinder the gameplay experience 
 that should either be eliminated or re framed. 
  
  Please KING KONG, and all the rest of the modding community who have made such greats as STAINLESS 
 STEEL, and LANDS TO CONQUER, please hear my prayer, make this game what it was supposed to be - 
 Unrivaled.
  
  dandadandan
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demoratic
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2009 8:17 am PT
Review:  For years the gaming community has bin indulging themselves within the depths of the total war 
 series, and for years it has been one of the most enjoyable games on shelves. But what really does 
 Empire: Total War introduce to us. What makes it special? What makes it different? Empire: Total 
 War is a revolutionary RTS that combines the greatest points in the other Total War games and contributes 
 many more groundbreaking events.
  
  With the release, many were anxious for this game, including myself. I have been following Empire: 
 Total War's release for weeks, marking it off on my date list. To say the least, the Total War 
 designers had something to live up to. And they gave us exactly what we wanted.
  
  Does this mean they gave us what we've bin waiting for? Certainly in many cases but this is a revolutionary 
 game. Empire: Total War has many aspects that make it one of the most creative and stratagetic 
 games on the shelves. A perfect example of this is Naval Combat. This new sea based combat is revolution 
 all together.
  
  What could we want more from the game? With many players still trying to get their paychecks together 
 to buy the game, those who have bought it should be satisfy. With the exception of minor glitches 
 and some over powered units, this game is what is described as "perfect."
  
  Play Empire: Total War. If you have followed the Total War series or just want something new, Empire: 
 Total War is for you. Pro or noob, casual or hardcore, you will enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 125549650365726
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2009 3:59 am PT
Review:  Good game, Naval combat bit tricky to grasp due to concept of wind power etc, naval combat not 
 anything like "imperial glory". Land combat same issue as previous games, melee v ranged: melee 
 will stand still whilst ranged slaughters them AI bit more smarter. Grand cangpane good covers 
 all theathers of war lol and the new system i think is better than the medieval 2 TW system. Great 
 detail, good sound and very authentic characters the marathas speak HIndi which is a very good 
 feature. Might need an i7 or really great pc system, I run intel 2.4@4, 2 gb ram, 8800gtx and game 
 was very laggy when play 2v2 naval combat. STEAM IS GAY personally speaking but you can play without 
 DVD which i suppose is a good trade off.
  
  GOod graphics a lot off atttention paid to detail , but might have some bugs maybe but really worth 
 buying though tbh. also i reckon the grand cangpaine is too short around 99 years which is very 
 short compared to M2TW, MTW and RTW etc and all research cant be done within that time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socceraccess
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2009 3:02 am PT
Review:  If you are fanatic of Civilization, Warcraft, Command and Conquer, Rome Total War, Medieval II 
 Total War... any RTS game, dude, you need to buy this game. GamingAccess gives Empire Total War 
 an almost excellent 9.8/10
  
  The Good
  
  * Ocean battles
  * Amazing sound and music
  * Nice map, a mix of Rome and Civilization
  
  
  The Bad
  
 
  * Units are stupid, if you don't tell them to attack, they can be at 5 meters and just look at 
 the action
  * I would like a hybrid between shooting and attack mode. You need to select Melee on/off. So units 
 either fight, or shoot
  
  
  
  For the first time ever, sea battles.
  For the first time ever, a game that mixes Turn Base Gaming, does it with the efficiency of Civilization 
 IV, and uses sea battles, on top of the great battles of Rome Total War, to create a new, exciting, 
 game.
  
  It is Empire Total War, and GamingAccess was among the first websites of the world to rate this 
 game.
  
  The ONLY 2 bad things is that the units are stupid, so if you are with 2000 soldiers, you better 
 tell each group of soldiers what to do. I would like a more automated battle, where the thirst 
 for survival will teach some common sense into each individual unit. This game with a little of 
 AI would rock
  
  The second thing, units either shoot or fight. I believe that in a battle, the enemy is dangerous. 
 So if it's in range, you shoot. If it's too close, you fight.
  
  Of course, I like to have the Melee option, but again, if I don't select it, my soldiers will just 
 keep shooting. So you guessed it right, at zero distance they will be defeated like rag dolls. 
 Again, I will like this to be automatic.
  
  Now, apart from those 2 issues, I promise, I just think the game is 100% incredible. Of course 
 I dislike this title being part of Steam, but who cares, the game is so incredible that this game 
 won my heart in a second.
  
  The map is a bit confusing, but later, you'll discover that Rome Total war is a turn based strategy 
 game, 1 turn at a time. On the other hand, Empire, is a turn based strategy game in which you could 
 skip 30 turns at a time. Of course, you will get annoyed with the turn sound, but hey, you could 
 start having monumental battles in no time!
  
  Historic battles, sea battles, multiplayer... this game is jam packed with goodies, so it will 
 be remembered in history as one of the greatest games ever created for PC.
  
  OF COURSE, WE CAN EXPECT SOME SITES GIVING THIS A 7/10 BECAUSE THEY HAVE A SLOW COMPUTER
  
 
  SO, IF YOU HAVE A GOOD COMPUTER, PLAY THIS GAME
  
  If you don't, then buy a new graphic card, you will not be disappointed
  
  Overall gamingAccess 
 score 9.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stereorec
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2009 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Wow were do i start about it... the game is great, beyond great if u are that total war fan. played 
 all of them and i couldn't wait any longer for this game to come out. wait is over and i am shocked 
 with the level of detail and just everything you cna do in empires. naval battles are just the 
 beginning of it. it puts u right up in the action, gives you a high when you see a ship with many 
 guns tearing apart its enemy side by side. u get the same high when u fight on land with rank after 
 rank of soldiers shooting down the enemies lines. graphics are genius looks great. as long as you 
 have a nearly up to date pc... you will have no problem playing it. i recommend it to any one thats 
 a great fan of the total war collection, and to anyone that wants to try it. basically its a blast 
 to play and you wont put it down once you start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattycakes13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Here is undoubtedly another instant classic from the folks at Creative Assembly. I've devoted far 
 too great a percentage of my conscious existence over the years to their work and that trend isn't 
 about to end with Empire Total War. This newest entry in the prodigious Total Wars series fuses 
 grand strategy with battlefield action seamlessly and beautifully, creating a spectacular experience 
 that is rarely achieved in gaming. 
  
  The developers have built upon the success ETW's predecessors introducing several new features, 
 most notably the face blisteringly awesome naval combat, in addition to streamlining and refining 
 some features which bogged down the earlier titles. They have also introduced a new campaign in 
 addition to the grand map that follows a choreographed storyline through the United States' pursuit 
 of independence. This allows for a beginner or veteran to become better acquainted with the new 
 controls and strategies and to be entertained by a fantastic tale with glorious cut scenes. 
  
  ETW is, as most feared, riddled with minor glitches and frustration inducing flaws but none 
 really take away from the overall experience. The AI pathfinding has its comical moments amidst 
 the chaos of battle and sometimes units have trouble coordinating their attacks. However, both 
 the battlefield AI and campaign map AI is highly polished and refined in comparison with MIITW, 
 especially on the campaign map where sometimes you'll think you're playing a human opponent. 
 
  Now excuse me while I get back to my Total War marathon. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
