-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Empires: Dawn of the Modern World
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/empiresdawnofthemw/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 27, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.1, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 855 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Stainless Steel
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Oct 21, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
As a refinement of the Age of Empires legacy, Empires offers enough that's new to even appeal to 
 those who aren't card-carrying RTS fans. 

  Rather like that age-old wargame, chess, real-time strategy games abstract the nature of war, reducing 
 the deadly action and the huge industrial investment into a contest that can be decided in a half-hour 
 multiplayer match. But Empires: Dawn of the Modern World decidedly heads in the direction of historical 
 specificity. The latest game from the designer of the original Age of Empires and Empire Earth 
 isn't a reinvention of the traditional RTS formula, but it has the particular distinction of having 
 nine civilizations that play in radically different ways, each with unique special powers, units, 
 and economic traits. Focusing in on five war-torn periods from the time of medieval knights through 
 World War II, Empires provides a look at how military tactics changed in the centuries leading 
 up to the modern era, and the resulting action can pack a lot of units into fierce combined-arms 
 battles. Simply put, there's a lot for RTS fans to like in Empires.  

          Wage war in five ages from medieval times to World War II.     

  Empires refines the 
 millennia-spanning scope of Stainless Steel's Empire Earth down to its core. The studio's previous 
 game featured a whopping 15 different time periods, from the cavemen to a sci-fi scenario, which, 
 among other things, greatly extended the playing time for full multiplayer matches. The new game 
 trades this massive scope for intricate depth and detail. Yet, it is rather similar in style. The 
 verbose detail and dramatic flair of the campaign cinematics and documentation betray the fact 
 that there was a history buff pulling the strings. Apart from fantastical powers that give a few 
 early units extra punch and a distinctive cardlike system for national abilities, the game plays 
 the historical setting pretty straight, which does help it stand out from Ensemble's Age of Mythology 
 just as the great modern tank and plane combat separates it from Age of Empires II.  

  With this lineage and refined design approach, Empires takes it quite for granted that players 
 have played real-time strategy games before and know the genre's conventions. The manual starts 
 off saying as much, and there's no tutorial to walk you through the basics. The three single-player 
 campaigns are also designed more to offer a real challenge of their own rather than presenting 
 lessons in how to play skirmishes against the computer or online opponents. In fact, the campaigns 
 seem to go out of their way to avoid the  formula common 
 to earlier generations of RTS games.  

          The three campaigns feature many unconventional missions, plus some big WWII battles.  
    

  Each of the three campaigns is available from the start and roughly equal in difficulty. Set during 
 the game's medieval, gunpowder, and WWII periods, the campaigns cover moments in history -- Richard 
 the Lionheart's defense of England's crown and lands in France, Korea's resistance of a series 
 of 16th-century Japanese invasions, and General Patton's push through North Africa and France -- when 
 battlefield leaders beat the odds and changed the path of nations. Things do start slowly, with 
 rather long-winded in-engine cutscenes used to introduce eminent historical personages, but the 
 missions do trace satisfying character-driven story arcs laced with subterfuge and setbacks. All 
 three are carefully scripted and offer distinct mission styles that give a feel for the difficulties 
 facing the military leaders, who usually take charge and jump into the fighting as hero units. 
 Richard spends quite a bit of time riding around the maps to raise troops from scattered towns 
 that remain loyal to him. The Korean missions (including a dramatic recreation of the naval battle 
 that turned the tide) force you to retreat on occasion, but contain clues on puzzle-laden paths 
 to payback. WWII offers the biggest and best battles of the three, most notably a D-Day scenario. 

  You might not get a good sense of Empires' four-resource economic model in the single-player missions. 
 Many not only severely limit the types of units you can build to match the circumstances, but they 
 even do away with resource gathering altogether, forcing you to rely on hero units, conscripted 
 reinforcements, and/or defensive options, like booby traps and bomb units. There are chances to 
 appreciate the nations' particular abilities, such as the Koreans' ability to gain citizens by 
 raiding enemy camps and killing works and England's mining camps, which free up workers by producing 
 gold or stone on their own (but not food or wood) . But rest assured, all the conventions are, at 
 the core, ready for skirmishes. Just as in Age of Empires, you'll gather wood by sending workers 
 to harvest apple trees, hunt animals, farm, or fish. And all nations -- except the Franks and the 
 Germans -- have to build houses to increase the population limit.     

  As if to replicate the upheavals of the modern era, Empires is divided roughly in half for full-length 
 skirmish matches. Between the third (imperial) age and the fourth (World War I) age, a window pops 
 up asking you to choose one of five nations that participated in the World Wars: the United Kingdom, 
 France, Germany, Russia, or the United States. The choices available vary depending on which of 
 the early nations -- China, Korea, France, or England -- were picked. But once the choice is made, 
 most signs of this earlier era simply disappear, and the building graphics, interface visuals, 
 and economic abilities take on the new national character. Units and purchased upgrades do carry 
 over throughout all the period transitions. Only selected units can be upgraded with the press 
 of a button, and, as a result, you'll see medieval sword infantry running alongside Napoleonic 
 grenadiers or horse cavalry next to tanks. In one case, this seeming anachronism even presents 
 a realistic balance, as WWI-era Russia can build mounted Cossacks or antitank guns but not early 
 tanks. Mostly this means you have to build with progress in mind, and you'll have to turn to the 
 game's cardlike system for upgrades and powers to get extra bang for your buck.  

          Spell-like powers can be purchased and later used to turn the tide.     

  In addition 
 to a few inherent abilities and unique unit powers, the nine nations are differentiated even further 
 by the university, the armory, and the "classified projects" and "innovations" that can be researched. 
 These single-use researches are displayed at the top of the screen and can generally be purchased 
 once for every age advanced, making it possible to hoard them for critical moments. Much like god 
 powers in Age of Mythology, classified projects are powers with large-scale effects, such as revealing 
 enemy locations, healing all friendlies, fomenting rebellion in enemy ranks, or calling in damaging 
 storms. In contrast, the innovations are specific to unit types -- enhancing hit points, firepower, 
 or range -- and lend them an edge that really is noticeable when combined with numbers.  

  At first glance, the nations seem amazingly different, each with its unique powers and units. To 
 keep the sides in balance, the resource prices have been tweaked quite a bit. As a result, the 
 Russians might pump out lots of weak conscripts -- which can be built amazingly fast once "Steamroller" 
 is researched -- to harass the German war machine and preempt getting overwhelmed by a wave of very 
 expensive and very strong King Tiger tanks. While the documentation focuses on background history 
 and lists powers in detail, there are national characterizations that underlie the design. The 
 Chinese can take advantage of mobile Mongol barracks and town halls, Korean units have a martial 
 arts power-up that can be temporarily triggered, the early Franks (and later French) are particularly 
 good at scouting and defensive structures, and the United States is the only nation with nukes. 
 However, for all the differences, all sides get functionally similar classes of units, and a number 
 of early powers reappear in the modern nations with different names.  

  Empires is designed from the ground up to offer plenty of options in skirmish and multiplayer matches, 
 including two separate modes of play. The "action" mode is intended for shorter (30 minutes or 
 so) matches. It forces constant expansion by allowing you to put lots of workers on small resource 
 clumps, while it decreases the effectiveness of defenses. The "empire builder" mode, on the other 
 hand, promotes settling in and climbing up the tech tree. Plus, it's already seems popular to restrict 
 a match to either the early or later ages, and it's possible to customize the population limit 
 into the thousands per map to produce truly huge battles. Like some other recent RTS games, the 
 multiplayer ladder is based on matches that anonymously and automatically pair players of similar 
 rank, but at this early date it can take quite some time staring at the waiting screen to find 
 a match this way.  

          Aircraft spice up the modern periods and can be easily controlled in large numbers.    

  This is one of the first strategy games to flaunt fancy DirectX 8 and 9 visual effects, which creates 
 some superbly realistic water and nice weather effects. Of course, it's a fully 3D game, and it's 
 possible to rotate the camera in any direction or to leave it alone, locked in the standard and 
 efficient top-down view. When fierce land, sea, and air battles are raging, the game looks quite 
 good, but by themselves, the environments and units are rather plainly textured. The unit animations 
 are also quite awkward looking. As a result, the close-up cutscenes that frame the single-player 
 story are far from the best-looking part of the game. The production values fall down in other 
 areas, particularly the extensive voice acting, which is done in uneven accents for every nation 
 and is only rarely acted well enough to overcome a dry and overly expository story script. Little 
 of the audio stands out and the score is unremarkable, but sound effects are used in a creative 
 code, in the place of conventional voice chatter, to signal the completion of queued units. On 
 the technical front, the pathfinding is somewhat erratic, but the gameplay style is generally so 
 hands-on and focused that it's not a problem.  

  Without trying to reinvent a successful gameplay formula, Empires' ambition lies in featuring nine 
 nations that are as different from one anther as possible without destroying the careful balance 
 necessary for good multiplayer competition. The design puts well-recognized historical action into 
 play and makes believable use of the material, while adding some powerful spell-like effects to 
 keep the action interesting. While it may not have the breadth of Rise of Nations' real-time empire 
 building, the tight scope deals out dividends when it comes to fast-paced battles. As a refinement 
 of the Age of Empires legacy, Empires offers enough that's new to even appeal to those who aren't 
 card-carrying RTS fans.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (29 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jpnelson82
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Empires: Dawn of the Modern World is in many ways typical of the Empire building genre. It has 
 some elements of Command and Conquer, and will appeal to fans of that line. It also compares well 
 to the hyper-accurate Sudden Strike franchise or Cossacks. Most unique about this game are the 
 units, some of which are not often seen, such as mortar teams and SAS teams. Other units are conspicuously 
 absent or just plain wrong, so there's room to improve. If I may digress, some of the complaints 
 or things which need to be changed are:
  
  Germans: 
  Instead of Big Bertha, Stug III
  Sdkfz 250/1 (maybe make customizable like Allied APC, load a machine gun crew, loads MG, an AT 
 gun gives it an AT loads an AT gun, mortar makes mobile mortar launcher)
  
  British:
  Bren carrier, not truck
  Churchill MkV instead of Crusader II
  Sherman Firefly instead of Apmphitank
 
  AA halftrack instead of Bofors gun or at least redesign the mount so the gun doesn't look like 
 something from C&C
  
  US:
  M1 AT gun (UK 6pdr) , the US never had an 88mm AT gun
  Sgt w/ Bazooka
  Jeep
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordpedro3
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 27, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Completely unrealistic. This game has a ww2 missile (v-2 rocket) do more damage than a atomic bomb. 
 That and a v-2 rocket can be shot down even though it should travel faster than sound.
  Also in the campaigns most of the missions are not based on fact as they should be but (especially 
 the general Patton and Richard the lionheart campaigns) are more tales about the characters that 
 could never have happened (although there are some facts) .
  As well as that the controls are the same as in age of empires and the graphics very similar to 
 age of mythology. Plus like in age of empires all units are exactly the same but a game that allows 
 the user to zoom in should at least deal with this. All in all I would advise against buying this 
 game for over 4 and anybody who enjoys realistic and historically accurate games not to buy it 
 at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodChief
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  Empires: Dawn of the modern world has a lot of great features in it. You can go from the Medieval 
 age to World War II. To go to the next age you must advance using a whole heck of supplies. The 
 only bad part for this is that People who are still trying to advance to the next age will be blown 
 up by the other player who has advanced to World War II which to me is a pretty unfair advantage. 
 Online is no longer working on Empires so if you were looking for it you will be disapointed. They're 
 are 7 civilizations to play as such as Russia, France, Korea, Germany, USA, England and China.
 
  Just pick your Country and go kill those sons of b$#^hs.
  also you can fight on Water, Air or Land which is awesome the battles get really intense so with 
 your camera you can zoom in closer and watch it actually feels like your watching a movie. If you 
 like good RPG's this is the one for you
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  - BloodChief 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geezer9999
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 13, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  Maybe that was Empires: Dawn of the Modern World downfall because i decided to play it right after 
 playing a truly magnificent game as Rome: total war is. Or maybe the fact i played this game three 
 years after it was first released (?) , (hey man there have been many good games out there which 
 i've been playing )
  Camera view is annoying, (you cannot see your men behind buildings or your enemies!) and also i 
 found the speed of the game quite slow. I did like the cut-scenes and the story telling though.
 
  Graphics i would say a 
  I had read the reviews and was expecting so much ... but alas i was let down.
  Anyway lets look 
 on the bright side , now there shall be more time to play Medieval Wars 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiiperDrive
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 11, 2007 3:07 am PT
Review:  Thoughts On -- Gameplay.
  Instantly i knew this game was a classic, i can't quite define what makes it like that for me, 
 seeing as i am a big fan of the RTS genre with many games from it, this one just seemed fantastic.
 
  
  Thoughts On -- Graphics.
  The Graphics aren't the best for the PC but i like them, seeing as you get quite soft after having 
 a DS, lol. But still you could tell the trees from the sea, and the animations are quite nice.
 
  
  Thoughts On -- Sound.
  The Sound is nice and a decent feature of the game and stops the game from dwindling on this hurdle 
 so i congratulate the makers of the game.
  
  Thanks for Reading..
  HiiperDrive Out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  What Stainless Steel tries to do Empires: Dawn of the Modern World is show the whole evolution 
 of battle eras all through out history. The game play is like most other RTS where you build building, 
 build armies, fight and do it all over again. Some companies do it good while others can do it 
 very badly. One added touch they added to this game is there is sub factions, that make it unique 
 change of units. Although most look the same from faction to faction, nation to nation, each one 
 gets special abilities and units. The campaigns tend to be era oriented. You do missions that doesnt 
 span all five eras the game provides. What makes this game is its multi player. You can start from 
 the 1st era all the way to the 5th. The computer AI is not too difficult and can be easily beat. 
 The graphics are well done with terrain and battle damage shown. The walls get damaged enough to 
 see scorch marks. The unit sounds are also well done. You hear tanks treads creaking by as they 
 roll by, planes overhead as they do their strafing runs. In all if youre an RTS fan its worth 
 looking into but youll find there is better RTS games available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jes3907
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 11, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure what everyones big deal is about this game. Sure there are some new features like 
 China's mobile base structures but that's the only real innovative thing about this game. After 
 I beat just the first mission I couldn't help but feel I had played a new EE expansion. A couple 
 of the missions offered some challenge, like the initial Patton level. But after a while of all 
 your guys dying in minefields it gets a little old. The graphics were better but its a more recent 
 game and I guess that should be expected. Overall, if you want to play it get the demo, plus there 
 are better RTS games for multi-player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirai_Trunks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Good: This game sports so many weapons and characters; you can choose your own map, out of quite 
 a few, to play on; Many countries to select that go from the Medieval age all the way through to 
 World War II; Countries evolve, such as how England can transform into either the USA or UK or 
 Germany later on in your round; the number of people in your armies can be huge; this game has 
 nukes; this game could also double as an economy sim; epic battles that can be between any number 
 of people; multiplayer is the best part of this game; you can play this game over and over for 
 hours at any time; there are wild animals in play around the terrain which you can kill for food 
 or simply nuke for fun; wonders add a new element to the gameplay.
  
  Bad: Single player could have been a bit more touched up; some countries do get an unfair advantage 
 (Like you, Germany) , but it evens out because then you can go 2 on 1 or even 3 on 1; graphics arent 
 anything to brag about; music gets sort of repetitive.
  
  Empires is my favorite strategy game ever created. Its just plain awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikewarlover
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  pretty in all areas except the sound. There were some balancing issues but it gets fixed by patches. 
 Sadly, company abandoned this game because there weren't enough buyers.... I've had some great 
 times online playing with people. The campaigns are somewhat weird and not very historical but 
 the random games and multiplayer are very fun. has to have at least 100 words? alright...
  
  Graphics: for 2003, its graphics are awesome and the units are details, the environment is 
 kinda unpolished though.
  
  Gameplay: pure fun and excitement, personally i love watching the battles of imperial age, they 
 look the most real.
  
  Sound: not that great as sounds get repetitive but all rts games are like that. Music is overall 
 good.
  
  Value: lies in multiplayer. (but almost no one plays these days so no point in getting it now)
 
  
  Reviewer's tilt: best tilt since starcraft. on par with warcraft 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: favre135
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 27, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  If you like games like AoE, EE (not EE2) , or RoN, you will love Empires. I for one can't believe 
 that they did not keep working on it as in an xpac. The gameplay for the game is great. It isn't 
 too hard, but it isn't easy either. It is a nice mix for good and not so good players. The graphics 
 are pretty nice. Before playing this game I played EE, so obviously it was a big upgrade. Sound 
 wise, the music is so-so, but you will find yourself humming the songs for some of the countries 
 after a while. The sound effects on the other hand are pretty good. Bombs dropping or guns fireing 
 are in my oppinion very realistic. The only downside I can see at the moment is some of the civs 
 are a tiny bit overpowered then the others, but if you know how to play the civ you have you should 
 be fine. This is a great game, and sadly I believe it was the last good RTS game. Games like EE2 
 and all the new RTS just haven't really concentrated on gameplay, and I sure hope that changes 
 soon. Empires is a fun game, and even though the website is down and some other things too, there 
 are still people that play online and even playing some matches with your friends is pretty fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awptical
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2006 4:06 am PT
Review:  Whats there to say about the best rts game to date?
  
  This game has been the most addicting game for me since couter-strike. You start as nation such 
 as Korea, China, Franks, etc and then you go up ages to eventually ww1 and ww2 where you pick the 
 new nation you will turn into such as US, Britain, France, Germany, and Russia. Each faction has 
 their own unique units. They also each have special poweres such as volcanoes, to war drums, to 
 air drops.
  
  If you like rts games this is definately the best. Nowadays, you can pick it for a cheap 10-20 
 bucks. The online community is basically dead but if you can find a friend to play its worth the 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 27, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Somewhat of a remake of Age of Empires, Empires takes place over 5 main points in history. Medieval, 
 Gunpowder, Imperial, WW1 and WW2. For the first 3 ages there are 4 different civilizations: Franks, 
 England, Korea, and China. Then when you get into WW1 and WW2, you get 5 different civilizations: 
 USA, United Kingdom, France, Germany, and Russia. When I first got this game I was disappointed 
 by the campaigns but noticed the brilliance of the skirmishes. Each civilization has their own 
 units and different powers. For instance the French can draft their citizens and make them infantry. 
 The buildings are the same for each civilization, but with everything else you don't even notice 
 it. The thing that I like about this game the most is whether your in the mood for some hack and 
 slash in the Medieval age or looking for a long line of British muskets you can have it all with 
 Empires. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lyten
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 3, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  when i read mattitude i needed to clearify few things about DOMW. If anyone has been paying attention 
 to the development of this game plus Empire earth, they would know that Rick Goodman was one of 
 the co-designers of Age of empires 1 and 2. To give some respect to the creator i would like to 
 acknowlegde Rick Goodman's contribution to Empire rts games he help build up. Now for the review.
 
  
  I have personally enjoyed playing Empires DOMW, since all the civs played differently, and strategy 
 changed with each race. I think it would have been nice if this was in AOE 2 where every unit played 
 differently and had different attributes with different skins. My only negativity about this game 
 was that the individual civs didn't speak their respective languages like they did in Age of Empire 
 2, since it was more interesting to hear another language while playin that civ. I believe the 
 fun factor is definately here.
  
  Sound in this game wasn't that great, and this is where i would deduct points as far as quality 
 value of the game is concerned. music (if you can really call it that) just sounded really blend 
 and dull. usually music helps the feel of the game, and i think stainless steel blew it in this 
 department. When i play Warcraft 3 or Warhammer 40k dawn of war, the music and voice acting immerses 
 me to their gaming universe. Voice action was harrible in DOMW, and it felt like everyone was just 
 reading a script and not voice acting. if you are reading this Rick (do something about your music 
 and voice acting department) in your games please.
  
  Graphics are great for it's time, and even surpass some of rts of today. I must give props to Stainless 
 steel for great water effect and the reflection in water is awesome. Character detail beat's it's 
 predessor (empire earth) by a long shot. When i view individual character they look attractive 
 and details are crisp. i really enjoy the explosion in this game too. Good job stainless steel 
 for a great graphics.
  
  The value of the game in high like any other rts games, and you need to always try to refine your 
 skills to beat that one person in online.
  
  Overall i loved this game, but i do wish for individual language, better voice acting, better music, 
 better sound and maybe more civs and i think this would have been a prefect game
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattitude22
Rating: 5.6
Date: May 16, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  this game started out fun for at first but when i really started to get into it i relized this 
 game suxks. you can only get like 10 buldings and when you upgrade units you can only use it for 
 one peson. also the maps are lagging and the game really gets boring after a while. my advise is 
 to not get it
  age of empiers is so much better while the people who made this game just tried to copy it the 
 only pretty good thing about this boring game is that the graphics are really good but the gamplay 
 still sucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unshaken
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2006 4:04 am PT
Review:  Empires: Dawn of the Modern World is a pretty cool game since you get lots of different units and 
 technology to play around with. Like for example, the V-2 Rockets. Itz just fun to see your rockets 
 wipe-out half of the enemy's army and buildings. The tanks and air units are realistic, and the 
 powers that countries can use are pretty useful and innovative to some extent. Everything about 
 this game is great, but maybe some of the powers are too unrealistic like the asteroids, but it 
 makes the game more special and addictive. If you are having any second thoughts about buying this 
 game, forget what you are thinking and go buy it. It is worth your time, unlike Axis and Allies 
 which was pretty bad because of the landscape and predictable city locations. It is pretty fake, 
 but Empires does a good job at the map designing part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob1354
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  I gotta say this is a really good game. Its fun its addicting, its widely diverse, it really goes 
 beyond the lines of traditional RTS games, the bad sound is only marginally ok. It can get confusing 
 if your not careful. Civilians will do just about anything to mine that one gold deposit, lol. 
 But really all in all is a great game, i like how its so widely spread out over the ages a nice 
 change from the age of empires series. The units are really quite custom to each civilization, 
 although the special upgrades you can purchase at the armory are kinda on the generic side, they 
 at least at a toss up in it that your nation may only get a few specialized upgrades. while oh 
 say the U. S. gets a whole whopping list of upgrades to choose from. The game remains great. I wish 
 they would of had more advertising for this game though because i feel its largely underrated, 
 i picked it up for 20 bucks. when it comes to game play though its hard to compete. The game has 
 nice flavor in that it plays through WW 1 and WW 2, of course the latter being hardly used in any 
 games whatsoever and of course WW2 very limited when it comes to RTS games. But i have to say its 
 enjoyable to be able to nuke someone with WW2 era B-29's, so if your looking for a change up check 
 it out. I give the game high ratings, it was worth the price, and its definitely an enjoyable game 
 to play. nothing but praise here people. Though i do have to warn you will find yourself, instead 
 of really fighting much in the other ages, instead just working on Reaching the WW2 era, simply 
 because of how hard it can really be to wipe enemies off the map (it gets very difficult.) and 
 they do expand, so that tends to make it even more difficult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox-pc-CS
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 12:28 am PT
Review:  This game is quite excellent, with historicall accuracy and and premium RTS graphics all of it 
 comes together quite nicely and I still play this game over Empire Earth 2. Although the graphics 
 aren't perfect its overall design and available tactics through interesting maps. The units, such 
 as the U. S. GI is quite a bit of funy to play with, lik up a couple 100 and go all out against 
 some higher-up there units. I beleive more of the future RTS's should be more like this one, especially 
 in campaign types and multiplayer. It's multiplayer is pretty enjoyable as long as your not paired 
 with someone with a bad connection and lots of lag :p. I give this game two-thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Austin84
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 23, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  When i got this game I thought it would be a boring game. However when I played it for the first 
 time I was totally wrong! This game rocks! The sound, graphics and gameplay are incredible! This 
 puts empire earth 2 to shame!
  You must buy this game! This is the best stragic game in history! This beats empire earth 2 by 
 the score of  
 I'll give you a word of advice. Go to a store near you, and get this  
 Dont waist your time with empire earth 2. There is a reason why the price went from $49.00
  to 15.00 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$. The game is horrible! Empires Dawn Of The Modern World Rocks!! 
 I will say two last words. Incredible  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattisco
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 20, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  I believe that this is a really good game. The game combines strategy with planning and role playing. 
 Your are the dictator, chose how you will use your resources at hand. You could be defensive like 
 the French and build pill boxes on your coast followed closely by guard towers to ensure no one 
 dares touch a foot of your territory. Or you be like the Americans and drop nukes over your enemy 
 into submission. All in all I believe that the graphics and sound are suited to the move. I also 
 enjoy how there is the 80,000 population limit not like on the old age of empires games were the 
 cap was 200. The game play it really cool to you can have an over head view of your nation or you 
 can zoom in almost as if you were a citizen of your great empire. However there are some bad things 
 with this game. When attacking a country to must totally overwhelm their air force, which is fun 
 if you have a lot of time to waste. I am also gonna hit at one more thing. And that is how occasionally 
 it can freeze your computer because it is such a huge game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirian808
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 11, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay10/10
  NO way! It's finally been done. A R. T. S. game with almost no troop limit. a 256,000 troop limit (have 
 a fast cpu) . This is my kind of game. If your enemy has fifty gunners attack them with 2,000 knights 
 and laugh at them. RTS will be changed forever now the possibilities are near limitless.
  
  Graphics:7/10
  Not too bad but not great don't expect much when you have 2,000 rushing knights 
 coming at you.
  
  Sound:7/10
  Again nothing too special about the sound but nothing bad about it.
  
  Value:8/10
  It should 
 last a good 40 hours so its worth the money to buy it, especially with online. Come on 2,000 knights 
 how is that not cool!
  
  Tilt:8/10 
  A very impressive and ambitious game. Well worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zukkus
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 4, 2005 6:45 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun RTS if you are looking for one. It starts at midevil ages were you you get guys with 
 swords and advance to mintue men and other guys with mediocre guns and finnaly planes, tanks, and 
 machine guns in world wars 1 and 2. The campians are fun but hard and I cant get to far in them. 
 The diiferent cizilizations have a good variety of units. The americans have the great atomic bomber 
 which does masive amounts of damage, and the Germans that have V-1 and V-2 missle which also do 
 good amounts of damage. One of the keys to winning is advancing technology. There are wonder in 
 this game, like the americans have the Lincoln memorial, and its bonus is that you can drop in 
 paratroopers anywere you wish, but can easily be countered by AA guns. Overall this is a good game 
 and offers decent multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shieldy21
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 10, 2005 2:33 pm PT
Review:  game play similar to most real time strategy games on the market. One aspect that makes it different 
 however is the historically based accuracy of the civilizations and timeline. Selecting a civilization 
 depends on what time period you are in. For example, you can't select a modern country to and have 
 them appear in the middle ages. like wise ancient civilizations don't show up in World War One 
 or Two.
  
  Another aspect of civilizations are the classified projects and inventions that can be researched. 
 This along with different building characteristics make Empires Dawn of the Modern World's civilizations 
 extremely varied and challenging to learn the aspects of more than one.
  
  Game play, as mentioned before is very similar to other real time strategy games. If you're familiar 
 with Age of Empires, Empire Earth, Rise of Nations, etc. you'll have no trouble playing Empires. 
 
  
  Empires Dawn of the Modern World offers both single player, with 3 campaigns, and multiplayer game 
 modes. If you like traditional real time strategy games then you're sure to like Empires Dawn of 
 the Modern World. The new features it adds to the genre is sure to bring new fans. 
  
  This game has an addictive multiplayer making you want to get better everytime to beat your opponents.
 
  
  If you like Empire building RTS, then this is the game for you
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Adder
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2005 12:43 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - Empires sports an immersive, yet almost "old school" style of gameplay. It's new features 
 a groundbreaking and it's old ones are very well implemented. The only thing that detracts from 
 this category is the developers lack of support.
  
  Graphics - Superb graphics for a RTS. The units are detailed - they don't all look perfect. In 
 a fully 3D world you can truly see the beautiful graphics and the buildings look nothing less than 
 amazing.
  
  Sound - The sound is nothing great but it's good solid and helps with the atmosphere of the game
 
  
  Value - 100% worth the $30 dollars you'll spend on it. It's online community is dying out however 
 and so if you get RTS games to play online this may, unfortunately, not be the game for you.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - I bought the game the day it came out and played it for near a year straight 
 (about the time the online community died) . It was an amazing game and it's a shame it wasn't supported 
 better. I recommend it to anyone who likes a good RTS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattock5656
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 22, 2004 4:25 pm PT
Review:  I am a RTS fan and I saw this game the other day, and i thought i might just pick this game up.
 
  
  
  I was pleased for a little while. Loving RTS, I found this game fun for about 10 hours then it 
 got really boring and repetive.
  
  The campaign modes I found were pretty difficult; the missions were mostly long-drawn out, and 
 it got to the point where they become boring and I wouldn't want to finsh the mission. I spent 
 most of my time with this game on the skirmish mode. this got dissappointing because you play the 
 A. I. on easy and they are way to easy, then you get to normal and they are very hard. Its gets 
 to the point where you send lots of enemys and then they send lots of enemys, and it equals out, 
 making it where everyone dies. You never get it anywhere in the battle. I would spend 2 hours on 
 one battle trying to build up tons of enemys and sending it to their base. Then all the units would 
 die, iwould have to keep doing thing, it got the point where it become very boring and repetive.
 
  
  The game does have some good variety of units and countrys to choose from. For Instance, You can 
 choose from Germany and they have special units and downfalls, just as any other faction would 
 have.
  
  The graphics were good, and the game was polished. I didn't find any major bugs. The sound was 
 normal and I found that good. You could head everything in the game perfectly.
  
  To me this is, just a average RTS, not the best in the world, but worth playing
  
  
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwe
Rating: 6.6
Date: Oct 28, 2004 7:40 am PT
Review:  Pretty good game play, but I honestly believe that the developer has gone overboard with the 3D 
 game world. I just find that the acute viewing angles make the game difficult to really enjoy!
 
  
  Other than that, the game is generally nice to play and is pretty fast paced for players who wish 
 to engage with other nations as soon as possible and develop through the "ages" covered by the 
 game.
  
  As far as my own preferences are concerned, I tend to be a bit more "old school" when it comes 
 to strategy games and I really enjoy empire building a bit more than engaging in superficial battles 
 with enemies that also don't really know what they want to achieve except for the fact that they 
 don't like your presence in the game world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swimmer61
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 3, 2004 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Im a fairly picky gamer. The average game I play has to be really good, or, simply put, I wont 
 play it. Frankly speaking, a game has to have a good feel or it simply doesnt captivate me. Ive 
 been a huge fan of the RTS genre ever since Age of Empires. I saw that this game received a 8.5 
 on Gamespot and figured it would be a really fun game, so I went to the store and paid my cash 
 for it. Big mistake. Empires: Dawn of the Modern World lacks a high-quality feel to it. It just 
 feels forced. The campaigns havent impressed me because I cant get into the gameplay. My biggest 
 annoyance with this game, however, was the scrolling. You have to move your mouse pointer all the 
 way to the side of the screen for it to move, and then it jumps over. This makes scrolling so toilsome 
 and jumpy that it gives me a headache. The units move too slowly, I think, and the early stages 
 of any game are boring to me. I guess Im just spoiled by RTS games with an excellent feel, such 
 as Age of Mythology and Warcraft III: the Frozen Throne. In any case, Ill just stick to my WCIII 
 and try to stop regretting I wasted all that money on Empires, which I will rarely play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdhas
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2003 11:29 am PT
Review:  EMPIRES: DotMW is in many ways a sequel to Empire Earth. Many of the concepts are the same, and 
 the interface is very similar. The resource model has been simplified with the elimination of Iron 
 as a resource, as well as a number of Civilization-specific resource gathering benefits.
  
  The research model seems somewhat over-simplified, on the other hand. A great deal of attention 
 is given to the Civ-specific cards that can be used much like God powers in Age of Mythology.
 
  
  The single-player campaigns struggle almost too hard to avoid the  
 RTS standard. Nearly every scenario has you starting off with a handful of units, finding more, 
 and using small-scale tactics to overcome the battle. I generally applaud these scenarios when 
 they are mixed into a larger thread of more base-building levels. Much of the single-player game 
 ends up feeling more like a tactical RTS, such as Commandos or even UFO: Aftermath, then necessarily 
 an empire building exercise (as the title of the game would suggest) . This is fortunately made 
 up for by the two modes of skirmish play available, and the AI is decidedly capable of putting 
 up quite a good fight.
  
  Multi-player is excellent, as long as you play with a good match of opponents and allies.
  
 
  The graphics in Empires are excellent. The full camera rotation and room is very smooth and definitely 
 adds to the strategic elements, as well as the visual pleasure of watching your army of swordsmen, 
 knights and archers decimate the other guy. I am particularly fond of the camera setting keys accessible 
 with the F6 and F7 keys that subtly adjust how the camera pans and zooms.
  
  The sound is definitely lacking. Most of the voices and sound effects are, at best, adequate. The 
 music is barely noticeable, and quite unremarkable. Perhaps I am spoiled by the excellent soundtracks 
 of AOM and WarCraft III (even Rise of Nations had better music) , but the music is definitely one 
 of the weakest points of the game.
  
  You get plenty of bang for your buck with Empires. Three lengthy and challenging single-player 
 campaigns, limitless AI encounters in skirmish mode and a complete multi-player functionality with 
 effective random match-making.
  
  Any fan of RTS games will enjoy Empires, but few will be truly amazed by it. The historical accuracy 
 and the remarkable distinction between civilizations are both excellent, as is the unit balance. 
 I don't expect Empires to consume my time the way AOM, W3 and RON have, however. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connor
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 26, 2003 2:12 pm PT
Review:  WOW. Thats all i have to say about this RTS. Personally i loved empire earth, but of course the game 
 wasnt perfect and it needed some tweaks. Well empires fixes all of the problems while adding a superb 
 new style of play.
  
  Graphics- They are great, especially when u zoom, they have great detail. The water effects are well 
 done as well as the esplosions.
  
  Sound-the sound is great as well as graphics. Explosons sound nice but there was something about 
 the infantry gun sounds that sound the same as empire earth ,but hey its all good.
  
  There is so many new units and distinction between civilizations its great. For instance germany 
 has the Panzer 11V tanks and king tiger. Rather than ever civ. having the same tanks, each civ. has 
 its own unique tanks units ships buildings planes and infantry. Another nice addition in gameplay 
 is the use of special powers for a civilzation.
  
  ALL and ALL if u like strategy games like command and conquer generals and empire earth than this 
 game is the game for you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehTerlo
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 24, 2003 4:21 pm PT
Review:  A great and possibly the Best RTS ever. If you like games where you can create an army and tell 
 them to kill other armies then this game is for you. OK quite simple empires: dawn of the modern 
 world is the best RTS ever. Better than rise of nations, age of mythology, command and conquer 
 generals, and all the other ones. In empires you can play between 5 epochs (ages) to decide the 
 fate of the world. Multiplayer functions include online play and play via LAN. Single player offers 
 several campaign missions from ww2, the medieval, age and the imperial age. Cut scenes are beautiful. 
 Full 3D views. Several units to choose from. You can even make your own darn map. You can have 
 nuclear bombs which add great effect. Every civilization is completely like it was back then. And 
 the best part is that you can catapult diseased cows. Actually I liked how good it emulated the 
 revolutionary war and the world wars. Medieval was great too. Paratroopers and an array of ships 
 for your different civs. except their is one problem with all this beauty. Where are the japanese? 
 They will probably be in the expansion if there is one. A great game all around. You must buy empires: 
 dawn of the modern world if you enjoy strategy or for any matter buy empires: dawn of the modern 
 world now. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
