-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Empire Earth II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/empireearth2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Outstanding depth, including an incredible number of civilizations and units.
 Smart AI adds challenge to solo games.
 Virtually all rules and settings can be customized.
 Innovative new features, like picture-in-picture, the citizen manager, and the war planner.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Serious complexity, even with the new interface features designed to make the game more user-friendly.
 Some pathfinding annoyances.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 27, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.9, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 3,295 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: VU Games
Developer: Mad Doc Software
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Apr 26, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you can commit to familiarizing yourself with all of Empire Earth II's nooks and crannies, expect 
 to be rewarded with an enjoyable addiction that will last you weeks, if not months. 

  Empire Earth II has a lot of good points, but it's no friend to the casual real-time strategy gamer. 
 While developer Mad Doc Software has improved on Stainless Steel's 2001 blockbuster, increased 
 depth and additional options have turned a huge game into an absolutely colossal one. This sequel 
 remains a standard historical RTS, but it's also a grab bag crammed so full of new features, interface 
 amenities, and complexities that it's bursting at the seams. Still, if you can commit a great many 
 hours to familiarizing yourself with all the game's nooks and crannies, expect to be rewarded with 
 an enjoyable addiction that will cost you weeks, if not months, of your life.  

          Speaking softly and carrying a big stick up San Juan Hill.     

  Thematically, this 
 is the same old Empire Earth. Mad Doc hasn't strayed far from the adventurous formula of the original 
 game. Half a million years of human achievement have once more been broken down into 15 epochs 
 and 14 major civilizations representing all recorded history. Every step in human evolution is 
 depicted. Resources are gathered, and armies are built on a truly epic scale. In the same game, 
 you might see Neolithic tribesmen -- one step removed from the Flinstones -- gathering food and stones, 
 as well as a future society that wages war with battle mechs that process uranium. Hundreds of 
 buildings and military units are developed and deployed. Each epoch has its own tech tree featuring 
 12 items to be researched in military, commerce, and imperial categories. You can venture all the 
 way from weaving to sentient artificial intelligence, from seasonal hunting groups to automated 
 highways, and from tanning animal hides to nanomachines.  

  Game modes are standard for a historical RTS. A tutorial and three solo campaigns trace the development 
 of the Aztecs, Koreans, Germans, and Americans from different points in the history of each civilization. 
 Single-player "turning points" missions see you revisiting D-Day on either the American or German 
 side, or fighting the ancient Chinese Three Kingdoms conflict on behalf of the Wu or Wei. Skirmish 
 mode lets you set up online or offline battles between as many as 10 human and/or computer opponents 
 in game types that feature nine different victory conditions.  

  In short, almost everything is where you left it. That said, the crucial word here is "almost." 
 Mad Doc has introduced a number of interface tweaks in an attempt to make Empire Earth II more 
 user-friendly than its predecessor. The new citizen-manager overlay screen, for example, shows 
 resource piles and other locations, like universities where stragglers can be put to work. You 
 can take in the entire map at a glance, check stats showing how many citizens are assigned to each 
 resource pile, and organize those who have slipped through the cracks.  

  War planning has also received the one-stop-shopping treatment. When you want to coordinate an 
 attack on a mutual enemy, all you have to do now is sketch out some circles and arrows in the war-plans 
 applet and then send them to one or more allies for approval. This is a great boost to solo games, 
 providing the illusion that you're fighting alongside human players. It also comes in handy in 
 multiplayer games with real human opponents. Not only does war planning provide you with a ready 
 way of discussing tactics, but also it enhances teamwork by making it so easy to draw up such battle 
 plans. In fact, it makes it even more tempting to betray allies by sending them confusing tactics 
 while simultaneously preparing underhanded offensives.  

          New weather effects look great, but storms occur often and can completely blank visibility 
 for minutes at a time.     

  Picture-in-picture is another evolution of the interface, providing you with the ability to be 
 in two places at once. It lets you both keep an eye on specified locales and manipulate units and 
 buildings. Essentially, it works as a secondary game window. For example, when directing an army 
 on the front lines in the main screen, you can observe your town and queue the production of units 
 in the PIP. Up to six points of view can be bookmarked and then toured simply by hitting F1 through 
 F6, making it a snap to move between town centers in larger games.  

  That's not entirely a good thing. Despite Mad Doc's good intentions, the PIP doesn't make Empire 
 Earth II easier to play. If anything, it makes the game more complicated, as in both single-player 
 scenarios and skirmishes against the computer, use of the PIP can lead to information overload. 
 Since there are always a dozen or more tasks demanding your attention, it's too easy to get so 
 caught up scanning from one hot spot to another, in addition to micromanaging, that missions can 
 start to feel a lot like work. Games online now are more hardcore and unforgiving. If you want 
 to really compete in multiplayer contests, you have to master the PIP, because odds are good there 
 will be at least one multitasking guru in every game you join.  

          Not gathering enough gold? Call up the citizen manager to see who's slacking off.     

 
  Gameplay itself seems to have received less attention in the design doc than the user interface. 
 Not that this is a bad thing. The historical RTS template upon which Empire Earth II is based is 
 solid in every way -- save for clunky pathfinding, which remains a sore point in specific locations, 
 especially at sea and when off-loading troops from ships -- so it's a good thing Mad Doc stayed away 
 from what wasn't broken.     

  There are a few key additions to gameplay. Roads can now be built to give units speed bonuses (although 
 the benefit of this is dubious thanks to those pathfinding problems) . Diplomatic options have been 
 more fully fleshed out with the ability to barter territories in return for alliances. In both 
 single-player and multiplayer matches, crowns are now awarded at timed intervals for successes 
 in the military, economic, and imperial arenas. Lead the field militarily, for example, and you 
 get to choose from a list of bonuses that increase damage done by your infantry for a limited period 
 of time, add to the hit points of your naval vessels, and so forth.  

          Coordinating sea and land assaults via the war planner can impel forces to send up a white 
 flag in short order.     

  A rock-paper-scissors formula remains the inflexible foundation of the game, but you can change 
 just about everything else. A range of handicaps in skirmish mode run all the way from newbie to 
 game god, adjusting core aspects of gameplay like unit production rate, tech-point generation, 
 and inflicted damage. This nicely levels the playing field against human opponents online and allows 
 for single-player skirmishes against computer antagonists of wildly varying ability. Game pace 
 can also be adjusted, either with fast, slow, or medium presets, or by individually editing game 
 functions. You can accommodate limited amounts of spare time with these speed settings, too. We 
 cranked everything up and ripped through all 15 epochs in a couple of hours in one solo game.  
 

  Cunning artificial intelligence provides you with good competition no matter how you tweak the 
 customization options. Computer enemies build their cities smartly, with well-thought-out fortifications. 
 They set up outposts and walls, stud coastal areas with catapults, cannons, and missile launchers, 
 and construct a hell of a lot of fortresses. Weak points are there to be exploited, but you have 
 to scout or spy pretty hard to find them. So while there may be a beachhead in the enemy's rear 
 that's perfect for the landing of an invading army, you usually have to endure the withering fire 
 of a half-dozen surface-to-sea gun batteries to get there.  

  Attacks are carried out in an intelligent fashion as well. Computer opponents are aggressive, even 
 on easy difficulty settings. They test your defenses in all areas and will only launch large-scale 
 attacks at proven weak links. If computer armies are easily repelled from one locale a few times, 
 you can virtually guarantee the next attack will focus elsewhere. Conversely, if an attack meets 
 with even a modicum of success, you can bet more assaults will be directed at that particular location 
 very shortly.  

  One area where Empire Earth II doesn't look so smart is in presentation values. The main problem 
 is a certain sameness in units and buildings. Aside from individual soldiers and the handful of 
 units particular to each civilization, buildings, ships, and aircraft have quite similar appearances 
 in each epoch. This is a particular issue with related cultures, although it's noticeable with 
 even the most dissimilar civilizations. So a game played as the Aztecs feels a fair bit like a 
 game played as the Germans, or as the Chinese.  

          There isn't a whole lot of subtlety to some sieges.     

  Even if you're not bothered 
 by the somewhat generic feel of the game, the overall quality of the graphics and audio is a couple 
 of years behind the times. Except for fantastic wind, rain, snow, and sand effects that seriously 
 hamper visibility (or destroy it completely if the setting in video options is turned all the way 
 up) , whenever a storm rolls in, Empire Earth II doesn't look that much better than its 2001 predecessor. 
 Unit animation is crude, and there's a lack of fine detail in general. The citizen-management and 
 war-planner screens are extremely blocky and grainy, like photographs blown up far beyond their 
 original sizes. Also, slowdown is an issue on maps with four or more players, even on systems with 
 high-end video cards like the Nvidia 6800GT. During periods of inclement weather, the frame rate 
 can drop so low that the game is barely playable.  

  Audio order acknowledgments are tedious and are repeated constantly. Some units have just a couple 
 of response options, so you hear the likes of "Look lively, men!" and "Blood and iron!" over and 
 over. Considering the amount of money VU Games obviously spent on this production, the number of 
 voice samples is awfully chintzy. Music is more noteworthy, with different theme songs for each 
 civilization. Some are even catchy, such as the Middle Eastern beat that accompanies campaigns 
 played as the Babylonians. But again, there's too much repetition. The same few notes are recycled 
 ad nauseam, so it isn't long before you're dialing down the volume or switching the music off. 

          Pathfinding problems can cause troops to get stuck. Sometimes they run in place like they're 
 on treadmills until another unit shoves them aside.     

  Despite the negatives cited above, we can't fault Empire Earth II with anything but providing too 
 much of a good thing. And when you look at just how much there is to experience, this seems like 
 a pretty forgivable sin. A patient approach, perhaps coupled with the memorization of a dozen or 
 so hotkeys, goes a long way toward appreciating this game, but the eventual payoff is definitely 
 worth it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (107 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gionder
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 4:25 pm PT
Review:  I've played EE3 and it was SO disappointing... i don't think the same thing on this one, but its 
 still a lil confusing to me. Age of Empires 3 is very simplified but it's laking too much features. 
 This game has some nice graphics, if putted everything on maximum allowed.
  The ai is annoying, because, even at the easiest state, the AI is too much aggressive, and when 
 you're not expecting, from the nothing, comes an HUGE army against you, and you have to be constantly 
 in "red alert".
  
  this is just to fill the annoying NEED of 100 words. what a boring thing! if i don't wan to write 
 100 words, i dont need to!
  
  words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, 
 words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, 
 words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, 
 words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, 
 words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, 
 words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, 
 words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, 
 words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words, words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonyhawksP8
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2009 2:59 am PT
Review:  Now Empire Earth II could have been really special but mustn't have seen its potential for there 
 was only the Normandy invasion and some other random scenario. This measures time in epochs with 
 the familiar tech tree (Economy, Imperialism and Militarism) , there are resources to gather that 
 change as the epochs change.
  
  The thing with the epochs and unique units of the different place like Japan is that you could 
 any epic battle but someone in Sierra wasn't thinking properly, like you could Last Samurai thing 
 with the Samurais or you could recreate Pearl Harbour. The voice acting and units didn't vary much 
 except for unique units like Japans ninjas, Samurais and Zero fighters. There is a sight that does 
 support peoples EE2 creations if only I could one to work.
  
  Seeing as there so much to say about something this big I will simplify, you go through epochs 
 and as you go your units will change with the times. You can purchase red icon that makes that 
 certain unit special such as the once you upgrade one Trireme all others will be upgraded. The 
 future is also well done with HERCs robots with different functionalities.
  
  Graphically bad thankfully, that means it won't go all slow on my comp, never fear though you only 
 can have a certain population though that is rather annoying there are house to improve your populace. 
 
  
  Oh right the campaign had you manoeuvring so many units the game slowed or you couldn't manage 
 them all the, others required strategy. The campaigns more my older brothers type, he's the patient 
 one who prefers sniper in BF Modern Combat. 
  
  This game is something you can blab on for three pages about but simply put it this was so much 
 potential wasted and I hear its expansion pack and EE3 were really bad. Worth the buy though, even 
 if Age of Empires is probably better although I can't say because I haven't played it.
  
  Now I've played Age of Empires 1&2 with Conqueror and Rise of Rome expansion and I've gotta say 
 they are less complex and confusing than this. They are also a bit underwhelming after playing 
 this, I mean this has so many more epochs, units, side etc. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mickeyminime
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  The game is like age of empires, just more ages to evolve to, more people to have and empires to 
 destroy. now the game seems to run slow on all pc's we have. my old, new and even the laptop was 
 slow with it, yet the graphics card is a very powerful one etc. nearly everything on the computer 
 is updated and brand new. anyway. the down side to it is that there are 3 wonders in the game, 
 every nation has it, but if one nation builds that 1 wonder, the other nations can not build that 
 type of wonder you just built.... if you get what i mean. also you cant really research anything 
 in buildings unlike age of empires. the only way to do it is how you get to evolve to the next 
 stage by gaining tech points.... and alot of them through the game. the other problem is that trees, 
 gold etc seem to be infinate, so trying to build a building will not be aloud as its too close 
 to the reasource. wood has like 2000 peaces in that one tree and takes 10 mins to take the 1 tree 
 down... age of empire 200 peaces in the one tree and takes a few mins. not only was the resources 
 able to be depleted. the building design is not in cube designs like age of empires to where you 
 can place buildings together, this one its different and rather annoying. road buildings... gee, 
 what can i say, its very annoying, once the road is built, you can destroy it.... not only is it 
 very dodgey. if this game was like age of empires 2, but had 15.000 years of evolution, 2000 people 
 to create etc, it would be a wicked game. sadly its not, but good at most times... if you really 
 need a game to play that is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bad_Boyl2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  A game I had first shunned, it didn't look too good actually. When my friend had liked it a lot 
 I had thought that it can't be that bad if he plays it. I tried it, it was daissapointing at first, 
 but I noticed what I hadn't before every time I tried it again. I grew to not be as negative towards 
 it, and now I like it! But I still don't think its great though, hmmmm maybe I should play more? 
 lol.
  
  Gameplay:
  I think the campaign is a lot worse compared to Age of Empires franchise, excluding the first. 
 But the skirmish was the best aspect of it I think. I would load the game to try more of the campaign, 
 but get dissapointed, but then spend an hour or two in skirmish mode. It was different from AoE, 
 it was new.
  
  Graphics/Sound
  No, this game doesn't have great, or good graphics - They're just fine. No more, no less. Sound 
 wasn't the best either, except for the sound effects, which it was fully loaded with! Music, ehhh 
 - what music? yeah...
  
  Great game for skirmish or online I would say, but if you're looking for in-depth story you're 
 looking in the wrong place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 13, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Empire Earth is the second sequel of the Empire Earth series, while it predeccesor was a highly 
 immersive and inspired game. So, the second part of the series is very familiar to the first one, 
 while it adds some interesting things at the same time.
  
  First of all, the gameplay is still good. In the previous game, the gameplay was dangerously complex. 
 Nevertheless, it remains almost the same, as the new interface of the game may be better, though 
 it remains a bit difficult to controll. And that is the most serious problem of the game.
  
  The Al is very well-improved. New Al additions make the game tougher and more challenging than 
 ever before, which means that the player will have to think of something more complex (which is 
 indeed helped by the Strategic Plan feature when having allies) , instead of using straight attacks. 
 Still, the Al 'stops' to work when moving to find your path, which is annoying.
  
  Generally, Empire Earth 2 is a good game, while it gives you the ability to control a wide variety 
 of different nations and civilizatons and could be a great addition to every PC games collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkdood333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  from america to rome, from cavemen to robots! comand thousands. make millions, gather resources. 
 evan oil if you reach a high enough epoche. talk about not enough oil... you can make a stonghold 
 with a fortess and stone walls. you can command thousands of difforent types of soldirs. i really 
 cant list them ALL. you have  
 you see what im getting at? any time peiriod. graphics arent HD but you forget avout that while 
 you play the game. i pretended i had 300 spartens! i reinacted the revolutionary war. i made a 
 feuture war!. ive had this game for years. i never wanted to get off my computer. i played to 10am 
 to 3am. i think its a game to get. might be out dated but i love it. i like to max out the population 
 limit and take 600 man with swords and catapults and go kick some native ass! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve-m92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  I have always been fond of RTS games, especially those that allow you to upgrade your civilisation 
 through time, and EE2 is the best of both those catagories that i have played. This game succeeds 
 in creating a real-time-strategy element on a massive scale with 15 time scales and 14 civilisations, 
 each with their own unique units and building styles, as well as hundreds of customisable settings 
 and rules.
  
  Admittedly all this could be a little overwelming for the casual gamer, and there are sometimes 
 movement difficulties with the units which can get anoying after a while, but generally this game 
 achieves what the developers intended. The improved computer AI means that complicated plans can 
 be drawn out between allies and the AI will understand and follow your orders, making it seem like 
 you are playing with human opponents. This is not to say that playing online with real human opponents 
 isnt fun, indeed this enrichs the experience and ensures that you are hooked for a very long time.
 
  
  EE2 is an addictive game that still manages to compete with todays time-spanning RTSs 3 years on. 
 EE2 is best enjoyed if you spend a little time getting to know the complex rules and navigating 
 the various types of units, then it can be very enjoyable and worth the money you paid for it because 
 of how much is packed into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ibby2006
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 11, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  The campaigns are okay, and the graphics have greatly improved since the first game. There were 
 only 3 Campaign parts, which was a big disappointment. The skirmish is also better than the first 
 one, however there are some glitches. The worst part of the game, and the reason why I give it 
 a 3/10 is because the map editor SUCKS. You can't make a frickin' bridge over a river, nor can 
 you add objects from separate epochs. Making Roads are okay, but there is only one size: too damn 
 large. So if the map editor was much better, I might give the game a rating of 6, but the campaign 
 and the skirmish just don't add up to a 8. There are a couple of graphical glitches in the skirmish 
 part of the game, but they are minor, and I think it's a problem with my graphics card. The sound 
 quality is good too, but when compared to games like Civilization IV or Age of Empires III, Empire 
 Earth II doesn't stand a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eufnoc
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  The fact that you have established boundaries when you take over an area, the fact that the game 
 has 15 epoch's with 12 researchable tech's each level, upgrades to your unit's, special unit's, 
 special ability's, regional abilities makes the game just immense, you can try and crush your enemy 
 quickly, you can play defence and then crush there army of knights with an heavy stealth bomber.
 
  The game can be so fun to play on your own, in multiplayer, with the add-on you can make your 
 own race to play as you wish and different races are a lot more suited for different situations 
 (e. g. British more suited to Naval where as Turkish more suited to defence) same as regions have 
 different benefits (such as west gets tech quicker where as the middle east has the lost city ability.) 
 .
  
  One of the down sides to the games is that during the battle all the unit's can mash into one giant 
 blob on the map and a giant moving blob on the screen, which I suppose is how life would really 
 be during the heat of a major battle with mace men, swords men, spear men etc but it's not helpful 
 when playing the game!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pvt_DaFt_PuNk
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  Empire Earth 2 hmm not as good as .. Rise of nations, Age of empires, Rome: total war , Warhammer 
 40000 , Alexander and many others I have played. One major factor that puts me off this game is 
 that almost every unit has an American accent. Dont we hear enough american voices in all games 
 already!! sadly even the Germans and Japanese factions in the game have american accents and the 
 odd british grenadier. Some other games such as rise of nations have units that dont even say anything 
 but i would prefer this to the endless citezen saying 'here' in an american accent every time. 
 Couldnt they at least of made the citizens speak in their own foreign accents like in Empires : 
 Dawn of themodern world which in my opinion has the most variety of voices in any RTS game to date. 
 Also whats with the giant leaders? they just look silly. Gameplay is decent during the early ages 
 in the game until you reach the modern age then units such as the machine gunner also seem silly. 
 Their is a large variety of units but most of them look and sound the same eg Every single rifle 
 man from the Western region in the modern age looks and sounds the same, did I mention that a German 
 soldier has an american accent? The campaigns are alright but are nothing that hasnt been seen 
 before. Units in combat look quite good and battles are over very quickly due to less hitpoints 
 for a unit than in other games. Overall this game is average but i wouldnt recomend buying it. 
 I sugest Empires : dawn of the modern world . An older but a great game with more depth and not 
 a single unit looks the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanjeev3
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  For some reason I never liked the Empire Earth series. Even though I have Empire Earth I and II 
 they are played once then kept on the shelf for years. 
  
  I don't like the style of graphics in both, nor do I like the gameplay. Even the most recent Empire 
 Earth III review recieved a bad score. I think this one signalled the downfall of the series. The 
 graphics are similar to empire earth dawn of the modern world and the gameplay is almost as repetitive 
 as starcraft. The heroes are double the size of your normal troops.
  
  I'd much rather be playing Warcraft III or Age of Empires. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hock3yl1f3
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 5, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  This is an okay game but it's just a copy of Rise of Nations. These two are exactly the same. There 
 are very few differences. Personally I like Rise of Nations better. However, both also copy off 
 the Civilization and Age of Empires series. I think its overhyped. If you like this type of game 
 play AoE and Civ if you already haven't. If you can just rent or borrow this game. If you already 
 have Rise of Nations there is no point in buying this game at all. If you already have this game 
 no point in buying Rise of Nations. Dont buy it. However, dont get me wrong its still a quality 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_j007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  Empire Earth II has a number of new gameplay features from the original gameplay of Empire Earth. 
 Some of the new features are the Picture-in-Picture window, another smaller window within the game 
 interface, allows the player to control activities such as unit and building construction within 
 an area not focused in the main window. The Citizen Manager can be configured to tell a citizen 
 what to do if they have no set task, and the Diplomacy System allows the player to make tributes 
 and manage alliances and wars with other players. The War Planner is another new addition, which 
 is a map of the game that the player can display and use to coordinate attacks with allies. The 
 crown system grants strategic bonuses to players who are first to master an epoch's Military, Economic, 
 or Imperial paths at the cost of losing a faster age progression. Weather, another new feature 
 changes over time on the map, and affects not only the look of the map (which can be hard to see 
 during blizzards or sandstorms) , but also the performance of units.
  
  Besides campaigns and special scenarios, there is also a skirmish mode where the player can play 
 against a computer player. The player can also play against other human players, however, the common 
 EULA clause that each player needs his own copy of the game is actually enforced, even for LAN 
 games. Unlike campaigns or scenarios, the winning conditions never change. There are eight different 
 game modes in skirmish mode, which can also be played in Multiplayer.
  
  There are 15 epochs in the game, each representing a part of history. As the player advances through 
 the epochs, new and improved units and structures become available. Some of the epochs in EE2 are 
 identical to their counterparts in the original Empire Earth -- one exception is that EE2 does 
 not allow players to expand their empires into space.
  
  The epochs are the Stone Age, the Copper Age, the Bronze Age, the Iron Age, the Dark Ages, the 
 Middle Ages, the Renaissance, the Imperial Age, the Enlightenment Age, the Industrial Age, the 
 Modern Age, the Atomic Age, the Digital Age, the Genetic Age, and the Synthetic Age
  
  Before buildings and units can be made or created, resources must be gathered. There are two kinds 
 of resources: main resources and special resources. The main resources are available in all epochs 
 and they are Food, Wood, Gold, Iron and Stone. In order to collect resources, a citizen (or a band 
 of citizens) is selected, and are directed to a resource. The citizens thus begin harvesting it.
 
  
  The special resources are available in only some epochs. For example, oil is available only from 
 epoch 10 till the last age, epoch 15. These special resources are Tin - available until epoch 6, 
 Iron - first available in epoch 4 and is no longer used after epoch 9, Saltpeter - first available 
 in epoch 7 and is used until epoch 12, Oil - first available in epoch 10, and Uranium - first available 
 epoch 13.
  
  EE2 has technologies to improve each player's civilization. Technologies are divided into 3 groups. 
 The first is Military, which provides benefits mostly to military units. The next is Economic technologies, 
 which increases resource gathering rate, decreases cost and building time for units and buildings 
 and decreases tribute tax amount. Then final technology is Imperial, which provides benefits mostly 
 to special units and increases the health of units and buildings.
  
  There are four of each technology for each epoch. Technologies can be researched by spending tech 
 points. To get tech points, an appropriate number of citizens must be garrisoned in a university 
 and/or an appropriate number of priests must be garrisoned in a temple. Technologies are researched 
 through the main interface (no longer through a building) by clicking the Technology Tree button. 
 When the correct amount of tech points are available, the tech tree button will light up and the 
 new technology to research can be chosen. However, when the resource is no longer used, the garrisoned 
 units will become idle.
  
  In EE2, each civilization belongs to a particular world region. Each of the regional powers can 
 be activated on the game interface by clicking on a special button. All of the regional powers 
 are timed; once the time is up to use it, it will take a long time for the regional powers to be 
 recharged to use again. Each regional power can only be used in a respective group of epochs. For 
 example, the regional power of Overtime can only be used by a player using a Far Eastern civilization 
 in epochs 11-15.
  
  Like many games before it with the same genre, EE2 has civilizations for players to lead to greatness. 
 Each civilization has a unique power, giving it an advantage in a particular field. Each civilization 
 also has a unique unit, which is a more powerful version of a given unit type. The Greek Hoplite, 
 for instance, is a more effective heavy infantry than other tribes counterparts. The western civilizations 
 are the Americans, British, Germans, Greeks, and the Romans . The Middle Eastern civilizations 
 are the Babylonians, Egyptians, and the Turks. The Far Eastern civilizations are China, Japan, 
 and Korea. Finally, the Meso-American civilizations are the Aztecs, Incas, and the Mayans.
  
  Campaigns
  Empire Earth II has three single player campaigns - Korean, German and American, 
 and a collection of scenarios called turning points.
  
  The Korean campaign is about early Korean history, from 2333 BC to 676 AD, and is divided into 
 eight scenarios. The first two scenarios are about the founding of the state of Chosun and the 
 state's struggles. The next two scenarios are about Korea's first wars with the Chinese. The next 
 two scenarios are about the Korean civil war and the state of Silla's decision to ally with China. 
 The next scenario is about Silla's triumph over the other Korean states and the renewed war with 
 China. The last scenario for this campaign is the final war with China.
  
  The German Campaign deals with the years between 1220-1871 in central Europe. The first four scenarios 
 are about the struggles of the Teutonic Order and the knights' eventual downfall. The next two 
 scenarios are about the rise of Prussia and the Seven Years' War. The next scenario is about the 
 war with Napoleon I of France. The final scenario is about the war with Denmark, Austria and France 
 and the reunification of Germany under Otto von Bismarck.
  
  The American Campaign is part-fact and part-fiction. It deals with the years between 1898-2070. 
 The first scenario is about the first years of the Spanish American War in Cuba. The next scenario 
 is about the Meuse-Argonne Offensive in World War I. The next two scenarios are about the war in 
 North Africa and Sicily against the Germans and a fictionalized version of the famous Ardennes 
 Offensive in World War II. The next two scenarios are about spy missions against the Soviet Union 
 during the Cold War. The next scenario is about an attempted coup lead by a disillusioned General 
 called Charles Blackworth against the US government; the player is charged with stopping this coup. 
 The last scenario is about the final showdown with Blackworth and his followers in the Amazon Rainforest. 
 When the player wins the last scenario in this campaign, there will be a short film about mankind 
 and the earth. When that film ends, the credits for the game will be shown.
  
  Besides the three main campaigns, there is a tutorial campaign about the Aztecs. The first scenario 
 is about the founding of the city of Tenochtitlan. The next scenario is about the Spanish conquest 
 of Mexico, which ends with the Aztecs driving out Hernan Cortes and his Conquistadors. The third 
 scenario is about an Aztec alliance with the United States. The final scenario in this campaign 
 is about a war with the Incas, which occurs just before World War II.
  
  There are four special scenarios in Empire Earth II called turning points. These scenarios can 
 be played from either side of a battle or war which changed the course of history:
  
  Normandy - takes place during the D-Day invasion. The player can play as the Americans and try 
 to repeat the success of Operation Overlord or play as the Germans and try to stop the Allied invasion 
 force from breaching the Atlantic Wall. The Three Kingdoms - recreates the chaotic period after 
 the end of the Han Dynasty. The player can play as the Kingdom of Wei and recreate their success 
 over the kingdoms of Wu and Shu or play as the Wu and try to conquer the Wei. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 14, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Empire Earth 2 is the sequel to Empire Earth- which was essentially Age of Empires- only on a grand 
 scale. The original Empire Earth was sloppy to say the least- but it certainly had its moments. 
 Empire Earth 2 is unfortunately even more of a lazy slob than its older brother was.
  
  Empire Earth 2 attempts to single itself out from the pack by re-evaluating some of its basic gameplay. 
 The pure basics are still there- you lead civilization from the stone ages- all the way up to the 
 future. So you have to harvest lots and lots of resources- train a military to defend yourself 
 or best your enemies- etc. Empire Earth 2 adds in quite a bit however. For example- the maps are 
 now divided into territories. Take a territory by building a city hall within it- and its marked 
 with your colors and you can use its resources. The game also has a brand new diplomacy model- 
 which is actually surprisingly decent. You can set up trade agreements- set up planned assaults- 
 declare war- peace- etc. You can also now order your military units to seize enemy structures as 
 well- making it potentially less costly to take enemy territory if you capture their city hall. 
 And then there is the weather to worry about too.
  
  So Empire Earth 2 has plenty of good ideas going here. But alas, most- if not all of it- is plagued 
 by lots of micro-management. The interface does help though- as it helps make certain tasks easier- 
 such as allocating resource gatherers. But still- you'll have a lot to keep track of on big maps- 
 so it can get a bit overwhelming quite easily. Also- the interface only hellps with peaceful matters... 
 Your on your own with everything that has to do with the military. Many features are also wasted 
 in single player- due to a terrible AI. The game also suffers from some ridiculous difficulty settings- 
 which lean from making it impossible to lose- to making it almost impossible to win.
  
  Graphically- the game is very sloppy indeed. The units are all quite bland and blocky- and always 
 repeat the same animations over and over. The terrain and weather effects are also quite lackluster. 
 The game's sound is also not so good. The music fits the theme- but nothing more. The unit responses 
 get repetitive quickly- and some of them have some very stupid replies.
  
  In the end- Empire Earth 2 has a lot of good ideas- but they are mostly lost in a sloppy package. 
 The game's low production values, along with some other issues due to excessive micro-management, 
 make it so that the game ultimately fails to handle the scale its predecessor managed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 7, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  Gameplay::: I usually don't mind hard games where you have to learn new ways of playing but this 
 just makes you have to do more stuff but get the same result. There are 5 resources which is just 
 annoying and reasearch is just trying to be different but fails. This game has no new features 
 but adds lots of ways to drag everything out. Units to buildings are out of scale. There are good 
 parts though like huge amounts of units, buildings and epoch range is huge. But gameplay is the 
 same as every other RTS
  
  Graphics::: Barely better than Empire Earth which came as a suprise. A disappointing suprise. I 
 don't usually care THAT much about graphics but I dislike crap graphics like this.
  
  Sound:::ok
  
  Value::: The usuall Skirmish mulit etc
  
  Tilt::: Get it as a torrent for 
 free 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lichking360
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 3, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  Empire Earth 2 is a game that took the extra step to create a game with more options, excellent 
 sound, and great gameplay. However it falls short on a few things like the fact that its a hard 
 game and that the graphics are a bit out-dated even for the year that it was made.
  The one thing that make Empire Earth 2 a one of a kind is that it spans all of human's achievements 
 throughout all of history into 15 epochs. Such as the very early ages when humans first created 
 farms and armor, to later ages with knights and swords, to modern ages with tanks and airplanes, 
 all the way into the future with HERCs, giant walking artillery from the next century. With all 
 the epochs come a tremendous amount of units and diversity between the 14 different races.
  However you shouldn't feel too overwhelmed if you are a casual RTS player because EE2 plays just 
 as any other RTS game would. You gather resources, build buildings, create armys, and destroy your 
 opponent. However, the thing that this game does that others don't is the clear set of rules that 
 everything in the world has as in real life. Such as weather makeing units slower and making them 
 have a lower line of sight or that outposts are one of the only things that can detect spys. When 
 you play this game it is very important that you know all the units roles so that you will not 
 make a huge mistake and have it cost you the game.
  The graphics for this game may seem a bit out dated but trust me with the huge battles that take 
 place in this game you will find that even some of the strongest computers will lag on its highest 
 quality.
  The sound for this game was very well done. Once you send a huge army of troops and tanks into 
 another army expect to have your speakers filled with explosions and gun shots and missiles going 
 off. The only thing is that the music to this game is a lot of tribal drum beats and nothing really 
 exciting. But its easy to not care when so many other noises will take over.
  Basically Empire Earth 2 is a great RTS game especially for how much its selling for now a days. 
 And also once you have mastered the interface its a somewhat rewarding feeling when you completely 
 destroy a computer opponent on the hardest difficulty and even more rewarding when you beat real 
 players online. Basically once you learn and familiarize yourself with the interface, expect to 
 have a great game that will last a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canyonaro
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 18, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  I bought that game and loving hated it. it was so terrible- you could use teddy Roosevelt in the 
 game and one of his voice clips was MY BLOOD BOILS! what the **** WHAT THE **** I smashed that 
 game after an hour of playing it. Teddy Roosevelt was portrayed as a blood thirsty savage that 
 knows naught but war. He was the real teddy but after he drank the blood of Mannaroth. I restricted 
 my enemies to tech level 0 (they were stuck as cavemen with clubs for weapons) . And I went to max 
 tech level and bought a walking battle mech specifically designed to take out infantry (IE CAVEMEN) 
 but wait! 10 CAVEMEN CLUBBED MY GIANT STEEL BEAST TO DEATH WITH CAVE EASE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exo911
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 2, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  I first bought this game a strategy bundle. I didnt install it at first but when i did i was very 
 happy. It took me a while to get used to the controls. The campaign is fun and edgy. The AI is 
 VERY functional and infantry isnt underpowered. I love the zoom future. The engine it runs on is 
 much better than Empire Earth 1. The expansion is a must get. Im surprised there arent many files 
 for it since maps are easy to create. Ive made multiple maps using the esay to use map editor. 
 The campaign took me about 12 hours to complete. Even wehn beaten you can move to online play which 
 is great too. I give this game a 8.9, since the graphics and sound could be a bit better. This 
 is a must buy for strategy lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yhgt
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 13, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  On Empire Earth 2 I've only played one player but I hear that the multi player is really good. 
 The campaign is okay and the skirmish is awesome! This game is one of the best RTS games. Each 
 civilization has three unique units and three different wonders. Each wonder has a special effect 
 for example The Pentagon allows your houses to attack enemies. Something it has that makes funner 
 than Age Of Empires is that you start in the Stone Age and eventually go into the Modern Age! Also 
 there's a large variety of units since the technology changes constantly. I'd say that this game 
 is definately worth its price unless you already have another RTS because there's not too much 
 of a difference. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaos_complete
Rating: 2.1
Date: May 5, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  In order to make this an easier read, I will divide this review up into the good aspects of the 
 game, and the bad.
  
  The good:
  
  Pretty damn good graphics, although fairly similar to the first one.
  More unit types.
  Interesting 
 battle plan system.
  Cool introduction video.
  
  The bad:
  
  Unit AI poor
  Game not balanced (You have to balance it yourself in skirmish, wtf)
  Campaigns boring and short
 
  No cinematics in campaigns, not even an EFFORT. Just some fogged out screen with a dumb voiceover.
 
  Nuclear weapons barely make a splash.
  Unfair damage scale
  Age advancement is too rapid
  Buildings not involved, sole purpose of the game feels like it 
 is to click silly techs at the university and garrison priests.
  Clumsy battles, very little strategy involved.
  Units have no personality, say the same crap 
 over and over, die the same way, etc.
  Really boring defense structures/buildings.
  Boring, unoriginal units in general, especially for the future. Something should have been done 
 to make them more unique. Weapons boring and unoriginal, shouldn't the early mechs have machineguns 
 AND missiles like in the video?
  Developers lazy on upgrades (transport does not upgrade from epochs 11-15) , especially in the later 
 ages. With technology increasing even MORE rapidly, one would think that the future units would 
 be upgraded MORE often.
  Explanation of epochs poor, 2030-2130 for one age wtf, and we still use assault rifle dudes and 
 choppers. It should be 2030-2060 and 2060-2100 for the last two ages, and although this is not 
 too important, better explanations for epochs would help.
  Terrible, terrible lag on even most good computers.
  Forced territory system, which also is a 
 cheap ripoff of RON and feels very unnatural, which makes the gamer feel like they are being forced 
 to expand instead of actually playing the game. Expansion is fine, but this just sucks.
  Limit of defense structures per territory, this provides for easily getting the living daylights 
 bombed out of you.
  Units not to scale (commanders especially) , including choppers, ships, and all that.
  Where's 
 the branched upgrade system from EEI : (
  No way to eliminate the enemy, have to take out every single damn city and set my units on 'explore'.
 
  
  So overall, this game basically SUCKS, and completely misses the epic battle/civilization feel. 
 There are a few positives here and there, but I would have liked this game MUCH better if the graphics 
 and all that were a bit less polished, and the game itself was more interesting. Please, I hope 
 that EEIII is a huge improvement from this steaming pile of garbage, because this was just a pathetic 
 attempt to make money! If this had been a low profile game with less graphics, it would have gotten 
 less than a 5/10 from Gamespot and IGN, and I can guarantee this.
  
  Empire Earth I may have been quite flawed and somewhat cheesy, but the campaigns were FUN, and 
 it was somewhat enjoyable to play. This just sucks. Don't get it (or if you have to, get it off 
 a torrent) , and be wary of EEIII.
  
  -Brian 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mreplatinum
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 28, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Real time strategy games come and go but only a few can stand the test of time. Empire Earth II 
 is one of those games. Once you figure out how to fully use all the minute aspects of the game 
 (which will take time) it creates a lasting experience that you will want to play over and over 
 again. You can take your civilization from the stone age all the way into the distant future all 
 within one epic battle. However, the graphics are a bit dated as it was released almost 2 years 
 ago now and the sound effects leave something to be desired. Another problem is that units from 
 different epochs don't seem to be properly balanced as a helicopter can loose a battle to six guys 
 with bows and arrows. Other than that EE II is still one of the most enjoyable RTS's out there. 
 I look forward to Empire Earth III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Simus_X
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 30, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Empire Earth II is a RTS game that advances through the ages. You can start in any age you want, 
 from the Stone Ages, a time long ago when weapons were basic and bows were just made, to the Synthetic 
 Age, a time in the future with technology galore. Plus there's many ages inbetween. You can choose 
 your civilizaitons and be the British, Germans, Americans, Chinese, Incas, Mayans and more. There's 
 a large set of different units that changes every time you advance in time. Your maceman can turn 
 into a mini-gunner! There's also a number of buildings and resources you have and can gather such 
 as gold, oil, and uranium, plus there's fortresses, outposts, and city centers. The map is divided 
 into territories which you can claim with city centers and then fortify with other stuff. Each 
 territory has it's own unique resources and tactical advantages. You can also play online with 
 friends or people around the world. This game is worth it and can be played for a VERY long time 
 before getting bored of it. I suggest you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exzavier001
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 25, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  But i'm a bit dissepointed that one cannot edit your maps like in Empire Earth, your units, buildings, 
 ect, just to spice up the game a bit.
  But other wise Empire Earth 2 is very good and desrves a thumbs up to the creators, just hope that 
 you guys bring out more such good games. Is there a site where i can download more empire earth 
 &amp; empire earth 2 maps or is the only maps available is the ones that the game generate when 
 creating a map in scenario editor.
  I can hardly wait to see what you guys bring out next maybe a Empire Earth 3, wouldn't that be 
 cool. You can E-mail me direct at Paulkruger@introman. co. za
  Special Thanx
  
  Paul 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 7, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  Empire Earth II embraces such technological inconsistencies, allowing you to enjoy the breadth 
 of our history? s war experience by letting you battle throughout the ages. At the same time, the 
 game manages to retain its solid RTS foundation while making an evolutionary leap with loads of 
 new features and functions. The result is a monstrously deep strategy game that will have fans 
 of the genre happier than an ape with a bazooka. To help you cope with this depth, the interface 
 has been cleaned up, presenting data in a more logical manner. Still, the sheer amount of new options 
 will intimidate casual strategy fans, at least through the initial tutorial run. Much like the 
 original, Empire Earth II is an epic game spanning fifteen epochs and civilizations, beginning 
 with the early days of hunters and gatherers and winding up in the distant, sci-fi future. Each 
 era comes packed with units (totaling a whopping three hundred) , leading to a strategy game so 
 large and complex it? s almost hard to wrap your head around. One of the major new features in Empire 
 Earth II is the ability to switch between field view and a full- screen, overhead map. The map 
 displays visual data relating to resource mines, unit movement, and building positions and is great 
 for quickly jumping to any point on the battlefield. And a sweet Citizen Manager tab allows you 
 to keep tabs on the influx of resources as well as the idle pockets of workers, keeping your people 
 right where they should be - under your thumb. Another Overhead map feature called War Planner allows 
 you to quickly draw arrows, targets, areas, and/or labels atop the Overhead map, send a copy of 
 your coordination proposal to allies for approval, and launch well-orchestrated strikes between 
 multiple fronts. In keeping with our species? love of exploiting tools, you can also ?accidentally? 
 send ?faulty? plans to enemy players as a bluff? and then send him the real ones next time, just 
 to keep him guessing. As a nice design touch, your War Plans remain drawn over your mini-map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wat28
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 14, 2006 11:44 pm PT
Review:  yeah i thought this game was pretty sweet, like a pimped up version of age of the empires but with 
 alot more options.. anyway i rate this game awesome :) and i like how you can zoom up to your troops 
 and also upgrade them to the ultimate killing machine and the large number of people you can have 
 is pretty awesome too :D well i havent tryed online games yet.. i've only been doing the campaigns 
 and downloading the patches and the campaigns have really good stories to them but it woulda been 
 better if they had an animated story instead of just some pictures going by :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guybiggsl
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game I just thought it was pretty good and at the time I thought 
 that LOTR II was the best but as time went on LOTR II was getting kind of old and I turned back 
 to Empire Earth II, after I played the game more and more it just got addicting!!! Now this game 
 is what I rate other games buy. The grafix are great and the game play is awsome and as you keep 
 playing the game just gets better and better! I highly reccommend this game to anyone who loves 
 History and a great Stratgie game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Last_Ride
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2006 2:08 am PT
Review:  The different conutries you can be are some, but the special units for them and the bonuses are 
 a bit anonymus in my oppinion. The gameplay is ok i guess, and graphic is ok to. There isn't much 
 of Campaign to do either, which i think they could have done. It can be fun to paly this game, 
 but if you have played Age of Empires or the first one. There is nothing new in this game which 
 i can think of. The bot's are also ok to play against. If your going to buy this game you are not 
 gonig to find anything new with this game, just my oppinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immortal-man
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  i would say the game is very fun because you can use different maps to your avantage and there 
 is online play so you can play a genst other people wich is fun and also the grafics are great 
 and the first time i got the game i played 7 days strait an i still play the game and i had it 
 for a year and so if your thinking of geting the game then get it and also get the exspation pack 
 for it because that makes the game even more funier. the value of the game is realy good and the 
 sound is too and the grafics very good to because it acully looks like those are real things an 
 mean this game is alsome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shegevara
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 2, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This is a very wide game. Thus, game isn't that old, many things are reminding me, that it's from 
 very begging of strategies. But it's not.
  
  The concept of this game is absolutely the same as in EE original game. Your goal is to crush the 
 opponents, but now in whole new diversion. I won't talk about them, becouse i belive/hope that 
 other reviewers wrote down.
  
  Gameplay is excellent. You can actually plan your attack, and you must watch that you don't attack 
 at wrong time. Maybe a 10s rain will cause damage, or your soldiers could not see anything in the 
 fog. That concept was brilliant.
  Graphics are poor. Animations are so-so. Depends on what you watch. If you watch villagers, how 
 they chop wood or how they mine, they are absolutely the worst you could even imagine, but some 
 other impressed me. Unit animations in wars, such as cannons, catapults, archers etc... those were 
 really great made. See reflections aren't that good. They are much worse than in Railroad tycoon 
 3. Sound is so-so either. I think that for intro movie music should be a little more decent, loudly 
 and so on, such as in CAW, aoe3, RON,... In game sounds are good. Nothing to complain there and nothing 
 to note as for special effect..
  
  Game is decent. If you are a RTS player you should really get it. For your money it's fully worth 
 it. Otherwise if you aren't, i would prefer you not to buy it, try demo first or rent it somewhere. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dematrion
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 8, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Maybe its my fault; I thought I liked RTS games like this. And maybe it's because I'm a little 
 older now, and I don't have the time nor the patience to deal with them. But this one strikes me 
 the wrong way, in a  you just wasted 3 hours only to have the AI stick it to you  kinda way. 
 First, this game has the disease that Starcraft has, although everyone seems to like that one too: 
 the AI knows where everything is from the start, and you dont. Well, only if you havent played 
 that particular map 80 times. So since the AI knows the terrain w/o exploring, youre at a distinct 
 disadvantage. To get past this, you have to conduct research, resource gathering, and production, 
 in a STATIC order; that means this order cannot change, and if it does, you die. This sounds more 
 like work than fun, doesnt it?
  In addition, it seems to me that the AI can do a lot with very little. Some of us call this cheating. 
 But for those of you that dont, the AI seems to have more units, resources (obviously) and technology 
 than they do buildings to produce them, or in some cases time or resources to produce units. For 
 example, I was playing a game in which during Epoch II I was conducting a raid on the AIs island, 
 with my fleet of 5 ships. It was a short distance and I had just repelled an attack. I start to 
 sail and run into ANOTHER fleet of 12 ships, just after I had destroyed 8. I lost my entire army. 
 I didnt know that much tin existed on the map! The AI also likes playing with about a dozen priests 
 in every attack (yea, thats fun) .
  
  As simple as they are, I prefer RTS games like Warhammer 40K DOW, or Rise and Fall: Civilizations 
 at war. Why? Because theyre exciting to play: from the tactics used, to the music to the variety 
 of play. When I play a game, I dont wanna work. I have plenty of that, thank you very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damzor
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 8, 2006 5:32 am PT
Review:  The first Empire Earth is still, to this day my fav RTS game. When i heard about the sequel i got 
 really excited about it, but after having tried it out, i was really disappointed. It didn't have 
 the EE feel to it, it was too different. Firstly, the weather effects. The weather effects were 
 really harsh on my system, which at that stage was top-of-the-line. It was nigh on impossible to 
 see what was going on at all. Worst of all was the constant bad weather, for every 5 min of good 
 weather, you'd get  10min of bad weather. Drives me insane. Secondly, the resource collection system 
 seems to be overly complicated, too many different types of resources to collect. And collecting 
 knowledge is a rip off of RON, its system was better. The idea of never running out of resources 
 no matter how long you mined it up is another thing, running out of resources isn't a reason to 
 expand to get more anymore. I prefered the upgrade system of the original EE as well, you could 
 buff your units the way you wanted to, if you preferred extra range and firepower, then you could 
 do that. There's nothing like that here. The idea of territorial borders is good, but RON did it 
 better i think. I also dislike the building-limiting aspect of the game, can make things difficult 
 if you have a small pop cap and very few defensive buildings to build. On the upside, the visual 
 details and effects were improved (except for the weather) , especially the water. If the graphics 
 of this game were put into the original EE, it would be the ultimate game. As many negative points 
 as there are, it's not a bad game, there's worse out there. But compared to it's prequel, it's 
 not as good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueAtlas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 11, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game for a few hours players will start to see just how big this game is. The 
 game offers plenty of upgrades and units for each of the teams and its epochs. One of the best 
 features RTS players love playing with is the create a map option. Empire Earth offers almost complete 
 control for the player to creat a lop-sided war or just enjoy a huge map with plenty of resources. 
 When it comes to graphics, the graphics are not that up to par with some of the other RTS games 
 like the new Age of Empires game. This game makes up for it however with the number of units and 
 upgrades like a mentioned earlier. This game may not be the best RTS game out there but its still 
 enjoyable to play as you guide your economy through different epochs of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UchihaKakashi
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2006 5:01 am PT
Review:  Its fun because the graphics are nice and the building speed isnt that slow which wouldnt make 
 it to boring and because u can set your own difficulty it can be challenging also u can control 
 enourmous armies and crush armies there are alot of different campaigns and scenarios and its fun 
 because the amount of civilizationS and because it of the balg balg balg balg balg balg balg balg 
 balg balg balg balg balg balg balg one fwor to SAY KEWL KEWL KEWL KEWL KEWL KEWL KEWL KEWL KEWL 
 KEWL KEWL KEWL KEWL KEWL KEWL KEWL KEWL KEWL KEWL KEWL KEWL KEWL KEWL KEWL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AARONRULZ1
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Empire Earth 2 Is A Great Game With Some Flaws That Keep it From Being A Superb Game Heres My Review
 
  
  PROS:
  Lots Of Units And Buildings
  Smart Ai Adds A Good Challenge
  Crown System Is A Nice Addition
  Diplomacy System Has Lots Of New Stuff
  15 Epochs
  Territories 
 TOPS DEM ALL
  
  CONS:
  Pathfinding Problems Are A Headache
  Old Grafx + Sound
  VERY Complex Additions
  
  So Overall EE2 Is 8/10 Its A Great Game But With Some Issues But 
 It Is Probably Worth Playing If You're A Hardcore RTS Gamer If You're New To The Genre But About 
 Art Of Surpremacy I'd Wait For A Price Drop Before I Get It 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dude54
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 29, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Empire Earth 2 is a historic strategy game, very similliar to Rise of Nations. Think Civillization, 
 except real-time instead of turn-based. 
  Now, first thing's first; if you don't like high learning curves, stop reading this right now. 
 This is NOT the game for you, don't buy this game, go get rise of nations, or age of empires.
 
  OK, so about the game. If you have ever played an historic strategy game ( age of empires, civillization, 
 Rise of Nations, etc.) , you'll probably find this game very familiar. There are somewhere between 
 12-16 civillizations in this game, all divided into regional groups (Western, Middle-Eastern, Mesoamerica, 
 and Far East) . Each civillization has two unique advantages, and three special units. In addition 
 to that each civillization also receives 4 regional advantages, and three regional powers. 
  For example Egypt gets a health bonus for light mounted units, and have the Elephant as an early 
 special unit. At the same time they get more gold from trading, and have the ability to make their 
 workers build faster for a short time in early game, these two are regional attributes. 
  While this offers for little variety compared to the many civillizations of Rise of Nations, it 
 does seem to keep the game more balanced (if you've ever played against Dutch in an Island region 
 in Rise of Nations, you''ll know what I mean) . 
  Now, while Empire Earth's campaigns aren't as good as RoN's famous risk-like conquer the world 
 games, each game in Empire Earth is almost like a smaller Conquer the World game, for every map 
 has several territories which you can claim. Plus unlike RoN's 6 ages, EE 2 has an outstanding 
 number of 14, ranging from the days of the Neanderthal to the days of robotic spiders. 
  What is probably the best thing in Empire Earth II is, i think, the AI. Sure there are some problems 
 with path-finding, but computer opponents play so cleverly they are more than a match for most 
 players and are sure to hold a challenge for players willing to put them up at their highest level 
 or to change his handicap to Gaming God (hardest, obviously) . The computer usually ends up placing 
 more walls and roads then me, and knows who to ally with or against. You have no idea how many 
 times i've found myself trapped between two attackers, sometimes three, at the same time. In addition 
 to that they are able to follow "war plans" (instructions on where to go and which place to attack) 
 that you send them incredibly well. 
  EE 2 does have its flaws however. One of the problems with the game is the greatest fear of all 
 RTS developers. For you see what is usually just annoying can often become a micromanaging hell 
 in EE 2. While the game does a good job of helping you with it (the Picture in Picture screen for 
 example) , you really wont be able to master EE 2 untill you master its hotkeys, because chances 
 are, almost every game you'll join will have AT LEAST one person who had done just that. 
  Another thing that can get annoying is the AI, which obviously would not have any problems with 
 micromanagement, having been created for multi-tasking.
  These problems are however forgivable. So if you are willing to stand a high learning curve, and 
 are interested in historical strategy, then what are you waiting for? GO BUY THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kamui_of_God
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 25, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing- I'm not even sure where to begin.
  
  The graphics are just beautiful. My computer does not even meet the specs and yet, when I set it 
 as high as possible the game looks like as if it was realistic (provided you're zoomed in) . However, 
 the civilian/worker character model is somewhat blocky and looks unpolished. But other than that, 
 the game is just spectacular.
  
  Gameplay wise it is extremely fun and exciting. You'll control massive armies, bases and a great 
 variety of unit types spanning across all ages of human history and reaching to the future (where 
 you'll have even have mechs) .
  
  I realize that this is a turnoff for some RTS players, but then, you're looking in the wrong place. 
 This game is for true RTS-fans, and not for players interested in an RTS title that is a mixed 
 genre (ie Warcraft III) .
  
  The music is very good and beautiful- not harsh, quite inappropriate for a game with a massive 
 war setting, but beautiful none-the-less.
  
  The voices however, aren't up to par with RTS games by companies such as Blizzard. But they're 
 not annoying or stupid either. Standable, but improvement could be done.
  
  This game is simply huge. It is like the king of giants. There are so many little things here and 
 there that it's impossible to grasp everything this game has to offer even in a week. This requires 
 a long period of learning and practice, but in the end, it's all well paid off. Once you manage 
 to control everything this massive game has to offer, then you'll certainly be pleased and addicted 
 for at the very least- half a year.
  
  I highly recommend this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Database72
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I for one loved the original Empire Earth. I really like the games that advance in age. (as in going 
 through the prehistoric age, stone age, bronze age, etc) . This game lacks a few nicities that the 
 original game had, for instance when you advance in age we dont see any tool advancement like using 
 chainsaws in place of axes and stuff. Other than age advancement the battles are pretty decent. 
 Especially the gunpowder ages where the units are presented as mere shadows due to smoke from the 
 gun. The problem though is that the formations are a little tight for my likeing. When you drag 
 a box over untis they tend to stick very very close together. It isnt a bad thing but im just not 
 used to it and ive played many rts games in my day. The sounds are ok too but they really get going 
 during the booming gunpowder ages, not so impressive during the WW2 (age 12) age. Mentioning WW2 
 this game dissapointed me when i saw the way they portrayed the second world war as a little more 
 mild than the other wars. The units arent that impressive, and many lines they use tend to be over 
 used. Im emphisizing the original empire earth here so ill get back to the subject. 
  All in all the game is pretty decent, but only if you can get the graphics. The strong point in 
 this game isnt the game play more than it is the graphics. The biggest problem with this game i 
 would have to say is the economy aspect of this game. Every resource in the game (for the exeption 
 of livestock, trees and berry bushes) has an infininte amount so they never run out, this is nice 
 but the problem lies in the speed in which they gather resourses, they gather them too fast, it's 
 nice but this means you have to be on your toes when it comes to micromanagment and citizen assesment. 
 you can set up how they recover resorces but it takes some tweaking to get just the right speed. 
 There are some good features to the game such as this option to set your citizens to work. Your 
 mouse cursor turns into a tab that shows you the number of idle citizenzs and shows you where there 
 are recourses to gather. If you like to orginize an effective gather system, and effectively manage 
 attacks from your borders this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videogamegeek75
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 20, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Introduction to videogamegeek75's review of Empire Earth II:
  
  The original Empire Earth was amazing. So many epochs. So many units. So many civilizations. So 
 addicting. But so simple and clean.
  
  Now we look at the second Empire Earth, Empire Earth II. So many epochs. So many units. So many 
 civilizations. So addicting. But so complicated!
  
  Gameplay:
  Okay. The gameplay was okay, sort of tilting to the good side. Although it had so many features 
 designed to make things more user-friendly, it has done the opposite. Unless you are an expert 
 gamer that can grasp concepts quickly or if you are very patient at grasping things, go ahead and 
 give it a try. But if you are lazy in the mind and just want to see things blow up, buy the original 
 Empire Earth because I guess it's just too much for you.
  
  Graphics:
  If you have a low-end computer that can't handle good graphics, put the graphics at the lowest 
 setting, because if you put the graphics at the highest setting even with a high-end computer, 
 the frame rate will decrease when you have so many units and the game will freeze every five seconds. 
 The graphics are great if you put them at the highest setting, but it'll get laggy. The game will 
 have Doom-like graphics if you put them at the lowest setting, but the game will be pretty fast 
 and smooth.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is also okay. In fact, there is even real dialogue in the tutorials and when you click 
 on the units, like in the 13th epoch, "Atten - hut!" There are many sounds, like the sounds of 
 lasers firing, burning houses, the death cries of units, the sound of cannons firing, and many 
 more. The only two things that bother me about the sound is the repetitive opera music and that 
 the accent of units sound the same whichever civilization you choose - for example - if you use 
 the Japanese civilization, which is one of my favorites - the accent will still sound American! 
 Other than that, the sound is awesome.
  
  Value:
  Empire Earth II will have you captivated in it for months. The campaigns are long and historically 
 accurate, and map possibilities are endless with the complicated map editor!
  
  Bottom line:
  The game is awesome, but the dozens of new features makes it more complicated. 
 Also, the game can decrease in frame rate if you set the graphics too high.
  
  Should you buy it or not?:
  Despite the numerous problems, I was pretty happy when I bought this 
 game. Buy it, and you'll be happy too.
  
  Also, check out "My Blog of New Gaming Ideas" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malaloko
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 25, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game I REALLY liked, because I choose to play as the future race (dont 
 remember if it was german or russian, heh) and the Grigor saga was all I ever wanted for a RTS. 
 I have many experience with RTS Games, but with Empire Earth it was a new and exciting experience, 
 something I have never had...
  
  Considering these facts I bought the second one hoping to get more exciting histories, but all 
 it has is the past histories and - in my opinion - some bad histories and blabla...
  
  I didnt play this game on Multiplayer, but as I played this on solo play I think this game will 
 be VERY fun to play on multiplayer games, the engine is fabulous, the AI is very good, the gameplay 
 is also very good...
  
  The game itself is a good game, but for people like me (who enjoyed the first one because of the 
 history) it insnt that great because all the RTS Game are almost the same (only you have to do 
 is build tons and tons of military and destroy your opponents) and the only difference beteween 
 them is the history, that in my opinion was not good enough in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jolmer
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 13, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  There are some noticeable problems
  
  Graphics- Now the game requires a higher end system to play. But the graphics arent even all that 
 amazing. The environment is ok at best. I do like the smoke and gun effects of battle and blood 
 spatter.. those types of things are good. People and soldiers in game as well as buildings are 
 too generic. Kind of Boring.
  
  Sound- Very bad i thought. Mediocre music and repeating diolouge. The narrator for the cutscenes 
 was actully good though. 
  
  Gameplay- Its too hard to get used to all of the things they put into you. The picture and Picture 
 isnt ALL that usefull and its just as easy to go the the part of the map by clicking. Many other 
 things they have go unsused. I do like the citizen map which you can assign citizens without clicking 
 them or finiding a specific spot for them. You can have alot of fun with the editor setting up 
 battles. There are alot of singleplayer campaigns and I have had my share of decent online experiences. 
 I did enjoy playing the middle ages ALOT. They could make an amazing game if they focused on that.
 
  
  If your hardcore for RTS then go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJMarra
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 19, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is not worth playing. I thought the first Empire Earth was amazing (sort of like Age 
 of Empires II in 3D) so I thought Empire Earth II would of been great. Looks like I was disappointed. 
 Here's my rating, in classic Good, Bad, and Ugly format:
  
  GOOD
  -Good graphics
  -New way to upgrade your civilizations
  -More soldier types
  -New formation system
  -Cool 
 new Battle Plan system where you can send your allies a battle plan to aid in strategic attacks 
 against the enemy.
  
  BAD
  -Graphics, though better, don't differ much from the first Empire Earth game.
  -New Military, 
 Imperial, and Economic Leader System is retarded. The Leader units are 10 feet tall too towering 
 over everything making it look even dumber.
  -All units die a specific way (example: Roman Soldier falls forward) and they don't die differently 
 no matter what kills them (cannon, sword, spear, ect) .
  -The new Territory System is a near complete rip-off of Rise of Nations (though Rise of Nations 
 did it much better) . The people who developed Empire Earth II also stated that they were the first 
 ones ever to make anything close to a Territories system, which really pissed me off.
  -New Citizen Manager system doesn't help much.
  -Units sizes don't match up correctly to make 
 it seem realistic (Citizens are taller than Helicopters, and in some cases, taller than actual 
 buildings.
  
  UGLY
  -A complete rip-off of Rise of Nations, these reasons being stated in Roman Numerals:
  
  I. 
 Territory system practically taken from it.
  II. Upgrading system (as in using Knowledge to give advances to certain units) completely and utterly 
 ripped straight from Rise of Nations. I think it's the biggest rip.
  III. New Specific Units for specific nations taken from Rise of Nations (as in specific, I mean 
 the Japanese can only make Samurais and so fourth)
  IV. Diplomacy system very similar to Rise of Nations.
  
  -New Epochs labeled as Numbers instead 
 of the actual names when using Skirmish mode, so unless you have a really good memory to remember 
 15 names in order, you will constantly have to go back to the Empire Earth II website to read a 
 list of the civilization that you want.
  
  -Some things just don't make any sense like with the Match-Up system they have created. The Match-Up 
 system is where one unit will have an advantage to a certain unit but a disadvantage from another 
 unit (example: Pikemen have an advantage to Calvary but have a disadvantage to Bowmen) . Here's 
 an example of how it doesn't make sense: I had a group of infantry and 2 tanks marching for the 
 enemy base. The enemy sends out their tactical bomber and it drops a bomb on my group of units. 
 The two tanks explode and most of my infantrymen LIVE. In real life if you got nailed by a bomb, 
 do you think you would survive?
  
  Here is my review and I hoped you enjoyed it. Don't bother to try this game unless you haven't 
 played Rise of Nations and then you might like this. If you want to take my advice, go give Rise 
 of Nations a try. It looks better, it's system is better, has a really good formation system, and 
 it's cheaper!
  
  Here are my TOP RTS games that you should give a try:
  1. Lord of the Rings: The Battle for Middle-earth II
  2. Rise of Nations
  3. Age of Empires 
 III
  4. Empire Earth
  
  Thanks for reading!
  -Alex Marra
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordOfTheTower
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 6, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  I must say that Empire Earth 2 has greatly improved from its predecessor, Empire Earth, mainly 
 because of its stunning 3d graphics and that it has unique units for each country you play. A new 
 feature which was really good was the map being divided into territories which you could control, 
 but I don't see why they had to limit how much you could build in each territory, I mean if you've 
 got the resources why can't you build it? I was very let down by the fact that they changed the 
 unit improvements by making it so that you could only improve the unit twice, regular to veteran 
 to elite, but in Empire Earth you could improve certain properties of the unit i. e. increase max 
 health or attack damage, an you could improve multiple times on a mixture of properties to make 
 your unit unique and well adapted to other enemy unites. Another let down was the fact that after 
 completing the campaigns you want to make your own missions which you can do in the mission editor 
 but, all it is is you placing units and changing the landscape and, correct me if Im wrong, there 
 is no feature for you to make your own triggers and events like you could do in Empire Earth, you 
 could only make groups and areas, but you had to use the pre-made scripts which are used for the 
 campaigns and are more than likely not the scripts you want to use. But why get rid of it, i don't 
 see the point, in the original game it was so easy to use and make events happen in certain places 
 with certain units, I mean you could do any thing with the mission editor in the first Empire Earth, 
 thats whats kept me playing that game for years. But any way, not to make Empire Earth 2 sound 
 like a bad game, it just was a bit of a let down for me, but thats me, that doesn't mean to say 
 you wouldn't like it and you probably wouldn't use the mission editor like i like to do in games, 
 and i would strongly recommend this game despite its few let downs. I still give it a good 7.3 
 marks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigspot33
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 14, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  graphics ain't great but wow wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have 
 been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting 
 for wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have 
 been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting 
 for wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have 
 been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting 
 for wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have 
 been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting 
 for wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have 
 been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting 
 for wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have 
 been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting 
 for wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have 
 been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting for wut i have been waiting 
 for 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadlySquall41
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 6, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  One thing this game has over most is content. 15 epochs spanning the stone age to the future. Not 
 bad, for sure.
  
  I got bored unexpectedly fast with Age of Empires 3. It does what it tries to a lot better than 
 EE2, but this game just has more! 
  
  The graphics are what you'd expect, but some of the effects bring the game down. The old style 
 rifles just don't make a huge explosion of grey dust when you hit a dude in the chest. After you 
 fire, you don't even see the defender anymore. Stupid decision. Whats worse is this kind of stuff 
 happens in a bunch of other effects.
  
  The voice acting for the units is abysmal. I never have the music on, so I can't comment on that. 
 The sound effects are fine though.
  
  What next... Oh yeah, gameplay. Its just plain fun, I guess. Always cool and exciting to see the 
 units from the next epoch, the unit balancing is fairly good, lots and lots of units, although 
 most of them are just the upgrades of previous people. It never seems to get that great, but it 
 can grab a hold on you for hours. 
  
  Some really cool features enhance the game a good bit, I was actually impressed.
  
  resources 
 never expire (besides animals) , but it doesn't screw over the gameplay as many people are quick 
 to say. The population cap is ever important as you must capture other regions to heighten it; 
 stay on the defensive the whole time and you WILL lose. 
  
  The great features and aspects still shine over the stupid ones, making this an overall satisfying 
 game. Some of you guys are just too damn quick to judge, give it some time. Most of you should 
 find a lot of fun out of this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCrazyGuy1
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 22, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  When you think of Empire Earth, you think of the original Empire Earth released in 2001. It and 
 its expansion pack, The Art of Conquest are average rts games. Now Sierra has released Empire Earth 
 II, a much improved version of Empire Earth.
  
  Empire Earth II delivers much of the same features that EE had. You have a choice of 14 civiliazations. 
 You build an empire, then use military forces to take over your enemies empires. Standard stuff, 
 but with a few new details. You can write war plans to use. You devise a strategy using the war 
 plans panel and then use them to effect with your military forces. This is usefull if you cant 
 think of a quick way to defeat your enemies. There is also a camera at the bottom screen, which 
 allows you to look at your bases and your military forces without having to move your mouse over 
 to where they really are. These new features are great improvements from EE.
  
  While every game has its ups, it also has its downs and EE II has quite a few. First of all, the 
 game is actually quite hard. With a tutorial and 3 campaigns, it took me quite a while to finish 
 just 1!!!!!!!!! Also, the graphics in the game are broken down with the new weather conditions 
 that are added in. This actually makes the game look realistic, but it looks soo realistic that 
 sometimes i coudnt see a thing! 
  
  With all that said, EE II is a great strategy game for fans of the original and its expansion pack. 
 But if you want hardcore rts fun, get Rome: Total War, Age of Empires 3 or Rise of Nations instead. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalisticpain
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 18, 2006 5:54 am PT
Review:  OK i like strategy games. I think they're great fun.
  
  This was just for me too complicated and nit picky to be any fun. Ok i know the controlls give 
 you unprecedented level of control. The interface is great if you can master it. But to be any 
 good at this game you MUST master the controlls and interface. To be honest, learning the controlls 
 and interface was too much like hard work. It really sucked the fun away.
  
  The game also has territories. Some people like them, some people dont. I definetly against them. 
 I wouldnt have minded them if they where bigfer. But there TINY. You can fit a Town center, a barraks 
 and a limit of 5 houses. No more then 2 town centers. I believe this limits the ways you can structure 
 your base and that is a major downside for me.
  
  No building huge inpenatrable fortress' like in Age of Empire games and Comman and Conquer. Each 
 little territory forces you to expand to get population high and the computer just plants town 
 centers everywhere making a huge area of a few buildings. Offcourse online gamers have everything 
 down pat and annihilate you.
  
  The graphics are a bit behind aswell, every race has a very generic feel, with all the units looking 
 the same and not very detailed. On a good mahcine it also bogs down.
  
  I must say though the weather effects are superb. Cept for the blaket of snow which completly blocks 
 your view. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rometotalwar999
Rating: 2.1
Date: Apr 14, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  This game, I can say is just like a generic copy of Rise of Nations. In fact, it's the same thing 
 but without addictive gameplay of Rise of Nations. All the developers did was to introduce 3D graphics 
 into the game, add a couple of additions, such as the citizen manager, and mix it up with Rise 
 of Nations and Empire Earth and sell it to the market..
  
  Let's check out this clone
  
  Gameplay-
  
  No strategy, no limited resources. This game is just about massing some cheapo 
 units, such as archers, and whack the h*** out of your enemies a**. Believe it or not, archers 
 whack ANYTHING, even buildings and future tech troops. The only exception is the air units, which 
 goes to my next point.
  
  Unlimited ammo, which means the Nuclear Bombers, which is surprisingly cheap, can just keep raining 
 death over the enemies' base. When the bombers run out of ammo, it just goes back to the base to 
 reload. Which means, all the AI or you have to do is rush to thr World War II era and start massing 
 Nuclear Bombers. And Anti-Air turrets are quite useless as they only can shoot the bombers down 
 AFTER they drop their payload.
  
  Unlimited resources, this means that they won't have competition for resources, so all players 
 have to do is create workers, build universities place the workers in the U and start advancing 
 to the WWII era to mass Nuclear Bombers, during the period of the stone age to the WWI era, players 
 can don't build any military units and still win!
  
  Graphics-
  
  Blocky, it's worse than Rise of Nations graphics, compare their screenshots if you don't believe 
 it.
  
  Weather, the most useless feature of all time in this ONE game & its expansion. Because out of 
 so many weathers, like fog, rain, snow, they all lead to one same thing, limited range of sight. 
 Besides that, the weather has no other effect, the planes might sway, but it never crashes.
  
  Sound-
  
  All units have the same voice, Japanese, Chinese, Aztec. Need me to say more?
 
  
  Value-
  
  Read above and judge for yourself.
  
  Tilt-
  
  The only tilt you'll most probably have is placing the game in your sock drawer, lighting it in 
 a bonfire or simply throwing it out of the window.
  
  Technical-
  
  Lag, even on high-end systems, check out VU forums and find out for yourself.
  
  Crazy solutions, 
 like turn off your firewall & anti-virus if it lags. Those guys gotta be NUTS.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  For more detailed review , go to Empire Earth II Art of Supremacy on this website and check out 
 my review there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nymarc4871
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 13, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Empire earth 2 is no doubt one of the best strategy games we will ever have the pleasure of playing. 
 There is tons and tons of content in this game, the possibilities are almost endless. It may take 
 you a little while to get used to the whole interface in this game. When you do, and if you enjoy 
 it, you will not leave your computer for many months at a time.
  
  In empire earth 2, you can play the single player campaign, play a skirmish against real people 
 over the internet or against computer controlled bots. The only flaw this game has, aside from 
 complexity with the interface, is the single player campaign. It is extremely dull and just not 
 a great experience at all. However, If you buy this game, it would not be for the single player 
 campaign. It would be as if they didnt even have it in the game but you still get your total money's 
 worth. All of the skirmish and multiplayer possibilies is enough for a complete stand-alone game, 
 possibly even more. No other game offers as much as this. You cant pick between many civilizations 
 in this game and advance through 15 different time periods. Most civilizations have unique units 
 and advantages that change throughout the epochs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 29, 2006 11:37 pm PT
Review:  EE II --- is a standard strategy game. I have played this game by accident, coz I dont strategy 
 ganes that much, however I liked this game. Capagins are not too much in this game but however. 
 this is a standard game.
  
  Graphically of course it is not as AOE 3. But, stroy it is promissing much than AOE 3... coz it 
 is going upto the future which is my best scenario, where you have got a lot more weaponary and 
 different type of structures to build and attack the enemy. Well the most favourite attack of mine 
 was by air space...... You will see how many types of planes you have got there and it is really 
 likely to use al off them depending on area of usage.
  Best is stealth planes which carries the A-Bomb on it.
  
  However, in game there are some sort 
 of strategy and planing tool of all your units. Well at each time when you get hit points in required 
 level... you get chance to chose from the list of development action in different areas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EE2lemmonhead
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  I reccomend getting a used game if your getting this.
  
  The campaigns are easy, but the skirmish is hard. It leaves a good first impression because of 
 its features, but gets boring after a while (again, 2-3 months) . There isn't much more to say about 
 ir, except make sure you try the demo first.
  
  The features do add to the game. It is revolutionary, but to a part of the genre that is diminishing 
 quickly. It made managing your economy easy, but most games now are just taking that out all together. 
 It is really sad how this type of RTS is fading away. I got hooked on RTS by AoE2, but now they 
 are fading away, and this is one of the best of historical rts games ever, and if you can find 
 it cheap, buy it as one of the last games of its type. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bar-2006
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 24, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  like the first empire earth the idea of all this ages is cool but here they changes the resources 
 you need to spend on getting to a new age, and that SUCKS! except from that, the game became a bit 
 annoying and complicated, which sucks a bit too.
  except that the graphics are pretty cool, there is a lot of units and building and tech thingies, which 
 is good.
  there is also multi player, i think, which is a good thing if you get tired to play against the computer.
 
  empire earth 2 gives a feeling of a pretty good strategy game which includes secret plans with 
 allies and lot of technology. ill give it a grade of 6.5, more or less. try it ONLY if you have the 
 will power to sit 30 minutes to learn another thing that wont help you in life 
  
  eat your vegies! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBoss19
Rating: 3.9
Date: Mar 15, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  First I would like to say the first game was one of my all time favorites, unfortunately recently 
 my computers CD drive had burnt out and ruined my original Empire Earth within it. To replace the 
 disc I figured I'd get the new version since I'm gonna drop money on a new game anyway... Well that 
 was a mistake on my part. For one this game is totally different from the first and seemed to try 
 and follow some of the more popular RTS games, big mistake. Empire Earth was unique in my eyes 
 and the second installment has really let me down, if you're a fan of the first and expect the 
 same or something similar from the second thats a bad assumption. In closing, I felt that needed 
 to be said before I breakdown the various facets of this particular game, I will give a fair review 
 in each area but note this game is VERY different from the first and I cannot stress that enough.
 
  
  Graphics/Environment 5/10: I believe that in the original game the "cartoony" graphics made it 
 fun and interesting. The attempt to convert to a more "realistic" look failed in this game. It's 
 a very odd type of graphics, if I could summarize it into a word it would be "old", the water looks 
 grey and odd compared to the firsts blue and clear look which I personally found better suited. 
 The graphics in this game are dark as well creating a darker environment, which is also "unpleasing" 
 to the eyes (then wait until the various weather effects take place, in rain it becomes a terrible 
 pain to see) .
  
  Sound/Music 3/10: Empire Earth doesn't really have a "soundtrack" just generic war music like the 
 first so no special "kudos" in that department, and the usual sword sounds can be heard but nothing 
 stands out in this area.
  
  Control 3/10: What the heck? This game has got to be one of the most confusing RTS games I've played 
 to date. The interface is not user friendly, and after loving the old interface to transfer to 
 this one is a complete and total change. Veterans from the original could take awhile before they 
 become accustomed to this game and its numerous menus and options. We all love options but keeping 
 it simple and user friendly always helps, well this game completely avoids simple and user friendly 
 and goes straight to annoying and frustrating, which takes the fun out of the game.
  
  Gameplay 4/10: Yet again very confusing and frustrating. The creators of the game seemed to just 
 want to take every RTS they ever played and just throw in every building/unit they ever saw without 
 thinking about balance. They sure did take a lot of time explaining the different unit types though. 
 For example the tutorial spent about 5-10 minutes explaining the different unit types and how effective 
 they were over other unit types, which seemed never ending. So maybe your a fan of the "complex" 
 matchups but in the original Empire Earth the few classes were very well suited in my opinion. 
 Theirs so many different buildings now as well just jumbled in together rather then the "effective" 
 amount of buildings from the first.
  
  Overall 4/10: I hate to give harsh reviews as I know how much time and effort are put into games, 
 but the fact of the matter is the original installment of the game was thrilling for myself and 
 others, and then going to this was a complete disappointment. I feel the game was tried to be a 
 "copy-cat" of other RTS games out today, which sucked the uniqueness and fun right out of the game. 
 The original game was promising and could have been updated in a smart way, Empire Earth II doesn't 
 resemble the first in the least bit and I wish it had been titled something else so I could keep 
 hoping for another great title in the franchise. Unfortunately that did not happen, and I'll have 
 to think more then twice before I purchase an "Empire Earth III".
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deviantchild
Rating: 3.2
Date: Mar 6, 2006 2:05 am PT
Review:  I have been an RTS and TBS fan for years and some previous releases have really made quite an impact 
 to my gaming experiences. Games like Civilization III, Age of Empire 2, and Rise of Nations offer 
 unique features that can be said as trademarks of those games. However, us players sometimes wish 
 that a game that will mix all of those individual elements will come and take us to the gaming 
 nirvana we desire. 
  
  When I first read about Empire Earth II, I was excited to get my hands on the game because as its 
 high rating reviews said: "It's a colossal game with lot's of features to offer'. When I got the 
 game and started playing, only then I realized that I got screwed. 
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  EE II is simply the original EE without the fun parts and with the addition of some useless features 
 and gameplay elements that just made the game ridiculously complex. It borrowed an idea from Civilization 
 III, which is the negotiation concept between civs. It also borrowed a couple of ideas from Rise 
 of Nations such as the borders and the way cities are captured with few tweaking in their part. 
 The gameplay battle is still Age of Empires II and the original EE. While mixing these elements 
 is a good idea overall, this screwed up the game drastically because it did not excel on any of 
 those elements. The game feels 'awkward' when you play it. Mad-doc avoided the concept of simplicity 
 and turned the previous EE into Frankenstein's monster. While the game has its strength, it has 
 more weaknesses. 
  
  Graphics: 
  
  If you want to see the full graphical strength of this game, you need a high powered processor, 
 more RAM and a high performance video card. Otherwise, this game is total crap! When you set this 
 game in its fastest performance (which means disabling all the good graphics feature) , you will 
 see that Age of Empires II and the original EE have better graphics. The units in EE II are boxy 
 and the animations are just awkward, although the whole map looks fine. The border colors are also 
 annoying because it blemishes the map. When you set the graphics into high details, your problem 
 will be performance. Who wants to play an RTS game where units move in slow motion anyway? Furthermore, 
 the movement of the units seem like they don't have any weight or at least weight represented through 
 careful animation. Units here looks like paper when they move. 
  
  Sound: 
  
  The background music is fine so as the effects such as the weather sounds and the battle sounds. 
 However, what annoys me is the unit voice-overs. They are just ridiculous and sound awkward. English 
 is the only language that all units use, taking away the cultural experience when you are using 
 a non-English speaking civ. 
  
  Value: 
  
  The original EE has better value than this piece of trash. I never lasted two hours playing this 
 game because everthing about it just feels awkward. I uninstalled it in my computer already because 
 it was eating a lot of hard disk space. This game is only for those who do not have anything do, 
 because the hours that will be spent in this game will definitely be wasted times. 
  
  For the sake of being fair, the following are the pros of this game: 
  
  1. Nice terrain and 
 map graphics. 
  
  2. More units than the original EE. 
  
  3. New added features such as pix by pix, weather effects, diplomacy, etc. 
  
  4. You can customize 
 the pace of your game. 
  
  On the other hand, the cons are: 
  
  1. Pathetic unit graphics and animation. 
  
  2. Pathetic unit voice-overs. 
  
  3. Awkward 
 combination of different RTS concepts. 
  
  4. Too complex and colossal to enjoy. 
  
  5. It does not have a specific gameplay focus and ideas were haphazardly incorporated into the 
 game, making it one of the most awkward RTS games ever developed. 
  
  Overall: 
  
  If there is anything that Mad-doc should learn, it is to know that "games should be simple and 
 fun". Putting all the good elements will not work if they still fall short with the originals. 
 EE II is a complex and vague game that should be avoided at all costs! Well, if you are rich, maybe 
 you can gamble with this game but to those who have tight budgets - AVOID THIS GAME! If you like 
 to play a game with the same concept, try Age of Empires II, III, Civilization III and IV, Rise 
 of Nations or the original EE. At least those games flow fluently throughout the experience and 
 does not look, sound and feel awkward because they have unique elements and feel that they can 
 be proud of. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: peedbarp
Rating: 3.9
Date: Mar 1, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  This game was probably the craziest most awful thing I repeat thing (it dosen't deserve to be called 
 a game) i have ever played in my life. It gives a bad name to rts gamers everywhere! Anyone who 
 wants to to try this game please don't ,you will be waisting your money and will be sorry that 
 you didn't listen to me. For all you rts fans that actually respect rts games you won't buy this 
 game and believe me you will know how I felt when I got the game! So this is the gamerater saying 
 get PLEASE FOR THE LOVE OF GOD DONT GET THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantomstrider
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Empire Earth was a great game. It had a refreshing multiplayer and broad campaign set. The repeat 
 is just as good aside from some of the better little features of Empire Earth 1 taken out.
  
  The hype said that this game improved dramatically on graphics from number 1. If anything, 
 I was dissapointed. Aside from the neat weather effects that you unfortunately barely notice, there 
 seems to be no great improvement on graphics. 
  
  The battle system hasn't changed alot. However the resources and growth system has changed quite 
 dramatically. Apart from there being 2 new resources for you to track down depending on the age 
 you're in, there is the system of universities and churches of gaining knowledge points. Pretty 
 much you have to use priests and units to study at universities and churches, who will slowly gain 
 knowledge points, which you can use both for civilization improvements and advancements to new 
 ages.
  
  This is pretty much a necessity and encourages you to build more towns since there is also now 
 a structure limit and a strict barrier on how far out you can build from town centers. I never 
 really had any gripes with this since it did encourage oen of the main goals to the empire earth 
 series, "dominate the map." Though alot of elements of strategy seemed to be lost using this system 
 compared to number 1 since all civilizations would go mad on building as many universities and 
 town centers as possible. While this isn't much different from number 1's resources system it does 
 mean resources don't have to be found and protected, which was one of the funner parts to Empire 
 Earth.
  
  One of the major dissapointments is the loss of the civilization hero. Although this is arguably 
 better since heroes could often wipe out an armed enemy town single-handedly, heroes can add that 
 little bit of spice and individuality to players.
  
  The sound is better, though the music now comes in at certain intervals suchy as when entering 
 one of your towns, and some of the music is quite repeatative.
  
  It really is not definitely better or worse than Empire Earth. It depends on what the user liked 
 most about Empire Earth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertoleyva
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 27, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Pens que este era el juego que habra de superar a Age of Empires, pero no, no solo no lo supera, 
 si no que no compite con l, queda muy por debajo de lo que muchos de nosostros deseamos, y a pesar 
 que tiene muchas cosillas atractivas como el clima y las estaciones y todo eso, al final y al cabo 
 quedan postergadas por lo poco prctico y sencillo que debera ser el jugar un juego como estos.
 
  
  Pues para lograr manejar este juego lleva un poco ms de lo deseado lo que va quitando definitivamente 
 inters por el propio juego.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowofamn1
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 27, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  I would stick with empire earth 1 instead.
  
  Pros: Basically a new interface and different way to approach the game, first thing I do in RTS 
 is skirmish, kind of a way to test the game, there is now weather effect and even season and change 
 of time. You wont see people build a line of AA gun to fight your nuke bomber because each territory 
 has a limit of building you can build.
  
  Cons: Graphic is not improve at all, might be still the same engine from empire earth 1. When you 
 build something you have to put in on a fix location, something like a grid or something which 
 you cant build freely anywhere you want. Road is useless because it never mix with your building, 
 trust me. 
  
  Playing Offline in Skirmish is a pain, when the npc get big its impossible to take them down, lag 
 is also a issue. 
  
  No new unit or tree, for example: the barrack can only make 3 unit, and the only different from 
 each epoch is the new name and a different look, basically follow how empire earth 1's unit branch. 
 
  
  Lot of flaws and bugs which I rather not talk about, overall it will be a good game for awhile 
 for EE fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Empire Earth 2 is a more than solid game that any RTS fan should enjoy but something is wrong with 
 it and I don't know what. The large scale combat is great and what fans have come to expect from 
 the series and the improved cultural structures and units. The Epochs seem more balanced this time 
 and the addition of unique units helps with the experience. The territory system is a nice addtion 
 that adds more of an effect to having an empire. The campaigns are rather dull. The diplomacy system 
 was a serious problem for me. You could only be neutral, in an alliance, or at war with another 
 nation. There was no way you were able to have peace without having an alliance. I guess that is 
 the Civ player in me talking but really, the diplomacy system was extremly clunky. The Citizen 
 manager is something all RTS games should have. The system perfectly suits people who like to expand 
 fast, instead of scrolling and scrolling to find resources you click the manager and assign your 
 idles to the resource, very handy. The war plans selection is absolutely useless unless you're 
 playing online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NaDoLnY
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 25, 2006 3:40 am PT
Review:  Graphics, sounds, fun.... everything on this game is great, this game is best than Age Of Empires 
 III, if you like Strategy Games, you NEED to play this best game...
  You never know if your enemy will come attacking you with planes or ships or land soldiers or robots...
 
  The game have all the Era's of the History... you can make a big empire on your lands, allied 
 with some friend, and then, the two go attack the enemy, by air, land, sea...
  There is only one thing to say about that game....:
  
  YOU NEED TO PLAY THAT GREAT GAME!
 
  
  If you like the Old History, everything from the past, you will really love this game.... there 
 is nothing more to say about the game, if you like RTS, you just NEED to play this game... the 
 only thing that's not too good is the graphics, but the game still great.
  I give 9.9 for it. You really gonna love this game if you play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buster4
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 24, 2006 2:45 am PT
Review:  Empire earth 2
  
  Where to start on this one well this was a big letdown in comparison to empire earth 1. After so 
 many years in the making the graphics hardly improved and the game play its not really worth a 
 mention but I guess it is worth knowing if it is worth buying the game. Game play has a new interface, 
 it looks different to empire earth 1 but in fact no real different in how you use it. With more 
 disappointing characters, no teleporter and the lack of outer space game play makes it not worth 
 the money especially when you have the option to play empire earth 1 for heaps less money and more 
 enjoyment
  
  for those who have played empire earth one and wont something new I guess the is the game for you 
 with some new features and slightly better game play (slightly) its worth playing if you bored 
 I really think they did not put much effort in making this game but it is up to you...
  
  From buster4
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flibblewerfer
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 20, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  I found EE2 to be a slight dissapointment, when fighting a bot it seems like while you're bombarding 
 the enemy with nukes, they're still in the caveman age, taking down your jet planes with bows and 
 arrows. I didn't really like the game, it had alright graphics, to my opinion bad sound affects, 
 and an odd yet true storyline which was alright. I think that they could have made the game better 
 if they had just made more time periods, that way you can't get TOO far ahead of your enemies, 
 and you don't finish a skirmish in 20 minutes. Overall i thought it was unsatisfactory, and don't 
 recommend it until the price drops 10 or 20 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heter
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  The demo does not do this game justice. I was very dissapointed when i first played the demo. When 
 I tried the full game, I found that this is a very fun Rts to play. the graphics Are very bright 
 and detailed. The weapon effects (explosions and smoke etc) are very well done and in combination 
 with the sound make battles very exciting. I don't really pay attention the music but it's nothing 
 that takes away from the gameplay. The different civs are well balanced and the different bonuses 
 and units each one gets makes them a vast improvement over the original games'. All the units are 
 very well done and are very easy to upgrade which is also another improvement over the first games 
 upgrade system. There are many units to select from including, planes, helicopters, ships, hercs 
 (robots) , various tanks and ground infantry units. The crown system is a nice reward to players 
 who are working hard and gives a nice bonus that can be selected. The game is pretty easy to learn 
 and simple in certain ways, but not so much that it takes away the challenge. For example the plane 
 system. You can set a rally point for your aircraft to rally at where you need them, which means 
 you can just set them and forget them while you focus on your ground units. The battles are very 
 fun to watch, and a large amount of units can be fighting on screen without any fps drop. That 
 is a11 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelord153
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 3, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome!!!! If you like (computer strategy games) well then this is the perfect game 
 for you , you will love it ,there is no doubt about it.
  Have you ever dreamed of making your own empire and taking over the world and making armies of 
 1,000s and 1,000s of men and vehicles.
  Well now you dont have to dream any more cause now you get to do all that on EMPIRE EARTH 2! You 
 will want to buy this game but after hours and hours and hours of play, you will kindu get a little 
 tired of it cause it's really just doing the same thing all day long, but when you wake up in the 
 morning you will want to start playing this game again.
  So if you like games like this you should by this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevinprochazka
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jan 13, 2006 4:15 am PT
Review:  Although flashy at first. With great new units and such. It has rather unfortunately taken on the 
 look of the enhanced Rise of Nations. Well, not exactly, no more flexible borders but set regions 
 that you can conquer. The enhancement comes in the campaign and the graphics and player-friendly 
 set-up. 
  
  Campaigns: 
  The most import part of any single-player included game. Rather a let down here, as you can have 
 campaigns from 4 times with just 3 missions each. The worse part is that the campaigns have to 
 be started from the earliest age in history 'Japan at war' (or china not sure) . With rather bad 
 story to it. The second one are medieval ages. Not so much a let down there but i would be welcome 
 to more missions as this has proven to be my favorite age in the game. The third is American conquest 
 of a nations (don't remmember name) . It is in the ages of cold war. Very hard at start, but then 
 becomes quite easy. With the ability to use most weapons at all times the American nation is very 
 powerful. The fourth campaing is set in the future and i was certainly NOT impressed by this part 
 of the game. The future is a bit too fast for my liking and I tend to die fast even though i have 
 been prepared for the onslaught.
  
  Graphics:
  All I can say is GOOD JOB GUYS
  
  Sound:
  Very good too. :D
  
  Gameplay:
  The learning curve is fast but sometimes the game 
 seems to basic to me as I have rather gotten used to games like Ground Control 2 and Rise of Nations... 
 ect.
  
  Units:
  A lot of work has been done to the units but the nations differ little in the later stages especially 
 future. In the future all nations have the same units as everyone else. A rather unfortunate discovery. 
 Also the nations have special units only for one age.
  
  All-in-all a good game for not too advanced players. Fairly easy strategy with easy-to-grasp interface 
 and controls. Not too good for more advanced players hich will find themselves lacking the advanced 
 interface that other games offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irulehexen
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 12, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Imagine a classic as Age of Empires, then instead of hoplites, hypaspists, and velites, add Teutonic 
 Knights, tanks, missiles, and HERC's. Not only does one experiance archaic battles such as in AOE 
 but also those in the present and future- Empire Earth II. In the stead of a common fold or day 
 to day hastati, this game spans mankind and beyond!
  
  In Empire Earth II, you get numerous civilzations to choose from, such as the Greeks and Romans, 
 to the Americans and Germans. This not only provides a wide variety of units and innovations but 
 it serves as vanguard as to the morale of the game itself- to prevent boredom. Another important 
 feature and factor is the addition of the citizen manager. This feature allows for the greater 
 distribution of your villagers, thus increasing the amount of surplus resources, allowing supplies 
 necessary for your phalanxes, and for greater barbicans and other defenses. Another feature of 
 great worth, is the Crowns which lets you after getting the needed number of technology stats, 
 to get either a military, imperial, or an economic leader. These strategoi give special powers 
 and spur forth morale to the troops. 
  
  The graphics in this game are variable. They can be left in default to allow greater gameplay or 
 be set of to high with ever pixel stretched to form massive and colossul images of splendor. The 
 graphics also provide
  the feature of weather- sandstorms, blizzards, and hurricanes, and pestilences.
  
  The history 
 is quite good also- ranging from hoplites who wielded their sarissas and their bronze shields to 
 peltasts or skirmishers with wooden shields with animal hides as purpsoes of reserve and the auxiliary 
 cohorts. Units could also be placed in useful situations such as the wedge or phalanx, or be spread 
 about the fields.
  
  With all this good, there is one feature though, that could have been improved on. The sound on 
 the units were marvelous, and each unit said things depending on their mood like being idle or 
 preparing to attack through their tone and aggressiveness. However, the music was ok. It sounded 
 good but sometimes I wished they would add more variation to such. Do not let that turn you awayway, though, 
 for besides that Empire Earth II is marvelous. 
  
  All in all, the game provides a rich history, great features such as bridges and roads with outposts, 
 siege guns, legionnaires, hoplites, tanks, castles, chariots, etc. A game you should not pass. 
 If there is still some dissidence of doubt which still lingers, get the demo at least which is 
 FREE.
  
  Rara avis in terris art Empire Earth II. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bag8ball
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  Well for me, Empire Earth II was basically another steping stone on the road to creating the ultimate 
 RTS game. But despite this fact, the game was good itself. The game brought features which were 
 new and revolutionary and the game play was good. But like all games, EE II has its cons. For me, 
 the cons were something not significant or something to be noticed. As a history lover, the only 
 cons which I really complained was the lack of unique building styles, few unique units, the game 
 covers years that have'nt happenedf yet and that the units keep on repeating the same audio. For 
 those guys who rated EE II as "a total disaster, one of the worst games I've seen, something not 
 worth buying and others" I've one question for them: "Why did you guys bought something which you 
 said was a waste of money in the 1st place?" For me, if you're going to say something which might 
 be harsh about EE II, I'd rather try it out or just keep quiet. If you like RTS games this game 
 is a must. I also recommend this game for those interested in History. In the end this is what 
 I've to say: Please choose your games carefully and this game is a good one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flying_fury
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 6, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  My dad bought this game last year and well i didn't think to much of until he asked me if I wanted 
 to play it because he thought I'd like it and he the game is very addictive and is a good way to 
 kill a hours the is unlike most games of its kind because it goes to time beyond our current knowlegde 
 and actually does a good job of it in my opinion. in death match you can choose the era you start 
 in and which on is the limit also you play campains based on real wars and learn real combat strategys 
 and battle plans. over best game in seris. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdude10
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jan 17, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  This game is bad. It lags so bad, that an uber l33t machine could not play it. There is next to 
 no-one playing online, and the developers couldn't care less about the poor state of the game. 
 This game is not worth purchasing, even if it went down to 5.
  
  Avoid at all costs and save your computer the work of running this absolutle shambolic software.
 
  
  However, if you like tosh games, full of bugs, that no-one plays online, buy this game straight 
 away. If you like games that have nice graphics, but nothing else, buy straight away. Otherwise 
 avoid at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BruteDux
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  The Game is Simplely Desastrous! Some guys think it is the greatest RTS, a revolutionary game... 
 but it's simplely pathetic. The game has cartoon graphics, repetitive sounds, boring battles and 
 it's tilt is just horrible... you can't play this thing once... two times will get you killed! 
 This game is just boring, has no story in it campaigns, just a lot of small battles with no action... 
 there are no skills, or heroes, or treasures or real quests... I prefer Age Of Empires III, no 
 doubt. I will give a 3 to it! It deserves. It's a poor game literally!
  
  Don't Check it! ; ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scotsman05
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 31, 2005 4:38 pm PT
Review:  There has been many complaints that Empire Earth II strays far too much away from the original 
 game. I would agree that indeed the games are different, but EEII definately feels like a sequel 
 deserving of the Empire Earth name.
  
  I must say the latest patch version (1.2) does help me favor a higher score in this review. Since 
 the latest update, I have seen an increased number in online activity, and games are far more enjoyable.
 
  
  Starting off with gameplay. EEII's gameplay may put off some fast-action RTS gamers, who are used 
 to other great RTS games as C&C Generals or Dawn of War. Empire Earth II however, always has something 
 going on that the player has to attend to. To win a game of Empire Earth II, a player must use 
 the most of his surroundings and resources, as well as making the crucial balance between his/her 
 economy or military. Focusing too much on economy may prove useful in the late game, but makes 
 the player vulnerable to an early attack. Focusing on military is great for the short run, but 
 if early attempts fail they could lose out later in the game.
  
  Graphics wise, Empire Earth II delivers. With constantly changing weather and light effects, the 
 player is greeted by beautiful images. The explosions and other special effects are also very good, 
 and mixed with the sound, drag you into the game. Sometimes I find myself staring at the screen, 
 watching some animals drink at the coastline, when all of a sudden, it starts to rain.
  
  Sound, even though fairly impressive, is probably the worst part of the game. Most of the sound 
 effects are really good, the explosions for the most part. The unit's speech however, can be slightly 
 annoying at times, especially in the way of the oversized hero units.
  
  This game will keep you hooked and playing for ages. Any experienced RTS player should give it 
 a try. (Providing they all remember to download the latest update)
  
  I shall be looking forward to the upcoming Expansion Pack, Art of Supremacy, and hopefully I can 
 say the same good things and more about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_Hydra_X
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 2, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  
  This game is a good solid game but hard to get into and possibly too large for most age of empires, 
 etc players.
  There are 15 epochs spanning from the stone age to the "nano" age , but it feels slightly disjointed, 
 therefore , much of the small online community online sticks to single epoch or earlier epoch games 
 leaving much of the game unplayed.
  This game is also plagued by lag in the singleplayer, which hasnt been fixed by the multiple patches. 
 The main competitor for this game is obviously going to be AoE3 but EE2 has much more than AoE3 
 . As you can imagine there is an incredibly diverse range of units from men and catapults throwing 
 stones to nuclear bombs and planes. There are also special resources which add an extra dimmension 
 of strategy, as these are different depending on epoch range. But there are problems with this 
 as guns dont have a major advantege over earlier techs and the balancing, even though made better 
 by the 1.2 patch , is still minorly unfair as counter units absolutely slaughter the units which 
 they counter. On some occasions it takes 30 horses to kill 100 bowmen on the earlier epoches.
 
  This game also adds some new and interesting modes including crowns which are either imperial 
 , economic or military and give a special ability dependant on crown, territory control - as population 
 limit is limited per territory so you need to claim more with more city centers to win. There is 
 also the citizen manager which is a usefull tool for managing a large economy/no. of citizens, 
 the PIP , picture in picture viewer allowing you to see part of your base in the bottom left corner 
 of the screen , which you can chose yourself , allowing you a strategic advantage as you can change 
 unit production from a barracks and still be controling the battle, and there are smaller less 
 noticable additions such as ' attack move' an easy to use ability allowing you to move units so 
 they attack any hostile units on route, various formations, and the ability to make a coordinated 
 attack allowing two army units of yours to attack but one controlled by the computer on a path 
 which you had programmed. There are many different additons and new features in ee2 which makes 
 it a fun and intriguing game to play.
  The sound is impressive at times with realistic and large explosions complimented with the sound 
 you would expect. This said the music is often looped and does not offer much thrill so i would 
 therefore reccomend using itunes with the SFX.
  The graphics for this game are real time with weather , wind , and detailed units but trying to 
 run all of the settings on full with the PIP viewer will certainly cause lag on older computers 
 and is not reccomended to do online.
  In terms of value this game has much to offer, it is fun on the surface but when you get really 
 into it and start considering strategy with more depth, choosing which crown and which abiltiy 
 to bestow with it, managing territory and choosing which ones to pick , and spying on the enemy 
 to decide which unit would best counter them.
  This game offers some interesting new features with some revamped old features with a diversity 
 and variety that is not seen in any other major RTS games. This game is good for all RTS players, 
 it takes time to get into , but when you are good at it , it provides an extraordinarly sattisfying 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcana
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:29 am PT
Review:  I read the reviews posted here by other GameSpot members. I believe that the negatives ones are 
 exaggerations composed by RTS experts who expected too much : their criticism is somewhat valid, 
 but it is excessive from the point of view of the majority of players who do not share their extreme 
 expectations. Such is my case : although I have played the three Age of Empires titles, Age of 
 Mythology, Rise of Nations and the first EE, I do not consider myself an historical-empire/RTS 
 expert (or fanatic) . I am aware that designing and coding such complex softwares is an enormous 
 task, especially if you want them to run on many system-configurations without significant problems. 
 Some people expect too much, too fast.
  
  I started to play the game late after its release, on 27 Dec. 2005, immediately patching it to 
 version 1.20. Here is what I immediately liked :
  
  1. If you have a powerful enough system and if you then put most of the visual settings to maximum-quality, 
 EE2 is much more beautiful than EE1. 
  
  2. The skirmish-configuration options are abundant. Since I never play the campaigns, that is a 
 major requirement for me. Some posters have complained that the game goes too fast through the 
 historical epochs. They did not seem to realize that the skirmish options allow you to precisely 
 customize various aspects of the game's pace. For example, you can decide that progressing to a 
 new epoch shall cost 2X or 3X (or more) the normal cost in technological points : just customizing 
 that single variable can considerably slow progress and confer a more epic scope to the game. You 
 could even simulate the invasion of America by granting a superior epoch-level start to the European 
 colonial powers in relationship to the three Amerindian cultures.
  
  3. I like territories a lot, contrary to some posters who hate them. Of course, if you play a historical-empire/RTS 
 as if it were a tactical-wargame/RTS, you will not like the fact that you cannot rush the adversary 
 by building military structures near his capital. In the Age of Empires series, I always deplored 
 that warmongers could do that : it spoiled the historical-empire building scope of that genre of 
 RTS (which should not be played like if it were Red Alert) . Consequently, I find that territories 
 are a must : they are much more "realistic", from the point of view of the history of cultures. 
 With the exception of very nomadic invaders, most cultures had to develop a sophisticated military 
 and logistic infrastructure and communication-network before they could build cohesive and well-suplied 
 armies which could sustain a long campaign deep into the foreign territory of other cultures. That 
 a stone-age "Roman" civ can be able to construct barracks in far-away India early on in a game 
 is ludicrous, except for those warmongers who are in a hurry to beat up the competition in a sadistic 
 manner.
  
  I could add more, but I am out of breath. I conclude by saying that EE2 is a lot more fun than 
 AoE3, which was also released in 2005. It is also a lot more beautiful, if you have a powerful 
 enough system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt_So_and_So
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2005 6:43 am PT
Review:  With EEII, the people and mad scientist TRULY tried to listen to the fans. They put in strategic 
 coordination tools, larger armies, better graphics... but where's the gameplay? I looked, back 
 and forth, played hundreds of single player games, but couldn't find it. The A. I. is awful in computer 
 players: I attacked their base and the cpu didn't come after me. And this is on regular difficulty.
 
  Then, I thought to myself, multiplayer must not be too bad. Oh, and it isn't. Huge, massive battles, 
 with armies upon armies of men clashing against eachother in majestic hills or broken-down cities. 
 It is a sequel, but there's nothing new. If you like old-school rts's, there's none but the best 
 experience here. If you're hooked on a more innovative RTS, stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxtone
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 14, 2005 6:55 am PT
Review:  The first empire earth was awesome the second one that came out really was a let down in most aspects.
 
  
  To start off let me say this the graphics are awesome ok. One of the biggest let down is the territory 
 concept like the rise of nations which I dont like at all. In this type of game there is really 
 no strategy going on what I mean by this is that to lunch a attack and the computer has most of 
 the territories u can still kill his u know why because first off the horses are weak the air force 
 is nothing and u can take on fifty air crafts with two or three AA guns and forts can be taken 
 over by thirty infantry units I mean what happen to the old style game play of Empire Earth.
  
  The second thing is the way that you advance through ages fast and u get nothing out of it 
 I mean sure u get guns and all that but u dont use the old ages like u do in the first empire 
 earth. When u start the game u can have your recourses gathered fast and by the third age u have 
 no more short coming from recourses. 
  
  Over all I would recommend that u buy the first game rather then this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowYsenko
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 13, 2005 5:31 pm PT
Review:  empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire 
 earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth 
 empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire 
 earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth 
 empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire 
 earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth 
 empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire 
 earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth 
 empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire earth empire 
 earth vvvv 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owyn4
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 7:20 pm PT
Review:  
  overall the game is a pretty good game. you either love it, love it for about 3 weeks, or just 
 dont like it. most the people fall in the middle.
  
  good things about the game: this serries has gotten much better each time a new one came out. the 
 seccond one really worked on its maps, races, and the time periods. it even has a good multiplayer. 
 almost everything is great.
  
  bad things about this game: the one thing that they didnt work much on was the graphics. there 
 about the same as before. another thing they didnt make very fun was the rate the time periods 
 went by. if you were playing on the multiplayer your enemy (if he was good) would just build a 
 basic deffense, then go through the time periods at very high rates, wihch leaves you in the stone 
 age. what im trying to say is that the game has its drawbacks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixty7velle
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 23, 2005 10:15 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge RTS player and this is one of my favorites at the time. It took me a long time to really 
 get adjusted to this game since it is a lot more confusing than other RTS games. It takes some 
 time to understand the complexity of this game but once you get if figured out, it becomes very 
 entertaining and addicting. I wish RTS games would take a step back to the basics (RED ALERT) that 
 way you don't have to pay attention to so much crap and just play straight up war. EE2 has some 
 gameplay issues that need to be addressed. The game can get bogged down pretty bad when there are 
 about 300 units or more fighting, even with a high end computer. You can also have some problems 
 placing buildings in certain areas or when it is "too close" to other buildings. With all of the 
 negative aspects aside, this is still a really good RTS game compared to the used up AOE line. 
 Give it a few hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mondoriker64
Rating: 3.1
Date: Nov 22, 2005 10:18 pm PT
Review:  the most desireable feature of age of empires and empire earth was trashed in this new version. 
 i have both and still play older version because they sold out to the territory concept. i dont 
 like it and maybe i would have if it had come first. i tell everyone who asks not to waste their 
 money or to buy the older empire earth if they dont have it, its cheaper now anyway. why couldn't 
 they just let me turn the territories feature off? good game if you have not played all the others 
 but an unbeleivable disappointment to those of us old enough to have played the original games. 
 wasted my money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grungee
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 17, 2005 10:42 am PT
Review:  Have you ever been to the Grand Canyon? Do you remember leaning over the safety railing at the 
 tourist lookout and gazing into the yawning abyss? Do you remeber that weird tickly feeling you 
 got in your gut? That's exactly what it's like when you first start playing Empire Earth II. This 
 game is deep, folks.
  
  Initially, you're going to be hit by the generic look of the units and the terrain (flaws the previous 
 Empire Earth labored under) and you will assume it's another in the long line of similar RTS games. 
 Empires, Age of Empires, Rise of Nations, and others all seem alike until you get into the nuts 
 and bolts of each. Here's where EEII stands out. This game offers so many options and strategies, 
 it's sometimes overwhelming.
  
  Give it a chance, the game will grow on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: janschreurs
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 14, 2005 9:07 am PT
Review:  i'm sorry to say , but this game is really pathetic.
  Word cannot describe sucha waste of money .
  The campaign is too easy , worthless in many aspects.
 
  Multiplayer gaming is terrible , a very weak internet match up service , with a LAN avaliablity 
 but not possibility because ui NEED 2 DIFFERENT CD CODES !!! 
  The Graphics are really bad , and the gameplay is disatsrous and boring.
  Iv'ebeen There DONE 
 THAT (a million times) 
  One spot of advice , dont buy it 
  i stopped playing after a month and finishing alll campaigns.
  Instead you should buy the new 
 Age OF empires , theres a sequal worthy for its market and predicessors. 
  Empire earth simply is the worst game of the year and should'nt have passed Beta Testing , what 
 were they thinking , they simply used the Empire earth brand to bring out crap in a Box and sell 
 it for real actual money ! HAHA 
  
  A review by Jan Schreurs (4th) should've made this review earlier , to prevent ppl from buying 
 it . 
  
  PS . i apologyse for Halo 2 review , Halo 2 is a great game , but i just like 2 take out the worst 
 out of games!
  Any way I really REALLY mean this review EMpire earth 2 SUX
  
  JAN (jojo) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superdraciel
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 5, 2005 11:05 pm PT
Review:  After a long wait ,the successor to the original Empire Earth game by Stainless Steel has arrived-Empire 
 Earth 2 ,this time by Mad Doc.
  The graphics have been dramatically improved and the introduction of weather changes make the gameplay 
 more interesting. When in full flow, the water animations look great. There is also a lot of emphasis 
 on shadows and lighting.
  Like the previous game, this game also features the development of an empire from its crude beginings 
 in the stone age to the high tech nano age.
  Mad Doc have also put in lots of new features in this game-detailed war plans, cunning AI and the 
 ability to sell territories for alliances are just a few of them. Infact, there are so many of them 
 that this game is very hard to play. The PIP (picture in picture) display even lets you be at two 
 places at once.
  This game features a tutorial, three campaigns and a "turning points" campaign featuring the great 
 battles and events in history.
  One drawback-To play EE2 at full capacity, you have to update almost every thing in your computer 
 as its requirements are very high.
  So overall I would say that this game might look a bit complicated at first but stick with it and 
 you'll be in for the experience of a lifetime.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hack_er
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 31, 2005 12:41 am PT
Review:  first missing thing is true information, example sfenx is a turkish wonder, but it's egypt. the other 
 problem is system requirement, I can playing age of empires 3 
  nearly all graphic setting is high with msi 9550. empire earth 2 have less graphics than age of 
 empires 3 but it's to force the system. it must be more optimize, the other problem is the realism. when 
 you play you feeling like watch cartoon. you can't feel the real war emotions.
  empire earth 1 to disappointment for everyone, when I hear empire earth 2 I hope very good things, but 
 in game everything almost good, but somethings missing, incomplete, you can't feel real enjoyment, it's 
 different side from other good strategy games. It's can be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20457402182153743379630178193617-girik7
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 30, 2005 10:42 pm PT
Review:  The Good: As usual, there is amazing depth in all of the epochs you can advance; Great depth of 
 stratergy; plenty of new features to try and evolve the genre; graphics are good but not the best; 
 visual effects good; territories.
  
  The Bad: Gameplay can become tedious and slow at times; frame rate bogs down in combat; combat 
 itself is not too exciting; sound is repetitive; buggy final version; multiplayer is not spectacular; 
 sometimes there is too much to manage, and you have to micromanage everything, so the game become 
 slow; Singleplayer campaign is not good, with poor stories and awkward cut-scenes.
  
  Verdict: Mad Doc have gone overboard with EE2. They have done too much, and the level of micromanagement 
 is too great so you cannot focus on battle. Also, the gameplay is not stable. Were it not for the 
 bad aspects overshadowing the good aspects, and the game less ambitious, EE2 would have been another 
 classic. The game is sometime repetitive and boring.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xwolfghost
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 30, 2005 5:06 am PT
Review:  Empire Earth is a real change from the original. Mostly due to the territory expantion that they 
 have introduced to the game. Its a great idea but it really pushes you to your limit in how fast 
 you can play a game. After you have delt with a battle it feels like your already halfway through 
 the game because of all you have missed. But because the territories are so small they are close 
 and you seem to be spending all your time fighting. Which is a good thing some times, but when 
 you are trying to build and expand it can get really anoying.
  
  With this game comes the first introduction to the weather system. As the seasons change it turns 
 to rain or snow wich affects the speed and the viewing distance of your troops. The only way to 
 track the weather is by a Watch tower. The weather is a bit of dissapointment. Rather than do a 
 major effect to your troops or your economy it just seems to make those with a lower tech computer 
 lag.
  
  Another addition that we see into the real time strategy is the enablement of building roads. In 
 the begginging they don't seem to do much but wast your stone, as you play on though you will notice 
 that you can build bridges. This will really make you chose your defence carfully because a army 
 can come without warning if you don't have a proper defence around your territory.
  
  One of the things I really hoped they would put in is the option to put men on your walls. But, 
 like every other real time strategy like this, they didn't. I think it would really improve the 
 seige aspect of the game. Rome Total War did and it rocked it sky high to the game of the year 
 and is the envy of others. 
  
  The population is mostly like the original expect because of the territory map, each one you have 
 will let you train more men. A difference in the population from other games is that if you have 
 a setting that reads 50-2000. The max population is distrubed throughout the teams. So if you have 
 only 2 players with 2000 max you will be able to be able to train 1000. If you have max players 
 and max population you will only get 200. But if a team bacomes history then the population is 
 distrubed through the teams so that you can train more units if you have the right amount of terriories.
 
  
  The technology leads you through the history of man. It starts off with the cave men and goes to 
 future wars. WIth it brings you all new technology which has to be reaserched. But you no longer 
 need to reaserch new units. Since there is only 1 builing alowed in a territory you must expand 
 to be larger. With that is the university and alot of other buildings that can only be built a 
 certain amount of times in the territory like towers.
  
  In all you need really fast gameplay skills to play really well in EE2. It is still fun for those 
 who like slower games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwlettsome
Rating: 4.7
Date: Oct 27, 2005 12:23 pm PT
Review:  This is a terrible, terrible game. Let's examine this car wreck one piece at a time.
  
  First, the interface is good on ideas lousy on execution. The picture in picture idea is interesting, 
 but in practice feels more like a gimmick. No value. Second, there are various levels of overview 
 maps that are supposed to help manage resource harvesting. Moderately helpful, but totally useless 
 when you are waging war at the same time because (this takes us to point number three) the unit 
 command, control, pop cap and AI are all terrible. Some of the worst I have seen in a highly touted 
 game release.
  
  Also, the tech tree feels like it's not really even integrated into the game (you research tech 
 to provide unit and building bonuses) . Battles quickly break down into mad scrambles. Unit production 
 takes an amazingly long time and population caps are set at fairly low levels. Buildings don't 
 feel like they are assisting your civization to advance and you will constantly find yourself needing 
 to put more citizens inside of the buildings to get them to actually do anything once you build 
 them. You will constantly be asking yourself, "gee, should I build up my army to stop the conquering 
 hordes from overwhelming or do I build another 10 citizens so that I can generate additional research 
 points?" Conquering enemy territory feels like RTS armies gone wild... you don't really need nor 
 can you accomplish much strategy. About all you can do is produce a many units as you can and then 
 send them headlong into battle.
  
  If you must spend money on an Empire Earth game, get the first one out of the bargain bin. There 
 are too many other good RTS games out there to waste any of your gaming time or money on this mess. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dariune
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 25, 2005 4:19 am PT
Review:  I played the first Empire Earth despite its lack of marketing and was bown away. It was one of 
 those games where everything seemed to work. 
  The graphics werent amazing though they were pretty good for the time but the game itself played 
 so fluidly. 
  
  Needless to say icouldnt wait for EE2.
  I bought the game and started playing and from the word go i was dissapointed. 
  The music was 
 the first thing i noticed. In comparrison to the catchy and relevant tunes from the 1st one this 
 was just a bunch of random notes chucked together. 
  The Graphics although supposedly improved were in my opinion not much better if better at all and 
 didnt really suit the game. 
  Then there was the gameplay. The main selling point of the 1st one. 
  Rather than a slow paced 
 strategy game where you ad to fight for resources and think about your every move, we had a resource 
 rich enviroment with absolutly no strategy required. 
  The game was like the toned down arcade version of the 1st and i cant think of a single nice thing 
 to say about it. 
  
  To summerise 
  Bad graphics 
  Boring sound 
  You age up too quickly
  Resources become pointless very quickly
  No strategy
  The game is 
 not really much fun at all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ed_mage
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2005 4:11 am PT
Review:  I am expecting a great improvement this game, I just became bored in the first version. They have 
 done it again, this time but some improvements in gameplay. Again Empire Earth have less unique 
 features. Most the concept of the game seems to be similar to other games such as rise of nations, 
 age of empire and civilization. The mix doesn't bode that well as i see.
  
  The game is good enough for an rts. I can't say that it is great but still its worth of playing. 
 It can't match up to the other rts games that I played like Rise of Nations, LOTR: Battle for Middle 
 Earth, Warcraft III, Civilazation 3 and Rome: Total War.
  
  Overall, Its a good rts, a gameplay that is familar, and have some nice battle sequence. if you 
 wanna try this game, go rent and play it first before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maknathol
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 22, 2005 11:13 am PT
Review:  EE is probably the game i played the most in my life, i just found it so damn fun and revolutionnary, 
 all these great ideas, alot of units, awesome gameplay. all these features make it an instant classic 
 for me.
  You would now have an idea of how much i was exited bout EE2, and if youre an EE fan you would 
 also feel my letdown.
  1st of all let me say that EE2 has a couple of great ideas, but didnt use them very well by not 
 developping and polishing the combat system wich is so freaking dull and boring, you cant compare 
 it to the one found in warhammer 40 k. lots of good ideas, but other key elements just grind the 
 game to a boring hault.
  the singleplayer campaign, sigh, like gameplay, dull and porely executed.
  I found the graphics 
 to be really ugly, not in terms of special effects but in texture quality and colour.
  Sound, cant reinforce the game there. When a musketeer fires a shot from his gun, you acctually 
 hear the bang after or before 1sec, and its not a performance issue, cause i tauned all the graphs 
 and the problem persisted.
  EE fans will be better off playing the original, i know i had the urge to reinstall EE when i played 
 this.
  
  PC SPECS : 3.2 ghz intel ht, 1024 gigs kingstone 533mhz, geforce 6600, creative sound audigy 2zs 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gla001b
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 12, 2005 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Empire Earth 2 is one of the best strategy game i have ever played. Although the online play is 
 a little laggy, but is very fun. The map editor is the most complicated i have ever used. There 
 is no lack of units, however what was interesting was the ability to upgrade the rank of your infantry 
 tanks, ect. And the list of wonders is different for each part of the world each civilization is 
 from. and that every unit looks different depending on which nation/civilization you pick, but 
 has the same name and stats. And the variety of air untis is astounding in looks and uses. And 
 guess what, it even has what other games don't.... the dive bomber!!! and once in the Final epoch 
 (age) the air units look like HKs from terminator 3: redemption. I recomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbjunior92
Rating: 6.9
Date: Sep 21, 2005 11:55 am PT
Review:  Honestly, it has in my mind, even LESS depth than the first Empire Earth. The graphics are very 
 sub-par, the sounds, just like the first Empire Earth, are very monotonous, as are the things people 
 say. Rise of Nations, a much older game, surpasses this game in most respects, and is two years 
 older. To this game's credit, it's still a fun way to pass the time, don't get me wrong, but there's 
 nothing whatsoever that stands out in this game. It is a shoddy attempt at upgrade, and there's 
 really nothing much better about this game than the first one, except the interface.
  
  I always start with the cons first, and there are many:
  
  Firstly, the A. I. is absolutely 
 idiotic. The computer, as a tactician, playing AGAINST you is bright enough, I suppose, depending 
 on the difficulty level you like to play, but it's ridiculous trying to keep your units in a good 
 formation, and when they try and defend an area, they make choices that defy all logic. This is 
 certainly not a good demonstration of what's possible with today's 21st century hardware.
  
  The graphics are lousy. I'll say no more.
  
  The animation is lousy, I'll say no more.
 
  
  The originality is nil, I'll say no more.
  
  The population limits really inhibit gameplay.
  
  The logic, and rationale of the game is beyond 
 the realm of normal thought. Houses house people, and support populations. They don't inspire people 
 to fight and work harder, necessarily. If you want this to be a factor, make NICE houses, or SHANTIES. 
 
  
  The combat system is MILDLY retarded, but it forgiveable.
  
  The PROS to this game!
  
  The crowns are a neat way to gain the upper hand. Tech points are 
 a good way to advance knowledge, I think, but Empire Earth and Rise of Nations has the right idea 
 having each building render technological improvements. The population limits are a little silly.
 
  
  The picture-in-picture is a neat feature! I highly recommend it!
  
  The music is very good.
  
  The overall gameplay experience isn't too bad, but a person with 
 a bigger-than-average brain is apt to be a bit bored after playing it for 40 hours. (40 hours is 
 my minimum prior to reviewing.)
  
  Overall, it's very sub-par, and a big disappointment. Brilliant marketing, but this game really 
 doesn't deliver the goods, I must say. My apologies to Sierra, but they've made ANOTHER bomb, in 
 my opinion. Epic games are meant to be savored. A big company like Sierra really has a lack of 
 vision putting out something like this. I hate to write a bad review, but I also hate to spend 
 $50.00 of my hard-earned money towards something that's just a little bit better than junk, and 
 that's what this game is.
  
  My blunt, concise, and to-the-point .02 cents worth.
  
  Dan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eefreak8
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 26, 2005 7:24 am PT
Review:  Empire Earth 2 is a fundamentally great game with excellent concepts and a scope unrivalled by 
 any other game to date, save its predecessor the original Empire Earth. A huge population and a 
 revamped formation system bested only by a few selected titles including the Total War games makes 
 for amazingly big, fun and relatively easy to manage battles. 
  
  The game is also packed with intuitive new features such as the citizen manager, war planner and 
 PIP. The citizen manager is good for managing exceptionally large economies and the war planner 
 and PIP give you unrivalled control and communication options. But whilst good at face value, later 
 on in the heat of the game you find yourself forgetting these features and going back to managing 
 the old fashioned way.
  
  I personally love the games deep strategy and amazing gameplay with roads and trading but I cannot 
 help but notice the rather obvious flaws in pathfinding and ignore the fact that all the sides 
 look and play pretty much the same. The Turks for example get the same assault infantry as the 
 British and the same barracks as the British. The only difference is in looks and a few relatively 
 unimportant or helpful unique units and bonuses. The pathfinding is also rubbish. You should be 
 able to set your villagers and troops to follow the roads that give them a significant movement 
 bonus rather than them going which ever way seems best to them. Crossing bridges- well I'd rather 
 not talk about it but anyone who's played the game knows exactly what I mean.
  
  Despite the many flaws EE2 offers a genuine and entertaining rts experience which the patient gamer 
 will be able to enjoy for many an hour.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoffdino
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 18, 2005 4:51 pm PT
Review:  This Emire Earth leaves me disappointed. For one thing, the wacky graphic engine is unlike anything 
 in the RTS world. All units look indistinguisable from the air, you have to zoom in to the max 
 just to know who they are. Buildings are no better either, I usually don't know where my barracks 
 are after a few epochs. Second, the gameplay feels funny at time. Have you ever seen a war that 
 is raged all by... priests? There is in Empire Earth and quite frequent. Then, a nuclear bomb would 
 kill quite a lot right? Not exactly. In Empire Earth II, a nuclear bomb would destroy... a single 
 building and perfrom no harm on the ones that right next to it. And I'm not talking about Hiroshima-grade 
 bomb. It's an epoch 15, military technoliges maxed-out nuclear bomb. The building is a 18th century 
 town center. However, the sound is great when you are at war. The sound of guns, cannons or plane 
 crashing are truly enjoyable. But when you are at peace, it all sounds repetitive and funny (like 
 the cargo ship, when you select it says "set for sail" with a tone that sounds like "sex for sale") . 
 All of that leave me weanting for something better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: triplehhh5678
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 13, 2005 8:49 am PT
Review:  Empire Earth II expands on Empire Earth's accomplishments along with new accomplishments as well. 
 It has been around three-and-a-half years since the last game came out but it was definitely worth 
 the wait. Most problems that were in Empire Earth are fixed in this sequel. Perhaps the best one 
 is the most obvious one and one that should not have been a problem in the first game; you can 
 actually pick your opponent in a random map. Empire Earth II has better airplanes; the bombers 
 can go back and forth while the fuel runs out. It's not like in the first game where it bombs once 
 and then there's no more fuel. No, no, no. The fuel takes longer to drain and a plane is capable 
 of bombing a target more than once on one run. However, the nuclear bomber, which I felt did not 
 do enough damage in the first game, does even less damage in this one. Empire Earth is much more 
 sophisticated than the last game (although if you're just judging from the graphics and audio you 
 wouldn't think so) . It takes longer to move to an epoch as there are more things to do in each 
 one. Tech points are what move you to the next epoch. And it may cost a lot of tech points and 
 researching to move up. Empire Earth II also makes the future more fun. I personally did not enjoy 
 the Digital Age and Nano Age of the first game, but the Digital, Genetic, and Synthetic Ages of 
 EE II, which are everything past the year 2005, are a blast with Star Wars-like mechs and units. 
 Civilizations finally have differences! Well, not every civilization, but at least there is variety. 
 The civilizations are divided into different groups and those groups have the same buildings but 
 are different from other groups. For example, Britain, of the Western group, has the same buildings 
 as America, but different than Japan, of the Asian group. There is one flaw, however; wonders are 
 not exclusive to civilization, but to group. That means Germany can build the Pentagon, and America 
 can build the Parthenon. One of the biggest flaws of the game is the audio. It sounds just like 
 it did back in 2001 and each civilization is the same. Even the Chinese will scream "Die!" or "I'm 
 listening" when ordered to move. They all have one accent and one voice. The graphics look a little 
 bit better, but less than one would normally expect after three-and-a-half-years. However, overall, 
 Empire Earth II is a much better game than its predecessor. The differences of units and overall 
 improvements of problems lead to a much better gaming experience and is a must-buy for any RTS 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asche
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 7, 2005 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is mostly good, with a few minor annoyances. I won't speak much on the campaigns. I've 
 played through the first 5 or 6 levels of the Korean campaign, but the fact is I love to skirmish, 
 and frequently find it hard to tear myself away to follow the plot.
  
  The good:
  
  The graphics are better, though they aren't outstanding. Each civilization now has its own unique 
 style of buildings and citizen dress which keeps things interesting if you're a skirmish addict 
 like myself. 
  
  The soundtrack is great. It's not like it's the best score ever written, but again each civ has 
 its own set of tracks that evoke the area of the world they hail from, keeping things interesting 
 and creating some atmosphere.
  
  The ability to choose your climate is fantastic, its one of those things that doesn't change the 
 gameplay in anyway but somehow makes it that much more cool. The changing seasons and time of day 
 are also great. I always restarted my game when I got stuck on an arctic map in EE, I don't know 
 why, I just didn't like them. Now I enjoy the weather as a part of life. And the winter is pretty 
 now. Storm effects are a neat addition too, though my machine can slow down when a storm comes, 
 especially if its in the middle of a battle, even though the specs are well beyond the minimum.
 
  
  The variety of civs is also greatly improved. The unique character of each culture brings it special 
 skills, as does its affiliation to a greater Region (eg: Incas and Aztecs each have unique powers, 
 and both also have powers specific to the meso-america region) . The variety of civs available and 
 the specific graphics and music that accompany them completely make up for the fact that there 
 is no civ builder in EE2 in my opinion, and to be honest I find these civs more fun to try out 
 that anything I ever created in EE.
  
  Roads are neat. They provide some polish to your cities, which is nice if you like to design for 
 aesthetics as much as function. I'll qualify this in the next section though. 
  I'm a big fan of the new static defense systems. In the wall and tower system the towers automatically 
 show up at intervals whenever you build a wall, and you can upgrade them to make them a defensive 
 unit whenever you have the resources without having to waste resources by tearing down a space 
 in your wall. There is a limit to the number of defense towers to a region, but rather than being 
 a hinderance this seems to be more of a balance consideration. No more walls made exclusively of 
 towers! As effective as those were, they did make it pretty easy to win. There are also new barriers 
 that are more of a fence, starting as a bunch of sticks poking out of the ground and evolving into 
 palisades, barbed wire, electric fences, and onward through the eras. This is a less effective 
 defense system for your major borders than walls and towers, but are a great way to block your 
 shores off to prevent transports landing or enemy bridge construction into your territory. You 
 can also use it as a frontline barrier to protect your walls from rams, and it also has asthetic 
 value for marking interior borders. The fortresses are greatly improved, now firing projectiles 
 at enemys that dare too close. Outpost are also great as stand alone "towers" that forecast the 
 weather and fire at enemys, including attacking wild life.
  
  The new territory system is also fantastic. Expansion is no longer about building ridiculous amounts 
 of buildings you'll never use. Now you claim a territory, build it up as necessary, and move on.
 
  
  The little things:
  
  I would have liked to have had 360 degree panning. Not really necessary for the gameplay, but it 
 would have been cool.
  
  The roads are great, but I've noticed an annoying tendancy where computer AI just builds random 
 chunks of road everywhere that don't actually lead anywhere, clutter things up, and can't be built 
 on. Roads can't be deleted or destroyed, so once you defeat an enemy and take a territory, you 
 have this mess of road squiggles all over the place that make it hard to build walls and just look 
 ugly. This generally only happens in a death match, when the computer AI has excessive resources 
 at its disposal, but went it does it is truly annoying. Besides it would be nice to be able to 
 change your own roads to account for new buildings as you progress throught the ages. That's more 
 of an asthetic concern than anything, but its the little things that distinguish a game from all 
 the others like it. Also, if you build too close to certain resources they become unusable, specifically 
 oil or uranium, because you can't build the derrick/mine over the resource because the road is 
 infinges on its space. Being able to delete the offending pavement would sure be handy. There are 
 some issues with the snap grid as well, sometimes you click in one place but it lays the road one 
 cell over.
  
  Speaking of cells and snapping, the new system is a little weird. You can't always place buildings 
 right next to each other and sometimes you can't put them anywhere near trees, or sometimes you 
 can practically stick them in the middle of the forest. There have been territories that I couldn't 
 claim because there was no place to set the city center. Its as if the boundaries of each unit 
 shift around. I like having a dynamic grid so that I don't have to make everything perfectly square 
 to everything else, but this is a bit strange. 
  
  The game didn't come with any instructions on how to use the map editor. While I know how to edit 
 a map and create a scenario, I can't seem to load my maps in a playable state, and haven't been 
 able to find any web resources to solve the problem. I'm sure if I look a little harder I'll find 
 some, but some basic instructions wouldn't have hurt. Even the help "encyclopedia" that can be 
 opened in game is only for the game itself and offers not a word about the editor. The physical 
 instruction manual is also devoid of information, and while I applaud the fact that less trees 
 were chopped down in its creation I almost wish for that inch-thick bible that came with the original 
 EE. For a game that cost me as much as this one did they could have included something about the 
 editor! 
  
  Lastly, for my money I would have liked to have a real jewel case instead of the cheap paper envelope. 
 
  
  So overall this is a great game. I have to say I'm completely addicted. I can play it for hours 
 upon hours. It has all the elements that made the original Empire Earth great, and many new features 
 that greatly improve the game gameplay. There are a few things that detract from the game, but 
 not so much that it loses any addictive power.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralCortez
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2005 4:37 am PT
Review:  The sequel to Gamespy's 2001 Game Of The Year PC, Empire Earth 2 has been released. Can it live 
 up to its pedigree? Let's find out!
  
  Graphics: The graphics are rather crappy. There is hardly any difference between 2001's Empire 
 Earth and 2003's Empires: Dawn Of The Modern World. But the explosions and smoke from muskets are 
 glorious.
  
  Sound: The sound is nothing special. The music is good for the game, the music depends of the civilization. 
 The weapons sounds are fine also. Unit confirmations are rather generic and cheap. Why does the 
 German Teutonic Knight have a British accent?
  
  Control: Pretty basic for an RTS. Easy to learn, easy to master. Nothing out of the ordinary here
 
  
  Features: The game features several civilizations to play as. There are the Americans, British, 
 Greeks, Germans, Romans, Babylonians, Turks, Aztecs, and others. Each nation has four unique units, 
 which is a great change from Empire Earth 1. Diplomacy is important in EE2, its diplomacy is deeper 
 than 2003's Rise Of Nations. Many different things are defined in the Treaties, like taxing allies 
 who bum resources off of your land. EE2 takes things from Rise Of Nations, and refines them.
  
  Overall: EE2 is the greatest current RTS of 2005. But there are several glitches and omissions. 
 But these will likely be rectified in patches and Expansion Packs.
  
  By GeneralCortez 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keledron
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 5, 2005 3:02 am PT
Review:  Empire Earth has always been a game for what could be considered the hardcore strategy gamer. EE1 
 had a great deal of micromanagement along with fueling the war machine and big picture along, so 
 its no surprise that EE2 considers the trend. Perhaps even moreso, with the inclusion of feature 
 similar to a smart-box on a TV screen (the one that lets you see whats happening on another channel.) 
 The problem with this is, it eventually serves the same purpose: Wow, really cool idea., except 
 that you're too focused on the big picture and you forget whats going on in that little box in 
 the corner anyway.
  
  Effectively its supposed to be a good way to keep an eye on your other cities, and if something 
 goes wrong you can even try to deal with it from there. But again, we're only human, and unless 
 you are on 8 cans of rocket fuel, you'll probably be a bit overwhelmed by this, forget about it, 
 and play in the old school style anyway.
  
  Aside from that, featurewise, EE2 really doesn't offer too much new on the table. Granted, the 
 AI is extremely challenging, but I will say its the first hardcore RTS I've ever played where I 
 did not feel like the computer opponents were 'cheating'. This is actually pulled off very well, 
 the computer is still tough even on the easiest difficulty, and makes for a really fun experience. 
 The AI will adjust to your defenses, search out your weak points, exploit them until you fix that, 
 then look for another. The same plays on your attacks, if you attack an area constantly, the computer 
 will start beefing up the defenses, all the while sending attack waves to distract you.
  
  Graphically, EE2 is marginally better than its predecessor, which in a sense isn't a bad thing, 
 EE1 had great graphics for its time. You can't help but feel EE2 looks slightly dated, but then 
 again, the weather and seasonal effects are a really nice touch of immersion, and it looks great 
 to boot there. 
  
  Sound is good, each country having its own little piece of the music score, but again its really 
 nothing new, and might seem slightly repetitive after a couple hours of play.
  
  Overall, EE2 is definitely enjoyable. A lot of hardcore EE fans may even feel slightly let down 
 that EE2 didn't bring a lot of new to the table. But, like the old saying goes, if it ain't broke, 
 don't fix it. 
  
  Give it a look, but don't pass up some other hot titles this season just to get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragonhawk
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 4, 2005 10:41 pm PT
Review:  First impressions are often lasting impressions, and thankfully, my first impressions of Empire 
 Earth 2 (which wern't good,) were later changed for the better. I had initally played the demo 
 version, and quite frankly, wasn't impressed. To me the graphics were "just okay" at best and the 
 gameplay seemed to be a mix of too familiar and too complex RTS gameplay mechanics that, to me, 
 didn't flow very well or offer anything revolutionary. However, after reading a few reviews, and 
 the desire to sink my teeth into another epic & historical RTS, I decided to buy EE2 and give it 
 a fresh look. Needless to say I'm glad I did!
  
  EE2 is in thematic essence, the same as its predecessor. It's a sprawling RTS game that spans the 
 history of civilized (somewhat) humanity, from the earliest of early, into the "forecasted" future. 
 EE2 has many of the tried-and-true RTS mechanics: Gathering resources (many different types of 
 resources I might add,) building cities, amassing armies, fighting your adversaries, upgrading 
 your units and civilization, advancing in in an "age" or epoch, wash-rinse-repeat. It's a familiar 
 formula that works, and that RTS fans will take comfort in. Fortunately (and unfortunately,) there's 
 a few new features added to the mix to keep things interesting. EE2 offers many forms of gameplay 
 too, including single-player campaigns, a chance to relive some of the most historical battles, 
 a map editor, and a pretty robust skirmish mode for both single and multiplayer.
  
  Let me sum up my positive and negative thoughts about EE2:
  
  The Positives: EE2 takes a lot 
 of influence from Rise Of Nations (RoN,) the excellent RTS game released in 2003 that implemented 
 many turn-based elements into a RTS. Mainly, the concept of territories. Territories in EE2 are 
 implemented well, encouraging players to expand their territories rapidly, and to balance expansion 
 with developing their existing territories to the best of their abilitiy. EE2 also offers a fairly 
 robust diplomacy and "war-planning" option that really encourages teamwork in either a multiplayer, 
 or single-player skirmish. The citizen manager is a welcome relief! Instead of having to hunt down 
 a citizen to frantically chop the wood you need, you can simply assign citizens to collect resources, 
 or garrison inside universities, all from a single screen. The Picture-In-Picture is also really 
 well-done, but it takes a bit of practice and experience to get used to. The skirmish mode is excellent, 
 offering a whole host of options allowing players of all styles and levels to customize a game 
 to their preference. There's hoards of unit options, and plenty of upgrades available to keep your 
 interest peeled. Like RoN, each civilization has a few unique units, but the main difference is 
 in the various civilization bonuses. The weather effects are really cool, and add a realistic (and 
 frustrating) element to the game. The computer AI is very effective, and unlike EE1, the computer 
 AI apparently doesn't cheat (though it's damn efficient.) The musical scores are also well done, 
 again very reminiscent of RoN, setting the appropriate mood.
  
  The Negatives: Though the graphics certainly aren't bad, especially with all the graphic details 
 maxed out, they are "just okay," especially when recent games RTS games like Lord of the Rings 
 and Warhammer have raised the presentation bar among RTS games. The water is a big improvement 
 over EE1, the weather effects are very well done, and some of the explosions are really cool (though 
 a little over-the-top.) The biggest negative with the graphics is the unit animations, which are 
 rather stiff. The pathfinding is also frustrating. Units have a hard time staying in formation, 
 or cross over narrow passages such as bridges. 
  
  Conclusion: All-in-all, EE2 offers a lot of variety in gameplay, balanced civilizations to play, 
 PLENTY of different units, and more strategic elements such as the war planner and citizen manager. 
 It isn't revolutionary, but it is a nice evolution in the RTS genre. Basically, a good set of concepts 
 have been taken to the next level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midn8t
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 4, 2005 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Game is pretty slick all in all, gfxs are not the best but there sure not worse, half issues with 
 the gfxs is not if there good or not its just that you cant crank them up to max.
  
  no running this game on 1028 x1024, with max settings, you be lucky if you can get max settings 
 running on 1024 by 768.
  
  this thing is a resrouce hog, its horriable. i have 1 gig ddr 2 533 mb 3.4 lga775 raptor hard drive, 
 x700 pro 256.
  
  runs alright if u play single play missions, but if u put a huge map on and all computers in it 
 after while it will start to slow up, i went to check my system preformance as the game was running 
 in the back ground my system usaly ideals with around 200 to 250 mb being used with game running 
 it sucking up around 725 to 900 mb of ram..
  
  thats alot of ram being used for the game.
  
  i tryed slapping in a secound stick of 1 gig 
 ddr2 533 mhz i noticed little profremn incress but not enough to really matter, game isnt even 
 clocking the cpu much at max cpu hits around 5 precent usage. u could probl get away with a pr 
 2.4 with 1 gig of ram with this game and have the same preformance issues i do.
  
  I am guessing its my gfxs card thats taking hit i would think that a pci express x700 pro 256 be 
 able to hand this game gfxs dont see that intense.
  
  but is upose with all animations and little guys moving around all at once trying to be rendered 
 its probly hard on it im guessing u probly be good with a x800 ot a x850
  
  major issues is plaabilty more so then anthing elese, like i said i just had to stop playing the 
 game after i hit mid game, it was just so slow and laggy i mean laggy.. like ur playing half life 
 2 on a 56k modem on a server thats in china laggy.
  
  hopefully they work on a patch to make game run smoother.
  
  i did crank up the gfxs and everyt 
 hing to max and it dose look pretty decent.
  
  the water effects wiht the boats i think are kinda lame. with the waves they come nad go when they 
 please it seems. be boat moving or siting still.
  
  but othere then that its awesome games. just needs some patchs.
  
  im guessing the game deisgins 
 prboly ran game on something like a 64 bit 3400 3 gig ddr pc3200 sata hard drive with to x850 video 
 cards to test the game on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decknique
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2005 11:36 am PT
Review:  I do understand what some of these people say. Not a lot more to the "Plot" or the graphics or 
 sound blahblah... it's the CONTENT people!!!
  
  "Here me now, and believe me later," as Arnold the Gubernator once said. The features used in this 
 RTS will be forever copied by future RTS's. Some examples for all you RTS fans:
  Anyone played an RTS yet, where you can easily manage multiple battles across ths map? Empire Earth 
 2 does it just fine. Shift right click the order in which you want stuff killed, and assuming you 
 planned things out correctly, you can continue building your civ in all it's glory.
  
  Building troops up at border, move away to build some more crap or fight somewhere else on the 
 map, only to come back and find your troops elsewhere have been decimated? Annoying huh. 
  
  Empire Earth II has an answer for that: Picture in Picture (or PIP) in the bottom corner, in 
 which you can "bookmark" up to 10 areas you want to be monitored and the PIP will cycle through 
 each bookmark automatically much like those nifty security cameras at banks.
  
  Tired of finding "worker bees/resource gatherers" and having to scroll through the whole map trying 
 to find that much needed resource again?
  
  EEII has an answer: Civilian management screen enables you to easily manage your gatherers by simply 
 click on an enlarged "resource map" which will pull gatherers from work or put gatherers to work.
 
  
  In conclusion, instead of just spitting out another EE with only "more units" and "cooler graphics" 
 and a longer game. The dev's actually put thought into their game and tried to figure out "how 
 can I make RTS games BETTER." EE2 pulls away from the standard faceless RTS games and succeeds 
 in taking new steps off the well trod path that so many games take. The gaming industry simply 
 needs more of these people. Bravo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xljohn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 28, 2005 3:45 am PT
Review:  Back when Age of Empires 2 held the RTS genre in a death grip, people were content. They still 
 are, but one developer wanted more. After all, Bigger is Better, right? Rick Goodman, designer 
 of AoE, moved on to form Stainless Steel Studios and their flagship title, Empire Earth, was primed 
 to announce itself as the new king. Thousands of units, huge battlefields, epic age advances, tons 
 of civilizations (and even build your own civ) ... it was gonna be awesome. Unfortunately, it suffered 
 from a lack of balancing, a horrible AI, and poor multiplayer stability. Age of Empires continued 
 to reign. But at least one company saw the diamond in the rough, and began Empire Earth 2. The 
 same company that added a Space expansion to the original EE. And lucky for them, they polished 
 the diamond to amazing lustre. For starters, Empire Earth 2 is polished. The interface is clean 
 and efficient, and really does a good job of displaying the plethora of options you have available. 
 The standard stuff is all here from single player campaigns, scenarios and skirmishes, to multiplayer. 
 One thing I'll recommend from the start is to do the tutorial. Many people will skip it I'm sure, 
 but fortunately the standard tutorial is not here. The game expects you to know how to move your 
 units, and is merely going to teach you whats new to EE2. Believe me, there's alot to learn. The 
 first thing a new player is going to gasp about is the Citizen Manager. The idea behind it is so 
 simple, and will easily become the best innovation to happen to RTS games in years. The average 
 RTS player loves to micromanage. If a resource gets too high compared to another, say too much 
 wood and not enough food, he runs back to his base and begins to reassign villagers. This could 
 take him out of a hectic battle and may cause him to lose. Fortunately, all those numbers showing 
 your resources just aren't stats, they're interactive! If you hover over a resource, say wood, 
 you'll get an icon of a citizen and a number. The number is how many idle citizens you have. If 
 you right click a resource, you effectively take a village off that resource and he gets put in 
 your idle pool. Then if you hover down to another resource and left click, you automatically reassign 
 that idle villager to the resource. All without ever going back to your base. The ease of use of 
 this feature are so mindbendingly simple, it's a shame it wasn't available in other RTS games. 
 EE2 takes it one step further. The Manager also has an overhead full map view of the resources 
 available. This will take your focus off a battle, but if you prefer to relocate citizens to a 
 specific resource, instead of having them choose one, this screen lets you do it. You also have 
 the option to place certain resource nodes like farms or oil derricks on this overhead map. This 
 saves time scrolling around the map to find a resource spot hidden behind trees or something. The 
 whole thing is done beautifully, and adds so much more playability to the game.
  
  The next huge innovation is the War Manager. Ever want to feel like a real general? This screen 
 gives you an overhead full screen map, similar to the CM, but with options to draw arrows and attack 
 points to really flesh out a battle plan. Not only that, but you can share your battle plans with 
 allies, and coordinate strategic attacks. Also, if you're playing with a computer AI as an allie, 
 you can send them battle plans to have them attack with you. Send an AI directly into a fray, while 
 you issue troops to the rear. The system is also very easy to learn, and it's only takes seconds 
 to get a decent battle plan drawn up. Unfortunately, most RTS players still prefer the build up 
 and rush attack approach, so those of us who prefer a slower, more strategic game may find this 
 option rarely used. But it is there, and it adds a ton of strategic depth to the game. Coupled 
 with the WM, they added a "coordinated attack" button. Basically, turning on CA will allow you 
 to issue attack orders like waypoints, or positional changes, without having the troops begin to 
 carry out your plans. Once you toggle CA off, they carry out your orders one by one. It's not much, 
 but it can be useful to get allies to attack at the same time. Also, you can waypoint enemies, 
 so instead of getting group one to attack an enemy battalion of tanks, you can waypoint group one 
 to attack tank 1 first, tank 2 second, tank 3 third, etc. Needless to say, the combat engine in 
 this game is phenominal. You really get the impression you're controlling an army in a war, instead 
 of just spamming units. The next improvement is the diplomacy options. They are alot more Civilization 
 like, in that you can tribute resources, territories, or even units in order to get an ally. You 
 could also be evil and demand tributes to have a weaker nation join you. And if they refuse, crush 
 them! Bwahaha! If anyone has used diplomacy in a Civilization game, they'll feel right at home 
 using the diplomacy options available here. Again, these improvements are all geared to really 
 have you feel like your running a nation trough the ages and it gives the game an incredible epic 
 feel. This is what Empire Earth aspired to be.
  
  This time around, there isn't a civilization builder, and instead we get 16 different civs with 
 unique units and all. Those familiar with the Age of Empires series will feel more comfortable 
 this time around I'm sure. Also each civ has it's own artowrk and details, though "similar" civs 
 may share similar details. Like Southern American civs (Aztec, Inca, etc) will look similar, much 
 like Mayan and Aztec were similar in AoE. This is nice, because a big complaint of the original 
 EE was that every civ looked the same. I would have liked a civ builder, however, with the option 
 to choose a tileset. It would have kept that gargantuan feel EE had when it came to civs, and would 
 have also kept custom civs from looking identical. Another big change from EE is territorial control. 
 Much like Rise of Nations, your nation has a territorial border, however these borders are actually 
 set in the map. And you can build outside your territory (assuming it isn't already controlled) 
 at a 50% increase in build time. Going back to diplomancy, many of you may have been confused when 
 I stated you can trade territories. By trading a terrtory, you effectively give control of that 
 area to whoever you traded it to. This might seem blasphemous at first, but those true strategists 
 out there are probably salivatating! You can only have one Town Center in a territory, and to capture 
 other territories you'll need to build up in open areas. If you're under attack, the enemy only 
 needs to take over or destroy your Town Center (in the case of destroying it, they'll have to rebuild 
 one of their own) to claim your territory. If they capture your Town Center instead, any buildings 
 you built will instantly become theirs. It's a tricky system to explain on paper, but it works 
 really well in the game, and you won't really notice it too much unless you plan to capture an 
 enemy TC instead of destroying it. More strategic options, I say, and a cool idea in an RTS.
  
  Technology advances are probably going to be the hardest to get used to. Most RTS games have 
 you go to specific buildings to advance specific techs. EE2 doesn't require you to select any building 
 to advance a tech. In fact, no buildings offer unit upgrades or research options. Instead, you 
 have a semi-circle of options in the UI, and the first is your tech. Each area (Military, Economic, 
 Imperial) has 4 techs to research, and all do varying things, like increase speed or reduce costs. 
 But the real kicker is advancement. You only need a few techs (approx. 6) researched to advance 
 to the next epoch, but once to age up, any techs you didn't research are gone, to be replaced by 
 techs in the new epoch. Of course, most people will just spend every tech point they get and advance 
 everything before aging up, but if a player focuses primarily on Military and Economic techs and 
 ignores Imperial, he will age up faster, giving him faster access to more powerful military techs. 
 It a very cool system, and puts a taste of strategy in how you handle your researching. Whereas 
 before, you just grabbed everything you could afford. When it comes to unit advancement, there 
 really isn't any. Each unit has a rank; Regular, Veteran, Elite. You pay for the upgrade on the 
 unit, and the upgrade applies to all similar units. So if you want Elite Pikemen, you find a pikeman, 
 and upgrade him to Vet, then to Elite, and now all your Pikemen (future pikemen included) are Elite. 
 Of course, considering the scope of epochs, you won't always have pikemen, and if your playstyle 
 has you zipping through certain epochs, it may not be worth upgrading your units. Overall, these 
 changes really force you to think about how to plan your armies based on your playstyle, but they 
 won't detract you from getting into the game quicker, like combat. At the moment, it's hard to 
 say who will get the advantage, the rusher or the turtler, early on. One can hope both playstyles 
 will be on equal footing early on, letting games get into really meaty and fun wars. Unlike in 
 the original EE.
  
  Another feature is the Crowns System. So for example, if your civilization excels in a certain 
 area, like Military, you may win the Military Crown. The crown grants you a "power" of your choice 
 (basically a bonus to an area specific to the crown, like increased infantry speed and attack, 
 or more armoured tanks) that last for 5 minutes. After which, the crown is taken away and whoever 
 has the highest score gets the next crown. If you still have the higher score in Military, you 
 again receive the crown and can repick a power. Whether you keep it the same or choose a new one 
 is up to you. Trying to capture a crown really boosts the competitive nature in all area of the 
 game. Instead of people just being content on having the strongest army, those of you who prefer 
 stronger Economies will have more competition vieing for the Economic crown. Also, winning a crown 
 earns you a Leader, which is a unit that will boost morale of troops and get them to fight harder, 
 or boost resource gathering (Economic) , or increase territorial strength (Imperial) , while also 
 having a couple attacks of his own.
  
  All of these new features are explained throughout the tutorials, and playing all 4 won't take 
 you longer than 40-60 minutes. While EE2 has done a fantastic job of making them very accessible 
 even to new players, it will take a bit of playing before you get used to them all, and alot of 
 playing before you begin to master them. These are some incredible innovations, and they really 
 spice up the RTS genre. Instead of being just another base builder, EE2 has brought in alot of 
 new strategies to the fold and really put the strategy back into Real Time Strategy. It'll be awesome 
 seeing how it will play in multiplayer skirmishes. And speaking of which (heh) , the game configuration 
 screen will give you a heart attack. It's almost like Mad Doc took everything people wanted and 
 blended it all up, and made the best game setup screen ever. The options are incredible! In fact, 
 the map options get their own page, of the four pages of settings to tweak. If you choose random 
 map, you have full control over the type of map, like climate (tempurate, arid, warm) , rivers (low, 
 medium, high, none) , forest (low, medium, high) , land type (continents, large islands, small islands, 
 etc) . Then you have options for seasonal controls (how often should weather change, if at all) , 
 resource distrabution (random (EE style heh) , uniform) , game speed (there are two speed options, 
 and one lets you even edit speed tables, such as increase civ gather speed, but decrease civ walk 
 speed, etc) . Also, if a player drops you have the option of replacing them with an AI, or removing 
 them entirely. For handicaps, you can set individual resource boosts (or unboosts) and even choose 
 what epoch everyone starts in. Everything is well placed, and the interface very easy to use, with 
 every option needed to make sure you can setup the perfect multiplayer game. Also, you can have 
 a maximum of ten people in a game, and Direct IP games are available.
  
  I don't really know what else I can gush about Empire Earth 2. It really has become the game I 
 dreamt Empire Earth would be (or at least become) . It has a huge.... epic... gargantuan feel to it, 
 but manages to keep the advanced stuff out of sight until you get confortable with it. While it 
 does have a steep learning curve, anyone whose played an RTS game for any serious amount of time 
 in the past will pick up on the new features quickly. The only thing Empire Earth 2 has to do is 
 get past the bad taste the original left in everyones mouth, considering the quality of production, 
 it shouldn't be hard.
  
  --writen by nightlith, and posted for him. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: powderdonut218
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 16, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Empire Earth 1 was a game where you advance from early man wars to giant wars of the future. If 
 you like that idea then EE2 is worth your time.
  First the game has a lot more features. Most noticeable is the territories. These change the gameplay 
 greatly. So if you play EE1 and thing EE2 is the same game, you are dead wrong.
  The units show thew times and go with the times. Weapons inculde archers, swords, guns, cannons, 
 mechs, and of course the nuke. 
  You can battle up to 10 people at a time. I only played one of these but the one i played was INSANE. 
 Even with the pop cap the wars can be huge. Big wars can lag you up but its not really a problem 
 to me.
  My only complaint are that planes are too fast, and the nukes dont drop slowy like they did in 
 EE1. If you are an RTS fan, buy this game.
  
  Edit: after playing this game a while, balance issues and no support kill this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jesus_
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 27, 2005 9:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is like the old Age of Empires games, only souped up a bit. You have some more ages to 
 advance through, more technology, more units, more options and features all together. There is 
 a weather system present in the game, which is the first in the strategy genre to affect your troops 
 movement and sight, and an award system, which will give you different kind of rewards dependant 
 on how you manage your military, economy, or technology.
  
  The game also introduces a military management screen where you can manage your troops and create 
 war plans, and also a citizen management screen where you can manage your citizens. If that wasn't 
 enough, there are plenty of options in the multiplayer part of the game too. Perhaps the coolest 
 and most fun thing is that several players can control the same team, just like what you could 
 in Starcraft (this is not something new, but not a common sight in today's strategy games either) .
 
  
  There are several flaws in the game, though. First, the graphics looks very bad when you zoom in, 
 almost to the extent of being horrible. The fact that the gameplay is more or less the same as 
 Age of Empires, and that the game does not really have much tactics in it, leaves me with a feeling 
 of "been there, done that". Also, the new features introduced in this game which I mentioned above 
 are not entirely positive. The weather system is cool in the manner that it affects your units, 
 but it is rather annoying when cheap ugly graphics that is supposed to be weather is moving across 
 your screen. Finally, the military and citizen management tools feels more like optional tools 
 than something that has been really integrated with the gameplay. You can just as easily manage 
 without these tools as you can with them, they don't really make a difference.
  
  For veterans of the strategy genre there is not much new to this game, it might give you a week 
 or two of fun at the most. This game will be the most fun and last the longest for people who are 
 new to the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 27, 2005 8:44 pm PT
Review:  I must say i bought this game thinking it was the next great RTS game and the review was good and 
 the feedback was good but when I popped in the game I slowly started to notice that this game reminded 
 me of another. Yep, thats right folks, this game IS an other game and that OTHER game is called 
 Rise of Nations. Whether it be the expansion or the original this game is almost the exact replica 
 of RON. I was extremely disappointed that i bought this game because all i had to do to play this 
 game was to reinstall RON. It has the same look, gameplay, sound and all around feel of RON. To 
 anybody thinking of buying this game i would suggest that you look back in your stockpile to see 
 if you have RON, if you don't have RON then by all means buy the game it's pretty solid. Though 
 if you have RON do not let the name fool you, you will be buying the same game. If i were Microsoft 
 i would be suing VU games and Mad Doc Software for plagiarism. I must say that i don't really go 
 off the hook and bash on a game because every company tries its best to create a great game. Though 
 in this case i felt like i had a duty to speak my mind and let everyone know that they should not 
 buy this game for they probably already have it. To anybody who doesn't have RON i would suggest 
 buying it for the gameplay is a whole lot better. That's my review and thats the truth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solah-dax
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 27, 2005 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Empire Earth is a fun, solid RTS, but that's all. 
  
  I was personally happy with the idea of playing with some friends against the computer, all as 
 a team, instead of against one another. 
  That was different and it was ok for the first two or three games, after that, it started to become 
 just another RTS.
  ..... This is the multi-player part of the game.
  
  If you play the game alone, you will find, it fatally lacks a sense of creative vision other than 
 just being a bit better than Rise of Nations, with its step-forwards more half-steps.
  
  In terms of a buying recommendation, if you're an RTS-fan looking for the same old thing, but slightly 
 better, then you'll be satisfied. But if you're looking for a new game when you go shopping for 
 a new game, then this latest RTS might disappoint you.
  
  And yes, I have to agree, it is annoying the constant dust storms that won't let you see for minutes 
 in a row. A smart way of covering the plain graphics of the game.
  
  Dax.- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RFNeo
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 27, 2005 10:59 am PT
Review:  I really had high hopes with Empire Earth 2. All previews indicated it would be a revolution for 
 the RTS genre, unfortunately the game does not come close to the hype.
  
  The little details are what save this game from complete disaster. The war plan option where you 
 can setup strategies with your allies, the citizen manager map where you can just click on which 
 resources you want your citizens to harvest and the crown system; give this game a somewhat refreshing 
 gameplay.
  
  Unfortunately this game has big flaws that make it look and play too much like the original one. 
 The graphics are mediocre to say the least by today's standards. The weather system, instead of 
 bringing something cool, brings annoying badly rendered dust and clouds on top of the map. Soon 
 you will turn the weather off in multiplayer games. 
  
  The AI is ridiculously bad and the dumb chat messages from the AI are poorly timed. You will often 
 see the AI say: "I will crush you with my army", when he is just about to die and has only one 
 building standing.
  
  Another big flaw in this game is the fact that the multiplayer games drag for far too long and 
 after 1 hour you just wish you were playing something else. All they are is a race to reach epoch 
 15 as soon as possible without even enjoying the ride along the way.
  
  If you are a huge fan of Empire Earth and do not mind playing a game with 4 year old graphics, 
 you will probably enjoy it. If you are looking for a revolutionary RTS that brings something new 
 to the table, you are better off passing on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: choongjunbo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 27, 2005 3:59 am PT
Review:  Once i started playing Empire Earth 2 ,i was taken away by the graphic which has improved alot 
 from the original Empire Earth but still has room for improvement .The sound has certainly improved
 
  
  The citizen manager makes the game better from Empire Earth by making it less annoying .Empire 
 Earth require alot of citizen to run and u can use the citizen manager instead of telling them 
 1 by 1 which is frustating .The citizen manager also show what resources your citizen is collecting
 
  
  Another great thing is the the second view in the bottom right-hand .You can practically be in 
 2 place at the same time. If an enemy attack, it helps a lot to show you where an enemy attacks 
 with what they have so you can place the view of your minimap there while your main view is managing 
 your civilization/army 
  
  In case there is a war, u can use war planner to make a war plan and You can send your plan to other 
 players and if they want 
  
  There are literally thousand of units and building in this game the game is best when u reach the 
 modern and futuristic time because thats where u get to use robots
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guapsrocks
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 26, 2005 6:06 pm PT
Review:  I stopped playing long enough to eat some lunch and write up this review. Heres the scoop.
  Graphics and sound recieved a major overhaul but still seemed "OK" to me. Actually the only effect 
 I didnt like, and I can turn it off anyway, is the weather. Its hard to see whats going on when 
 weather effects is turned on and a storm passes over. Although im sure this is what the author 
 wanted I could have really done without. 
  Gameplay is great! AI for your support staff and troops was well done. Your units can even make 
 small decisions on thier own and often do fine in making it. Most of the time I dont find my infantry 
 units standing around watching enemy units assualt all my resource gatherers. They actually do 
 a fair job patroling set territories.
  
  I loved how I was able to play the game right out of the box with little research before I started. 
 Most every option or button in the game has mouseover text to explain what function it serves. 
 I found it very easy to understand.
  
  The tech tree can be as complex or as simple as you want it to be. You can really drill down in 
 each catagory and tweek out your units as you see fit. Military, economy and political. I really 
 like all the improvements in the tech tree. 
  
  Diplomacy is also well done. You have the ability to ally or wage war, force tribues to your cause 
 or destory them, share technoloy etc.... Much more depth in diplomacy makes the game more interesting. 
 I hate having every opponant instantly attacking everyone on his borders. You'll find all kinds 
 of treaties taking place. The AI taunting you was fun as well. Although I was still recieving threats 
 from an AI opponant I was almost done destorying because he wouldnt contribute to my technology 
 cause :)
  
  
  If you liked the first game in this series your going to love this version! 
  
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
