-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Enclave
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/enclave/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 28, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 7.5, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 370 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: VU Games
Developer: Starbreeze
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     Mar 10, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Unfortunately, Enclave has a number of gameplay problems that its good graphics and sound can't 
 hide. 

  High-fantasy fiction has been inspiring developers to create colorful fantasy games for years. 
 Starbreeze's game Enclave was clearly influenced by fantasy fiction archetypes, and though it was 
 originally released on Microsoft's Xbox last year, it still looks quite good, thanks to its detailed 
 textures and occasionally inspired levels. Unfortunately, Enclave has a number of gameplay problems 
 that its good graphics and sound can't hide.           Despite the fact that Enclave was originally 
 a console game, it looks quite good.    

  Enclave is a third-person action game in which you can play as part of either the good or evil 
 armies in an epic fantasy conflict. Though you'll begin on either side with a single playable character, 
 you'll later rescue or unlock other character classes with various melee, ranged, or magic-based 
 attacks that they can use to defeat their enemies.   

  But fighting isn't very precise, or very fun, in Enclave, since the game has unreliable hit detection; 
 sometimes arrows and swords will pass right through your enemies, and your enemies' attacks will 
 occasionally fly right through your shield (if you're carrying one) and damage you. In addition, 
 your characters generally don't fight very quickly; most ranged weapons take a while to reload, 
 and most melee attacks consist of a series of slow-moving, preset animations that take a while 
 to conclude and leave you vulnerable to a counterattack. And most of Enclave's characters don't 
 move very quickly either, so you can basically expect to take hits from your enemies no matter 
 what, especially when multiple enemies swarm you (as they often do in later levels of the game) . 
 Your character can pick up and drink health potions, but you'll do this just as slowly as you fight, 
 run, or change weapons, so this can be of limited use in small areas crowded by multiple enemies. 
   

  Enclave was an extremely difficult game on the Xbox, and its difficulty has been toned down in 
 the PC version so that enemies don't kill you with a single blow, but you'll still suffer severe 
 damage when hit by unseen traps for the first time, and you'll most likely find the game's limited 
 save-game system to be frustrating. You can save only at predetermined safe areas, which, in certain 
 levels, are few and far between. Make a wrong move or get mobbed by too many enemies, and you'll 
 be sent all the way back to your previous save point. In addition, Enclave's levels, while not 
 particularly huge, are still fairly big and will often require you to backtrack through them several 
 times. It's safe to say that Enclave would have been a much less frustrating game to play if it 
 had featured both a better save-game system and an in-game map. Enclave isn't a particularly lengthy 
 game otherwise, and since it has no multiplayer options, you may not get much out of the game in 
 the long run.   

  In many of the game's levels, you'll need to backtrack to find a particular item or enemy or to 
 lead a computer-controlled companion to a specific goal area. Unfortunately, Enclave's AI for both 
 allies and enemies is inconsistent and occasionally quite bad. Any allies you must lead or escort 
 through a level will stop dead in their tracks if faced with even a small obstacle. There's no 
 way to issue any commands to your allies, so you'll often have to leave them behind, even if they 
 were supposed to help you fight your way through the level.   

  The enemy AI is usually good about attacking you when you come within range, and some enemies will 
 even taunt you when they have you outnumbered. However, some enemies will get stuck on environmental 
 objects as they try to follow you around them, and other times, if you back away from them a short 
 distance, they'll simply stand still for no good reason. When this happens, they're easier to pick 
 off than when they mob your slow-moving character who's poorly equipped to handle attacks from 
 all sides, but the game's unreliable AI and equally unreliable control make for fights that are 
 mostly unsatisfying.   

  It's too bad that Enclave has these problems, because its presentation is otherwise quite impressive. 
 The game's sound effects and voice acting are passable, but you may be too busy paying attention 
 to Enclave's great soundtrack to notice. The game's somber, oppressive music does a great job of 
 providing atmosphere for Enclave's often-dark, gothic fantasy setting (which consists of dimly 
 lit fortresses, secret passages, and ancient temples of evil, among other things) .           Enemies 
 will sometimes hang back for absolutely no reason.    

  Enclave also looks extremely good. Though it was originally developed for Microsoft's Xbox console, 
 it holds up quite well on the PC. Even though the game's textures begin to show seams and jagged 
 edges if you play the game at resolutions of 1024x768 or higher, the quality of Enclave's graphics 
 and design is unmistakable. The game's developers clearly put a lot of effort into creating the 
 detailed textures that adorn its levels and its highly detailed characters, who speak with animated 
 facial expressions in the in-engine cutscenes. Though many of the game's levels consist of generic-seeming 
 fantasy locales, such as a dungeon, a temple, and a medieval town, their good texture work and 
 lighting, especially shadows cast from torchlight, make even the most run-down areas look good. 
 In fact, some of Enclave's environments look surprisingly original, even artistic, such as an abandoned 
 sorceress's lair that's filled with both deadly traps and breakable glass cages of fluttering butterflies. 
   

  Though the game's developers clearly put a lot of work into the way the game looks and sounds, 
 Enclave's gameplay just doesn't measure up to its presentation. If you do pick up a copy of the 
 game, you'll probably appreciate Enclave's sound and graphics, but you may also find that the game 
 itself has too many problems to be enjoyable for long.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: stopchris
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game first came out, 6 years ago, at the time the graphics were too much for my AMD 
 Athlon 64 system. Fast forward 6 years and now my q6600, nvidia 260, 4gig ram system laughs at 
 this game. Yet, it is still an amazing game. 
  
  First, the graphics are very sharp and crisp with everything maxed out. 
  
  The game play is 
 faced paced and smooth. 
  
  The story flows perfectly and is engaging. 
  
  Overall, I am beginning to dig through my stack of older games in search for more interesting titles. 
 A lot of the games nowadays are extremely good looking, but lack horribly in story, functionality, 
 and interest. I loose focus very easily in the bore of most games that have come out in the last 
 few years. Yet, I dig in my archives and pull out a gem such as this and am once again fully satisfied 
 by the complete balance between graphics, story, and usability. 
  
  In conclusion to my endless rambling of nonsense, this game gets a 9.5 from me in 2009. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudesa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 6:16 am PT
Review:  This game is very surprising.
  I hardly heard about it before but after
  playing it for a while I think it's really good.
  
  It is true that there games which are more 
 flashy:
  Better graphics / effects.
  
  But this game, with it's simplicity of Halck & Slash,
  is giving the player a better experience 
 than others.
  
  First of all you get a mass of weapons with lots of possibilities.
  Second you get several characters which you save during levels,
  and then you can use them by 
 armoring them with new weapons.
  
  The game always surprise you because every environment,
  is dufferent than the others so you 
 never get bored.
  
  There are warrios, archers, magicians and so on,
  so the battles are different every time.
  
  I think that this game is underappricated,
  I 
 recommend it to those who love quests & action together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobraman007
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 1, 2009 6:11 pm PT
Review:  If you don't listen to what everyone here has to say about Enclave, then you get what you deserve!!! 
 Enclave has some nice graphics that you'll see very little of. Why? Because you'll be spending 
 90% of your time rebooting your computer from all the crashes and freezes this game causes. I tried 
 this game on 3 computers and 2 operating systems (Vista and XP) , and still could not get it to 
 work for too long. When I did get it running for a short time, it went from way too easy (no fun) , 
 to extremely hard and impossible to beat- all in the easy setting!!! For once just trust me on 
 this: do NOT buy this game- this is not a game, it's a hair loss method that will cause you to 
 pull all your hair out. 
  
  I understand that there are gamers who are techie hackers. and like to figure out how to make incomplete 
 and unplayable games work, but I don't think that's you. You'd have a lot better luck programming 
 your own game from scratch.
  
  BEWARE the people posting reviews that this game is playable- they work for the game companies 
 below!
  
  BEWARE of all Black Label, Conspiracy, Starbreeze, and Vivendi Universal games!!!
  
  COBRAMAN 
 SS 007
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dekadance
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 2, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  The right saying describing this game is "TOO BAD"
  -too bad because there are lots of people there who where eagerly waiting for exactly such a game- 
 rare in the business, 3D person, action, adventure games (Rune, LOTR: Return of the king) , and the 
 final taste is a bitter taste.
  -too bad because the game's consistent flaws: extreme game difficulty, poor saving option, game 
 bugs eventually will make you not only quit the game but delete it instantly, or ruing simply your 
 nerves like it did to me.
  The Good: At times really felt and played like it supposed
  to, in some action scenes, some weapons the eye catching graphics and the good sound...
  
  
 I hope you'll be able to finish it, if you want it of course:) ... It was way way too much for my 
 nerves, I stopped on that stupid spiral staircase where many I'm sure will give up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrayneDrayne
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 19, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  Enclave is an absolute treat, an uncomplicated romp through a fantasy world at the head of a number 
 of selectable, customisable characters.
  
  It looks great, sounds great, and requires a surprisingly high level of strategy for a hack 'n' 
 slash. Some character classes seem only superficially different at first, but choose the wrong 
 one for a mission and you'll find the difficulty rack up very quickly.
  
  You collect gold through missions, and use it to equip your characters with new weapons, armour, 
 potions and ammunition. Find a mission too difficult? redo an old one for some extra gold and buy 
 better equipment.
  
  Although the game is almost totally linear, something about the gameplay lends itself to great 
 replayability. you'll find yourself playing the same old missions over and over just because its 
 great fun.
  
  Look in your bargain bin, buy it if you can afford it. Dont expect great revolutions, just sit 
 back and chop some orc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowFFVI
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  Enclave for the PC is far and away one of the most under appreciated games in a long time. While 
 yes there are most definitely some flaws in the design of the game with the lack of save points, 
 and occasionally frustrating difficulty level, it makes up for it with absolutely stunning graphics, 
 and a superb soundtrack.
  
  While some may find the fighting somewhat clumsy it can be surprisingly elegant. Most fault it 
 for the kind of step forward/backward style of fighting, but I would argue that the consistency 
 of the fighting is what makes the game feel so solid.
  
  Either way, any fans of fantasy will find this game to be a great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 24, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I came into Enclave with relatively low expectations after reading all eight player reviews and 
 the full gamespot review. Of course, bad reviews mean nothing assuming Vampire: The Masquerade 
 - Bloodlines received fairly bad reviews and remains as one of my favorite games.
  
  In any case, I bought Enclave a couple months ago but only today decided to throw in the CD and 
 give it a shot. Players are greeted by a rather-frustrating keyboard-driven menu which lacks graphic/video 
 detail options and it far too animated and distracting. That's fine, however, because it means 
 they spent time on the game and gave it attention. The intro cutscene dragged and dragged and finally 
 I skipped it and planned on figuring out the story later. Fine; means they gave the story attention.
 
  
  Unfortunately, the gameplay, or at least the PC port, did not receive enough attention. Overall, 
 it seems very similar to 2000's Blade of Darkness, sans the decapitations and buckets of blood. 
 Players must time their attack swings accordingly or risk a counterattack. Gameplay consists of 
 feeble find-the-key and step-on-the-blocks-in-order, hacking through dumb brutes, and some interesting 
 objectives which are stymied by bad execution. For example in mission 3, players must hunt for 
 a book and a key while keeping a trader alive, which is no biggie and the trader is hardy. However, 
 players cannot pick up the items as the trader is the only one in the world of Enclave with the 
 mystical power the hoist a book and a key to the town - which, might I add, is a wooden fence gate 
 and I wield a longsword - at least make the gate impressive.
  
  Despite all the bad things, the game isn't completely awful. Even while it takes getting used to 
 and the world is cliched to the point of boredom, it remains fun to play. Hacking mindless enemies 
 with swords and bows is entertaining and the graphics are fairly impressive. Music is very well 
 done and, for the most part, the voice acting is nicely-done.
  
  So while the presentation is very well-executed, the gameplay is lacking, which in a normal platform-to-PC 
 port spells doom. While I can't recommend this game to anyone who did not throughly enjoy Blade 
 of Darkness and wants more of the same (albeit with less gore and less tactics) , for those it is 
 worth the effort to find a copy and enjoy. For all others, however, I doubt you will find anything 
 to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsd02_
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 7, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw this piece of entertainment i was impressed by graphics, witch didn't require that 
 much of the beast-pc-rig what in that time surprised me. Yet soon i realised that this is an adaptation 
 from console game and threw it in dusty shelf, as i though that time, for good. However it made 
 me pick it up again as i browsed through my games looking for some entertainment witch wouldn't 
 require much effort and time. You know, what a heck "I have a game for this long, and didn't even 
 pass first room, shame on me!". Ofcourse that console adaptation thingy haunted me for a while : 
 the controls during game isn't that bad, in fact it's even good, but as soon as you switch into potions 
 or pause menu it makes you search for the buttons witch mean up and down; besides there was the 
 aI thing, witch made some point of game pretty funny.. in absurd kinda way ( you could make your 
 enemies jump from balcony or a cliff if you stand right, also standing in water was deadly to them 
 as you had ability to swim on and under water ) . But despite all these things i had really good 
 time : the story is really good and involving, you have this variety of weapons and equipment to 
 play with as equivalent to variety of monsters in game, tasks took place in very different places 
 witch required to change play tactics or inventory, also it never got boring with all those nice 
 landscapes and interesting places. There is a possibility to play on both sides (light and dark) , 
 and your choice will write history in it's own way.
  To conclude this review i might say it had a great potential, and i hope it will be used on next 
 game (if it will come out) , if makers of this game would considered to make pc it's first console 
 or to take more time and details to adapt it to pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gilillo
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 26, 2005 3:25 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that in the beginning results exiting, good heroes scenarios and enemies, but the 
 playmode its so bored and in a couple of hours you'll uninstall the game. You can quickly adapt 
 to the game controls, wherever, there aren't much to learn; there aren't good combos or special 
 powers, an this make the game so short.
  
  The graphics of the game is the only good aspect; good models, textures, illumination, enemies, 
 and the engine has good speed. The FX are more or less, nothing out of this world.
  
  The music and the sounds are regular, the game feels a little empty. The history is bored, just 
 have a nice environment in the medieval age, but nothing mysterious or interesting.
  
  The worst of the game is the game it self; it result tedious just kill and kill and you don't grow 
 up your skill levels, or find new weapons, you need to buy it and that is tired when you haven't 
 find any coins. The difficulty of the game becomes so hard, and its so difficult to finish the 
 game.
  
  Finally, the game is regular, the best is the graphics, the worst is the fights; Enclave could 
 be a better game, but the developers didn't had much imagination.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 13, 2005 2:03 pm PT
Review:  The developers of Enclave wondered how life would be if they created a game so hard and pointless, 
 yet so visually astounding. One thing for sure: This game is easily forgotten. Its as they say: 
 Beauty promises everything, but gives nothing. And nothing will prepare you for the supreme difficulty 
 and goalless theme that is Enclave.
  
  Gameplay is bland and unrealistic. You swing your weapons while moving in circles like a mindless 
 robot. At times you would mistake the fighting system for an RPG game, where luck plays a big role 
 in determining your chances of hitting your enemy. You will experience no style whatsoever. 
  
  Hardcore difficulty doesnt always mean the game is realistic. Even the quests are imaginative 
 and the character you meet so lame. Enemy A. I. seems prehistoric. The enemy will be able to hit 
 you even when youre on the run. In other places they will just stand idle looking at you, and 
 before you know, they will hunt you sometimes killing you in one single shot!
  
  I wont comment much on the graphics and sound, because I dont want you to mistake the game for 
 a winner. Suffice to say that the game looks and sounds amazing, but it stops here. Everything 
 else is hopeless and prehistoric. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 26, 2005 9:15 am PT
Review:  Actually more fun then the GS review suggests. The game looks fantastic and most of the levels 
 are very varied and large. There are scripted moments that are fun and which sometimes drastically 
 change the environment you are in. The fighting is fun. So where the average review? I liked the 
 archery interface but some may not. The melee combat is well-executed but you will occassionaly 
 encounter a swing that should have hit, but it doesn't. In later levels when things are swarming 
 around you, this is annoying. The last level is also quite annoying, with lava pits O' death all 
 over the place. Some of the earlier levels are so fantastically good though, I can excuse most 
 of these faults and say that I enjoyed the game. If you liked Blade of Destiny for the PC years 
 ago, this is as close as you will get to that game right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 21, 2003 10:53 am PT
Review:  In general, the Gamespot review sums it up pretty good -- this game looks incredible and sounds 
 wonderful, but it has so-so gameplay. 
  
  This is mainly due to the combat, which has its moments, but is somewhat weak. For a hack-and-slash 
 game, that is a HUGE fault. Combat seems random, like there are die rolls going on behind the scenes, 
 which might explain why arrows pass right through their targets sometimes, and other times, a sword 
 will connect and do damage even if it didn't touch the enemy on the screen. This problem is at 
 its worst with missile weapons, which I found to be almost useless in this game. If you are using 
 a bow, then you will find yourself constantly running backwards. If you use a melee weapon, then 
 you have to use "hit-and-run" tactics, since the shield hardly seems to do anything, and there 
 are no special move combos that you can use stand toe-to-toe with someone. Melee combat seems to 
 be a simple and somewhat unsatisfying game of "click the hell out of the mouse as fast as possible".
 
  
  That's not to say that the gameplay is never satisfying. The level design is very good and does 
 a good job of keeping you moving along. You have to pick up an occasional key or flip a switch, 
 but it's pretty easy to figure out, and you won't waste a lot of time doing it. The checkpoint 
 save system can be brutally difficult, if not impossible. I finally had to cheat to get past one 
 of the game's levels, because it was so insanely difficult. This game seriously needed more checkpoints.
 
  
  As I said previously, this game has gorgeous graphics and is just dripping with inspiration. The 
 detail in every room and in every environment is incredible. There is a large variety of indoor, 
 outdoor, and underground environments, and they are all gorgeous. The animations for you and your 
 enemies is equally impressive. This game has the best motions for running, jumping, and swinging 
 a weapon that I have ever seen. 
  
  I love the soundtrack for this game. It's as good as the best RPG soundtracks out there. The sound 
 effects for the game are great too. This includes lots of little details, like the sound of your 
 bow string being pulled back. The swords and axes in the game make loud noises when they connect 
 with something and your characters make convincing grunts and cries when they attack. The voice 
 acting is good, but your character never says anything, and NPC's seem to have one or two guys 
 doing every voice.
  
  I have only played through the Light side campaign, which took me 9 or 10 hours or so to finish. 
 There is a Dark campaign to play through, and the variety of characters that you get gives each 
 mission some replayability.
  
  I wish that this game had more fun combat and a better storyline to match all of the fascinating 
 settings. Then it would have been superior. In summary, I found this game to be pretty enjoyable 
 despite its problems, and I would recommend that you at least download the demo to get a feel for 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cepheid
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 30, 2003 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Enclave an 'action-rpg' where your character is nomore character than the ship in spaceinvaders
 
  
  Finally Enclave a game which seemingly paying homage to the legendary game Severance Sword of Darkness. 
 A game which put you in direct control of your character pitted against orcs and goblins, dark 
 knights and other horrific terryfying creatures. Finally a pause from the heavyhanded statbased 
 RPG's.
  However Enclave did not prove to be all that or rather any of it!
  
  The control of your character is limited and in reality gives you nomore options of defeating your 
 enemies than a generic shooter. There is no combos or anything which gives you the sense of being 
 your character. You cannot grap hold of ledges or in any way interact with your souroundings unless 
 you are meant to
  
  The graphics seem extremely nice at first glance, but upon closer inspection there is absolutely 
 nothing to immerse you into the games environments everything is static. Barrels and crates are 
 indestructable and inmovable, you neither recieve nor deal damage, you just loose health and hack 
 away at walking healthbars. Yes there is a difference.
  Characters dont walk on the ground upon closer inspection, they actually float. The hit detection 
 is so poor that you can pretty much forget about shooting at an enemy at point blank range.
  
  Well I could go on ranting disapointed as I am but will stop here, stating that Enclave is 
 nomore than an arcade game with some cheap thrills surpassed in every single way by the sheer genius 
 of the only real action-rpg in existance Severance Sword of Darkness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sabretou
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2003 8:50 am PT
Review:  Once again Gamespot is being overly critical. This game reminds me of Sword of Darkness, which I 
 loved and which it too had its problems despite great graphics. But Once you start playing Enclave 
 it is really fun. The story is over played a bit (good warrior vs evil sorceror type) but it is 
 fun and playing the darkside is pretty cool too. As you progress you take on the role of a choice 
 of different characters although your better off picking one and sticking with it as you progress 
 thru the game you pick up more skills and such. Then after you complete the game you are not really 
 done. You take on the role of an assassin character that plays completely different from the warrior 
 part of the game. You use a bow more often and sneak around some of the same areas you were in 
 earlier but now playing for the otherside. Also more stealth is involved. If you enjoy hack&slash 
 /sneak fantasy games I recommend this fun good-looking game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
