-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Enemy Engaged: RAH-66 Comanche Versus Ka-52 Hokum
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/enemyengagedrah66cvkh/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  8, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.8, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 155 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Empire Interactive
Developer: Razorworks Studios
Genre: Helicopter Sim
Date:     Jul 31, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Enemy Engaged sets a higher standard for how immersive a flight sim can be, while it also avoids 
 getting mired down in the technical minutiae of combat aviation. 

 The year 2000 is definitely the year of the helicopter simulation. There've already been two combat 
 rotary-wing sims, including Ka-52 Team Alligator and Gunship. But the new Enemy Engaged: RAH-66 
 Comanche vs. Ka-52 Hokum is by far the best. Enemy Engaged is Razorworks' sequel to its popular 
 1999 sim Apache/Havoc, and while it bears a strong resemblance to its predecessor, it also stands 
 on its own.   

  Enemy Engaged is a helicopter sim that puts you in the pilot's seat of either the RAH-66 Comanche 
 or the Ka-52 Hokum. Both aircraft are the latest in attack helicopter technology, and Razorworks' 
 game reflects this, as it seems to have the style of a classified government simulator. That's 
 because Razorworks has done a remarkable job of detailing and fine-tuning all aspects of the game. 
 From the active radio chatter and the detailed cockpits to the sweeping dynamic campaigns, Enemy 
 Engaged sets a higher standard for how immersive a flight sim can be, while it also avoids getting 
 mired down in the technical minutiae of combat aviation. Enemy Engaged is not a pure hard-core 
 simulation, but this won't make it any less satisfying for hard-core simulation enthusiasts.   
 

  Enemy Engaged has actually been out for several months in the United Kingdom, so it's probably 
 not surprising that the US release is relatively free of bugs, given how much time there has been 
 to work out the problems since the game's initial launch. This obscures the fact that the UK release 
 shipped with very few bugs in the first place, and those that did crop up were relatively minor 
 and quickly fixed. However, the US release does fix a few other obscure problems and adds some 
 new command line parameters.   

  Enemy Engaged's terrain graphics are similar to those in Apache/Havoc, and while the older game's 
 3D graphics engine was impressive when it was released in 1999, it's no longer as impressive more 
 than a year later. But it's still good, and manages to be both reasonably attractive and quite 
 fast. Razorworks has improved the look of the graphics to some extent, particularly through the 
 skillful use of lighting effects. The graphics engine also runs very smoothly on a modest machine 
 like a Pentium II-450. Also, if you're using a low-end computer, you can turn down the game's details 
 and effects to ease the load on your processor. Nevertheless, terrain graphics are not the game's 
 strong suit.   

  However, the aircraft and vehicle models are another story. These look outstanding, and they are 
 certainly among the best in any simulation to date. The weapon effects are gorgeous, so much so 
 that it's quite an experience simply to fly around at night and let loose with the chain gun while 
 you watch from an external camera view. The effect of rain beading up on the first-person cockpit 
 view in the darkness is positively eerie, especially when you're creeping up on a ridgeline to 
 pop up on a row of targets. This combination of lighting and sound effects, as well as the detailed 
 unit models, more than makes up for the mediocre terrain. While the graphics in Gunship! were simply 
 flashy, the graphics in Enemy Engaged give you the sense of being in a helicopter in the middle 
 of a war. Which is, presumably, the whole point of a simulation.   

  The flight model in Enemy Engaged is not just that of a generic helicopter, as the US and Russian 
 helos handle very differently and require different flying styles. The Comanche is a good bit more 
 agile, and the distinctive flight experiences offered by these two choppers greatly adds to the 
 value of the sim. Complex dynamics such as vortex ring, blade stall, ground effect, and cross coupling 
 can be turned on or off individually if you prefer not to contend with some of the challenges of 
 realistic flight.    

 Both the Comanche and the Hokum cockpits are very detailed, although neither one offers a 2D-cockpit 
 option that lets you click on the various controls, as in other sims. Otherwise, the Enemy Engaged 
 commands are very similar to those used in Apache/Havoc, and as the manual states, the transition 
 from one sim to the other should be straightforward. The game's avionics are comprehensive without 
 being overwhelming, yet the difference between these and those found in Ka-52 Team Alligator make 
 it difficult to believe they're supposed to represent the same helicopter.   

  One of the best features of Enemy Engaged is how Razorworks extended the life of Apache/Havoc by 
 making those aircraft flyable in the new sim. All you need to do is patch your copy of Apache/Havoc 
 to v1.1E (which is supplied on the Enemy Engaged CD) . Once this is done, you can fly all four helicopters 
 in all six campaigns from both Apache/Havoc and Enemy Engaged, and you're restricted only by their 
 availability in a particular mission (and by the fact that only the pilot's seat is modeled in 
 the older helos when you fly them in Enemy Engaged) . This is a great option that also represents 
 the best way to make the most of an existing product line when a sequel is produced. Apache/Havoc 
 is cheap to come by these days, and it can greatly extend the life of the newer sim.   

  But Enemy Engaged's greatest feat is likely the way in which it manages to be accessible, without 
 being intimidating or dumbed down, as well as without cutting any corners. It's true that the avionics 
 in Jane's popular Longbow 2 were more detailed and comprehensive than those in Enemy Engaged. However, 
 Enemy Engaged seems so complete and well designed that the specific level of detail likewise seems 
 appropriate and effective. There is so much to do in Enemy Engaged, especially in the multiplayer 
 mode, that even veteran pilots will find a suitable challenge. At the same time, novice flight 
 sim enthusiasts won't feel overwhelmed by a mass of MFDs and HUD symbology. The balance is just 
 about perfect.   

  While Enemy Engaged is definitely accessible to the novice, one area where it does fall short is 
 in the training missions - or rather in the lack of training missions, since there aren't any. 
 Instead of narrated training flights, Enemy Engaged has a "free flight" mode in which you can practice 
 flying and weapons handling at varying levels of difficulty, and (if you choose) without fear of 
 crashing. The manual is fairly comprehensive and complete (and it has a nice, large keyboard overview 
 card) , although the US version is shorter than its UK counterpart due to the puzzling omission 
 of a print version of the ground school (tutorial) , recognition guide, and unit campaign overview 
 sections. These are instead available for download from TalonSoft, presumably to save on printing 
 costs.   

  The dynamic campaigns - two in the Middle East and one in Taiwan - are everything you can reasonably 
 hope from a flight sim's dynamic campaign. The game's artificial intelligence responds to your 
 incursions and thrusts in what seems like a realistic manner. Enemy unit AI is scalable, and at 
 the highest difficulty setting, it gives a good fight. Wingman AI, which was a particular problem 
 in Apache/Havoc, is also competent in Enemy Engaged. There are also a number of available "skirmishes" 
 for you to fly, which are mini campaigns that use smaller portions of the map.   

  Of all the helicopter simulations released this year, Razorworks' product is in a class by itself, 
 and it will certainly earn itself a place on the ballot when the best-sim-of-the-year nominations 
 come around. For the past three years, fans of hard-core simulations have wished for a helicopter 
 sim to exceed the impossibly high standard set by Longbow 2, and Enemy Engaged is the worthiest 
 candidate yet.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Hermes33
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  You may be wondering... how can this be? Wasnt Enemy Engaged 2 only just released? Yes, well perhaps 
 the less said about the updated version the better. THIS version is still the best there is, 
 mainly because it has several stability patches, bug-fixes, facelifts and mods to make it rival 
 the latest new commercial games (i. e. Enemy Engaged 2!) .
  
  And if you are a TrackIR 4 Pro user, you will especially want to own this version because it has 
 full 6DOF (six degrees of freedom) supported, whereas Enemy Engaged 2 out of the box (as of the 
 time of writing) does not  just 2 DOF (and buggy and broken at that) .
  
  Luckily for those lazy souls out there, all you have to do to get it looking and working up to 
 2007 standards is to do a minimal amount of work, and (for the most part) its an idiot-proof automated 
 process. Simply go to www. eechcentral. com for the download links and follow the instructions how 
 to do it.
  
  Another thing that makes this game so special is the weighty tome of a manual included, hundreds 
 of pages long. Its a brilliant read in itself and almost worth buying the game for the book alone. 
 Sadly to date and the time of writing, the days of flight simulations with heavy manuals included 
 like this have long since past. Publishers make claims that military simulation games dont sell 
 as well as they used to because the market changed. Well Mr/Ms Publisher, maybe thats because 
 YOU decided that for us by stopping selling them in the first place?
  
  Its clear that computer games publishers have been influenced one way or another and coaxed and 
 encouraged by their accountants and executives inside the industry NOT to develop or sell realistic/complicated 
 military flight simulations to the public anymore after 9/11, and instead the majority of videogame 
 development has been pushed towards dumbed-down games such as first-person shooters where you 
 dont need to think as much, and are indeed encouraged not to do so. Not so with the old flight 
 sims like EECH1  there was actually a BOOK (albeit technical manual) included you could READ!
 
  
  You dont know what a book is? Oh, you know, those old things that used to stimulate the mind and 
 let you think for yourself ?
  
  *sigh*
  
  Good luck finding this one! Try eBay and enjoy this old classic in all its 2007 glory and let's 
 hope that the upcoming Black Shark will be a return to the old days of classic military sims like 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biohazard112
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 16, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  This sim is great with just a few things that are bad. Like the amount of helicopter's you can choose. 
 This is the only real big thing that I think could be more. But for the rest the graphics are good 
 I can't say there stunning but good. The gameplay is great. I mean it's simple but really effective. 
 If you like simulator's and really want something new just buy this game. The sound is very realistic 
 and very impressive I have to say. It's just a strong game with really good features. But I wish 
 there were more helicopter's. For the rest it's a really good game and I would sertenly buy this 
 game if you are a simulator fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pesadilla
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 23, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  I am extremely surprised that this has not received one single review other than the cover review. 
 This helicopter-sim is the best I have ever seen (and I have played quite a few) . This game is 
 even better than todays helicopter-sim (6 years later)  yes, even better than the Longbow or 
 Janes series. This game is not weighed down by a lot of technical avionics. It does have the option 
 of you getting into all the nit-picky stuff if you so desire - but it is not required to fully 
 enjoy this game.
  
  You can choose either skirmishes or campaigns.
  
  Skirmishes are quick battles that can be played in less than 30 minutes. Great for quickies
  
 
  Campaigns take time for they represent real full-length battles.
  
  In the campaign part of the game, a full scale battle going on. Good against bad (you can play 
 either the good side or the bad side) . It all happens in real world time. If the helicopter you 
 are piloting crashes - it doesn't mean the game is over. You can just take over another helicopter 
 on your side already in progress (which was controlled by the AI) . The game is over when ALL of 
 your helicopters crash and you are unable to finish your mission.
  
  Whichever side you choose (good or bad) , you will fly a DIFFERENT helicopter. They just dont change 
 the graphics of the helicopter, they change the flying styles. You will be literally flying differently 
 on each side.
  
  The missions are impressive, realistic and challenging. The AI of this game is VERY impressive. 
 It responds appropriately to your actions.
  
  This game doesnt have a tutorial in the traditional sense, but it does have a Free Flight option. 
 You have unlimited ammo and cant crash. Onscreen directions are not an option. You will need to 
 read the manual and follow along to learn. You dont need a PhD in avionics to take-off or land 
 in this game nor do you have to go through a series of hitting 30 keys timed right just to accomplish 
 the take-off or landing.
  
  The console in the game is not interactive. You cant move your mouse curser over the dashboard 
 graphics and play with the switches and buttons. For the life of me, I can not figure out why people 
 would even want to. I have learned to shy away from helicopter sim games that do that.
  
  As of writing this (November 2006) - the graphics are not the best, but they are still pretty darn 
 good. When it was first released in 2000 - the graphics were off the chart. If the graphics still 
 hold up 6 years after release, it says something about the programming.
  
  The only thing I can say that I don't like about the game is that unless you have a programmable 
 joystick or game pad (the kind that you program specific keyboard commands to) , you really can't 
 customize anything through the game. The commands in the game are already programmed to specific 
 joystick buttons or levers. I personally like using game pads (I know, it takes away from the realism, 
 but I like game pads) - so programming the game pad is VERY important to me. The game doesn't support 
 game pads otherwise (unless the game pad can be programmed to keyboard commands) .
  
  All-in-all, this is about as good as it gets to helicopter sims. If you are wanting to join the 
 Military and fly real helicopters or are extremely anal about realistic avionics - this game will 
 not teach you all the proper avionics, but if you just want to get the thrill of flying with a 
 lot of realism, than this is the game for you. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
