-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Enemy Engaged 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/enemyengaged2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fantastic dynamic campaigns.
 Accessible for a chopper flight simulation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Basically just repackages the seven-year-old original.
 Sluggish visual engine and buggy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  3, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.8, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 119 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: G2 Games
Genre: Helicopter Sim
Date:     Jul 10, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A once-great helicopter combat sim is still pretty good, if you don't mind the dj vu. 

  Seven years is a long time. The latest game to remind us of this unfortunate fact is Enemy Engaged 
 2, a disappointing sequel to GameSpot's simulation of the year back in 2000, Enemy Engaged: RAH-66 
 Comanche Versus Ka-52 Hokum. Actually, it's a stretch to even call this a true sequel because this 
 supposedly "new" game is actually just a revamped version of the original with slightly upgraded 
 graphics and some new bugs. There is still an outstanding simulation of helicopter gunship combat 
 buried in here, although it's basically a seven-year-old one with equal parts good and bad new 
 additions.  

           Honestly, it's not as complicated as it looks.      

  It's hard to escape the feeling that this game was developed on the cheap to take advantage of 
 the hardcore Comanche Versus Hokum fan base. Developer Gameyus Interactive has done little to establish 
 this as an independent game, going so far as to reprint the original manual here as part of the 
 on-disc PDF documentation. Aside from the title page, this seems to be a verbatim copy of the seven-year-old 
 manual, right down to calling the game Comanche Versus Hokum all the way through even though the 
 subtitle was dropped from the name of this follow-up. You would think that someone would have spent 
 a few minutes to do a cut-and-paste job that would at least fool buyers into thinking they were 
 getting a brand-new game.  

  It also would have been nice if someone would have tossed in a proper tutorial, either in the manual 
 or (more preferably) in the game itself. While piloting a chopper into combat isn't as insanely 
 hard as it would seem, a sim like this is in desperate need of an interactive mission that guides 
 you through all of the ins and outs. The manual actually does a reasonably good job of detailing 
 the steps needed to take off, hover, and run your helicopter through basic flight maneuvers, but 
 it does little to prepare you for combat. You should expect to meet terra firma often during your 
 first few hours with the game.  

  Still, because the original game was such a great blend of a hardcore flight sim and accessible 
 action, it's not as if Enemy Engaged 2 is terrible. The three dynamic campaigns remain intense 
 and involving. There is a serious been-there, done-that vibe going on because only the Korean campaign 
 is actually new. But even though the Lebanese and Chinese campaigns seem like straight rehashes 
 from the earlier game, they reward replays because of the dynamic structure that hits you with 
 all sorts of realistic mission offers. These include reconnaissance flights, escorts, probing raids 
 into unknown enemy-held territory, direct attacks on missile sites, and so forth.  

  The best part of this structure is the fluidity of the battlefields. You might be heading off on 
 a run-of-the-mill escort and spot a couple of SAM batteries ripe for the plucking. Or you might 
 be on a routine patrol and catch sight of an enemy destroyer that looks vulnerable. Best of all, 
 if you go off the reservation to blow up a key enemy target, such as a base or a capital ship, 
 the game recognizes this achievement and structures follow-up missions around it. Constant radio 
 messages also relay that you're involved in a wide-ranging war because you can't complete a mission 
 without hearing chatter about tanks being destroyed elsewhere or enemy armor columns being discovered 
 on recon missions to other sections of the front. At any rate, because of the atmosphere of never 
 knowing what you're going to encounter after you kick off the wheel brakes, it's easy to get addicted 
 and rip through one mission after another for hours.  

           Dynamic campaigns really throw you into authentic wars.      

  Unfortunately, there 
 are some unpleasant surprises here as well. Much of the battlefield terrain is buggy. Objects flash 
 in and out; landscape features, such as rivers and forests, seem to just pop into sight; and choppy 
 frame rates plague you at inopportune times. And on top of those issues, crashes are a fairly common 
 occurrence when loading missions. Audio quality is great, particularly the radio chatter, but it 
 sure seems to be the same sound files that were used in the original game. Artificial intelligence 
 is also a bit wonky. Enemy aircraft make some odd maneuvers, while allied and enemy troops, as 
 well as armor columns, have trouble navigating roads. The menu and configuration systems really 
 need some work because they're confusing and clunky. It shouldn't be this hard to set up a joystick 
 or pick a mission during the campaign. The multiplayer mode supports only direct IP connections. 

  If you're happy with the original Enemy Engaged, stick with it. It's cheap, authentic, and can 
 be modified into modernity with the loads of fan-made free content available online. But if you've 
 never played the original game in the series, this might not be a bad starting point.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ixe1999
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 10, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  I love military simulations. My first sim game - Hellcat Ace then LHX from EA. Falled in love with 
 Brent Iverson works, I got myself SU-25 and Chuck Yeager Air Combat... n the list goes on.. Gunships/2000, 
 F-15, etc almost all flight sims. Not to forget, Digital Integration games was marvelous in realism 
 and mission planning especially Tornado (Still playing it on dosbox)
  
  Fly for the first time - looking for water.
  Hmm... Wheres the reflection? Wheres the ripple 
 like Commanche 4? Okay, maybe my GFX card not powerful enough. So, I put the GFX setting to the 
 max. Still - not impressive enough.
  
  Then I tried the controls. Switching my windows few times to pdf manual - like other windows does, 
 I need to use the reset button on my CPU - I think in-game key preview will help a lot.
  
  I plugged in my Force Feedback (Cobra3D - CreativeLabs) . Install. Restart. Eager to fly EE2 like 
 Apache: Longbow Assault (InteractiveVision) . As entering the game, my FF becomes loose... no force. 
 No feedback - This is the worst part. Heli sims are best played with joystick - especially FF.
 
  
  For now.. its a waste.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellion102
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 10, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  I am new to the Enemy Engaged Series.
  I was hoping to find something similar to the quality put into the Janes Apache Lowbow simulation 
 as I really love chopper sims.
  Much to my disappointment I couldn't even get the simulation to run on my high end system running 
 Windows Vista. I tried to install the patch, but still no go. It fails on the company introduction 
 logo of all things. It crashes Vista and the only option is to restart the PC.
  I do not recommend this simulation for people that have Windows Vista. The support site for this 
 simulation is inadequate and minimal. I could only assume that this simulation was not tested on 
 current platforms and operating systems.
  The game is a rip-off and this will be my last time I will purchase simulations that boast to be 
 realistic etc etc and yet only being under $20. 
  It's been so long since there has been a good helicopter flight simulator on the market.
  : ( 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigal55
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 4, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  i was so looking forward to this, but it is eech1 with slightly improved graphics and a slicker 
 interface, even the speech is the same. if you have never played eech1 then buy it if you like flight 
 sims it, s addictive and time consuming but very enjoyable each campaign takes a couple of days, 
 real time. for anybody who, s apache, eech1 i think they will think it has just been upgraded a little 
 while the gameplay is still the same. the community mods cover much of the changes. the game itself 
 is still very good but it is almost like a patch for the original game. never played eech1? buy 
 it others i think you will be like me, disappointed. my score is based on a newbies view, one if 
 you have eech1 and upgraded all the mods. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nsperce
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 7, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  First I was impatient and happy to see the new look'n'feel of the game... then I start to feel 
 nauseous, 'cause I got a few problems with game starting (I'm using Vista, and had unsuitable video 
 codec&amp;#8217; s, which couldn't play game intro) ... but when I had adjusted everything to work 
 properly, without any other CTDs, and I&amp;#8217; m pretty happy again... :)
  
  The graphic in the game looks really fine. I like very much detail texture of terrain with normal 
 maps. Also I like the most of the models and textures, except Apache Longbow and Kiev. Explosions 
 and smoke particles are not bad, although the damage textures could be better :) I have tried LAN 
 multiplying, yesterday, 5 vs. 5, and it was cruel fight :D Some of us had problem with setting-up 
 the mic for voice control. But we figured it out quickly. Apparently, Wave at Master Volume sometimes 
 turns down by itself, when the game starts. Anyway the voice control option definitely made all 
 this more interesting. But I think that I'll rather use it in single, not in multiplayer mode, 
 'cause all the yelling around! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djilaz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  I see that this game has caused very strong emotions among players. I used to play Comanche back 
 then, and this is my first heli sim since. I've never played EECH, so I can&amp;#8217; t do any 
 comparison.
  
  This game has really fulfilled my expectations. I have WinXP, and so far only had crashes until 
 reinstalling sound drivers. Missions are non-linear, so that's great! I've started Lebanon campaign 
 and am trying my best. At first, it was too easy, but a friend of mine fixed me some wut file and 
 now it's much more difficult (especially if you're alone, low on weapons and stumble upon 4 enemy 
 choppers) . On the other hand, last night I was grateful for Ctrl+R , &amp;#8216; cause I was so 
 frustrated and tired of sneaking around, so I just flied over to the enemy, and destroyed everything 
 that could be destroyed!
  
  Graphic is very nice, especially Korea and Lebanon. Some vehicles are great, some are nice, and 
 there are a few really ugly ones (black hawk) . Water is very nice (but without anti-aliasing) , 
 and flying low over a coastline is just great. Some rivers are flowing in peculiar angles, but 
 fortunately, there are no many of these. Trees look great, until you get too close. Menu music 
 is irritating so I've turned it off, sound is ok, could be better though. Voice control is cute, 
  so commands could be recognized. Anyway, lots of action, 
 lots of fun, nice atmosphere. Just hope moders will help improve it and developers don't just forget 
 about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prophet1980
Rating: 1
Date: May 31, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  I dont know where to start. I installed this game just hours ago having not read any of these reviews. 
 I was really looking forward to this game. Heres the truth...
  
  Let me start with G2's oh s*it its not finished, lets try and sell it anyway marketing campaign 
 thats gone into this game. The front of the box clearly states 2 quotes from some leading online 
 gaming magazines.
  
  IGN. com The best helicopter sim Ive seen to date Gamespy The best dynamic campaign engine ever 
 created 
  
  Now these quotes are clearly ripped from early preview first look articles. They had never even 
 played the game! If they had, the real truth would be on the front of the box. Its bloody aweful!
 
  
  The screenshots they added to the box and to their web site are the game running in maximum everything. 
 It looks alright, i would put up with it for a bug free, well made game...
  
  Installed without a hitch. My PC specs exceed the recomended system specs for this game so no problems 
 there, right? Wrong. It runs like a bag of dog muck and it looks soooo dated and aweful its basically 
 the old engine with some added textures. It looks really bad to be honest.
  
  I set up the joystick with the stupidly limited control options. I cant even assign joystick buttons 
 for pedal control so im having to use the keyboard. I re-start the game over and over finding that 
 every time i do this, it resets the controls to keyboard. There is no way to save them. Major problem 
 No.1
  
  I decide to mess about with the graphics to get the game running smoothly but every time i change 
 certain options and hit apply, the game crashes to the desktop. So then i go back into the game, 
 set up the controls again and try changing the graphics again until it finally doesnt crash and 
 im able to go into free flight mode.
  
  Im in the cockpit. It looks bad. It looks dated. Its juddering. Yes i have my latest graphics card 
 drivers. Ive got a Nvidia 6600GT with 1GB of ram, fairly average by todays standards but way enough 
 to run this game. Yet im running it with low to medium settings with no anti alaising and its still 
 juddering when i reach high altitudes. I can run IL2 with everything on max without a single framerate 
 drop whilst dogfighting over berlin...
  
  I then notice that when i try and apply the tail rotor (using keyboard control as im unable to 
 set joystick buttons!) and move the joystick at the same time, the camera moves strangely. There 
 is a conflict. Its bad. Its buggy. It stinks of untested and unfinished.
  
  This game is NOT worth your money. Its the old game with a hundred steps in the wrong direction. 
 The engine, the UI, the controls are ripped straight from the late 90's and it sucks. Be warned. 
 Ive payed for this piece of junk. You dont have to. I want Longbow 2 back. Oh damn you 3DFX, why 
 did you have to die!!!
  
  Shame on you G2 for releasing such an unfinished, untested pile of poo. I hope you get your just 
 deserves and recieve unbelievably bad reviews from everywhere. You deserve it. Prehaps another 
 2 years of development might have helped this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hermes33
Rating: 2.2
Date: May 29, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Alright, let's get the most important things covered:
  
  Answer the following question.
  
  Q. Do you already own Enemy Engaged 1  the old original game? Modded and patched to perfection 
 with TrackIR 6DOF (six degrees of freedom) and a practically bug-free experience?
  
  If you answered yes, then you definitely do NOT want to buy this and do not need to read any further.
 
  
  Still here? Ok, well to put this into perspective the first version of Enemy Engaged: Comanche 
 Hokum (EECH1) with all the fixes, patches and freeware community mods installed is today a far 
 better game/combatflightsim in every respects than this new version 2 release and I've been flying 
 the original for years (w/ Apache Havoc installed) . Now this updated version is released and BOOM! 
 - several years of hard work and fixes all up in smoke and its back into original version 1 bug-infested, 
 patch-free territory. Which is not nice.
  
  I was especially disappointed about this though; While it says TrackIR supported on the box cover, 
 which is technically true, legally I suppose for their lawyers to say on a technicality in court 
 it is simply basic old 2DOF and NOT full 6DOF that EECH1 has long had available w/ the free community 
 mods! I was at least expecting it to include all the hard work of the modders and for it to be 
 at least as good as what was currently available. But oh no... all their hard work was simply ignored 
 as if it didn't exist! And that's REAL penny pinching, not wanting to pay the great modders like 
 Gotcha a miserly sausage for all his hard work with the original code; All to the utter detriment 
 of this final release.
  
  I can only imagine that the publishers forced it to be released early just to make a few easy dollars 
 off an unsuspecting public. I cant imagine that any real developer would want to be associated 
 with something as Beta even Alpha stage as this.
  
  To give an example; TrackIR support is actually broken and barely works (you are forced to exit 
 and restart the game if it looses tracking just ONCE) . Luckily, we came up with a workaround solution 
 at SimHQ. com - it's simply a matter of copying over your old TrackIR. dll (from your modded EECH1) 
 into your new EECH2 game folder.
  
  But honestly, I finally gave up and uninstalled EECH2 and went back to the far superior modded, 
 patched, stable, playable (and dare I say it FUN?) EECH1.
  
  One final thing that didn't impress me... I still have my original EECH1 manual (a heavy tome hundreds 
 of pages long) and the pdf manual included with this new incarnation simply copied most, if not 
 all of it from that. The only real paperwork included here is a 10 page flimsy excuse of a proper 
 manual/keyguide. I suppose the only interesting item of literature included is something entitled 
 Attackhelicopters. pdf ... but as it mentions in the prologue, most of the info included is directly 
 quoted from wikipedia anyway (which isn't always 100% technically accurate - maybe JANES www. janes. com 
 would've been a more appropriate source here perhaps eh cheapskates, DUH?!?!) . So, I wouldn't say 
 it's really worth buying the game just for this tiny adobe pdf file alone that's available on wikipedia 
 anyway...
  
  I suppose really it was only to be expected that Enemy Engaged 2 is nothing more than a money making 
 rip-off of old (albeit excellent) original code dressed up to look good in screenshots... and nothing 
 more.
  
  If you're still determined in getting this rip-off bug-fest to work properly, and want to persevere 
 with it in masochistic frustration (or you simply cant find an old copy of the superior EECH1 
 anywhere with its nice huge manual  eBay maybe?) read the SimHQ info here (including the TrackIR 
 fix) : http://www. simhq. com/forum/ubbthreads. php? ubb=postlist&amp; Board=99&amp; page=1
  
  Dont forget to check your six, rotorhead! Cheers :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firc_ops_gordo
Rating: 1
Date: May 26, 2007 3:09 am PT
Review:  I can't believe games like this are still being released. I have been waiting ages for a new heli 
 sim but this game is the pits.
  
  The graphics are terrible and the game play is uninspiring. I would recommend waiting for black 
 shark. I only hope the developers there have some pride and release something half decent.
  
  Don't be fooled by the hype or the lovely intro video that's been published as this doesn't 
 even appear to be the same game. I would go so far to say that Janes Apache Longbow still has better 
 graphics.
  
  The menu systems are also clunky and difficult to use. Setting up your joystick is a mare and although 
 I'm sure they'll patch it, you have re-do your control assignments every time you start.
  
  If I could have given this game a zero, I would have.
  
  So disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: feathers632
Rating: 1
Date: May 26, 2007 2:05 am PT
Review:  Picture Crysis with rotor blades and you're in for a nasty surprise!
  
  I can imagine that the original EE released in 2000, would have received critical acclaim in terms 
 of its graphics and gameplay. It looks dated now of course but in 2000 it would have been revolutionary. 
 Imagine my shock/horror when I found Enemy Engaged 2 has the same graphics as the 2000 version? 
 Seriously! I mean they haven't even upgraded the cockpit textures! Look down inside the cockpit 
 and you see the same badly drawn cartoon feet! Outside the cockpit and things are just as bad. 
 None of the landscape textures have been upgraded, none of the vehicle models, the polygon count 
 is the same as it was in the original game from 2000!
  
  The game is stated as being Track IR compatible, this is a joke, it has very basic left/right/up/down 
 head tracking! Compare this to the 6 degree head tracking you get in Microsoft Simulator X! (up/down/left/right 
 &amp; forward/back + head roll!) .
  
  If you thought bohemia interactive's lazy effort known as Armed Assault was bad? (ARMA uses the 
 original operation flashpoint engine from many years ago with just a few upgrades to scenery) , 
 Enemy Engaged 2 is even worse! I mean the programmers haven't bothered to make any graphics/sound/physics 
 upgrades at all! If you set all of the detail settings to max, you will see the same graphics from 
 the original EE from 2000!
  
  Oh and it gets worse... The game doesn't keep your joystick, throttle and rudder peddle assignments... 
 You have to set them up over and over again each time you play!
  
  Stay away from this one. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
