-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Enemy Infestation
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/enemyinfestation/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  7, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 6.9, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 47 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ripcord Games
Developer: Clockworks Ent.
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Sep 30, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It has a few shortcomings, but Enemy Infestation is chock-full of challenging and addictive alien 
 butt-kicking goodness. 

 With all of the big-name titles shipping this holiday season, a game like Enemy Infestation might 
 easily escape your notice while you peruse the shelves of your favorite software store. If you're 
 a fan of the X-COM series, Jagged Alliance, and other squad-level games, however, you should make 
 it a point to check out this surprisingly good title. It has a few shortcomings, but Enemy Infestation 
 is chock-full of challenging and addictive alien butt-kicking goodness.  

 The game takes place on the planet of Redavi, where a small group of humans has founded a colony 
 despite the hostile atmospheric conditions. Everything on Redavi is going along fine until a small 
 meteorite lands - a meteorite that turns out to be the escape pod of an alien race desperate to 
 flee a dying planet. It soon becomes apparent that coexistence is not a word that these creatures 
 understand. So over the course of 26 single-player missions, you must lead your small and ill-equipped 
 band of colonists in a life-and-death struggle against the alien menace.  

 Most of the missions are well designed with nicely varied and (in a sci-fi sort of way) believable 
 objectives. Also, several of the missions include multiple objectives, some of which become clear 
 only after you achieve your initial goals. For example, on one mission you must rescue your commander 
 before the aliens suck the life out of him, since he's the only guy who can call for help. Once 
 he's revived, you have to use him to call in reinforcements before you go after the rest of the 
 alien horde. Other mission goals include luring the aliens into a deadly ambush and researching 
 new weapons technologies for use against the slimy menace.  

 The graphics are generally quite good. Though the game uses only seven level maps, the detail level 
 on those maps is excellent, and the overall level design is impressive. The isometric view allows 
 you to see the goings on in any room your people occupy, as well as those rooms just recently vacated. 
 Rooms you haven't entered yet remain hidden to you. The colonist artwork is good, though they look 
 rather generic next to the aliens (who look great) .  

 Gameplay is somewhat similar to a squad-based, sci-fi Diablo. You select characters and then click 
 on a destination or a target. You can group your colonists and equip them with environmental suits 
 to avoid all sorts of nasty situations. Occasionally, you can also manipulate items like computer 
 terminals and lab facilities to achieve specific goals. All the while, the aliens are not only 
 gunning for you, they're multiplying. So the longer you take to accomplish your mission goals, 
 the tougher your task will be.   

 One noteworthy feature is the fact that you rarely ever lose a colonist. So long as one character 
 is left alive and conscious, he or she can always drag other colonists to a medical bed to revive 
 and heal them. You can also order your characters to hide, which renders them invisible to most 
 aliens. Another positive is the ability of some characters to lock doors. This allows you to seal 
 off certain routes and control the aliens' movements.  

 There are a few aspects of gameplay that are poorly implemented, while others are simply puzzling. 
 For starters, I found it annoying that - even though I had a full complement of "troopers" for 
 every mission - I often had woefully inadequate weaponry to deal with the aliens. While you can 
 acquire new technology to make mundane items like fire extinguishers quite deadly, the need to 
 do so on each and every mission grew extremely tiresome. Adding to that irritation was the fact 
 that the effects of your weapons vary from mission to mission. I'm sure that this was done to keep 
 players off guard and to simulate the aliens' ability to adapt. Still, it can be quite infuriating 
 when your Big Orange Gun wipes out bad guys on one map, then multiplies them on another.  

 Character selection and movement is also a bit problematic, as it can be difficult to tell who you 
 have selected at any one time. It's tough to tell which players you've successfully deselected 
 - a problem that results in cooks and other ill-suited personnel being sent into hostile situations. 
 This is mostly due to the clutter that often results from having multiple characters in a small 
 space on the screen. Like several other real-time games, Enemy Infestation also has a problem with 
 characters standing idle after taking out their first target. So even when a swarm of alien grubs 
 comes through the door a few feet away, your characters may not always attack them until you specifically 
 tell them to. And we are talking about a terrifying alien menace here, after all, so would it be 
 too much to ask to see these characters move a bit faster (run) once in a while?  

 The sound effects for the aliens are very good. Most of the other sounds in the game are pretty 
 bad. The voiceovers for your characters are particularly irritating, as they mostly sound like 
 the work of Australians trying really hard to sound like Americans (and really annoying Americans, 
 at that) . On a related note, the game seems to use the same sound bytes when your characters pick 
 up an item and when they get hurt. I thought I was commanding the geriatric brigade half the time, 
 with my guys groaning in pain just from picking up a can of hairspray or a book.  

 Another annoyance is the game's predefined level of difficulty. While the game builds up from being 
 fairly easy to downright hard, players who can't hack the more challenging levels are simply out 
 of luck. I've said it before and I'll say it again: Hard-coding the difficulty level presupposes 
 that all players everywhere possess the same level of skill, interest and experience. Allowing 
 players to tailor the gameplay experience to suit their tastes and talent might just make the game 
 more approachable and enjoyable to more people (which is the whole point, eh?) .  

 Certainly the biggest surprise in the game, however, is the curious multiplayer support. The features 
 that are there are solid: cooperative mode over IP or IPX links for up to four players using any 
 of the game's 26 single-player maps and 10 multiplayer-specific maps. Also, when the game begins, 
 you must "call" your characters by clicking on them - sort of like a big kickball game in space. 
 For some reason, however, you cannot play the part of the aliens in multiplayer mode - everything 
 is coop only. This is even more baffling when you consider that a cheat code will allow you to 
 control the aliens during the single player game.  

 Despite these flaws, however, Enemy Infestation is an enjoyable and addictive game with good gameplay 
 and plenty of aliens to stomp.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 30, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  This game does a lot of things right. It offers a tense "last stand"-kind of real time squad level 
 combat against hideous invading aliens. The action takes place on five different space stations 
 that you will revisit through the campaign. Each mission typically starts out with a handful of 
 civilians and soldiers, some of them armed, and often spread out in different rooms. From there 
 they will need to either rescue someone, destroy aliens or successfully make their escape. Some 
 carry weapons, and other items found along the way can be used as improvised weaponry (hairspray 
 anyone?) , with the added twist that you don't know what effect they will have on the aliens until 
 you try it out.
  
  The limited ammunition means you have to make use of other strategies to survive. Actions such 
 as sealing doors, hiding behind furniture and dragging unconscious bodies to the emergency ward 
 are excellent gameplay factors. However, the missions are often very hard, the enemy is heavily 
 outnumbering you, and are breeding more of their kin. If you are easily frustrated by repeated 
 failures this is not the game for you. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
