-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Enemy Territory: Quake Wars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/enemyterritoryquakewars/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Slick, mission-based gameplay makes for intense, focused pockets of action.
 Constantly updated objectives make sure you are never at a loss of where to go and what to do.
 Interesting classes are balanced well and are equally enjoyable to play.
 Strong shooting model makes it fun to mow down the opposition .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No voice chat functionality, even for fire teams.
 Vehicle and aircraft key bindings aren't completely separate from infantry keys.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 28, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.4, 62 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 2,170 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Splash Damage
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Oct 2, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Quake Wars' strong shooting model and focused objectives make it a lot of fun to play. 

  If you took 2003's freely downloadable Return to Castle Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory and mashed 
 it together with the Battlefield games, you might come up with something like Quake Wars. Of course, 
 the whole business of the original Enemy Territory's Allies and Axis have been replaced by the 
 humans and Strogg from the Quake universe, but the basic nature of the gameplay is unchanged. Two 
 opposing teams still duke it out while attempting to complete a series of objectives, though this 
 time you can jump into a bunch of different vehicles and aircraft to carry out your assaults. The 
 concept itself isn't really new, but it's put together extremely well, and its mission-focused 
 gameplay will appeal to veterans of these types of shooters, as well as those who have previously 
 been intimidated by them.  

           Clear objectives make it easy to know what to do next.      

  The year is 2065. The 
 Strogg race has attacked Earth in order to process its raw materials into a fuel called stroyent. 
 If you've played any other Quake titles, you'll know some of the history here, but it's mostly 
 irrelevant in the context of Enemy Territory's multiplayer action, so let's cut to the chase: You 
 join either the human Global Defense Force or the alien Strogg team, and then shoot your enemies 
 in the face.  

  Obviously, it's a tad more complex than this. First, you need to choose one of five classes before 
 each match. The GDF classes will be familiar to any RTCW: Enemy Territory player; the Strogg classes 
 have different names than the human ones, but they all boil down to the same roles. GDF soldiers 
 and Strogg aggressors are your typical frontline troops; medics and technicians heal in the field; 
 and so on. Don't assume that correlating classes are all exactly the same, though. GDF field ops 
 can drop ammo packs, for example. The similar Strogg oppressor doesn't need to drop ammo, since 
 the alien weaponry doesn't require any. Instead, oppressors can set up a tactical shield to protect 
 infantry or vehicles.  

  Other differences are subtle, but no less important. For example, GDF medics can revive downed 
 teammates almost instantly, while it takes a few crucial seconds for Strogg technicians to do the 
 same. On the other hand, technicians can use their healing stroyent tool on enemies, too, which 
 creates a forward spawn point -- a handy skill, indeed. Then you have GDF covert ops versus Strogg 
 infiltrators. Both can disguise themselves as the enemy, but covert ops can use an explosive surveillance 
 camera to spy on the opposition, while infiltrators can send out a handy drone to do battle with 
 enemies from a distance. These differences aren't huge, but they give each faction a different 
 feel and are balanced well.  

  Once you've spawned into the map, the game will give you incredibly clear objectives -- and in most 
 cases, more than one. Teams share a primary objective, and as the battle rages and one team is 
 successful in meeting its current goal, the objective will shift. There are secondary missions 
 to complete as well, and they will change depending on your class. You may need to take out enemy 
 radar, heal teammates, blow up gates, and so on. The end result of this focus is that you never 
 wonder what you should be doing, and even newcomers to this kind of action will feel that they 
 contributed. Additionally, as you continue to play, you will earn medals and gain persistent ranks -- provided 
 you are playing on ranked servers. You'll also earn bonuses within your current campaign as you 
 gain experience, such as improved weaponry, faster sprinting, and more, depending on the amount 
 of XP earned and the class you are playing.  

  All the emphasis on missions results in intense firefights that occasionally involve Quake Wars' 
 small assortment of vehicles and aircraft. The specific mission objectives usually keep the action 
 contained to a few pockets of concentrated activity, though, so if you like the Battlefield formula 
 of controlled chaos, you might miss the insane flurry of action coming at you from all sides and 
 above. If you prefer to get comfy in a tank turret or in the cockpit of a chopper, you'll still 
 be able to fulfill that role. But with objectives shifting from outdoor areas to indoor sewers 
 and bunkers, you can't singularly focus on getting into the air or plowing down every enemy in 
 sight. Don't take this to mean that Quake Wars doesn't offer its share of heavy action, however. 
 You'll still get your fill of visceral, bloody battles -- though they are usually confined to the 
 ground.  

  You can also create a fire team as in the original Enemy Territory, so squad organization functionality 
 is there, though it's not as necessary as you would expect. One reason is that when you undertake 
 a secondary mission, you can see who is sharing it, thereby creating a sort of ad hoc squad. The 
 other is that Quake Wars does not support voice chat, so you simply don't have the opportunity 
 to issue commands to your fire team easily. Of course, you can use a third-party voice client, 
 though that would have you chatting to all of your teammates, rather than a single squad. Now that 
 the Battlefield series has set the squad-based chat standard, it's unclear why the functionality 
 would be left out. The missions are so clear that your path is usually fairly straightforward, 
 but if you're joining a random game and still want to contribute to the fullest extent, it would 
 be nice for the game to give you the chance to talk to the other members of your fire team.  

 
  Shooting stuff in Quake Wars feels terrific. Both GDF and Strogg weaponry have the right weight 
 and firing speed. Even the default weapons for nonassault classes, like the Strogg Lacerator, are 
 effective in battle and handle well. Small details, such as the amount of time the barrels on the 
 Hyperblaster rotate before they begin firing, feel properly balanced. Vehicles and aircraft are 
 easy to manage as well. Oddly enough, though, some ground-movement controls are tied to flight 
 and vehicle controls, so if, for example, you want to change the key binding for your Tormentor's 
 thrust maneuver, you'll be changing the sprint key as well. It would be nice to have vehicle controls 
 separately customizable from within the game, and we're at a loss to explain why players would 
 be forced to edit configuration files to make such a simple, standard change.  

  There are three ways to play: on a single map, a three-map campaign that takes place across a single 
 continent, or in a two-round duel on a single map in which teams compete to see who can complete 
 their assault faster. There are 12 maps in all, and they hold up to 32 players at a time -- though 
 every server we have seen supports no more than 24 players. Most of the usual near-future environments 
 are covered, from cratered wastelands to frozen tundra. The maps themselves are balanced well, 
 with plenty of buildings for cover, and lots of hills and valleys to mix things up.  

           Avoid antipersonnel turrets at all costs.      

  Yet prior Quake games captured the 
 aura of futuristic warfare better than Quake Wars does. That is partially due to the open-environment 
 design -- and the very nature of the setting. However, there is no real eye candy to set your sights 
 on here, so while the maps look very good, nothing really paints a detailed picture of a war-torn 
 world. Indoor areas in particular are mostly bland and functional, but even terrain lacks detail, 
 thanks to flat textures. Even explosions and fire effects lack pizzazz. Lighting is often spectacular, 
 however, especially in the foliage-rich areas, and vehicles and turrets are richly detailed. The 
 draw distance is also incredible, without any noticeable fog or polygon pop-in. Character models 
 are good too, but the animations are a bit awkward. Luckily, the game runs reasonably well. The 
 din of battle sounds good, and the weapons are obnoxiously loud, in a good way. The voice-over 
 commands that you can play are grating, though, and the tone of some of the lines (like the GDF's 
 snotty "You're Welcome!") seems out of place.  

  If you're an Enemy Territory veteran, this is the logical next step for you. And if you've been 
 turned off by team shooters in the past, this one may change your mind. The accessible, objective-focused 
 gameplay won't be for everyone, especially those into the chaotic, freeform warfare of other team 
 shooters. But all told, Quake Wars is great fun and should provide FPS fans with a lot to sink 
 their teeth into.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (122 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: OttoNL
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 7:26 am PT
Review:  What an awesome game, why is this so underrated? It's a new Enemy Territory and it has the gameplay 
 that BF2 should have, not as inbalanced with too many planes on big servers and way to much chaos, 
 i remember getting killed before i could even look around me 5 times in a row, i returned the game 
 immediately, i was affraid this game would have the same problem, but everything is perfectly balanced.
 
  And its on the Quake4 engine, guess i dont have to explain here that all quake engines rule.
 
  And the gadgets you get are just too awesome, a mine with a 360 degree remote camera that explodes 
 when you want it to, and a flying spycam with explosives attached for the strogg, everything in 
 this game is just too cool. Also the vehicles are awesome, especially the strogg Icarus.
  The only thing that is a bummer is that it is so underrated, it was great that i could get it for 
 15 euro's, but there is only 1 xp save server as far as I know and people arn't playing often there, 
 and im not the kind of gamer that keeps playing on one server all night long to get all the special 
 XP-related bonusses. Also there arn't too many servers and players online, but enough to find a 
 good game.
  To sum it down, it's one hell of a nice game, you should definitely check out the demo, if you 
 liked the old ET, but want it a bit more upgraded, this might just be your kind of game.
  
  (Still has some lag issues tho, my connection isn't always as great at the moment and my ping is 
 always shown as under 50 tho it feels like 300 and im slowing everybody down so bad that sometimes 
 no1 can make a normal kill, that's the only downside) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mintoo2cool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 11:02 am PT
Review:  What do you get when you mix a little bit of pure, old skool FPS with pure old skool RPG with killer 
 graphics without needing a real bad-ass PC configuration?
  
  you get Enemy Territory : Quake Wars! 
  
  This is one of the best games I have played lately. 
 Really innovative, Its like battlefield 2 but with experience points and awards and cool goodies 
 that almost gives it an RPG feel...
  
  People who liked the battlefield series , would certainly fall in love with it instantly... but 
 there are many elements to the game that push the FPS envolope to new heights!
  
  You have got to try the game. Start playing the campaign... and listen carefully to helpfull narrator 
 at all times! 
  
  It was a bit tricky , even for me , a regular Battlefield2 player... but within a couple of games... I 
 learnt the game... its a pretty easy game... old skool... so it isnt really that hard. But some people 
 would find it hard , probably because this was not the kind of game that one would expect from 
 id, because they are generally more into displaying and selling their game engines , than sell 
 the games themselves...
  
  but this is one solid game, with lots of potential... great multiplayer, fast paced and addictive! 
 
  
  Dont missout on this awesome game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenoXV
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 10:01 am PT
Review:  I just wanna say this game is a very awesome game. Very strategic. I enjoy the game. The graphics 
 are nice. The classes and guns are really good. I love the multi-player strategic maps and objectives. 
   There is just a few things I would like to point out that some people may or may not agree with 
 that I have dissatisfaction with.
  
  1: First of all, If anyone tells you, that you don't have the best shooter out there to play this 
 game, hes wrong. If you can't aim, you die super fast. Ofcourse you have a rockit class that can 
 blow up units but it is not like the original quake games where you point and click and BOOM. No 
 no, the rockit gun is far different. You point and click, wait 2 secs for it to charge up, and 
 then BOOM. In 2 secs you could be dead because the rockit guy is a GDI. the Strogg, (your enemy) 
 are equiped with mostly auto-matic laser guns that sometimes over heat if used too long. If a very 
 pro-gamer is wielding those guns, you will die before your rockit will land. So its basicly, kill 
 him 1st or you die 1st. People die fast in this game. Don't get me wrong though. That's a awesome 
 idea. It's just really hard sometimes to aim a gun properly unless you have played tons and tons 
 of 1st person shooters. This rule mostly applys to new players, that are new to 1st person shooters. 
 I have played alot of shooters, but for some reason found this one alot harder to play. 2: Flyer 
 vehicles are so realistic with controls they are almost ridiculously hard to steer unless your 
 a fast learner or take the time to learn how to drive them.
  
  3: My only other beef is the fact that if you play against normal or harder bots, its real hard 
 to beat one unless you are very good at aiming and killing fast. The bots will out kill you even 
 with a normal non-scope hand gun. They are programed to be annoying. And its hard to throw their 
 aim off.
  
    Now the things I like about the game.
  
  1: I enjoy the fluid of the game. How people work together as a team to knock out goals. Very fun 
 aspect.
  
  2: Tanks and vehicles are fun. They have alotta nice tactics you can do to kill your enemy. If 
 your Strogg you can throw a shield on the front end of your vehicle and ram people. Its very annoying 
 if you on receiving end. :P But then GDIs tanks are crazy too but I don't think they as bad as 
 Stroggs weapons. 3: Maps are very very nice look. Who ever created the maps is an artist.
  
  4: I love all the types of turrets you can deploy in the game. Very nice weapons. Some are 
 very handy when picking off people easy.
  
  Like I said before, if you can not aim, you die. This game is not like halo where you run around 
 and take a few hits. You die real fast like in real life in this game. Even 1 shot head shots count. 
 Very hard for new players. Very easy for players that have played alot of 1st person shooters. 
 I recommend this game if you have hardcore skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just_for_kicks
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  Quake Wars is a game that is solely focused on team orientated game play. Being solely a multiplayer 
 (although there is the option to verse bots) you play as either the Strogg (an alien force invading 
 the planet earth) or the GDF (the human side protecting the earth) to complete objectives so that 
 either side can claim victory. Each side has 5 different classes to choose from which all have 
 different purposes on the team such as Soldier/Aggressor, Field Ops/Oppressor, Medic/Technician, 
 Engineer/Constructor and Covert Ops/Infiltrator (GDF/Strogg) . Doing different task gains you XP 
 and in return you go up ranks and get extras like more clips and a faster sprint.
  
  Quake Wars can be fun but it can also be really bland. There quite a few objectives to be done 
 by each class but you soon find out you only really need to do about half of them to get the job 
 done just as well. The xp to earn new weapons and abilities is nice but after one campaign (3 maps) 
 it resets itself and it doesn't really give you the sense of much achievement. The way the team 
 based gameplay is set up though, can make for some quite entertaining and intense matches whether 
 your attacking a base or defending a generator. Different vehicles such as tanks and helicopters 
 also add a faster pace as there is quite large maps to play on.
  
  What Quake Wars pulls off well with it's graphics is the Mega Texture mapping technique. This allows 
 the maps to be totally unique and have all different terrain titles. This is impressive and should 
 be employed to more games but beside other FPS the graphics still seem at little outdated. During 
 the time I spent playing it though I saw no really horrible textures. 
  
  The different weapons for each class and side are definitely a plus for this game. GDF have the 
 weapons such as Assault Rifles, Rocket Launchers and Shotguns and the Strogg have their own unique 
 weapons such as Lacerator, Hyperblaster and Nail Gun. All the weapons feel pretty good to use and 
 the models look nice. Deployables are also available and can help out in a tricky situation. Some 
 are radars to tell where the enemy is, some are large machine guns and some even launch air strikes. 
 These are also a lot of fun to incorporate into your strategy.
  
  With just a multiplayer component and it not pulling of the charm and excitement that other FPS 
 have done in recent years Enemy Territory: Quake Wars can seem a little bland, but there are some 
 fun times to be had with this game. When considering the purchase of this game, remember it has 
 been out for over a year so finding a community that still plays regularly may be a little harder 
 then usual. Check your pre-owned/ bargains bin for this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMASHOOPDAWHOOP
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  Enemy Territory: Quake Wars is one great game that you shouldn't miss out on because the gameplay 
 is just too crazy to put into words.
  
  Gameplay wise it is very straight forward and puts you into the action immediately. The classes 
 are very interesting and getting upgrades in matches is both fun and rewarding. The game is objective 
 based with one team attacking and one team defending, but the objectives are very fun. One needs 
 the Strogg to get energy cells to a crashed ship in order to power it up to win the match but first 
 you need to put down deployables, and destory a generator which is preventing the energy cells 
 to be deployed.
  
  Another instance pits the GDF against a "Data Brain" and the GDF need to steal the brain and get 
 it to a data center and upload the information, but first they need to get a large vehicle called 
 an MCP to a deploy zone so they can launch a Strogg shield destroyer that will allow the GDF to 
 hack into a computer terminal which they then have to steal the Data Brain.
  
  The classes are the same on each side with a few differences, like their names, some weapons fire 
 faster or slower and are more powerful or less powerful.
  Quake Wars maps are nicely sized and give adequate room for aircraft to fly through and all the 
 different vehicles room to get people where they need to be.
  
  But in order to to play this game you need to have fairly good reflexes as much of it is a twitch 
 fest and is not about tactics much of the time. It is mostly about sabatoging deployables, sprinting 
 so enemies have a hard time shooting till you're close enough to hit them, or just amassing your 
 team and charging the enemy.
  
  But a word to the wise don't play this game offline. It is both boring and the difficulty is waaaay 
 to easy. You have to play this online or LAN to really get one of the best online shooter experiences 
 in the past few years.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARRAEEee
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 4:49 am PT
Review:  Who let the stroggs out?
  After the majestic Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory, with its objectives based gameplay and frantic 
 murderousness, ID have done the logical thing and decided to apply the same dynamic to good old 
 Quake.
  Show floor impressions suggest that the team dynamic's still firmly in place in QET . One of the 
 first objectives involves taking a bridge this means protecting engineers while they repair it 
 enough to get across then covering teammates as you pile forward . It's all very tactical but not 
 enough to detract from the central point of the game shooting each other in the face hard.
  This game include two group Stroggs and human the vehicle of those group equal. Example the human 
 has tank and stroggs has giant and other example .
  This is looking like a brilliant next step for the Quake series the Strogg can also Srtoggify fallen 
 enemies which doesn't sound nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigJoe187187
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2008 2:07 am PT
Review:  This was one of those games that definitely grow on you. At first it was difficult and hard to 
 figure out what some of the missions were about, but that soon wears off. The graphics a nice and 
 the flow is also nice. The only thing I have a problem with is the re-spawning, talk about slow 
 as crap. You do have your medic but if you are in enemy territory you will have to wait. This can 
 make for some gret battles, but in the end you wish you could just hurry up and get back into some 
 action It has been hard for me to do any online though; my internet speed is not great, but from 
 what I have played the game looks well structured. The ranking system is a bit challenging, and 
 sometimes seems to advance you in rank for no reason. Overall this game is a good buy if you like 
 first person online shooters. The weapons are unique, and the game play is also quick and motivating. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  well i have a history with Quake games since
  the First Ever Quake, so.. some years have past and
  here we are in 2008... 
  Quake Wars: no 
 more Old Quake Graphics now its a new and better Graphics.. visual effects are really good, but 
 now.. lets start the thing that i hate most in Quake wars is the weapons designs, the weapons of 
 the marines are looking like a stone and not like metal.. its ugly i hate it, but the weapons of 
 STROG are ok
  the game is simply a copy of Battlefield only that in this game its STROG VS HUMAN and its interesting..
 
  the game has lots of non-stop action and you can choose what mission you want to do in the game, 
 if you want to destroy or if you want to defend position, anyway its a good game i dont have a 
 bad thing to say about it.. only the stone weapon models..
  
  worth playing \ buy it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Back in 2003, you'll remember a freeware multiplayer game called Wolfenstein Enemy Territory that 
 was all the rage. What made it unique was the way the gameplay was focused on completing objectives 
 and not on capturing flags or fragging the crap out of each other. Fast forward to today and id 
 Software with Splash Damage has refined that formula with 2007's Enemy Territory Quake Wars. The 
 story is paper-thin and serves as a prequel to Quake 2 and Quake 4 where in the year 2065 the Strogg 
 has arrived on Earth to harvest a fuel called stroyent, coming into conflict with Humanity's Global 
 Defense Force. It's all pretty irrelevant cause when it comes down to it, you pick a side, choose 
 a class, and shoot the crap out of the enemies face. Now its all a bit more complex then that actually. 
 Each side has 5 character classes: the Soldier/Aggressor, Field Ops/Oppressor, Medic/Technician, 
 Engineer/Constructor, and Covert Ops/Infiltrator. All classes are perfectly balanced. Now I only 
 played the Strogg mostly cause... well, they're cooler but each class has an equivalent ability 
 on the other side, though it's just a different name. Now the gameplay is objective based, so on 
 each map, every class is given a different set of objectives and teamwork is required. For instance, 
 soldier classes might need to defend a certain area in a timeframe or destroy defenses that require 
 explosives. Or, if you're the engineer class, you might need to construct defenses or repair a 
 vehicle. Covert ops classes will need to hack into objectives at an enemy base. This means you 
 can never sit around and do nothing while someone else does the work; you'll always know what to 
 do because it says on the left side of the screen, plain as day. Teamwork is somewhat of a problem 
 unless you're playing with a group of friends because you'll meet a lot of noobies or miscreants 
 that just don't cooperate. However, there's always the LAN option so you can play with friends 
 that you know. The vehicles also deserve special mention. While it seems the Strogg have more powerful 
 vehicles, both sides are balanced and a smart player can easily overpower the other. Both have 
 the standard light vehicles, aerial vehicles, and heavy weapons vehicles. The Strogg also have 
 two special vehicles known as the Icarus and the Cyclops. The Icarus is a light anti-gravity pack 
 that allows you fly short distances and deploy stroyent bombs and the Cyclops is a giant walker 
 with dual plasma cannons. It's slow but powerful but can be easily taken down or disabled by a 
 smart opponent. As for the graphics, the game uses the aging Doom 3 Engine which holds up pretty 
 well. It's been enhanced with a new feature called MegaTexture where each map is just a giant texture 
 to avoid tiling and repetition. Sound is pretty good, weapons have a big kick to them but the Strogg 
 voices are somewhat humorous with the announcer going "10 Earth Minutes Remain!" While most people 
 will still stick to their Battlefield 2 or Battlefield 2142, I must say, Quake Wars is a lot more 
 fun due to the objective based gameplay. As of Patch 1.5, the game is a lot more noob friendly 
 with pop up hints to show you the way. You can also play with AI bots to get a feel for each map 
 and the bots put up a very good fight. Overall, one of the best multiplayer first person shooters 
 out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squicky
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game I was almost disappointed with how closely it resembled 
 Battlefield2. Once I had played a bit I noticed it was much more fast paced. Lots of action and 
 awesome weaponry. One of my favorite things about Quake2 and Quake4 is the weapons and ETQW came 
 through for me in that department. Add in all of the vehicles and placeable turrets, make this 
 game hard to put down once you start playing.
  
  Finding a server is never a hassle, there are always atleast 20 ranked servers available. The ranking 
 system gives incentive to perform tasks with each of the classes and weapons. It took me about 
 40 hours to get the first medal on each class. 
  
  This game is what Battlefield 2142 should have been but never quite made it. Plus I love the Quake 
 story line way better. The story in this game takes place before Quake2 where the strogg are attacking 
 earth for the first time so it fills in a lot of what happened before the attacks on the strogg 
 home planet.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who is a fan of the quake serious and who also can enjoy a team 
 based, objective driven first person shooter.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweeneytoddfan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This game was kick-ass. Cool gameplay, aliens were original, humans were good too. The only bad 
 thing was that there was no single player campaign and dated graphics. In most games the humans 
 suck, but the humans were pretty good in this game. I wish there was a variety of objectives, classes 
 and weapons. Assault rifle was cool and so was the shotgun. The grenade launcher was good too. 
 The field ops and oppressors turrets were really good, ecspecially the hammer launcher and dark 
 matter cannon. The veichles are good too, I love getting in a titan and blowing up a group of aliens. Overall- 
 GREAAAATTTT game!!!. hrsgfiosdhuifwh suiefhudsfud ashfuiwaehjfhdasufuiwaeh fjgdsjgf; oQHE OFho'df; ohef 
 oiwaehfahes; iof dsha; sdehfowah kjdhf; iowhae; io fh ;dsjhaf; oawh efhdasjhf; awheifh asd; fh; wioehf 
 wiaehfidsha; jl dshfoawiefid shfiaehifa; ds fwo; ;iow; eaei dhfwiaegf;'P YHQ0F8YT4 RMGAH8REU GFH; waoehfi 
 ahdufwahfds hosfhaiuHFE Hoshfgre; gha; ohfiow heu; aohga kdsh; iofw hae; skf; daso hfkwieh; aifwaef 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stince_it_up
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  the first impression is dull.. but an hour into it after you realize what's going on and what you 
 have to do you soon find that it's a great game. i find myself getting really into the game. killing 
 someone isn't that easy but it isn't to hard either. need to have good aim and good technique to 
 make it anywhere in the game.
  
  it has dated graphics, but it has solid online multi-player game play. and it has cool guns and 
 gadgets, and that's definitely a plus.
  
  I'm not looking to write a big review. unfortunately it has to be 100 words 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  ET: QW is one game that you must play, but may not be a game you need to buy.
  
  The game is just like the Battlefield 2 games, there is a single player mode but to fully enjoy 
 the game you really need to take it online. The game modes are really fun to play and with the 
 right number of people can last for agies untill one team finaly falls to the other. There are 
 many classes me play as during the corse of the game, with more to unlock.
  
  With all this and much much more this game is a must buy for fans of the Battlefield series, but 
 if you are just a passer by this may not be the game for you. The graphics are good but they seem 
 very dated in my opinion, I would think Battlefield 2 is more visualy impressive than this one 
 but like I said thats my optinion. The games frame rate is fine and the game runs at maximum settings 
 and resolution and never studders once.
  
  This may be the kinda game for hardcore online players but if your more into single player and 
 you didnt like BF2 then this game isnot for you.
  Its fast, fluid and action packed but poor weapon sounds and dated graphics really let this shooter 
 down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspenmike
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  The game is fairly strait forword and easy to pickup but the content is nothing revolutionary nor 
 is it great it gets repetitive to quickly and well your better off spending your money on some 
 major tittle like Battlefield series, or some other knockoff of battlefield. Just to put it bluntly 
 this game is old the very first time ya do it. Its just like every other battlefield game/ knockoff. 
 So the graphics are great but nothing really stunning the game play is ok, and the controls are 
 easy to pick up. The vehicles look cool but are a bit annoying in how they perform. This game isn't 
 worth buying because it nothing new we have all seen and played this type of game. All this is 
 basically is a battlefield with less goodies and is just vehicles and characters that look different. 
 The game play is dull and is just boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highflyer800
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 21, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  I had been a fan of quake a while and when i heard about Quake Wars it was just one of them games 
 i new i was'nt going to enjoy but against my own judgement I gave it a chance. My main problem 
 is the fact Quake does not work well over a large battlefield and it just proves my point. For 
 a quake game to to work it needs to be a tightly packed map why mass mayham happens. I sometimes 
 wonder if there were two devlpoprs over at Activision , one working on cod4 and the other on QW 
 holding plans for the game and knocked into each picking up the wrong plans. 
  
  The Gameplay does'nt really stand out either. you got Vehicles but they are are'nt really useful 
 if your inside a building trying to takea point ect. of coruse there two teams the strogg and humans 
 again there not much differents but if i had to be honerst the Strogg seem a little overbalncead. 
 The game works as mission objectives, like blow up a door or somthing. It makes for intreasting 
 gameplay but it does wear off and gets boring after a while. 
  
  My main problem is the fact there taken what made quake so good and pretty much said well no ones 
 whats that kind of game anymore lets make another battlefield which is basicly what this is. I 
 never understood why they needed to change it as the concept has always been good and they was 
 really no need to do this. 
  
  Somthing else is that its not a pretty game. When I first brought the game I was running it on 
 low- med setting and it didn't look great but I expected that. Then I brought a new computer and 
 even on high settings its very blocky and textures don't really look all that hot. I do have to 
 praise them on some of the vehicles designs and skins thought as they made some pretty neat stuff 
 there.
  
  The game is not bad but its is dissappointing the no maps really stand out and again don't really 
 look that great. At the end of the day this is one of them games where your going to really like 
 it or really hate and i kind of stand in the middle of that group because it has some really nice 
 ideas but when executedthey just don't seem to really work very well still, If your looking for 
 a game thats kind of like a battlefield game then you might want to have a go at it but just don't 
 be dissapointed if it does not meet expectations
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Texlar
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  I found the game additive because you see where you messed up and you are always try to do better. 
 The visual is very stimulating and audio is fairly clear to understand. Before purchasing, I would 
 recommend trying the demo. It takes a little practice to drive the different vehicles. The soldiers 
 are different and you should try the different jobs. I found myself playing it for hours, more 
 than expected at first, but I did find it addictive. Watch the HUD and radar, this will help you 
 go from mission to mission, and help you watch out for the enemy. I had no played any of the previous 
 Quake series, but now I am intrigued. After a few run-thrus, you will learn the order and try to 
 jump ahead, but don't count on it. the order may not change but you might get to the next place 
 a little early. But you still need to watch out for personnel mines and enemy snipers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Score breakdown:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2421,0. html
  
  Splash Damage made quite a splash in the mod world when it released the officially sanctioned Wolfenstein: 
 Enemy Territory. Later packaged with Return to Castle Wolfenstein, Enemy Territory's popularity 
 and praise grew like wildfire. With its extremely fast moving gameplay and unique objective-based 
 rounds, Enemy Territory became one of the Big 10 in the PC multiplayer gaming scene. Hired by id 
 Software, Splash Damage set out with the newest id Tech 4 technology to create a next generation 
 follow-up to the freeware legend.
  
  Set in the Quake 2/Quake 4 universe, Enemy Territory Quake Wars is confusingly a prequel to Quake 
 2's storyline. Where Quake 2 and Quake 4 detail the humans' counter-attacks on the Strogg homeworld, 
 ET: QW details the initial Stroggos invasion of Earth. Since Enemy Territory is a primarily multiplayer-focused 
 series, the game doesn't really try to flesh out or connect the story beyond a series of missions 
 which detail key conflicts and objectives in the struggle.
  
  Initially, like in the last game, you choose one of five classes before each match. The GDF classes 
 are similar to Wolfenstein classes; the Strogg classes have different names than the human ones, 
 but they are basically the same roles. GDF soldiers and Strogg aggressors are your typical frontline 
 troops; medics and technicians heal in the field; and so on. There are slight differences between 
 the two races. GDF field ops can drop ammo packs, for example. The similar Strogg oppressor doesn't 
 need to drop ammo, since the alien weaponry doesn't require any. Instead, oppressors set up a tactical 
 shield to protect infantry or vehicles. Some other differences include the amount of time it takes 
 each side's medics to heal, the different abilities of each sides covert ops, and the ability for 
 Strogg technicians to convert enemy corpses into temporary spawn points.
  
  When you get down to the battlefield (either by parachute or teleport, depending on the race) , 
 each individual is swiftly presented with a set of clearly-explained objectives. Some of these 
 are shared for the entire team, while others are created on the fly and are specific for your class 
 and position on the map. It adds a sense of contribution, and should make players feel as if they're 
 really doing something for the benefit of the entire team. Adding to this team is a variety of 
 medals and XP additions that allow players to translate their achievements into actual in-game 
 bragging points. The gameplay mostly focuses on a specific area containing 3 or 4 different objectives, 
 meaning that there's an area of constant action. This might put off Battlefield fans who prefer 
 wide-open battlefields and a large degree of choice.
  
  The actual gunplay is pretty satisfying, no matter what gun you are using. The aiming is precise, 
 just as in the previous game, and all the little quirks, like reload time and weapon cooldown, 
 have been balanced down to an art. Vehicles are decent, and do provide some extra tension to the 
 game.
  
  Built off of a Megatexture-enhanced Tech 4 engine, Enemy Territory: Quake Wars is a departure from 
 previous games using the engine with its large, outdoor-focused environments. However, it definitely 
 doesn't impress as much as Doom 3 or Quake 4 did. Compared to other games, the details and textures 
 are only decent, and the lighting and shadowing definitely feel downgraded compared to the other 
 Tech 3 games. Sound effects are pure Quake, down to the Hyperblaster weapon sounds.
  
  Enemy Territory Quake Wars is par of course for most games released in recent years. It builds 
 slightly on the gameplay of its successors with a brand new engine. However, it doesn't offer much 
 in terms of innovation and simply appeals to the original ET crowd. This doesn't make it a bad 
 game, its just one that will have trouble standing out in the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torque1599
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Enemy territory: Quake Wars is simply the best team shooter on the market right now. This game 
 offers everything a team shooter fan could want. An engaging campaign mode, varied objectives, 
 fun and balanced classes and epic multiplayer battles. 
  
  The game is very involved and could, potentially have a very steep leaning curve, but detailed 
 and informative readme style dialogs that play when you first do anything in game explain all the 
 objectives and how to complete them in a straightforward and easy to follow manner. 
  
  The objectives themselves are easy to understand and you never wonder what you are supposed to 
 be doing. This game is one of the few games where a player without a mic can contribute to the 
 overall goals well and be anything more than a non entity or a hinderance.
  
  That being said, the game does suffer from some design issues. Problems that plagued the game when 
 it shipped like lack of VOIP capability have all been fixed in the patches but the maps can be 
 skewed a bit towards the defenders. If the offense loses momentum during a match, it can be difficult 
 to regain the initiative.
  
  Overall, this is an excellent game and a must have for fans of team shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxwellsmarty
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  instead of writing million and one word... i just have to say
  gameplay=10
  graphics=9
  sound=10
  overall=a huge big 10!!!
  i cant stop playing this game online or even off line... you 
 dont die fast like in those kiddies games where everyone blasting everyone and pretty realistic 
 gameplay... amazing difference in classes and weapons... never a bored moment.. so many things to 
 do and work together... you have to watch what the situation requires in the game and adapt to that 
 if half of your team is doing it already have chances to win... if you give this game a 5 or 7 than 
 you cannot be a real shooter fan. go get this game!! and enjoy!!!
  used to play blackhawk down for 4 years and tried some new games but went back all the time.... after 
 enemy territory qw... i simply stopped playing Blackhawk down.. which game i still respect because 
 of the many fun hours it gave me... enemy territory is first game that i got hooked on and never 
 go back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxiesf
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  I bought Quake Wars when it came out after becoming addicted to the demo. The different classes 
 and level ups that can be gained playing on ranked servers keep the game fresh. Initially there 
 was no support for voice chat, and instead a library of recorded commands, taunts and cheers are 
 available from a quick display menu. I grew to love this feature, and although subsequent patches 
 added voice chat , I still prefer using the library most of the time. The graphics, sound, and 
 map design are all top notch. 
  There are class specific goals for team victory and plenty of sub missions that give the maps added 
 replay value.
  
  Nearly 6 months later, I still find myself coming back to play, even when I have new games that 
 I haven't finished playing. 
  
  Could not recommend this game more. 
  Would love to see an expansion pack.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  here it is. its battlefeild. it has battlefeild written all over it. the objectives dont really 
 have a new feel to the game. the vehicles are not the best looking thing but the walker???? it 
 looks cool you have to agree with me on that. but the rest of the vehicles? the strogg powers r 
 cool to do and cool to look at (from a distance) watching beams coming down from the sky looks 
 cool. but human powers r jsut boring. it just so.... human... the maps are good. great design and 
 space. just right, espically the one where you are in a dessert and then you transfer to the strogg 
 base in the snow. COOLEST. but overall its not the best mmofps. (as i like to call these type of 
 games) but worth to rent if you can rent an online game. maybe buy it in 2008? If a new one came 
 out? not sure. maybe? if a new patch comes out?
  
  Peace out (: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  Quake wars enemy territory has 12 maps currently, it may not sound like much, but unlike alot of 
 multiplayer games, each map really does have a diverse feel both visually and in it's sense of 
 game play.
  
  While many may scratch it of as a battlefield 2142 clone, it should be noted that it was in development 
 prior to 2142, game play wise, it is closer to team fortress than that of battlefeild 2, while 
 there are vehicle's, and the maps are grander than those of splash damage's previous game ET: wolf, 
 the game is very fast paced, even on foot, those who have played ET: wolf will probably instantly 
 reconcilable with a lot of the games infrastructure, those who play battlefield 2, expecting more 
 battlefield 2, may be disappointed, as stated before, the game plays more like team fortress, unlike 
 battlefield 2 or team fortress, in which it is capture the flag domination style game play, it 
 is objective based in quake wars, but it basically boils down to guard/defend/destroy.
  
  The class system is pretty varied, depending on your game play style, there is a wide variety of 
 roles to choose from, each fun and useful in it's own way, unfortunately at the moment, the medic 
 is barely used, this isn't a huge issue, but it would be nice if they address this problem in the 
 future so that the medic has more relevance or more incentive for players to choose this particular 
 class.
  
  The deployments, which allow you to construct structures within your territory are really neat, 
 they are extremely useful to both you and your team mates and not a gimmick for show.
  
  Of course, each class, vehicles and deployment has a rock/paper/scissors rules each with there 
 strengths and there Achilles heel, this makes for some interesting game play.
  
  Graphically the game has a few issues also, while using my ATI card, along with the hotfix provided, 
 upon entering a game, the computer stutters for several seconds with patchy, then they quickly 
 sharpen and the game runs silky smooth, again, while not a major problem, it could become quickly 
 bothersome in the future. The models and animations look great, the weapons designs for both the 
 humans and the strogg are unique to each class, certain classic weapons such the rail gun and nail 
 gun make reappearance's in the game. Unfortunately the scenery is not particularly impressive due 
 the problem previously stated.
  
  I've been playing this for a few hours, and really enjoying it, the game may not be for everyone's 
 taste, if you are a battlefield player or a team fortress player looking for something a little 
 different, this is worth checking out, if you are a quake player, or an ET player, this is a must. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatmy
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Great Window View of All Players as a Watcher because we can observe the killer's skill and rate 
 it our killer skill such as how did he kill his enemies and how good is your Killer? And I love 
 that because cheat of death is hard comparing to EA battlefield series where u got crasily kill 
 without knowing how is it done to you. 
  
  E. g. A sniper keeps hunt u down at various location by the same sniper in a single round of game. 
 Sniper's favour target is hard to kill because the sniper's enemy moves and the enemy does not 
 halt for a long time at one location for the sniper to take you down or even it is move, it is 
 also pretty hard to take it down. 
  
  Another instance, U are killed repeatly by your same enemy within minutes even though u have a 
 ample time of aiming and a firing shot at your enemy. Your enemy still kills you while in motion 
 to avoid your shots and hardly aim at u to kill. 
  
  Another one is a machine gun fire one shot one kill and u die instantly. 
  
  Funny, right?
 
  
  FPS involves? I don't think so as FPS will tell tales sign of weak FPS itself unless it is FPS 
 cheating but I think it is pretty hard to do that especially where the GPU is yours.
  
  So, cheating is hard on online game. :) I say these because I am a casual gamer who XP these unfairs 
 online. A good game is able to understand a player's need, especially gamer who doesn't hack to 
 play. And, that is a big pie of market for the game publisher, if they really understand that. 
 Something like a car manufacturer markets their cars - a budget car, a economic car and a luxury 
 car. Too bad, they have been neglect this pool of people around the globe where the big money is.
 
  
  One really nice feature of Quake Wars is the addition of computer-controlled bots that allow you 
 to play offline or fill out matches in need of extra players. Creating bots that can understand 
 the subtleties of ETQW's complex maps is a gargantuan task, but the bots put on a good show, even 
 if it becomes obvious over time that some behaviors are scripted for particular maps and eventually 
 become predictable to a degree. If nothing else, it's a great way to learn the ins and outs of 
 the levels so you don't feel like a complete n00b when you go online. 
  
  A simple fair protection to casual gamers online will be most welcome from around the globe. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BuccaneerDude
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is ruined by the nonstop jumping and shooting. Plus the unlimited sprint. You can barely 
 even hit a guy right in front of you unless hes still!
  
  Although, there are many problems, some of the kits are very fun to use. You can deploy various 
 objects according to your class.
  
  The matches get confusing at times, and are not very noob-friendly. Mostly its just spawn, run 
 super fast, die, spawn, run super fast, die. (With the occasional kill)
  
  The vehicles are fun (and look amazing) but lacking different weapons. Each vehicle has pretty 
 much the same type weapons.
  
  The Maps are well thought out and you can figure them out fairly quickly.
  
  If you took out 
 the bunny hopping and the unlimited sprint, i would give the game a 9.0.
  
  Pity, I thought this would be the best online game out there.
  
  Don't buy this  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Well I came into ETQW a little late- I had played the demo but never got round to buying the game 
 given the recent launch of other titles.
  
  Anyone who knows the Quake series will realise how ETQW is a massive departure from what has gone 
 before. The last Quakes (Q3 & Q4) went head to head with Unreal Tournament 99 for gameplay style, 
 and whilst Q3 was the most popular, UT99 was widely recognised to be superior in terms of gameplay. 
 Q4 followed suit a year after UT 2004.
  
  ETQW has now gone in a different direction from the style of the frag anything shooter, and has 
 opted to follow the Battlefield genre, but added into the mix, what is effectively the Assault 
 mode from Unreal Tournament 2004 - and it does it very well indeed.
  
  ETQW has a steep learning curve. It is objective based and I like to see it as a thinking man's 
 shooter. It is not simply a matter of running around killing everything in sight, or spray and 
 pray. Each objective has clearly defined roles for the classes of soldier and the there are a series 
 of mini objectives.
  
  In terms of gameplay, the weapons are reassuringly powerful. The vehicles in game are fun and easy 
 to drive.
  
  Graphics bring up to date the old blocky quake format and for a change look pretty damned good.
 
  
  Sound is excellent, with good music, great sound effects, but the one to behold is the speech of 
 the Strogg alien race, which is all very tongue in cheek, and always brings a smile to my face.
 
  
  This is really an online game and the maps are plentiful. Single player bot matches are available, 
 and they are also good.
  
  The tutorial system for this complicated game is excellent. The game also has the best server browser 
 I've seen in a multiplayer - a substantial number of filters, recommended "Hot" servers and more 
 importantly it tells you how long a match has been running, so you don't join a server just to 
 find that the round is over.
  
  It is obvious the devs have put so much effort into making this, and it will remain on my hard 
 drive long after Crysis & COD 4 have gone.
  
  
  This is a must buy game.
  
  Graphics 9
  Sound 9.5
  Gameplay 9.5
  Stability 10
  Value for money 9
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysockshurt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  I got the game as a present and at first was not sure what to think of it. I was not the biggest 
 fan of quake 4 or 3 and they felt somewhat like generic shooters. The multiplayer was nice but 
 single player was just ok. My surprise came to the fact the game was nothing like Quake 4 but a 
 bf esq game that was actually pretty fun. Of course it is not perfect and bf 2 and 2142 0ne up 
 it in one major way... the amount of players. But on to the good.
  
  The game has 12 maps and have 3-4 missions on each where the strogg or the humans attack or defend. 
 The missions are surprisingly team based where the classes matter because only the soldier can 
 blow up the barricade and only the infiltrator can blow up the internal objective. I did enjoy 
 it in terms of being team based as well as some levels were more one sided to human or strogg. 
 This was fixed in the 1.4 patch but it did more harm than good. The vehicles are actually pretty 
 enjoyable and vary from the hog which can slam into enemy vehicles and destroy them to the almost 
 useless atvs to the very hard to fly helicopters. The vehicles are integral to missions and can 
 help but unlike bf, they are not gods of the map and can be destroyed by grenades which I liked 
 considering 3 grenades to the underside of a light vehicle should show some results. 
  
  To clarify one thing, This is not a Realistic game, I repeat this is not a realistic game. The 
 fact there are aliens who come to earth and for some reason have human like forms and for another 
 odd reason speak in perfect English should be a sign this is not a bf or cod style game where realism 
 is important. 
  
  But on to the bad. The game does not have the player base as BF 2142, BF 2, cod 4, tf 2, ect. This 
 said as a primarily multipplayer game it might be hard to find a server when some of them are barely 
 full. And finding a ranked server can be hard as well and if you can't find someone to play then 
 it kind of defeats the point. Then again its not the games fault. Another bad thing is the patch 
 that occurred a little while back but that is being fixed now. If you have ET: QW you will agree 
 the patch has done more harm than good with making warning lights pop up when you are being fired 
 on by APTs and escort missions with the human MPC almost unfair where the guy in it will get the 
 xp and he can not be killed.
  
  All in all it is a good game but its lack of people as well as some quirks seem to stop it from 
 being great. The maps some time feel repetitive and it is missing that titan bf play which can 
 use the same map again and again but make it feel new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kozzy1234
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 29, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  Quake Wars is a team based FPS that really takes awhile to get the hang of. There are tons of things 
 to do in the game and can be very fun if you get past the learning curve.
  
  The gameplay is top notch and anyone who enjoyed the Battlefield games or Wolfienstien online should 
 enjoy this game.
  
  The graphics are good on pc, not at Crysis level but still very nice to look at.
  Basically if 
 you are looking for a game with good team based objectives then give it a try. I personally like 
 this game more then the battlefield games, and im really glad i picked a copy up (:
  
  I was on the fence about this game but its alot of fun and thats what i need for an online game 
 is addicting team action. So go on give the game a chance and hop online! There are still alot 
 of people playing the game aswell. Just make sure to give the game a chance.... because at first 
 i was a bit overwhelmed and wasnt sure if i was going to enjoy this game. But once i learned how 
 to use all the classes and pumped the graphics up, i really started to have a great time! Hope 
 to see you online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shaljir117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for a while now, long enough so i could make an educated opinion. 
 The games interface works quite well now with all the recent patches, the only thing that is wrong 
 with the game play is the melee combat which is an annoyance to attempt a melee kill. The game 
 plays very smooth. When this game gets rolling and you have a good team this is the best tactical 
 MP game out there. The single player is okay but nothing amazing at all. So if you don't have the 
 internet then skip buying this it'll just be a waste of time. All in all it's a great game well 
 worth your money to purchase it. DO 
 
   
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etoknx2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 4:53 am PT
Review:  When i bought this game i admit i was a little disappointed.
  
  Why?
  
  Basically i prefer deathmatch style games, unreal for example. However, once i realised what i 
 was supposed to be doing and got used to the different class types this game stole my life, my 
 girlfriend hates it.
  
  It is very tatical and immersive, it has alot of elements to it. For example playing the same map 
 as a soldier will be a totally different experience than playing it as a medic or field ops.
  
  it has a steep learning curve that just adds longevity, it has a good rewards system that makes 
 you want to play as different classes to get the medals. Otherwise i would've just speant all my 
 time as an engineer.
  
  This game is great it truly is, i can't really be bothered to write more cos i am lazy and have 
 just bought a massive sandwhich and want to eat it, but don't believe the reviews of people that 
 just can't play the game due to their lack of intellect and need for simplistic run at someone 
 shooting constantly games like halo.
  
  this game really has so much to it, the classes are totally different and take a while to master 
 which is great, also the difference between the same class whether being strogg or gdf adds even 
 more diversity to the game.
  
  this game was really well thought out and provides hundreds of hours of satisfying gameplay, that 
 is until they brought the 1.4 patch out which in my opinion was simply a big shot in the foot. 
 however if you havent played this before you will probs like the extra help that the patch gives 
 you.
  
  awesome game highly recomended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  .than QUAKE WARS... don't get me wrong i know that the main concept of a battlefield multiplayer 
 comes from DICE .... but olso DICE uses the FPS genre which ID inventet 1st ...... anyway this 
 is not the point its more like a joke , THE fact is that by only adapting the Quake Universe in 
 a battlefield gameplay it dosen't mean that its a copy ... because it isn't the elements that made 
 Quake universe so interesting & fun , evan the story is bringing a new element in to the game exaplining 
 more of the War between the humans & Strogg . The gameplay features not only capture points , but 
 olso elemineting targets , retreaving data , etc. its not just about supremacy like in Battlefield 
 games ... every map is story related & has main & side objectives that reward the player by giving 
 him bonuses for his class like new weaponery or gadgets & olso rankes you on the official site 
 whith medals & so on ! I own thru STEAM all of VALVE's multiplayer games but VALVE's games are 
 80% based on skill & the rest on tactics ... well Quake Wars is 70% tactics & 30% skill .... because 
 its not like in CSS or DoD .... if you know how to handle a certain weapon like a MACHINE you will 
 killl an entire TEAM ... hereyou just can't & this way is somehow more realistic evan if it dosen't 
 have the same damage & accuracy algoritms like in VALVE's games but ... when you consider the size 
 of the battlefield , vehicles , Nuclear explosions & so on this game offers in some ways evan more 
 thrills ... you will fell like in the wars in the movie TERMINATOR :D .... its so intense seeing 
 you & your teamates advancing in to a an ACP folowed by a tank , explasions everywhere , robots 
 STROGG just Wow .... ! The sound is good ... but the graphics are just perfect a solid 9 lets say 
 ... it dosen't compare to Gears of WAr but it dosen't have to the TECH 4 engine ( DOOM3) with the 
 megatexture technology creates a superbly detailed battlefield made in 1one big texture ... because 
 of that the loading times are so low & thats a very pleasent thing especially if you get disconected 
 in the middle of the match ! I have enjoyed it its superb i play it every day of 2 weeks now & 
 i still can't get enough & the comunity is great .... buy it if you ask me ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mothkin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  I first got Enemy territory because i ordered the new NVIDIA GeForce 8800 GT (which is fabulous) . 
 around this same time, i also got Unreal Tournament 3 and Crysis. considering that both of the 
 above games are totally awesome and mind glowingly fun, they over-shadowed enemy territory a lot, 
 so i didn't actually try it till a week or 2 after i got it. 
  
  When i first tried, it, i was kind of like WTF?! this game sucks! i would play a map, and die like 
 every 2 seconds, then have to wait 20 seconds before i could play again. also, the hard shooting 
 was kinda hard to get used to, and some of the controls about vehicles freaked me out at first. 
 but nevertheless, in the past few weeks i've been playin it a lot more and have gotten to love 
 it.
  
  i've seen this game get a bunch of bad reviews and i believe that these people were simply too 
 quick to make a judgement, and should try it again. it is very easy to be disappointed with enemy 
 territory at first, but it grows on you like a fungus. 
  
  first of all, the graphics are nice, in the sense that they are good, but not so insanely good 
 (like crysis) that it may slow down your system at any time. Also, the shooting is really cool 
 because the wide range of weapons are easy and fun to use. also, the five classes - soldier, medic, 
 field ops, covert ops and engineer- make for really intuitive and creative game play. all in all, 
 its a hard game to get into, but once you do get into it, its a lot of fun, to play against a computer 
 and online, i highly suggest giving it a second chance if you were disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KiMcHiMaN
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  from the previous reviews from others, i have seen some 1 and 2s. i don't think this game deserves 
 that low of a grade. sure there is some things that needs to improve but its very little. so, this 
 is what i think about the game...
  
  Gameplay: there are campaign, stopwatch and objective, each game types have to do with "enemy territory", 
 one defend, one attacks. before i get into all the crazy stuff, if ur new at quake, there 2 type 
 of army, the G. D. F and the Strongg. They both have 5 different classes ur character can choose. 
 For G. D. F, its soldier (basically fights) , engineer (builds turrets and other stuff) , medic (of course, 
 heals) , field ops (like a person who tells the missiles were to attack) and finally, my favorite 
 class, the covert ops ( sniper, hacks and deploys radar) . same thing with Strongg but with different 
 name of the classes. each game type, there are mini missions that each classes has to do like for 
 covert ops, hack the shield generator. and yea, so thats the outline, if this was a guide, i would 
 prob write much better and much more... oh just to let you know, the AI is pretty damn smart...
 
  
  Graphics: umm good but choppy, like its good for a 2007 game but the graphics are not great compare 
 to F. E. A. R, which was made in 2005. but over all, the graphics can be improved but hey, its not 
 like ur gonna die from the graphic so its manageable.
  
  Sound: I really wish there was a voice chat online, damn, only thing that have to communicate is 
 the IM and commands (voice acting is horrible in my opinion) the music is ok, but u can never expect 
 the music u like on the game. overall, its ok. I still wish they added the voice chat online... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHeMoX
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 21, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  One word: UNBALANCED. Yes, you read that right, the asymmetric classes are in NO way well balanced. 
 Nothing personal, but anyone who says otherwise is using some serious toxic or something. ;)
  
  For real though, there isn't much of a balance, mostly the maps will define who will win and 
 who won't barely have a chance right from start. The idea of having asymmetric classes is a great 
 one, but at least make sure the balance is perfect. It's not, it's quite severely broken actually, 
 even after the latest patch that was like one little stitch in a gigantic gaping wound.
  
  It's a shame really, the graphics of the game, although no Crysis, are definitely good looking. 
 It's mostly style-wise though, don't expect millions of polygons on screen at the same time. Up-side 
 is off course that this game will run on most PCs that can run Doom3 which is great, but graphics 
 do look slightly dated.
  
  The 'objectives' you receive actually is another thing that chokes the game's gameplay. Sure it 
 might work and be cool if everybody did what they are supposed to do, but mostly people won't care 
 about those smaller objectives. Problem of the game is that there isn't much you can do in a tactical 
 sense except from just attacking the points other teams must defend and vice versa simply defend 
 where they attack you. This kind of game should have non-linear paths to winning a game instead, 
 that would really demand tactics to keep things going well.
  
  The amount of levels isn't a whole lot either. It may be enough, but don't forget this is a full 
 priced game even now. I've already talked about the basic unbalance of the gameplay, but certain 
 weapons and certain classes really give you a disadvantage/ advantage that should have easily been 
 spotted in the beta. Noticed or not, balancing issues weren't addressed.
  
  The latest patch does solve sme of the annoying issues, but in some respects it only makes things 
 worse and even more unbalanced. 
  
  When it comes to the basic gameplay, it basically gives you what you would expect from games in 
 this genre, think of Battlefield except with a Quake flavor to it. Thank god they haven't implemented 
 the crazy ticket- system of Battlefield, but I can't quite conclude that what they've done instead 
 is really anything better.
  
  If you love Quake and were disappointed by the Quake 4 multiplayer, this game might be for you. 
 It's however not at all an excellent game and I expect there will be more patches released to hopefully 
 fix the balancing issues.
  
  For those who aren't real fans of Quake, better pass or at least wait until after the next patch 
 or so or buy it when it becomes a budget title. This title is currently definitely still too broken. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixcyc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Many guys complains this game is boring simply because they don't know how to play this game and 
 make kills. This game is much complex than "mainstream" FPS games such as COD4, CS, and BF. It 
 has steep learning curve and this game is NOT for casual players. Many skills you need to learn 
 to play well. I would say 100 hours is the minimum time to learn 99% stuff in this game. This game 
 is quite balanced. Every tactic has many counter measures. You just need to learn and try. There 
 are many ways to play this game and new tactics evolve. I never get bored. 
  
  Team play is the key of this game. You need to choose class wisely depending on the current situation 
 and focus on objective. In other games, you might be a sniper all day long and no one in your team 
 care about it. But in this game, sometimes a frontline medic is more worth than a sniper hanging 
 on the hill who contribute nothing to the objective. 
  
  Vehicles are important in this game but old-school infantry skill is also important because there 
 are many indoor fights that heavy vehicle cannot get in. Fliers are fun but a little bit difficult 
 for the beginners. But when you get used to it, it become an intuitive reaction. Just try it or 
 play it offline to train yourself. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  Enemy Territory: Quake Wars is the retail spiritual successor to the online free team based shooter, 
 Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory in case you haven't done your homework. If you've played WET, then 
 you pretty much know what to expect, but if you haven't then Quake Wars gives you a satisfying 
 if not often frustratingly difficult team based shooter experience.
  
  Since Quake Wars focuses purely on gameplay, there's no real story. There is, however a setting; 
 Quake Wars is a prequel to Quake II and Quake IV focusing on the cyborg alien Strogg's invasion 
 of the Earth. The battles in Quake Wars are set some time after the beginning of the war, and humanity's 
 defense against the hostile invaders is the Global Defense Force (GDF for short) , and their objective 
 is to kick the Strogg off of Earth.
  
  Quake Wars has only twelve maps out of the box, but they're all fairly large and well designed. 
 Each of the maps are actually linked by four separate campaigns that consist of three maps each, 
 set in a different location. You've got three maps set in North America, three in Europe, three 
 in Africa, and three in the Pacific. If you don't want to play online, you can play these campaigns, 
 or each map individually with up to sixteen AI allies\opponents. Considering Quake Wars' scale, 
 though, sixteen just isn't enough. Hopefully a patch will allow players to have more AI in single 
 player games.
  
  Quake Wars is class based, and though both the GDF and Strogg have the same basic setup a GDF Covert 
 Ops is not exactly like a Strogg Infiltrator. Each class also has a unique role, you can't expect 
 to be able to take down a legion of enemy soldiers as an Engineer like in some Battlefieldesque 
 games for example. An Engineer player will spend most his time repairing ally vehicles, and deploying 
 defensive turrets, while a Covert Ops player will deploy radars for detecting enemy troop movements, 
 sneak behind enemy lines, and snipe enemy soldiers. The diversity in classes is very nice, but 
 since there's a difference between each side's version this can lead to imbalances. During the 
 time of this review, the Strogg can easily overpower GDF forces especially while defending. Still, 
 not many games in this sub-genre actually put any effort into separating classes, let alone classes 
 between sides, so Quake Wars gets kudos for this.
  
  Visually Quake Wars will likely seem dated since it uses the aging Doom 3 engine. Still, if you 
 don't mind this then Quake Wars has some very nice visuals, and large expansive environments with 
 detailed character and vehicle models. The audio is okay, there's barely any music (only during 
 the main menu, really) , and the voice acting is sometimes odd. The GDF Soldier voice sounds like 
 a pedophile, occasionally.
  
  Quake Wars is a fun team based shooter, it's not the greatest game to ever grace the interweb, 
 but if you're looking for a solid team based experience then Quake Wars will allow you to kick 
 some alien arse... after the imbalances have been fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  There are a lot of good games that came out in 2007. Enemy Territory Quake Wars just adds to that 
 pile of awesome games.
  
  Enemy Territory Quake Wars is kind of like the Battlefields. You have two opposing teams. The GDF 
 and the Strogg. You are placed on this huge map, and you have to fight. But this time instead of 
 having to take control of control points, you have mission that you need to accomplish in order 
 to win. This new style of game play works really well and is really fun.
  
  The Stroog and the GDF have a bunch of neat weapons to use like the Strogg nail gun, and the GDF 
 have of modern looking weapons that are fun to use. You also have a bunch of vehicles like mech 
 warriors.
  
  The graphics in Enemy Territory Quake Wars are pretty good. The character models look good and 
 some of the environments look good. Some of the environments look kind of bad. It really is funny 
 when some environments look really good and some look bad.
  
  The sound in this game is okay. Some of the GDF marines say things that are funny. But the Strogg 
 sound funny and some of their voices can get stuck in your head and it will really bother you.
 
  
  This is a great game that more people need to buy, because there are a lot of empty servers, so 
 if you read this review and you like shooters then you should go out and but Enemy Territory Quake 
 Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BorkaBonum
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I think everybody had great expectations on Quake Wars: Enemy Territory as for most part, where 
 it could actually outcome Battlefield 2 in terms of bringing a new definition to the genre in online-based 
 shooters. Splash Damage promised launching the game when it was finished, which seemed to be a 
 good choice after seeing how EA Games fail times and times again due to untested games at launch... 
 But still, the game is as unfinished in retail as it was while Battlefield 2 was launched well 
 over two years ago. 
  
  Don't get me wrong here before I even start, I have played the game, tested it alone, online, with 
 friends and all that so I've tested it all over before I get this text on the way. 
  
  First off, if I may give a hint of what was so good in Battlefield 2 which we hoped Quake Wars 
 to crush it with was; Teamplay, certain visuals and audio along with a more interesting set of 
 vehicles and characters, if not also environments. But to everybodies surprise this game does not 
 deliver any of these. 
  
  Maps are quite solid on the paper, decent in size and has certain objectives only reachable of 
 achieving with certain roles, which is a good addition to most part. Problem is the classes aren't 
 much different from each other and all serve the primary objective of just killing everything as 
 objectives aren't rewarded in a way that causes the team to actually strive for that minimal reward 
 as killing is better score-resource. After you reach a certain amount of score out of killing, 
 or somehow taking your time taking care of the objectives, you will be rewarded with a new weapon 
 for unlock which is first off usually a regular rifle with a scope and after that builds on in 
 a fluid pace along with certain unlocks as you go depending on the way you play. If you run basicly 
 all the time, or sneak, you will be rewarded with faster sprint or silent step. This feature is 
 actually very cool and has alot of potential, though many unlocks seems to make no sense and isn't 
 used within the game itself. 
  
  Vehicles are a waste of time in the game, for example the fast recon vehicles aren't much faster 
 than your sprint-ability and doesn't serve any increased protection. The primary battle tank aren't 
 much good of anything due to the tricky controls caused by the horrible animation and stiff set 
 of motions possible for the vehicles, making it extremely hard to drive and shoot accurately. Same 
 thing with the airborne vehicles which all can stand still in the air in the lack of proper set 
 of physics. Talking about physics there's no true collisions in the game, when a vehicle rams a 
 other vehicle, when, then you stop or both vehicles explode in a cheap pixelated sprite-based explosion, 
 that's also why you can't tell where your Armor shells are landing, as the explosion is just one 
 big sprite not even beeing accurate to the target it hits as its so overwhelming in size. 
  
  Audio is probably even worse. Weapon audio is totally worthless, feels weak, doesn't varry 
 a bit and will make whats boring even worse. Same thing applies to the embarrasing in-game radio 
 commands which will feel so stiff you hope for the game to still be in early BETA conditions, but 
 sadly it is not. There's no built-in VoIP support, which is odd. There's a strange squad-function, 
 I guess, I somehow pressed everyone on the screen and made a Alpha-Squad, but nobody cares. There's 
 no commander or nothing like that, it's a team-free-for-all and no connection at all between the 
 players, all fights for themselves in the lack of boundaries in terms of squads, fireteams, commanders, 
 or anything like that required in such a team-focused game. 
  
  When playing with friends localy then its a other thing considering you aren't playing with mute 
 guys on random, but all games are better on LAN so ofcourse the game will actually appear mediocre 
 then. 
  
  All in all this game is total rubbish compared to new shooters such as Call of Duty 4 or even the 
 old Battlefield 2 or the Battlefield 2142. I wouldn't recommend it unless you practicly get it 
 for free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: protazoa007
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Objective based game specific to each class, Vehicles are well balanced and unique, weapons 
 are unique to each faction requiring use of tactics, Forces Team game play to win, Graphics are 
 good, good implementation of clans. Most maps are well optimized, Persistent Statistics and achievements 
 increases longitivity. Mod support
  
  Cons: weird physics engine, Annoying Punkbuster kicks, Freezing for certain time after disconnecting 
 or kicking. Annoying graphical glitiches like clipping of characters into steps, One Map lags: 
 Outskirts due to its size among other factors, lags too much.
  
  All in all its a very good game worth the 50$, Helps develops some tactical thinking and encourage 
 communication between team mates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 1:30 am PT
Review:  Despite appearances - specifically the vehicles, the character classes, and the open maps - this 
 is not an attempt to make a sci-fi version of Battlefield. Nor is it, despite the name, much to 
 do with the deathmatch tradition of Quake. It's therefore perfectly possible that fans of either 
 of those series will be disappointed. This is, first and foremost, an Enemy Territory game.
  
  What this means is that ETQW is a class-based first-person shooter with asymmetric, objective-based 
 maps, quasi-realistic weapons, lashings of Quake-derived horrors, and a daunting deathmatch pace. 
 
  
  It is a sequel not to Quake, but to Return to Castle Wolfenstein, and the free Enemy Territory 
 expansion that Splash Damage created for it. Most crucially, however, Enemy Territory: Quake Wars 
 is simply brimming with possibilities.
  
  The game is set during the Strogg invasion of Earth, making its fiction a kind of prequel to the 
 events of Quake II. The game takes place across 12 maps, which are in turn subdivided into four 
 campaigns across the Earth: Africa, North America, Northern Europe, and the Pacific. The highly 
 individual maps are an impressive achievement on their own, and there's no single theme or look 
 that ties any two together. 
  
  Each has a number of objectives that the different sides must either attack or defend, depending 
 on whether they are Strogg or GDF. Some maps are tailored purely for Strogg defence, others for 
 GDF. These scenarios are so detailed and specific that I believe this would be the first multiplayer 
 shooter ever on which I could deliver spoilers based on the story alone. But I won't. 
  
  Don't expect to be blown away by the graphics of Quake Wars. It was developed using id Software's 
 Doom 3 game engine and implements a texture mapping technique called MegaTexture which is fixes 
 some texture mapping issues found with the initial release of the Doom 3 engine. Normally this 
 statement would give the indication that you'd be in store for some great graphics. The environments 
 in Quake Wars is one example where this is not the case, some just seem to lack detail and fail 
 to set the tone for the game's settings.
  Please don't take this as an overstatement though, the graphics are decent and are not regressing, 
 but with more advanced game engines, graphics cards and processors, expectations are quite high 
 for more realistic and believable environments. 
  Character and vehicle models on the other hand are excellent, both humans and the alien Strogg 
 look terrific while weapons and vehicles are likewise very detailed. Character movement and animation 
 could be more fluid but overall the fire fights and action moves fast enough to where you don't 
 really notice. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tcardone05
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  ET: QW is extremely difficult to get a hang of right out of the box. After a few rounds playing 
 against the computer, the basics are quite easy. Point and shoot. But it will take much time to 
 actually learn the scheme and truly begin to enjoy the game. The objectives can be numerous and 
 a bit hard to understand. Unfortunately for the newbies to the play, there is no dedicated single 
 player nor a tutorial. Once you begin to comprehend the rather complicated gameplay, however, the 
 game becomes an excellent FPS. There are very few maps to play on, though, and they quickly get 
 repetitive. The few maps are excellent and fairly intricate in the environmental aspect. They also 
 provide many highly contested locations, resulting in excellent firefights. The graphics are decent, 
 but not overwhelming. It's probably the visual quality of a souped-up Half-Life 2 Deathmatch. 
 
  Overall, if you can find this game for an excellent price, get it. If not, The Orange Box is currently 
 the best option for this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joniehitman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  Enemy Territory Quake Wars:
  
  Enemy Territory Quake Wars is a game that takes the intense and fast paced action game play of 
 Battlefield, and then ties that into the story line of quake, twisting and tweaking the game play 
 along the way to create an attractive and extremely well designed game that will be a hit to both 
 veterans and beginners to this genre. The concept that it uses to produce the game play isn't that 
 new having already been done by such titles as battlefield and holding strong relation to call 
 of duty's multiplayer. Battlefield being a more popular title and call of duty having a single 
 player mode, it seems like there are other titles with more to offer than Enemy territory. BUT! 
 ETQW has more than enough to offer for those fans of this genre. Quake veterans will have a fair 
 idea of what the story line is about, but even if you've never heard of the title it is irrelevant 
 in such a game where your only aim is to kill the enemy and win the round. Although it is not quite 
 as simple as that, along the way you'll complete objectives assigned, adding a little depth and 
 interest into an otherwise 1 track game. This is a good feature but it can be a little passive 
 when you first start the game. When you first begin you are thrown straight into the fray, with 
 as little or as much experience as you choose. There is a single player mode that allows you to 
 practice and get used to the controls, but this mode is rather restrained and would not be recommendable 
 to anyone intending to use the game only as a single player. No campaign or distinction makes it 
 an extremely dull single player experience. Although, in the multiplayer the game more than makes 
 up for this poor side. At first you will be alone against thousands of other users. This stage 
 alone is the main deterrent of anyone new to the genre. I could not find any feature that allowed 
 beginners to battle against each other, and if there is a feature present it is not obvious and 
 by no means easy. Having said that given a few hours of playing and familiarising, the game begins 
 to open its shell a little. Making friends and socialising playing a large part in your overall 
 aim of becoming the best on the net. Having a handful of friends can be an endless source of entertainment, 
 allowing you to conduct the missions in a team such as a real life squad, or allowing each of you 
 to run and gun as you desire, although I heavily recommend the team approach. As you play more 
 and more games you will find yourself climbing through the ranks and making a name for yourself 
 on the online community earning rewards and medals as you go along. Promotions within the game 
 are an interesting feature that allows you to access new types of weapons such as scoped rifles 
 for infantrymen, and earning yourself ranks adds a nice touch to a well rounded and nicely balanced 
 system. Numerous features that make such a well balanced title are present throughout the system, 
 such features as fire teams litter the game with depth giving you a deep experience to immerse 
 yourself in. The graphics are visually stunning, each texture is done to great detail providing 
 an extremely rewarding experience and satisfying even the highest of standards. Pushing the ability 
 of most PCs the graphics can be a slight killer for a lot of people, having said that, the game 
 is still visually attractive in the lowest graphic settings, only lacking the sharpness but still 
 possessing the attractive scenes that make the experience so balanced. Equally as pleasing is the 
 good sound that gives the war the added power to suck you in even further. Fighting on foot within 
 the streets across the desserts and through the snowy mountains will be your most used form of 
 combat, but equally as useful are the wide variety of vehicles available to both factions. Tanks, 
 APCs, Light vehicles and quad bikes will all be at your disposal with added boats and aircraft 
 to suit any style of play. Both sets of vehicles are well balanced between both of the teams giving 
 the game a good feel and stability about it. Although a well put together fire team would be more 
 than a match to take out one of the giant Cyclops' heavy walker which have proved to be such a 
 formidable weapon when not prepared for. This being one of the keys to an enjoyable and fresh experience. 
 All these vehicles along with the use of deployable sites make the game more that just a FPS, in 
 many ways the game can be what you want it to be, and in such a competitive environment this is 
 a priceless quality that distinguishes it from many other titles. Anti-tank turrets and a wide 
 variety of other stations give you all the aid you need to get the job done.
  With a huge online environment and one that I'm sure can only grow, Enemy Territory Quake Wars 
 is a whole new world to be explored. The entire package played to its depth and used to its strengths 
 leaves you with one inevitable feeling, and that is a great sense of satisfaction, great graphics 
 large maps and all kinds of weapons at your disposal gives you a game you can be satisfied with, 
 and a game that feels well worth its value. Having played it for several weeks and analysed every 
 angle it is definitely one that I could recommend easily to fans, veterans and beginners to this 
 style of game play. Leaving me feeling satisfied and pleased with the overall experience I can't 
 help but go back for more every time, and for this reason alone I would recommend Enemy Territory 
 Quake Wars to anyone who asked about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArCHAN6EL
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Quake Wars is the newly released shooter from the developer behind Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory, 
 Splash damage. The game takes place on Earth some time in the near future. The game pits the GDF 
 against the Strogg, a barbaric warlike race of alien invaders, intent on processing Earth's raw 
 materials for use as stroyent. 
  
  The story revolves around the conflicts in which the GDF and the Strogg do battle. Soldiers will 
 fight in New Zealand, Japan, Norway and the United States in a variety of attcking and defending 
 missions. These missions use an objective based system in conjunction with a Battlefield-themed 
 vehicle system. Tanks, jeeps, mechs and Fighters zoom around the hotzones of conflict, containing 
 the action to furiously contested pockets on the map. And while the maps are large, the objectives 
 are usually centered around certain points on the map. For completing these primary (main) and secondary 
 objectives a player can gain XP towards unlocking new weapons and abilities. These include faster 
 sprinting, double weapons and imrpoved weaopn abilities, these are slowly unlocked and used over 
 the three modes of Quake Wars' gameplay. 
  While the game features an in-depth class system and good communication modes, the game itself 
 does not support voice-chat, a feature that is ised most prominently in the Battlefield series 
 of games. This lack of voice-chat makes it sometimes difficult to communicate with your allies 
 and coordinate good strategies. However judging by the well designed map and objective menus, not 
 knowing what to do is never a seemingly great problem. The vehicles are well balanced, weapons 
 feel suitably meaty and the differences between the Strogg and humans are just great enough to 
 make usisng each a differentiating joy. Overall, this is a decent team based shooter that uses 
 solid mechanics and polished design to justify it's hype. If you've avoided these shooters in the 
 past, this is a game as good as any with which to change that assumption. And if you're new to 
 the world of online FPS play, then this is another good reason to go out and purchase this game.
 
  
  VERDICT
  
  A solid, all-round engaging title. Enemy Territory: Quake Wars will keep you occupied and engaged 
 for hours on end, for months at a time. And with the persistent rewards and online service, you'll 
 be cracking the enemy for some time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandmon
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  Enemy Territory: Quake Wars, as many know is, Gameplay wise, a sequel to Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory 
 and Story Wise, prequel to Quake. 
  
  The Story :
  
  The game is set just before the events of Quake 2. It is the year 2060 and the Strogg have Invaded 
 planet Earth. The Game Highlights the main events of the conflict, like for example, the Slipgate 
 technology, which would get captured by the GDF (Global Defence Force, the Humans) and would then 
 be used against the Strogg to invade them, which leads then to Quake 2.
  Although a Storyline is not needed for a Multiplayer game the story in Quake Wars is written well 
 and makes sense when 'Destroying That' or 'Defending This' unlike in other MP games where a story 
 is nonexistent.
  
  The Gameplay :
  
  The gameplay in Quake Wars is very similar to Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory, and nothing else. Some 
 say its similar to Battlefield 2 or Quake 3, which in the end it isn't. 
  The aspects this game that totally triumphs are the Variety, Depth and overall Fun.
  There is 
 a really wide Variety of what you can do in this game. 
  You are the normal guy who just wants to grab a Gun and shoot em up? 
  You can do that.
  You 
 are the guy who likes to Snipe? 
  Then just grab a sniper rifle and hit them in the head.
  Or the Stoneage Guy who says no to guns and likes to Knife the enemy to Death?
  Then just Disguise 
 as the enemy and backstab your enemy.
  Or the guy who likes the word 'Kaboom!'?
  Then just throw a Blue Coloured smoke cannister somewhere and watch the enemy get blown up from 
 above.
  You can do all the above any time you want, there is no restriction, unlocks or anything.
  
 
  The Game's Depth is also awesome. With all the great maps, variety of ways to kill your enemy 
 and Persistent Stats, you have got a game that lasts for a long, long time until it gets boring.
 
  
  And in the end the game is all about fun. It won't be all about 'Unlocking Weapoin X' or 'Killing 
 X enemys'. Although the game has a drop of RPG in it, it isn't purely RPG. You won't be rewarded 
 mainly for achieving an amount of something but having fun and playing as a team. 
  Talking about Team, ETQW is a purely Team Based Multiplayer, so you will never be alone. And it 
 does it really, really well. Medic and Field ops can give out Med Packs and Ammo Crates (respectively) 
 to other team mates, or them selfs. Soldiers, although they mainly are there to kill, are able 
 to plant explosives to destroy something, Engineers can deploy Turrets and Covert Ops can deploy 
 Radar to Display where the enemy is. 
  Of course I only said a little of what the game has. There is alot in the game and I am not surprised 
 if you found the above confusing. So for new or recent players, I suggest reading this website 
 : http://4newbies. planetwolfenstein. gamespy. com/ETQW/
  
  Its a great Guide where Every Inch of the game is covered and Explained and is worth reading if 
 you are new, to understand the game. (credit goes to Ifurita for the whole guide) .
  
  The Strogg :
  
  Another aspect of the Game Worth Mentioning is the fact that it is Aliens vs 
 Humans. And unlike other games, the teams are very different (not completely, but very) . In many 
 Multiplayer games, both teams are just Different skins and Different Spawn Points. But in this 
 game, the GDF and Strogg are different in many parts, like how Reviving is done, the weapons, Gadgets, 
 Etc.
  It will complicate things a bit, as once you understand one team and go to the other you will feel 
 like in a different game and would need to get used to it. 
  But the great thing about this is not because there are 2 different teams, but how Balanced it 
 is. From my point of view, having two different teams with different load outs and gadgets (not 
 just skins) would prove unbalanced. But his game has proved that theory wrong.
  The differences of both teams are there. But still it is perfectly balanced. I only complained 
 once about the other team being stronger, bit that was because I was sniped clear by a Strogg Railgun 
 from a hill top.
  But then again, in this game, everything has its strengths, but can ALWAYS be countered. So if 
 you find a sniper pissing you off for example, just call in Artillery to his position and blow 
 him to kingdom come. There isn't a single thing that is overpowered in the game because it can 
 be countered.
  
  The Graphics :
  
  The Graphics in this game are of course, not the best compared to games like Crysis. But it still 
 has its greats and flaws.
  The Great thing about Quake Wars is the Performance and Field of View.
  The game on a 8600GT 
 can run on 60-70 FPS with High Settings and 1280x1024 Resolution. And not only that but you have 
 almost unlimited FoV.
  Having High FoV in other games would really put your PC to the Test (like in Oblivion, for example) 
 and also, it can make the game 'ugly' at some point because of Repeating Textures. But because 
 of a special 'toy' the game engine has called the 'Mega texture', the FoV of the game is fixed 
 at Unlimited. You can't get it less or more. You can view a Mountain, 1km away from you, without 
 getting your video card boiled. And the Mountains look fantastic too.
  But then, of course, the game has its flaws. Although you get 60 FPS, somehow, it doesn't feel 
 like you are playing with 60 FPS, and feels like you are playing with 30 or lower. And it is a 
 problem because of the game's fast Pace. And it may be because of the fact, that although I have 
 60-70 FPS, it then bounces up and down from 20 to 70.
  
  The Sound :
  
  The sound is actually good and not that bad that you would want to turn it off. The little music 
 the game has is well done, the guns sound as they should and although the Voicing is kinda 'Out 
 of place', once you get used to it, it does its job well. Also, the game has some Humor after the 
 map ends (which i won't say to anyone, because of Spoilers)
  
  Pros :
  
  Ace Gameplay : The gameplay in the game is both deep and fun. Although the immense depth will get 
 you a steep learning curve, once you get used to it, it will last for a long long time.
  
  Intelligent Bots : The bots in the game are surprisingly effective and clever. They will assist 
 their team and kill any enemy in sight. Sometimes, you will enjoy the bots more then the normal 
 clueless multilayer gamer! Also, it is a good idea to practice with bots before you decide to play 
 a Multiplayer game, to get used to the maps, classes etc.
  
  Asymmetrical balance : Just keep the fact in mind that to everything, there is a weakness. And 
 you will never complain that there something is overpowered. Finding the Weakness is the real challenge 
 about it tho.
  
  Strogg! Strogg! Strogg! : No other Alien Species is as Kick Ass as the Strogg.
  
  Maps : Well 
 Designed. Detail has been put in all maps and also all are balanced. Combining them into campaigns 
 with an experience and rewards system is all the better.
  
  Performance : Having 60 FPS with great looking Graphics on an 8600GT is impressive.
  
  Cons 
 :
  
  Performance : Yep. As I said, there is something really odd about the Performance, Having 60 FPS 
 and feels like 30 FPS, is really not good for a fast paced game like this. Both Fraps and the game 
 itself confirmed the 60 FPS.
  
  Ending Comments:
  
  A Rough, Huge Diamond is what describes Quake Wars. For first, you are going to be disappointed, 
 like I was by the game. But once you get used to it, you are going to get a ride of your life. 
 If it wasn't for the Performance Problem, the game would be much much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Lifemaniac
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 29, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  With all the quality games released lately this game has no chance, poor AI, closed in maps that 
 provide no scale to the fighting areas, a squad based game that has no VOIP for communicating with 
 teammates or squad members. The list of failures for this game go on and on, multiple patches have 
 still not fixed major issues for many unfortunate purchasers of this game. I have played FPS and 
 many other games for over 15 years, nothing about this game impressed me, not one thing in this 
 game is new or different then the countless other games that have been released in the past. Its 
 a no brainer dont read they hype, because ETQW has nothing to hype, its a one dimensional poorly 
 designed game with plenty of bugs and glitches to waste your time.
  
  
  Considering I can not even connect online because of connectivity issues with their ISP interface 
 program, I can only play offline with bots. That lasted about 15 minutes when I saw this was junk, 
 and they wasted my money, of course customer service could care less they offered absolutely no 
 fix or solution. They merely wasted my time asking stupid questions like "well did you try to connect 
 again" what level of moron do you need to be to consider that customer service? They have had this 
 problem since release and after 2 patches it is still not fixed, all you need to do is go to the 
 ETQW forum and read the connectivity thread and you will see many people are having problems even 
 logging in to play the game. And ETQW blames your ISP or your router or what ever is the flavor 
 of the month for an excuse of why it has not been resolved.
  
  You will be out $50 if you role the dice on this one, BIOSHOCK, COD4, BF 2142 make great alternatives 
 along with many other great newer releases. Buy Crysis instead, it is light years ahead of anything 
 else on the market today! I unfortunately could not wait for something new to play and made the 
 $50 mistake of buying something I can not use! Of course you will not receive a refund if it does 
 not work for you, so why take a chance?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  I have been a long time fan of the Quake franchise. With the last game Q4 I had a great time destroying 
 the strogg in their home territory and its refreshing to be back home on EARTH and in more familiar 
 locations like Antarticia, N Africa, Australia and California. These location bring it home and 
 entertain as I play both sides of the conflict.
  
  Now I like single player games and when I heard they were tweaking the bots to play more "human 
 like" I couldn't wait to find out. The results are they do play more intelligently than other multiplayer 
 shooters but still don't fit the mold as I hoped for. I know it's hard to do this but CS had some 
 hard bots that acted like humans so I know it's possible to accomplish with the right code. 
  
  With my play test I found myself still having fun and the different classes make it even better. 
 For example, you can play as the typical engineer and blow up road block to progress and take territory 
 or you can play as a arty class and build lauchers that rain fire down on the enemy. The sniper 
 class is fun to play as well but it seems the AI can just smell you a mile away and thus your location 
 is given up. 
  
  The weapons are pretty solid. Some say the strogg have the most interesting weapons but i disagree. 
 The GFS have more common weapons that were used to but I find they're more fun to play around with 
 than that of the strogg. The sounds are great as well with the all famous death scream being my 
 favorite sound in the game. Explosions and gun fire are also good as to be expected.
  
  The maps range from warm desert like climates to mountains and artic to urban environments. The 
 urban maps are really fun to play the bots on because you can hide as a arty or sniper and really 
 make your enemy cry as you destroy his forward position elements.
  
  The graphics are good as well and scale to my four year old Dell nicely. I think the environments 
 on semi-high settings are beautiful to look are especially when snow is falling or a wind storm 
 kicks up the dust in the streets on the desert maps.
  
  Replay is endless really. I consider this game more of a sandbox game like the BF series and URT. 
 You can play and play and never get tired if your really into that. I myself, can only play when 
 the urge comes and for a few hours a week before it loses it's appeal.
  
  Overall, this is a grea tgame if your into the open-ended warfare of ET QW. You can't go wrong 
 with hours upon hours of mindless shooting fun and the immersion of being in a great conflict either 
 as the strogg or the GFS my favorite side. Here a hint. Don't pay 49 dollars for this when you 
 can download it from Steam for $39 like I did when the game is $10 off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlazingEternity
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  There have been a lot of great multiplayer shooters on the PC, but few had the complete package 
 like Enemy Territory did. It was fast paced, it was objective driven, it was team oriented, it 
 was based on World War II, it was a free standalone game, and it had a flamethrower - what more 
 could you ask for? Even to this very day despite its dated feel I'd happily fire up a game of ET 
 and be occupied for hours. Thanks to Splash Damage, id Software and Activision, fans of ET can 
 finally bring their favourite brand of MP FPS action onto the modern stage as Enemy Territory: 
 Quake Wars is now out and about worldwide for the PC, and the online shooting genre has never been 
 more fun.
  
  While the original release was most commonly known as 'ET', the actual full name goes by Wolfenstein: 
 Enemy Territory because the game was an extension to the Return to Castle Wolfenstein FPS shooter 
 - a free standalone 'mod' if you will. Obviously Activision saw the huge potential that ET offered 
 their publishing label with its large take up in the online FPS communities across the world and 
 decided that expanding the series to a commercial status was worth a shot, and this is where Enemy 
 Territory: Quake Wars comes in. Like the original ET was based around RTCW scenery, weapons and 
 storyline, Quake Wars is based around the world of Quake in many of the same ways, although don't 
 fret, as Splash Damage have made sure that fans of the original ET should have no trouble picking 
 up where they left off when playing Quake Wars.
  
  As any avid fan of the Quake series would know, the series itself has not been consistent over 
 the years and doesn't always continue the exact same storyline or even gameplay style from version 
 to version, so it is worth noting that Quake Wars is an extension to the storyline we saw in Quake 
 II, which consists of an alien race known as the 'Strogg' and their desire to conquer the Human 
 race on earth, although not without resistance. The Humans are represented on the battlefield by 
 a global defense force known as the, er, Global Defence Force (despite the odd lack of accents 
 beyond American) , and this Strogg vs GDF conflict across various locations on Earth forms the entire 
 premise of the game.
  
  But lets not play into the storyline or premise too much, as Quake Wars is really all about the 
 gameplay. There is no single player story mode on offer here (although there is the ability to 
 play offline with bots) , this is all about team vs team objective based combat with a heavy emphasis 
 on teamwork. Like the original ET, Quake Wars isn't just about racking up kills - in fact there 
 is no kill count viewable during gameplay at all. This game is about completing the game's objectives 
 both primary and secondary, which can range from defending a certain target, to carrying a data 
 disc to a comm center, and killing whoever may get in your way. How you go about tackling the objectives 
 will depend on a few factors, but easily the most important factor comes in the form of your chosen 
 class.
  
  Much like the original ET, Quake Wars revolves around the presence of five major classes - the 
 front line grunt, the medic, the engineer, the long range weapons expert, and the covert specialist 
 - all of which are represented on both the Strogg and Human sides, albeit with different names. 
 Even though all classes come equipped with enough basic weaponry to foster traditional deathmatch 
 style MP shooting gameplay, the class that you choose on any given map is basically going to dictate 
 how you operate, so it is definitely in your best interest to try and play to the strengths of 
 your class as each and every one of them can be quite potent in their own way on the battlefield.
 
  
  For example, if you choose the 'Field Ops' or 'Oppressor' class, you're going to want to take advantage 
 of the fact you can build long range artillery weaponry which you can then later direct to more 
 or less any part of the battlefield for bombardment. If you chose to be a 'Medic' or a 'Technician', 
 then you'll want to make sure you're actively looking to re-supply friendly players with more health 
 packs as well as tend to as many fallen comrades as possible. If you're an 'Engineer' or a 'Constructor', 
 then you'll want to make sure any friendly deployable units are kept in tip top shape as well as 
 build turret deployable's of your own. Now, this all sounds fine and well, but how does the Quake 
 Wars make gamers want to do these niche things when the inclination may be to just pull out your 
 main weapon and treat the game like Quake 3: Arena?
  
  Simple - by integrating the objectives to cater for each and every class on the battlefield, and 
 by connecting these objectives with an 'XP' system. Every time you complete an objective in this 
 game you are granted 'XP', and the best part about this is these objectives aren't always primary 
 'win or lose' type things - some of them are as simple as taking out an enemy turret or deployable 
 that someone on the opposing team just built. Better still, your current objective can be chosen 
 by yourself from a list at the top left of your screen by pressing the 'M' key, and your chosen 
 class can influence which missions are available to choose from, which is a great mechanism as 
 it makes sure that objectives are spread across all players on a team more evenly. How you actually 
 tackle an objective is naturally down to your chosen class, and this is where the game's awesome 
 class variation and sturdy team based framework meet.
  
  Of course, gaining 'XP' wouldn't be much of a big deal if it was just a meaningless number, so 
 Splash Damage made sure to build on the original ET's system of granting upgrades to players based 
 on XP, although this time around there definitely seem to be more on offer, or at least more important 
 upgrades on offer. For instance, you can gain more accurate weapons and even a scope, increased 
 running speed, more health, and other class related enhancements such as lower build times and 
 quicker target acquiring times. It was very important if not down right vital that 'XP' mattered 
 in this game and Splash Damage have done a grand job of making this so, as these upgrades truly 
 come through on the battlefield. For example, the second you gain a scope for your Assault Rifle 
 as a GDF Field Ops, you're basically capable of changing the tide of a fight from well behind the 
 front lines. These XP upgrades and your XP number itself doesn't stick with your online account 
 (although there is stat tracking) , but it does span across an entire 'campaigns', four of which 
 exist by default, each featuring three unique maps, which by the way are all nicely designed and 
 well stocked with useful buildings and terrain, not to mention plenty of vehicles and air craft 
 to drive or fly around in, such as the 'Titan' tank and 'Anansi' Helicopter for the GDF, or the 
 imposing 'Cyclops' mech-warrior like machine and personal 'Icarus' jet packs for the Strogg.
  
  With all these options going on at once, it's no wonder that this classic ET gameplay is so 
 damn fun. Even though you're likely only out to enhance your own XP so you have a better chance 
 of killing other gamers, this selfishness as a whole across all gamers comes together in a team 
 sense almost flawlessly, and even though the maps are quite large and the player limit per server 
 quite small (24) , it's very rare to see more than one battle going at any given time, meaning just 
 about everyone playing any given map will be in the same general location fighting over the same 
 goal. The result is pure mayhem where, at times, you can expect to die, re-spawn and kill maybe 
 10 times for each respectively in a span of 2 minutes. But then it all comes back to your class 
 - you may hardly die at all pointing our bombardment targets from a distance, or as a sniper perched 
 on an obscure hill, or as a Strogg 'Infiltrator' as you deploy your deadly flying drone from a 
 safe location and detonate it amongst an unsuspecting group of GDF engineers fixing their MCP. 
 This control to do what you want isn't meant to also allow for such team oriented gameplay, but 
 somehow Quake Wars pulls it off perfectly, offering so much variation and possibilities while at 
 the same time maintaining balance amongst classes and both factions. The end result is quite simply 
 multiplayer gameplay that can't be faulted, it is just that fun and that well done.
  
  Unfortunately though, the system isn't perfect. The trade off here with all this carefully crafted 
 team based gameplay is that Quake Wars is not exactly the most user friendly online shooter out 
 there. There is nothing more simple than a basic deathmatch online shooter, so when you start to 
 introduce the more complex notions of teamwork, objectives and classes, that's when you also start 
 to introduce somewhat of a learning curve. I must admit at first, when I started playing the demo 
 some weeks ago, the amount of action and information being processed in-game was a little overwhelming, 
 not to mention the initial confusion of understanding the responsibilities of each class which 
 can change depending on the map. Quake Wars is a game that will take a fair bit of experience and 
 experimenting to become accustomed to where you will often learn things the hard way. With this 
 in mind, some people may be put off which could limit the amount of gamers online at times. This 
 is fantastic for those wanting to take the game seriously because it means you're more likely to 
 play against other serious and experienced gamers who know what they're doing but, in a way, it 
 might make Quake Wars somewhat of a niche title compared to other online shooters, just like the 
 original ET was.
  
  And this is really the only significant point you can make against Quake Wars - it is exceptionally 
 similar to the original ET. Obviously the graphics (which looks great by the way) have been updated 
 moving to the newest Carmack created engine, and obviously the shift of focus to Quake themed gameplay 
 has added some new weapons and capabilities such as vehicles and expanded deployable's, but ultimately 
 the gameplay has remained much the same. This is not a negative in itself because the original 
 ET was a great game, but if you gave the original ET a go and it didn't take your fancy, you'll 
 probably have the same reaction here. On one hand this somewhat conservative approach may limit 
 ET: QW's ability to attract new attention to the series, but I tend to believe the simple fact 
 this is now a commercial mainstream PC title and not a free download hidden in some file archive 
 will help to attract the attention it deserves. The Quake angle offers enough fresh content to 
 separate this game from the original enough that a purchase from ET fans is warranted, but at the 
 same time it retains the same feel and balance that made ET so popular. If you loved the original 
 ET or just want some extremely fun and addictive MP FPS fun with quite a lot of depth and detail, 
 you simply can't go wrong with Enemy Territory: Quake Wars, it truly is a multiplayer master piece 
 that will remain in the upper echelon of online PC shooters for many years to come. It's just uncanny 
 how awesomely fun this game can and almost always manages to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gruug
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted this game to be a BF killer. I wanted it to do what BF does but so much better. 
 Unfortunately, this is not what we get. Yes, there is plenty of action. Yes, the game seems to 
 play without a lot of glitches. But, ET just can't phone home any real legs. ET is a game that 
 we have seen before but only in a slightly different wrapper. It trys to be a BF game AND a Quake 
 Wars game. Unfortunately, it doesn't do either well. If you are looking for a game that has tight 
 team based play..... avoid this one. If you want a fast passed action game.... well, maybe. It plays 
 fast but is it really "fun"? For about 15 or 20 minutes maybe. After that..... just uninstall it 
 and go look for something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skullcandy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  I will admit I am a bit biased towards these types of games, by which I mean frag fests. There 
 is very little strategy involved other than to keep pushing forward and throwing grenades. Your 
 average life span is a minute or two, if you're lucky.
  
  Graphically the game is okay. It suffers from the "made in China" plastic look which I always associate 
 with the graphics engine. The sound effects are nothing special, most guns sound alike. The classes 
 take some getting used to, and though they have interesting ideas, they all seem to fall short. 
 The engineer, for example, has the ability to deploy different types of turrets, but once deployed 
 you have no control over the turret itself, its automated. And you can only have one turret deployed 
 at a time.
  
  It will appeal to some people, but for all the waiting and delays this game suffered, I don't feel 
 a fifty dollar price tag is worth it. Wait for it to drop to thirty, which will hopefully be soon. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wargammerzs
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  This game is possibly the best pc game I have picked up in a while. Not only for it's great graphics 
 and gameplay, but because of its story and community. In this game you can play as the invading 
 team, the Strogg or the defending team, the GDF, and fight across the world trying to eliminate 
 the other team. There are 10+ maps, a big inventory of guns and weapons, and a whole lot of vehicles, 
 which if you master you can dominate the battle field. The guns range from short ranged pistols 
 to shotguns even to snipers. There are key spots in the game where snipers can find themselves 
 at home or if you're an all out mass destructionist then you can use the hammer launcher/dark matter 
 cannon to eliminate all foes in the area. There are atleast 5 or more missions at a time that you 
 can perform so it never gets boring. Also you can be comfortable with a GMPG at the top of a building 
 while shooting everyone in site. Overall this is a game that I would recommend anyone to play no 
 matter who you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rajarshi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  This is team-based gameplay at its best. Its nothing like BF2, & its a lot better. The general 
 gameplay feels great and the objective driven action keeps the real fun part more focused. The 
 classes here are much more varied and distinct than in BF & its impossible to get lost in here 
 as in "what do i do next". You can run forever here, which makes the pace of the game feel considerably 
 faster... something that i hated in BF. Also the bots are great here, unlike BF. Bots perform really 
 well here - using shields, laying mines, deploying the big big guns in the right places, & coming 
 in groups through alternate routes. I have stopped playing BF after i got my hands on this. This 
 game is exactly what i've been waiting for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackFunk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  I am writing a review at the moment I have 189 hours logged on the Enemy Territory: Quake Wars 
 official stats site. This game is so addictive and why is that you might wonder?
  
  It's extremely fun to play, it's got a diversity in classes which allows for different modes of 
 play. The two opposing sides also have some differences in the way they feel and play.
  
  The game is the struggle between Strogg and GDF (Global Defence Forces) so it's set in the universe 
 created in Quake 2 and continued in Quake 4. The Strogg are ofcourse the evil aliens trying to 
 invade the earth and GDF is there to stop them.
  
  The game offers experience based play over campaigns which each have 3 different maps which mostly 
 also offer three main objectives per map. The classes are soldiers (you're basic fighter) , medics 
 (reviving and keeping the team up) , engineers (building defensive turrets and repairing) , fields 
 ops (suppressing bombardements) and covert ops (hacking, sniping, camping and disguising) . These 
 five classes allow for a lot of variety in the way you can play the game and in addition to all 
 of this there are still vehicles, both ground and air, which makes for enormous dynamic gameplay.
 
  
  There's a demo out that you can try and this is the game that finally got me off playing Counter-Strike. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bblundell
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  The demo really turned me away from this game. I played it for about 2 days, and said the hell 
 with it. I didn't like the hit-boxes, nor the graphics. The game itself is nothing like the demo 
 AT ALL! The game is awesome with the crisp clean graphics, and the new VOIP added in the new patch. 
 What more could you ask for? Strogg vs. Marines.... it seems like this story has been going on for 
 years in the Quake series, but this puts a whole different spin on the game. Although most people 
 don't use much tactics/teamwork on the servers... there are a few out there so look carefully for 
 them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tvguyofnature
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  The hype surrounding this game was immense, especially because it's derived from the highly enjoyable 
 Quake series. I've never played the Quake games but I can tell they're extremely good just from 
 playing this game. The whole game seems like a multiplayer server as even single player mentions 
 things like Ping and there is no pausing. This can be both a good and bad thing, on one hand you 
 might find the gameplay nonstop and very engaging but then theres no pit stop to the bathroom because 
 you'll almost definitely be killed. Although theres quick respawn, you can never rely on a technician 
 or medic because for some reason they never make it to you (one took almost 6 minutes) . When playing 
 theres a clear box that always tells you what to do and where to you because theres meter distances. 
 i found this helpful as I'm the kind of person who forgets things and since theres a continuous 
 reminder to make sure you know where to go.
  
  The classes is also something new I've never seen. You get a choice of 5 groups and you select 
 the one that you find most appealing. Each one has it's advantages and disadvantages but I usually 
 choose Soldier/Aggressor or Covert Ops/Infiltrator because they have the most weapon choices and 
 I'm the shooting type person.
  
  I liked most aspects of this game but running it on Vista on a subpar computer is not a wise choice. 
 i don't have a good computer at all, my graphics card and RAM are pretty good but everything else 
 is garbage. If the game isn't run on fullscreen then loading times decrease x5 and they're slow 
 to begin with. I have to wait a really long time for the game to load and then occasionally AERO 
 freezes and explorer crashes and I can't even switch out of the game. it's gotten better, but my 
 initial experiences have traumatized me.
  
  Overall, it is an excellent game that is completely worth buying but if you have a horrible computer 
 like I do then except minor-major problems.
  
  Also, DO NOT play this game with a gamepad. Trust me, you will regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hwatney
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Wow, finally an alternative team FPS that delivers all the best aspects of BF2 - but with better 
 graphics! Add to that the fact I can't seem to hit jack, just like Counter Strike! It's the best 
 of both worlds! If I can master this game I might actually be able to stand up at the next LAN 
 party and say 'Yes, I think I WILL play Counter Strike with you guys! 
  
  In all seriousness it is somewhat more challenging than BF2 and I think anyone who is comfortable 
 with that game will be with this one. In fact, if you HATE BF2 you may find that this game will 
 turn you back on to the genre. I haven't installed the patch yet - I definitely hope it disables 
 the lamest shooter tactic ever - bunny hopping! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlochLin
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  I was a firm believer in 'lone wolf' gaming - I played FSP's with one intention to kill everyone 
 else, then I was introduced to Wolfenstein - Enemy Territory and loved it.
  
  Then I heard that ET had come to the Quake world and to be honest I was torn - ET rocked on Wolf 
 but Q4 sucked... would it be a good union?!?
  
  The Answer: HELL YEAH!
  
  This is one of the slickest FSP's I've played and the multiplayer co-op is a thing of beauty.
 
  
  With great graphics, fantastic physics, unique yet comfortably familiar weapons, nice spread fo 
 vehicles and loads of action - not to mention the spine chilling call 'STROGG!' - make ET: QW a 
 killer way to see out 2007!
  
  If you don't think co-op is as much fun as good ol' DM's I suggest you give this a bash!
  
 
  Oh, and *crank* up the difficulty it; s the only way to play *evil grin* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gazro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  Fantastic battles, the delays waiting for this game have been worth it though I think they should 
 have waited until voip was added. Lack of voip was the main gripe on release and put many off. 
 The new patch 280 megs sorts all the problems out and the developers seem to listen to there user 
 base unlike EA in BF2 . So it has great graphics, support and now voip, I love BF2 but I think 
 its met its match here and can only get better. Lets hope that they release updates with extra 
 maps that don't sting the userbase like EA's Euro forces and armored fury.
  
  Please Gamespot review the game with its update. [CLA] Gazro 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junkchaser
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 2:09 am PT
Review:  As battlefield was one of the first games in it's genre, Quake Wars really gives it a fresh imago. 
 The demo is rather good, but the maps in the full game really does the trick. You have to work 
 together and learn how to infiltrate or defend your territory.
  
  The graphics are rather basic but you can expect a lot of nice screens. But the developers knew 
 that gameplay is more important then graphics.
  The maps are balanced and comprehensive as there are a lot of vehicles and buildings; all on the 
 right place . The sound is like it should be. Some nice music and good sampled effects.
  
  The guys from ID know how to program a game platform as updates are automatic downloaded in-game 
 and new function are added on the moment of speaking (update 1.2) .
  
  A must have for FPS-fanatics! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoatheMe
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  great graphics and some interesting classes, but gets extremely repetitive. when I first played 
 the demo I was completely hooked and played the hell out of that level, but after getting the full 
 version you realize that all the levels have pretty much the same 2 sets of objectives over and 
 over again, with not really anything interesting setting the levels apart from each other. after 
 playing through all the levels once each I was bored and had no more urge to disable the damn mcp 
 for millionth time. seems like the strogg have a huge advantage in most levels too, or more accurately 
 whoever is on defense has the advantage, which is strogg for most of the levels. maybe with some 
 proper coordination and teamwork the defense could be beaten a little more easily, but it's pretty 
 hard to do that since theres no voice chat. how the hell can there be no voice chat on an entirely 
 team based game? ridiculous. so this game may seem impressive at first, but it gets old pretty 
 quick. definitely not something I can play long term. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camar001
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 28, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Well, its finally here after all the hype over the past few years. And its good, but sadly not 
 as good as it could have been.
  
  First of all, the games mission system does set this game apart from the rest of the FPS games 
 out there. You always know what you are doing and where you need to go to do it. You gain XP for 
 the missions that you complete, and when you get enough XP, then you level up to the next rank. 
 This would have been great, if it were for the fact that you loose all that XP when you log off 
 of a server. There is no persistent rank system, so when you start a new game, you have to start 
 all over again from the lowest rank.
  
  Secondly, there is alot of lag in this game. It seems that the community hasnt yet figured out 
 that high pings means the server is going to lag for everyone in the game, so you find alot of 
 laggy servers with people with 200+ pings in the game. This wouldnt be so bad, but, the speed and 
 ferocity of the game means that a seconds lag kills you.
  
  And finally, the game is totally unbalanced. In all the maps, the advantage is heavily in the Stroggs 
 favour. They have the better postions, the more defendable terrain and the more powerful weapons, 
 meaning that even in a match with even sides, the Strogg are the most likely to win all the time. 
 Not just that, most of the missions only require the strogg to prevent the GDF from achieving their 
 own goal, not too difficult given the defensive and offensive advantages that they have.
  
  The game looks good, sounds good, plays reasonably well, even if some of the controls are a little 
 clunky... but this game still isnt a patch on Quake for or ANY of the Battlefield Series. In short... this 
 game failed to live up to the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acidburnben
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  It is nice to see a change in time frame as well as some unique gameplay fixes. First off you will 
 note that this is not your average quake game, not by a long shot. But there are some significances 
 and references that make it more clear. Gameplay: To start off you pick a side, Strogg or HGD (Human 
 Global Defence) Each one with the usual classes that you have come to expect from a battlefield-like 
 game. Once you pick a class you are able to approach the objectives from any strategic perspective. 
 You can go in all Chuck Norris, but that wont get you far. Taking the role of a sniper you can 
 clear the way for your teammates for a successful invasion. Or you can take control of a HAV and 
 burst through the gates of a Strogg stronghold. Sadly, there is no voice chat and at times, it 
 can be very hectic and you can find yourself looking face down in a matter of seconds without it.
 
  
  Graphics: Run well on even a moderate machine
  
  Controls: What you have come to expect from a battlefield-like game, Key bindings don't always 
 work though.
  
  Overall a well based game for fans of online tactical shooters, and only them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jooj
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2007 4:57 am PT
Review:  Please note *VOIP (voice chat over the internet between players) is coming in the V1.2 patch! OK 
 On with the review :D
  
  I played the demo for an hour didn't like it, it was only when I read the manual and had another 
 go whilst off work with flu that I realised what I was supposed to be doing. Here lies ET QW's 
 main flaw (from a marketing point of view at least) : it's quite complicated for a shooter; and 
 it's quite different to most shooters so it's not immediately obvious how the game works.
  
  Unlike BF2142 (to which it is often wrongly compared, the games are nothing like each other, 
 though there are some similarities in the graphics) this is no 'team death match with flags'. Each 
 game has a time limit, during which one team must strive to complete a series of objectives whilst 
 the other attempts to thwart their efforts.
  
  If you've played CS you might find yourself bored after a few days. That's because you're expecting 
 it to be just like CS (a common complaint is the lack of variety in gun dynamics, whatever that 
 means) and not seeing ETQW for what it is. This is bit of a a 'team working thinker'. If a stalemate 
 evolves you're going to need team work and a little inventiveness. It's no good arming up then 
 charging off to battle without some sort of coordinated plan, unless you're playing against n00bs 
 that is!
  
  Anyways, a quick overview of game play:
  
  Before spawning players choose from 5 classes, each comes with a selection of weapons (e. g. the 
 soldier can be either a heavy machine gun or rocket launcher guy depending on the selection you 
 make before spawning) . Classes for each of the game's sides are subtlely different, e. g. GDF medics 
 can revive players instantly with shock paddles whereas the Strogg take several seconds (but the 
 Strogg get to create 'spawn hosts' from the corpses of their fallen enemies, allowing players to 
 respawn mid-battle field) .
  
  Similarly, the vehicles used by the two are far from identical e. g. the strogg have the 'icarus', 
 a sort of jetpac type thing, where GDF have high speed quad bikes.
  
  As a game progresses players earn experience by completing missions (these can be anything from 
 the game's main mission objectives, such as driving/escorting a mobile command base to it's destination, 
 to repairing vehicles, constructing defensive turrets or blowing up troublesome barriers) . Experience 
 is earned in several categories (e. g. vehicles, light weapons) depending on a player's actions. 
 As they earn experience their abilities in each of these fields increase, e. g. weapon magazine 
 size increases or the player can call for vehicle drops in the field. This is all enhanced by 'campaign 
 mode' where groups of three maps are played and each player carries over rewards from one map to 
 another.
  
  Much criticized is the lack of VOIP support*, in its place is a plethora of 'prerecorded' messages 
 that can be selected using an easy to access menu system. The advantage of this system is that 
 anyone can use it with or without a microphone, it doesn't clog up your bandwidth with voice data 
 and it allows you to communicate with anyone, independent of language skills. The disadvantages, 
 of course, are that selecting an item from a menu isn't as quick as using voice and that even though 
 there are quite a number of well thought out phrases to select from they aren't going to cope with 
 every situation (e. g. there's no he's over there behind the second anti-vehicle turret, watch out 
 he has a rocket launcher ) . Still, all in all it works well.
  
  Anyhoo that's pretty much it, the two sides spawn repeatedly and charge towards the current crunch 
 point (s) , shoot at each other and duke it out until either one of them completes all the required 
 objectives or the timer runs out. Oh, and it's all quite good fun! Hope that helps
  
  Not for everyone perhaps, some people just don't 'get it' and games are long (1/2hr+) . I'd recommend 
 you try the demo before you buy. Bizarrely, the excellent tutorial videos that shipped with the 
 alpha of the game were pulled from the final product. They're worth watching, search youtube for 
 'quake wars tutorial' and you'll find them. These early tutorials deal with the demo map so they're 
 an idea place to start.
  
  I've never been that impressed with any of the quake series but this (as you can probably tell) 
 has turned me in to a bit of a fanboy! Take the time to work it all out, take time to realise that 
 this isn't BF2 or CS or UT or even ET: RCW but it's own game and, like me, you might just end up 
 hooked! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siiixon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  No mater if you background is DEDICATED battlefield or CS type shooters you running in risk of 
 being disappointed, its trend this days that game makers try to create games between FPS genres 
 to gain customer base from both = yet game after game they fail, there is a reason the CS gamer 
 hates/find-boring Battlefield and versa, we have each our own preferred things games have to offer, 
 mixing so completely different game styles instead of focusing or making each genre even better, 
 further more stealing ideas from other games with just about complete lack of new innovative ideas 
 is just a shame, YET after playing crisis-beta and reading up on FrontlinesFoW I have to say that 
 I cant give QW a 6 as other games released recently/soon are even worse, in fact if I load QW right 
 after I suffered a few rounds trough crysis, QW is actually quite a good game, so it all maters 
 what your background is and what you are used too, if this is one of the 1st FPSs you be playing 
 you might love it, but if you love Battlefields or love CSs you probably be disappointed, even 
 if you loved Wolf: ET player you might be disappointed because this game has to much of elements 
 from other more recent games and the few W: ET elements are barely noticeable. Lets just boldly 
 say that even I could done better with ideas and Im not even in the gaming industry so here for 
 the good as I said Im surprised that QW feels better because the great optimized grafix and far 
 more realistic physix compared to even crysis, game play makes more fun, and vehicles and items 
 work fairly good so dont expect to much, but as IMO if you have to chose crysis or QW as gameplay 
 is concerned chose QW over crysis or if you a Battlefield guy maybe wait on FrontlinesFoW or huxley. 
 QW wont make anyone addicted but its ok for a few weeks wasting time, if thats worth $40-50 thats 
 up to you to decide.
  What is a very big plus is the Maps they creative and very nice looking. Conclusion: not as bad 
 as many say, but definitely NOT an instant classic as many of us hoped for 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkin_parker92
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  This was sincerely a good game. Simply good like the previous series of Quake. But as you start 
 playin this game for a long period of time, the game starts getting bored. You just keep killing 
 enemies and capture territory and explode objectives or destroy them or what ever. Anyways, the 
 game got boring towards the end. Activision could of worked to add single player story mode introducin 
 both the human side and Strogg side. i will look forward for the future improvement of the Quake 
 series This is recommend game for those you just like massacre and just likes killing enemies and 
 succeeding objectives. It isnt a good game for those who want to enjoy playing the stories like 
 Half lfie and others games that create a story over the serires. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roblox84
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 25, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is an ok game for a person that likes sci fi shooters. But as a battlefield 2 player 
 i just couldn't change over to this. I ran out of options when i couldn't play battlefield 2 on 
 vista and i didn't like 2142, so i decided to try quake. But I had a hard time trying to figure 
 out what controls do what since there are significantly more and there were just too many objectives 
 to complete rather then just the simple kill the other team or take over their bases. The computer 
 tells you to build bridges, plant bombs everywhere. Why can't you just do what you want? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoveableJoe
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  To begin with the game is easy to set up but it feels as though you will never get the hang of 
 acctually doing much in the game or liking it. But do not fear, cause after an hour or two of playing 
 this game you will find you like it a lot more than you did when you were killed 20 times in the 
 same place by the same guy in the same annoying way.
  
  The thing is this game is very frantic, much like its single player campaign predecessors; making 
 its hard todo much. BUT after a while u slowly get use to it and can actually see the good side 
 of it, like the fact theres always a new place you can find to snipe all the enemy or getting your 
 mini gun out and shredding your rivals to pieces.
  
  This game does have a lot to compete with non the less. Battlefield 2142 has been its competitor 
 ever since Quake Wars was announced, but the game does hold its ground. Unlike Battlefield 2142 
 the game always feels frantic and does give more adreneline to the actual playing. Disimilar to 
 BF2142 the game has no roleplaying style , this is personally the place where it is let down the 
 most, as it would feel there is more reason to play if you can upgrade your character, this is 
 one of BF2142 strongest points and is why it is considered the best MMOFPS for the PC (along with 
 it's brilliant style of gameplay, and variant of ways of playing) .
  
  Quake Wars does deliver even if it may not be as good as BF2142 or Halo 3; which causes a lot of 
 possible players to use their 360 instead; it does give a unique style of gameplay, and is something 
 many people have been wanting for a long time-a quake game where we can all kick the hell out of 
 eachother-and does provide. The game is quite hard and the graphics are beautiful, with an old 
 quake feel to them along with the original style of moving which makes you feel your gonna break 
 your neck if you ever look up sunddenly! This game is new and has innovative methods of gameplay 
 and is one of the best MMOFPS's around and if it wasn't for a few drawbacks this game would easily 
 be the best in its series. p. s. Its also f**king addictive!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brotherbraak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  ET: QW is a faster paced shooter than Battlefield which can cause more frantic duels. The level 
 design is nice and although its nothing to gawk at, the levels are big and you can do alot of discovering. 
 The one thing I disliked about QW is the limited arrange of weapons. As you progress thru the campaign, 
 you gain upgrades such as more health, ammo, and more weapon damage. It can take awhile to get 
 these upgrades so losing them in the next campaign was something I extremely hated. They should 
 keep the upgrades permanent and make more levels and weapons. Its a good game but it seems that 
 it doesn't have enough replay value in it. If you have Battlefield, its good to pick this up for 
 a change but its nothing that you haven't seen before. Just a different world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schwass
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2007 3:12 am PT
Review:  Excellent gameplay and graphics.
  AI are intelligent and react to situations the way you would expect them to.
  Plenty of weaponry 
 for both teams and good to use with the surroundings
  Probably good multiplayer ( haven't actually got the internet full installed but when i do look 
 out for me)
  
  Both teams are fun to play as and some funny as kills are available to use (my favourite was in 
 the last 7 seconds i hopped into the Strogg vechile and rammed and destroyed a GDF tank.)
  
  Campaign is good and long, the missions in this game are cool but may sometimes get on your 
 nerves.
  
  One of the things I don't like is having to use cover regularly otherwise unless you are godlike 
 you will often die quickly.
  
  Commanding team members for things such as ammo and medical aid is extremely easy to use, there 
 are also alot more things to say (nothing is better than shooting a sniper in the head then saying 
 Owned )
  
  A superb and game and must have for PC owners 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Applerod
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  This is a solid game which offers little in the way of novelty. It's effective in that it successfully 
 combines elements from preexisting Shooters -- vehicles, team strategy, classes, and, (mercifully,) 
 specific objectives which help online in getting complete strangers more on less on the same page. 
 But it offers very little new, creative, or unexpected. The ability to work on a team-strategy 
 basis, particularly online, is hampered by the speed of the action -- which is pretty fun -- don't 
 get me wrong; it's just not conducive to strategic gameplay unless you're in a clan or something 
 and everyone's cooperating at the same time. Graphically, Quake Wars looks a bit dated and bland, 
 with very little attention payed to detail. Obviously the main function of the graphical environment 
 in this kind of game is to provide a decent area to run around and shoot things, not to distract 
 you with creative artistry, but for better or worse this contributes to the game feeling rather 
 flat and arcade-like. The vehicles are pretty fun though; plus the occasional weather effects add 
 a welcome touch of realism. The sound is passable, though I haven't found a way to turn down teammates' 
 voice commands which would be nice since you can only hear I'm a medic in the same loud voice so 
 many dozens of times before it gets a bit annoying.
  Overall this is a good game which should provide entertainment for those most interested in the 
 pure fun of blowing sh*t up. Those looking for greater depth in strategic violence should probably 
 look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinculus
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  The fast paced action in this game and the simplicity of the controls gives this game huge replay 
 value. I've only had this game for a few weeks and have loved every minute of it. The respawn timing 
 is great and quick, plus the objectives give you plenty more to do than your typical shoot-em-up 
 FPS. The variety of classes between the two races will keep any gamer busy in their attempt to 
 perfect each one. All in all this game offers simple gameplay with plenty of depth for long term 
 enjoyment. Any harsh critics of this game can go back to WOW and their mmorpg's for all I care 
 because this game rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPSGunnerDude
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2007 4:01 am PT
Review:  This is the kind of shooter game myself and many others have been waiting for. If you are tired 
 of the same old CTF and Deathmatch games and are looking for some great class based objective gameplay, 
 this is the game for you. Though It may be too complicated for someone new to shooters or someone 
 who doesn't play them much. I suspect this might be part of some of the low reviews.
  
  ETQW is an explosive, supercharged, strategic adrenaline rush. Classes are great and very diverse. 
 Strategy is endless. Not only do each class and team have their own special abilities and rank 
 up potential, great vehicles and deployables add to the strategic choices as well.
  
  The graphics are very nice, even though they are made from the oldtimy Doom 3 engine. There's a 
 lot of nice touches like giant power beams that shoot across the map when you complete an objective, 
 vehicles exploding and tires coming off and giant sci-fi explosions. Also the maps terrain is very 
 diverse and has hilly or mountainess outdoors, which for me is much more fun then a flat ground 
 shooter.
  
  Some people are stuck in their old Counter Strike or Battlefield CTF ways and may be turned off 
 because voice chat doesn't come with the game. But, if that doesn't bother you, then you're in 
 for one fun thrillride of a shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icedmetalhead
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 18, 2007 2:16 am PT
Review:  first, why do people say its so great. there are thousands of servers but there are very little 
 servers with players on it everytime i looked (and owh, they are full of botts)
  
  whats so great about the gameplay ? they talk about a game with teamwork , but you cant use a mic 
 and ive never been on a server where people actualy worked together.
  i rather think the action is boring, nothing special about it, everyone just doing there own thing. 
 grafics arent that great. and you need a good connection. they tried - they failed
  
  total waste of money for me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hstera
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Better than BF2 and a fast game-play! love it!
  It had a big HYPE, so i am a bit disappointed, but it's all right
  love sniper !
  it has good 
 areas to play on; both hide and seek (and of course sniping)
  the graphics lays on a character from 1to 10 i would have give it 8,5 .
  
  BF2 has a longer 
 play time i think more maps weapons etc.
  i like the Tundra... very cool to snipe people!
  all the machines and robots its cool, but i think its to much sci-fi the more real - games do i 
 like! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siavash_ps3
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2007 11:46 pm PT
Review:  First of all i should say that it is more close to battlefield series than any other games. When 
 u start the game for the first time and if u did'nt play any play any titles of Quake series, u 
 may become disappointed! but don't throw this game away. for the first time you may die again and 
 again but don't lower your weapon. reload it and start to starfe to left and right and then kill 
 your enemies with your high-tech weapons and equipments. it is up to u that fight as Strogg or GDF 
 but where side you are, please make sure that left no enemy left alive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XEmporioX
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Best multiplayer FPS in years. The level design, class balance, and sheer amount of tactical choices 
 is staggering. It's Wolfenstein Enemy Territory's objective game play on steroids. The deployables 
 add a RTS element that no other MP FPS has achieved. ETQW takes old school FPS shooting skill and 
 new era team based strategy games to a new level. Graphics are good but not mind blowing. On maximum 
 settings, they will not disappoint unless you're the most jaded of graphics whores, and expect 
 it to compete with Crysis. But unlike that game, it doesn't require SLI 8800GTX to look good and 
 perform well. The lighting on levels like Island and the Ark is breath taking. The sound effects 
 are great but the voice overs are intentionally campy, so that point is lost on some. But the most 
 important element, gameplay, has been polished to perfection. Watch the game trailers. com video 
 review for an idea of what to expect. Take the ridiculously low (3,4,5) user scored reviews with 
 a grain of salt. Typical complaints include too confusing and too fast . Hardcore and casual players 
 a like will love this game. Nothing has as much excitement. No other game gives you this much sense 
 of accomplishment when you manage to diffuse a bomb with 10 seconds left in the match, or conversely 
 hack the final objective for your team taking all the glory. I used to love simple CTF type games, 
 but not anymore. They're all so boring compared to ETQW. And the best part is it's just beginning. 
 This series has extensive community and mod support. I can't wait to see what next year will bring 
 to this game. Do yourself a favor and register on the official community forum and find out why 
 you need to buy this game ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Failed_Narcotic
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  I bought the game thinking it was going to be awesome. It wasn't all that awesome. It is a good 
 game, don't get me wrong. I guaranteed I played the game only for about an hour and I was already 
 doing excellent. So what I am saying is the game is very easy. You don't even have to be good at 
 FPS. It's that easy. Game play is pretty good. Graphics aren't bad. If you love to play multi player, 
 I would suggest this game. Overall, I think it deserves an 8. If you buy this game thinking that 
 your going to be getting Halo or something, your wrong. The game is decent and it is worth buying 
 if you like multi player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NukeU
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Nothing very special if u ask me. It's fun for about 20 min, then it starts getting reeeaaaly boring. 
 The graphicas are not bad, and the guys repeating the same phrases over and over dosn't help. U 
 also die way to easly. It's a shame, cause I was really looking forward to this game. (luckily 
 I only got the demo) I guess it's a good game if you haven't been spoiled by the likes of Half 
 Life Two, or Rainbow Six Vegas. I do think it has potental, though. Hopefully if they make a sequal, 
 they can work out a few problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kev_800
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  I don't want to repeat whats already been said, but you can pretty much throw out all of the 10s 
 that you see this thing getting reviewed as.... hardly a 10.
  
  The gameplay is too fast, you can't barely aim, its all spray and pray. There is no skill needed, 
 you just hope to get a headshot. You may be able to get a headshot if you're lucky on your first 
 shot, but after that, forget it.
  
  This game was a total dissapointment to me, considering I'm a huge fan of RTCW and ET... I guess 
 I'll just wait for Crysis or some of those other shooters, and sell this one on Ebay! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shingler10
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  Okay, so this game is jus wolfenstein enemy territory, but its great no the less! Graphics are 
 great, when played with a decent card, with a low end card, they start gettin rather bland. It 
 is good that you can play against pc or on the internet, so in a few years, when the game isnt 
 as popular, you can still play the campain, which brings me to one of the few bad points, its only 
 six missions long! Dont get me wrong, these are HUGE maps, and can b played over n over before 
 they start getting a bit boring. The only other bad point is that you tend to specialize in one 
 particular field, i went for sniper in the GDF. It is fun, but after a while you tend to find the 
 best spots/tactics, and it becomes a doddle to win the games in terms of kills. Overall, it is 
 a great game, an will provide hours of entertainment, but after you have played all the missions 
 100's of times over, it gets rather tedious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hemregul
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 10, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  This game is the next level of online gaming enough tactical flexibility and graphics precision 
 to really enjoy the game. Class selection and capabilities and mission play is one of the best 
 i have seen. The only `bugger` for me is that the feeling of continuously being monitored as to 
 which add or map your playing and for how long - I kinda find this disturbing. I am aware the you 
 can block this but for how long. Other than that I would say you get what you pay for with one 
 exception.. sometimes the physics of the game can go awry but i am giving this to it being the 
 first non patch release :) .. i think the future patches will fix some of these problems 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Christors
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 3:23 am PT
Review:  Many of us can be divided into two groups. Those who have known and loved the Battlefield (BF) 
 franchise, and those who have been itching for something to take its place, or at least rival it. 
 I for one, have been waiting for something new and exciting to come along and give Battlefield 
 a run for its money. However, I have found myself slightly disappointed with this latest attempt. 
 Do not get me wrong, I think Enemy Territory: Quake Wars (ET: QW) is certainly a worthy attempt, 
 it has the graphics and the game play, however it seems to have missed out on a couple of key concepts 
 as what made BF such a huge success. Firstly, the rewarding system seems completely inferior to 
 BF. I, and I'm pretty sure I'm not alone here, feel the need to be rewarded once in a while for 
 applying so much of my life to a game. With BF you constantly get rewarded for completing tasks 
 or objectives, spending time attacking or defending or even time running around with a resupply 
 crate. With ET: QW, we see a very basic rewarding system. Medals are only rewarded once for collecting 
 X amount of experience and completing certain tasks depending upon which class you choose.
  
  Secondly, weapon unlocks and new abilities can not be saved. I can understand why the developers 
 have decided to go down this road, but I wish they hadn't. The reasoning behind it (I assume) is 
 to be beginner friendly, and not have fully beefed up players coming up against those who have 
 just stared. But I never found this to be a huge problem with any of the BF games. It doesn't take 
 particularly long to get one or two of the first guns unlocked, if you know where you are heading. 
 Due to this, I found ET: QW lacked the same urge to go back for more and get that next weapon or 
 upgrade or allusive gold badge.
  
  ET: QW is, as I have mentioned, a worthy contender for the BF series, it just seems to lack the 
 meat that BF has collected over the years. Perhaps we will see sequels which will be more of a 
 contender. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jds0615
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  After playing the ET: Quake Wars demo relentlessly with my clan on the same map (Valley) time and 
 time again, the retail version of the game was a wonderful relief with a total of 12 wonderful 
 looking maps to play on. Each map has its own feel to it and most of them can accommodate any type 
 of playing style (although some may be more effective) . If you are a Merc. and like to blow stuff 
 up, than most maps will be for you however snipers will also be pleased with the effectiveness 
 of the GDF sniper rifle. Team play is essential which means that if you want to get the full team 
 gameplay experience from this game than you may want to join a clan or startup a Teamspeak server 
 with your buddies and play together. Overall this game will grab the eye of any avid PC gamer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keycodewanted
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  quake wars is the next game to quake wars its and online game but also single player you can play 
 as the strogg and alien race or gdf the humans to play online its free so no monthley pays its 
 a fast pace run and gun game its fast pace actions amazing and the vehicles are like battlefield 
 2142 so who every played it should get this theres and objective in every map most have more than 
 1 so if you get the game maybe ill see you there heres my word  
 in other words amazing so be prepared you need a good pc to cope with this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Balidanny
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  My initial reaction when first playing Enemy Territory: QUAKE Wars was impressed, but not sold. 
 After playing through a few complete campaigns I was totally hooked! This game takes time to learn 
 the maps and objectives before you can find your sweet spots and start having fun owning other 
 players. It's very immersing and the maps have a great unique feel. The rewards system does need 
 balancing however as its almost impossible to get all four upgrades in a single campaign. As in 
 the typical Quake fashion, after a few patches this game is only going to get better and better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkelf720
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  I played the demo of this game first and couldn't fathom out what the hell was going on. I forgot 
 that I had pre-ordered the game. Popped it on anyway and was pleasantly surprised. Enjoyable gameplay 
 and very tough AI makes this game a very good all rounder. Choose between The GDF or The Strog. 
 Choose a class, medic, soldier, covert ops, engineer etc. Start the game and jump into the nearest 
 vehicle for some instant carnage.
  
  Enjoy playing in a variaty of vehicles including Tanks, Mechs, Aircraft and more. A vast aray of 
 weapons from knives and guns all the way up to calling in air strikes on enemy positions.
  
  Fantastic game... Go Kill Some Strogg Scum Trooper........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strangelife
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  Im not gonna go into detail, but the MP in this is very fun. Im an old bf player since 1942 days. 
 Loved bf2, hated 2142. that isnt the setting for those games. But it works and is beilivable int 
 his game. Lots of weapons, plenty of diverse action. the icarus is tons of fun. Alot of the older 
 q3 players should really enjoy this, because the shooting dynamics are close. Just make sure you 
 unlock your FPS, and set the timing method too 1 and your gameplay will be 80% smoother, than the 
 30 fps its locked at stock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlanSpell
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  In fact, the game is pretty well done. When I first played the beta, I found really nice every 
 little thngs that I had to learn / discover. The only things I didn't love was the graphics that 
 looked like Half-life 2. But eh, that's because I discover there was an hidden feature that was 
 only usable from the console and that was going to be released later in the retail version, improving 
 the whole lightning of the game. So what you got?
  
  - An incredibly beautiful game, with pretty nice FXs
  - Good Teamplay, the squad are nice, the 
 secondary objectives are useful for the ones that doesn't know what they could do for help the 
 team. Classes that have to work each other to win.
  - A nice stats system, which is always nice just to see how much bullets you shot, what's your 
 accuracy and all, hours of fun.
  - Vehicules, which none of them is really overpowered. You don't actually have to take a vehicule 
 to win a game or to kill people.
  - Very nice gameplay, the speed of the game is fast, you practically never waste your time running 
 trough the map.
  - Differents evironments, great ideas.
  
  This game is pretty nice, and I didn't even could try the retail version because I actually have 
 to work most of the time. But something is sure, when I will get some spare time, I am going to 
 buy this game and play it non-stop ! Hehe =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaphan3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  I'm really tired of people saying its BF2 + Quake. Because this game is much better then BF2 in 
 most senses. ETQW pits the GDF (Global Defence Force) against an invasion from the Strogg. The Gameplay 
 of ETQW is much more deeper then BF2's. In ETQW there is usually 3 or 4 main objectives in a map. 
 Then there is 5 or maybe more/less secondary objective depending on your class which are more good 
 ways to get XP. If you played Wolfenstein Enemy Territory then you should right at home with this 
 game and its 5 classes. All which are returning. The Soldier, Medic, Engineer, Cover Op, and the 
 Field Op. All with there own unique abilities. For instance, the cover op and go in diguise. The 
 field op can hand out ammo and call for fire support. Also, another feature this game has that 
 BF2 lacks. Is the ability to call in ground support, such as call in anti personal/vehicle turrets, 
 as well as anti-fire support. This game also has two different types of ranking. There is a temp. 
 in game ranking that only saves for the campaign your currently on, then resets. And there Persistant 
 ranking which never resets.
  
  Graphics/Sound. ETQW runs on a modified Doom 3 engine, which is amazing because who would think 
 the D3 would support large outdoor areas. This game is also the first to feature the new Megatexture 
 tech. Which allows maps to unique with no repetitious textures. You can expect the same beautiful 
 graphics from Doom3 in this game as well. Sound is great, using the D3 it supports surround sound. 
 Multiplayer. It is extremely addictive. I've been playing non-stop, and I've been loving every 
 minutes of it. As of right now the multiplayer has 3 different modes Campaign, Objective and stopwatch.
 
  
  Campaign is basically broken down into 3 different maps. With 4 different theatres. North American, 
 North Europe, African, and Pacific. Whoever wins most of the 3 maps in a theatre is considered 
 the victor then the game would move on to the next theatre. Objective is a dumbed down version 
 of campaign, instead of 3 maps, objective is only a 1 map battle. With no theatre. Stopwatch is 
 kinda of a remake of an assault game mode. The 2 teams alternate between attacking and defending. 
 Competing to win who has the faster time. If you dont want to play online with other human players. 
 You can play a singleplayer with bots. Only downside is when playing with bots your persistant 
 ranking doesn't increase.
  
  Overall if you looking for a new multiplayer shooter that is somewhat like BF2, but with deeper 
 and richer gameplay. Quake wars is the way to go. Veterens from WolfET should feel right at home 
 with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ychi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Update: I recently purchased an EVGA 8800GT card and with it came a copy of ETQW. I am glad to 
 say that the billboards are not sprayed with adverts and the play experience is looking great. 
 I was really down on the game early on with the announcement was made.
  
  I look forward to purchasing any expansions they come out with.
  
  Additionally the addition 
 of bots is great for offline play and gives a chance to try out tactics, etc.
  
  For review purposes, I was an early beta tester and played/tested all the way up til they shut 
 the servers down for retail release.
  
  For quite some time I was a heavy supporter of the overall design for ET Quake wars. Unfortunately 
 my opinion abruptly changed when Splash Damage decided to go with in game advertisements. This 
 halted my retail purchase dead in its tracks.
  
  Ok putting that aside for the moment, lets look at the good points:
  
  The summary: Solid graphics, 
 but the physics seem a bit off. The vehicle controls, especially the flying vehicles, feel laggy 
 and unresponsive. Definitely purchase this game if you like team play as it rewards that behavior 
 heavily. Another bonus is most classes are not locked in, each class has its moment of glory for 
 a particular phase of the map so everyone gets a chance to contribute. Key: you will not get a 
 sense of team play until the players start calming down and start paying attention to the ebb and 
 flow of battle - what is needed where etc. Also players may be prompted by another reason: The 
 second the opposing team starts to work together you will get crushed and quickly see them complete 
 their objectives. Kudos to the game designers though, unlike other team based shooters you can 
 win and turn the game around at the last objective, _ if _ your side starts acting like a team. 
 Otherwise you will see a screen full of GG an a lot of whining about how their team sucks. Oh the 
 irony.... : )
  
  A few additional examples and details:
  
  ET Quake wars (ETQW) is generally an evolutionary game, meaning there are a lot of features that 
 we have all grown to expect along with game play improvements to give it that extra nudge to newness.
 
  
  The key with ETQW is the team based functions and how it impacts game play. The cool thing is you 
 can play most any class and be useful at some phase of the map. For example if you play an assault 
 character you can still take out enemy emplacements - nope you don't have to wait for an engineer 
 to blow it up, the explosives you are carrying will work just fine. Another example if you play 
 scout/recon you can deploy radar in specified deployment zones, when and where is essential, if 
 you go aggressive and deploy it right at the front lines your team gets the benefit of the radar 
 seeing incoming troop movements. Or if you deploy it behind that helps as well - no radar = blind 
 spot and enemy troops can skirt behind your defensive line and start destroying your emplacements.
 
  
  So you can see by the two examples there is a nice touch of tactical added to decisions. Now if 
 there were any gripes about this, is the deployment zones. ETQW will only allow you to place radar 
 for example, in designated areas. This can be frustrating, sometimes as it causes a sameness to 
 quickly happen where everyone puts their emplacements in about the same location every time for 
 that map.
  
  So overall I would highly recommend ETQW -- were it not for the in game advertisements. Presently 
 I inform everyone that asking me about it to play at your own/risk and continual expense.
  
  The frustration about in game advertisements: Its inexcusable. We shell out our hard earned 
 $$$ for in game advertisements!?! No thanks bub! Picture this, you and your friend purchase the 
 game, you both like it and decide to rent a dedicated server, the cost covers a 20 seat server 
 and you get the fun of being admin, yes! Now you can boot all those annoying players and get back 
 to another great round of Quake wars. So you are running along and bam! "Don't forget to buy brand 
 X" advertisement pops up. How is it fair? You have paid for all the services out of your own pocket 
 yet you are still subjected to advertisements.
  
  No big deal right? No user tracking? Lies. When they state how they can track how long you are 
 looking at an advertisement, don't for a second fool yourself into thinking they do not track when 
 you login, what maps you play, what billboards/adds you are looking at the most etc. Yes you can 
 like in BF2142 block the IP address of the add streaming site but wait til they decide to patch 
 it and *require* those IP's/ports to be open.
  
  ETQW took roughly four years to develop. Most likely they opted for this to try to recover their 
 losses and get back to profitability asap. I would have been much happier though paying for quality 
 developed content on a per purchase basis, expansion packs etc. That would have been my preferred 
 way of supporting the developer... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mstorm09
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Great Graphics, Great Game Play
  
  Team Based objectives, a refreshing change to all that capture the flag rubbish.
  
  In this 
 game, if you actually get past trying to compare it to bF, you will find a far better game, where 
 tactics and working together actually really make a difference for your team.
  
  Forgot the reviews from those who haven't bothered to load it up for more than a few hours. I have 
 never played a game so much.
  
  The vehicles, deployables, etc, this game is really great and it is not trying to be a war simulation, 
 but a arcade game that is real fun and just different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 6, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game, oops! The game itself is a new take one first person shooters 
 by that I mean giving the players objectives to accomplish. There are several classes to each team 
 and every class has a purpose and has different abilities. Which is kind of a good change? There 
 are several vehicles on each side and they also serve there purpose and will help in the defense 
 or offence of your team. Exepct for things that fly I've seen nats that had more staying power 
 after they got hit. The graphics are good and the sound is also good. Now on to game play, its 
 a shooter and thats about it if you want tactics forget about it. It is your basic spray and pray. 
 And if you like to bunny hop instead of aiming then this is the game for you. If bunny hopping 
 serves no other purpose other then PISSING YOU OFF!! (Like it does for me) Then this game will 
 drive you crazy. So in short, bunny hopping yeah buy it. Bunny hopping makes you want to reach 
 through the screen and smack that ungrateful little yuppie larva on the other side of the screen. 
 Then I would suggest not to even try to play this game. Because it will make you go postal. I thought 
 we were past the first person shooter bunny hopping crap by now. But I guess I was wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madman5222
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  graphics: 10/10 you realy have to hate games to not like these graphics.
  
  single player: 3/10 Ai are way to hard to fight even on easy
  
  multiplayer: 9/10 This game 
 was built from the start to be played for multi-
  player.
  
  game play: 9/10: The game is probably the best online shooter of 07, the missions creates pockets 
 of vary heavy fighting but make the missions repetitive. The factions are different from each other 
 significantly more then a normal shooter. In my option though the strogg have slightly better weapons 
 in the aggressor / soldier class.
  
  The missions are unique enfoe but once you have played one mission 50 times it gets old. But with 
 I think about 15 missions in the box it gives you a lot of time before getting repetitive.
  
  my opinion if you haven't already bought this game, put it at the top of you list this game 
 is a top competitor this year right beside halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bangaio
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  Several of the reviews here have said something along the lines of Battlefield 2 with a Quake skin 
 which is completely wrong. The most the two have in common are they both have classes and you shoot 
 at people with guns. The game is objective based, instead of capture point based. This creates 
 a moving battlefront that dissuades people from going rogue and trying to complete objectives on 
 their own like in BF2. It also means that very few people will be able to play the same class throughout 
 the whole level, as what your team needs changes depending on your objective.
  
  I have also seen complaints about the strength of the vehicles. This is a design choice by Splash 
 Damage to avoid the vehicle based combat that BF2 and BF2142 endorse. If you want to play a game 
 where the goal is to hop in the nearest tank and take out infantry as you roll across the map, 
 this isn't the game for you.
  
  As far as my opinion on the game, I think it's really well done. The graphics accomplish what they 
 need to and look pretty nice at max settings. Sounds are true to the Quake universe, as well as 
 the movement and feel of the weapons. The learning curve on this game is high. If you don't have 
 the patience to make it past the first couple hours of constantly dying, you may well give up on 
 the game altogether. Also, offense gets tedious after a while, due to the narrow passages and the 
 ability of defense to clog all the entry points with deployables, snipers, etc. That said, when 
 you do get over the hump on the learning curve, the game's attention to detail and amazingly deep 
 gameplay boil to the surface. If you want an intense, team-objective based game that is more about 
 infantry than vehicle combat, Enemy Territory: Quake Wars is the best thing out there right now. 
 Minor balance issues and a steep learning curve, are all that separate this game from a perfect 
 score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryletarn
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  I know alot of BF people are ripping on ETQW, but I think they need to spend more time with this 
 game. To be Honest Ive never played a BF game. Ive played quake 2, 4 and when I first played this 
 I was alittle discourged. The first time I shot down the GDF Flying vehicle whith my rocket launcher 
 I knew that even a noob like me had a Place in ETQW. Well today I the lowly FPS NOOB placed the 
 explosive charge on the Biofilter thingy and won the day for the strogg. I cant discribe the sense 
 of accomplishment I got from that. So yes I would Say Keep at it and you be rewarded even if your 
 not the greatest leet player. If your comming from the BF games just remember this is a different 
 game. Give it a chance play for at least 2 to 3 hours straight with a decent team. Capture a forward 
 spawn point or two, Hack the sheild generator or plant explosives on an objective and tell me you 
 didnt feel like you made a difference and enjoyed when it went BOOM! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  After I played the demo of this I really got into it. Its like Battlefield kind of, but objective 
 based instead of capturing outposts. The two armies are cool, The strogg is my favorite army because 
 their weapons rock, their tanks are good, and the fact that your and alien that wants to destroy 
 the earth is even better, but the GDF is no all that bad. The GDF Aircaft is cool and the classes 
 and ranks are easier to understand. The GDF are not as ugly as the Strogg, the base defenses are 
 better than the stroggs, and the fact that the GDF are the attackers most missions give them a 
 bigger challenge. Basically I like Battlefield and Quake wars they both are really fun games that 
 include vehicles. I give this game a 9/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RelXe
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  I've been looking forward to this game for a pretty long time and didn't get disappointed at all.
 
  1 of my favorite games of all times has been BF2.
  And this looks like 1 of their runner ups. Only with a whole different engine afcourse.
  Despite 
 the fact this game is running on a Quake engine, i can still see many resemblence to the Battlefield 
 gameplay.
  Only this time there are loads of options that the BF games don't have.
  The graphics also in this game are amazing.
  I'm playing it right now on a Samsung 37 inch screen 
 with res. 1920x1020 and it's mindblowing :D
  I don't think there's pretty much more to say about the game then just... well.... it's a great 
 game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roguetrp
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  I can not stop playing it. Its well made and kees you glued. The good, Big maps , nice weapons 
 , smooth game play, addrenalin boosting mega fun. The bad, Cant stop playing it. I never imagined 
 it to be this good, you get the release date and think that the hype is way too much, you get it 
 and play it and come to the conclusion that the HYPE WAS NOT ENOUGH.
  I never liked mutyplayer games but this is really worth it. I will play this till my fingers bleed 
 and get bloodshot eyes. The maps rock, the vehicles are great and the missions are realy challenging, 
 some guys take it seriously playing it and I like that. Differant ppl have other goals, like snipers 
 and aggressors so the action is endles and you get just as much game play in structures as you 
 do in the open.
  
  Buy it play it and you'll see, IT ROCKS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 4, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Positive:
  -decent graphics (but nothing exceptional especially if you take a closer look at details)
  -the 
 game itself runs smooth and with no major problems
  
  Negative:
  -bunny-hopping
  -weapons: very few and lousy. Maybe one good thing is the sniper but is almost useless considering 
 the speed of enemy movement
  -movement pace: android athletes on steroids laced with crank
  -sound: hard to find more uninspiring battle sounds
  -dying and respawning: too easy and too 
 quick respectively while battles are brarely or never fierce
  
  Other (mildly negative) :
  -maps at first look interesting but eventually they all have the same feel to it
  
  Gameplay: 
 3/10 singleplayer (against computer) ; 5/10 online MP. Bots have super aim while you can hardly 
 hit anything. Vehicles are pretty much useless. Simple and clear objectives is a plus in otherwise 
 totally uninspired gameplay.
  
  Graphics: 7/10 -- maybe it's simply a crappy engine that doesn't render enough details. Sadly, 
 this is the best part of this game.
  
  Sound: 3/10 -- horrible weapons' and battle sounds.
  
  Value: 3/10. $50 is lots of money for 
 a repetitive and uninspiring game. You'll be better off with CS/BF2/BF2142 until the price of this 
 game comes down to about $20. In my past review I rated BF2142 very low mostly on the account of 
 singleplayer mismanagement, yet I did enjoy BF2142 online play for quite some time. Yet, this game 
 fails even to provoke that urge to play it online, to meet with your friends and enjoy senseless 
 running and gunning.
  
  Overall: 4/10 -- overall, this is a game in which nothing went seriously wrong but also almost 
 nothing is right. The success of this game will completely depend on the MP support and availability 
 of MP servers (which for right now seems ok) -- an MP player is focused on surviving and scoring 
 in an unknown social environment so other factors may not count as much as in my brief review. 
 The real danger is once the player gets familiar with the maps and tricks, the game itself may 
 become increasingly boring ... quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 4, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  The problem with Quake War is it's just not fun and doesn't have a gimmick like Wolfenstein ET 
 did with being free so it wont appeal to previous ET fans and i don't see how it'll appeal to Quake 
 fans seeing as they like the Quake 3 format. Quake Wars also doesn't have tha simple yet addictive 
 attraction that Counter Strike has built up with sooo many fans, so i don't see it driving anyone 
 away from their current online shooter. What i also must say is the game is online only so you'll 
 be paying full price for a game with a mediocre online and nothing else.
  
  When i first started playing what hit me is the graphics are pretty dated but the performance is 
 just not there, doesn't seem well optimized. The ground textures seem pretty horrible and not well 
 detailed and the buildings have a generic pre generated bland feel to them. This wouldn't be so 
 bad if the outdoor areas were amazing to look at but they just arn't and just lack detail and look 
 bad.
  
  Brings me onto the maps which none are that good and all feel pretty much the same. Problem is 
 none are too big that you'll need vehicles to travel as you'll always spawn in the action and yet 
 somehow they feel too big to run everywhere. Vehicles do feel like coffins because they are soo 
 weak and a normal walking soldier will easily take on a vehicle so i don't see the point in them. 
 Infact the only good vehicle in the game is the Stroggs jetpack which is very very fun to use, 
 just a shame theres only 2 or so in a map so you'll often get people team killing you for one.
 
  
  I also don't see the point in the classes because the weapons seem all mixed round in them and 
 feel abit of a mess with no classes really doing their rolls well. It would be much better if you 
 could pick your layout in terms of weapons with more freedom than it gives atm but again no weapons 
 really stand out and didn't have much fun with any of them. There were some good weapons like the 
 flying strogg bomb you can control and blow up when you want which is fun. However my fave Quake 
 weapons the railgun just feels soo underpowered and boring to use in this game as it isn't as fast 
 paced as other quake games due to map sizes.
  
  I also find the game suffers for pacing issues due to the maps and it's too slow for a Quake game. 
 I also don't like how it never feels like your actually in the action or firering a gun or even 
 running on the map. Your guy feels too light and suffers from the BF2 laggy style of running even 
 though your not lagging. Something just feels off because when you play counter Strike for example 
 you can feel it when you hit your target and the guns all feel like your holding them and fiering 
 them. It's all hard to explain but you just have no direction feel of being conencted to your character.......
 
  
  Quake Wars also doesn't have that many people per map maxing out at 32 which on the size of the 
 maps you'll have to go looking for the action, even though you spawn right there which is also 
 weird.
  
  I don't like the sounds you get when you hit a target, it sounds horrible and retro. Brings me 
 onto the sound of the game which is another average part with nothing standing out there and the 
 music just isn't any good and non existant.
  
  Quake Wars is hard to explain the faults with it but even harder to pick out good points. It feels 
 like it should have been released 2 years ago with BF2 instead of now because it is sooo dated 
 and kinda like well i've played BF2 why do i need to pay to play it again with a Quake skin. The 
 game prides it'sself on team work and yet it suffers fromt he same problems as all the team work 
 games where noone works together and rather team kill you for a vehicle.
  
  Quake Wars with all the bad i've said about it is a mediocre online FPS because theres sooo much 
 worse ans they have dne a good job putting it all together. However it gives you no reason to want 
 to go out and buy it and waste money on it over other titles you've already bought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctown_myth
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  After finally going to my friends house, I go to play the full version of Quake Wars, and to say 
 that I'm willing to spend nearly $70 on this is a bit far reaching.
  
  Quake Wars is very similar to the Battlefield series and Unreal Tournament 2004. It incorporates 
 all of the features of both into one package and for this I applaud Splash Damage, but there are 
 key features that are not in this that make this seem to loose all of the fun in Battlefield 2 
 or Unreal Tournament. Things such as VoIP not being included, some fun maps and servers completely 
 kill the experience that Splash Damage made this game to be.
  
  That being said, I would recommend Quake Wars to people who find the Battlefield or Unreal Tournament 
 too hard or haven't played any FPS in the last seven years. For all you Battlefield 2 or 2142 players, 
 stick w/ what you have, and all of you Unreal Tournament players wait for Unreal Tournament 3. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battlecruiser93
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  Well, I wont make this too long
  I saw the game, I played the game, I liked the game. . Now lets do some serious reviewing. When 
 I entered the battlefield. . I knew that quake wars is a game which will devour most of my free 
 time. Two sides, each with their own characteristics, great classes, weapons are superb and finally, 
 the team game is great. If you want to complete an objective, it wont be so easy do it on your 
 own. Team work is a landmark of this great game. Battle has great intensity, it's not slow, it's 
 not too fast. Just how I like it. Many players will be happy when they see how many various vehicles 
 will make their breakthrough easier . Game physics is great, and that is one of the things I really 
 respect.
  I wont write anything what will make your game uninteresting but I can say this game was worth 
  me
  
  P. S. The game will work just fine with oldest computers (of course not with computers from 1995. 
 he-he ) and it will have breath-taking graphics. Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: igl
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  I'm a real fan of the Quake series, and i was hyped about QW when it was first announced, i thought 
 its the typical ID job again. They delay it to make it PERFECT, as previous games were. The thing 
 is, this is not a ID job, this is the first game of a MOD team and it's okay for that standard 
 i guess. Actually im pretty let-down by it now, as it does not push teamwork really forward, as 
 in walking together/fighting , it's more of placing turrents together nature. There is alot of 
 camp and sniper/ rail kills are way too easy to pull off. They are also very easy to spot but it 
 kinda beats the fun of it all. There are way too many explosions and too less team vehicles. Too 
 bad they made the tank 2 ppl, as the 3 ppl tank would have been alot nicer.
  Overall the maps are too small. I know it has megatexture and no fogging, which is nice but that 
 gets kinda beaten by the sense that everything is build into the middle of the map, everything 
 is fast enough to reach everything in mere 15 seconds and players/vehicles/objects fade out anyway 
 in distance EVEN if the ground doesn't. (May be adjustable in the console, but yea rly unfair if 
 you think that 50% of the players don't even know how to open the console) All i see are attempts 
 but nothing pulled off just quite right. It's disappointing if you look for a newer or better ET, 
 as it's not very similar with the vehicles and steady explosion spam. You can't compare it to quake 
 either because q1 physics were superior, no strafejump (nubfied into run key) , no doublejump (ramp 
 jump which helps on 1-2 maps to get somewhere without having the objectives to open gates, odd) 
 No weapons are Quake nor ET like either, it's spray and pray besides the sniper/railgun. There 
 is no intensity Bullets hitting the ground 2 meters away already fall out of your earshot. Everything 
 sounds like early 90ties games. Generally the performance is quite un-ID like. This feels more 
 like the prealpha of TECH 5 and performance is in NO WAY compareable to quake 4, runs FAR worse, 
 if you are used to ET or Q3 you will hate the FPS you get unless you have a $2k top-notch system. 
 I tried on 7950gx2 and 8800 Ultra and I'm not happy with them saying It's made for medium speed 
 systems, unless you enjoy gaming @ swinging 30fps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayer2_2_2
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Under Quake Wars seemingly BF-like looks, it is really an opposite in almost every way. When I 
 first saw QW (Quake Wars) I though What happened to the Quake I love!?! But now I realise that 
 QW is exactly what it's supposed to be; different. Let me start by saying I have only played this 
 games for around 3 hours BUT I have been following it VERY heavily for a long time so a lot of 
 my info comes from what I have read and seen done in videos on you-tube. Now QW does try to have 
 the tactical element but its not what you would probably think of as tactical. Sniping is very 
 hard to do undetected and hiding is basically impossible. However you will need to think up and 
 execute good tactics to complete an objective on most servers (non-noob ones) . The so-called asymmetrical 
 game-play is not really that different. There ARE minor differences in equipment but to tell the 
 truth they all pull of similar functions, if you are good as a GDF medic you will most likely be 
 good at a Strogg Technician. The Deployables really make the game have a more strategic element 
 and actually help your team to victory. If you can deploy one (4 classes can counting the medics 
 ammo supply crate) then do it without delay. The weapons are great and while their sounds aren't 
 awesome they aren't awful either. The vehicles have caused some complaints from BF players because 
 they are not very strong and even a clip or two from the assault rifle can easily disable a light 
 vehicle or even a heavier one sometimes, remember there is NO WAY in QW to be almost invincible, 
 everything has something that can easily counter it including the air vehicles. Tires can be shot 
 of any wheel vehicles and sometimes you can even shoot engines off of other vehicles. The classes 
 are one thing any player who has played a class-based game will easily grip and the ability to 
 chose your weapon load-out is sweet! The new mission based game-play is truly fun and when your 
 team behaves like one it is more fun than skiing blindfolded (OK maybe that's not that fun...) . 
 In short if you want more info head over to the official Quake Wars website and download the demo. 
 http://www. enemyterritory. com
  *Slayer_2 out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas_bobbypin
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  im speechless! i downloaded the demo from a freind at a LAN party and we started playing and i 
 found it AMAZING! i mean i only have the demo and i havnt gotten off much! for those who dont really 
 like this type of game join the club! i normally hate this type of game but my favorite thing about 
 it is that the sniper class can take dead enemys and disguse them as themselves! the only thing 
 is is that you only get to kill ppl with the knife : (. you get an assault rifle for show... but 
 if you try to fire it all of a sudden the disguise comes off and oopS! your a strogg in the middle 
 of a GDF squad! so remember ONLY KILL WITH THE KNIFE! and make shure noone sees you! ;-)
  
  thomas_bobbypin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no_pants_4_u
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  First of all, you have to throw away what you may know about other online shooter and accept Quake 
 Wars for what it strives to be: A multi-player shooter with an emphasis on teamwork and objectives 
 in the quake universe... meaning it is NOT Battlefield 2. This is not a bad thing at all. At all 
 =) So let's jump into it shall we? The first thing you should notice (and what people seem to care 
 for the most, seemingly over gameplay..) are the graphics. They're good. We're not talking 'Crysis' 
 level here, but they aren't shabby in the slightest. If you have the system to run it as intended 
 (the reqs aren't that steep) , then you should have a lot of eye candy to admire. Next, the gameplay: 
 Loads of fun. Basically it revolves around you playing one of two sides in a global conflict that 
 pits the 'Strogg' and the 'GDF' (see the quakewars website for backstory, etc.) against one another 
 in 12 different maps that can be played individually or as sets of 3 in a 'campaign' mode. These 
 aren't typical 'shoot em' up' maps where all you do is mindlessly frag each other all day, but 
 rather scenario and objective based conflicts where each team has goals to accomplish throughout 
 the fight. You accrue experience as you play, which in turn, grants you special abilites or powerups 
 the longer you are in a match. Note however, that once your session is done, you lose those special 
 power-ups and begin anew the next time you play, thus keeping the balance between hardcore gamers 
 and beginners to a fairly in check by not allowing the vets to have 'uber' weapons from the start 
 against a bunch of green nooblets. However, the game does keep track of your basic stats (kills, 
 deaths, ratios, how good you are with this class vs. that class, etc.) , and awards you medals based 
 on performance and overall accrued experience. You choose a class to play on your respective team, 
 which though you can play as both sides, they are not mirrors of each other like other multiplayer 
 games. Each side has the same relative 'stock' classes (assault, medic, etc.) , but they differ 
 in abilities and though each plays very differently from the next, they are counterweighted so 
 as to give a varying feel, without tipping the scales on one side over the other. You may feel 
 different going into this game if you have a lot of experience playing titles similar to Battlefield 
 2, because the pace is definitely more hurried (Still slower than Unreal Tournament.. but faster 
 than the Battlefield series) .
  As far as vehicles go, you'll notice that they are not the 'END ALL' juggernauts as they sometimes 
 are in other games. Infantry is quite powerful and can take all the vehicles out given enough time, 
 thus making vehicles tough, but not exposing you to the 'spam fests' and 'uber death machines' 
 you may have been used to in other games. The controls are quite easy to learn and with a few minutes 
 practice anyone can be a reasonably good pilot. They are varied and a blast to commandeer. In any 
 case, if you enjoy a deep and satisfying multiplayer game (and are tired of the same old, same 
 old) , look no further. I couldn't go into as much depth in this review as I'd have liked for lack 
 of time, but needless to say this game has a truckload of variety, tactics, firefights and weaponry 
 to keep you gunning for a long time. Check it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazman76
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  Given some time and patience, ET-QW provides an absorbing and fun multiplayer experience. The game 
 isn't mastered in 5 minutes, and for most of us that's a good thing. It takes a little while to 
 learn the ropes , and understand what each selectable class provides for their team. The objective-based 
 play is fast-paced a la Quake, and offers a good variation in applicable tactics, a la Wolfenstein 
 : Enemy Territory. It is not simply a case of capturing and holding ground, and waiting for a timer 
 to tick down - the maps are clearly asymmetrical, with one side attacking and the other defending. 
 The objectives progress through each map via key areas, and involve infantry, vehicles and deployable 
 weaponry/defense systems.
  
  Playing on public servers is somewhat challenging, as there's a good chance a majority of the players 
 are still finding their feet - playing against a team of experienced players who are well organised 
 is tricky as hell, and can be frustrating. However, with some communication and encouragement, 
 you can at least have some fun with your team even if your opponents are always winning. Patience 
 is required with ET-QW, and those players who give up after only a few hours would not make good 
 ET-QW players because of this.
  
  This game is not a copy of Battlefield, in any way - it's a successor to Wolfenstein : Enemy Territory, 
 themed with a mild Quake story and characters. It's faster than most tactical team games, but that 
 doesn't mean it's a run and gun shooter - finding some tactics that work is very satisfying, and 
 even losing is fun if your team played well and learned a few things doing it.
  
  I advise people to try the demo (downloads available everywhere, plus Steam distribution) , and 
 at the least spend a few hours offline playing against bots on easy difficulty - that way you can 
 learn the maps, and also afford to play with every class - you MUST learn, for example, which deployables 
 each class can place, and how they help your team. Covert Ops, for example, are not just for sniping 
 and hacking - you should be placing a Radar immediately, and re-placing it if it is destroyed. 
 It allows your team-mates to see enemies within it's range. Engineers should be placing anti vehicles/infantry 
 turrets, and equally important - the Artillery Interceptor Turret - keep your team-mates safe from 
 arty drops! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Pedro_
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  Enemy Territory: Quake Wars. The name itself says a lot. It's a game like Enemy Territory set in 
 the quake universe. This time you aren't fighting in WW2, you're fighting in the future. Against 
 the alien cyborg race: The strogg. In Quake wars you'll be playing 4 different campaigns each containing 
 3 maps. In all these maps you have either the possibility to play as a strogg or GDF with many 
 different classes. On these maps you and your team need to complete objectives a series of objectives 
 in a certain amount of time to win. These objectives may vary from defending or attacking. The 
 classes are all pretty straightforward, but the things that many classes can do is very well put 
 together. Especially the strogg is very innovating and may take some time getting used to. For 
 a detailed description of those classes go to the following site: http://4newbies. planetwolfenstein. gamespy. com/ETQW/
 
  
  The objectives can all be confusing at first, but you'll soon know atleast what is required of 
 you. When the objective is hacking a device, your mission is pretty straight forward. The thing 
 that makes Quake Wars so great is the way of reaching those objectives. When trying to hack the 
 device you have to breach through amazingly well put defense to reach that goal. It all takes good 
 team work and skill to win, but the game certainly is made that even if you lack skill. You will 
 be able to reach the last objective with good teamwork. The Graphics looks great for my system 
 6600GT, AMD 64+ 3200, 1gb ram and runs with any problems. For the high end systems you'll be dissapointed 
 to know that this game doesn't look like crysis. Yet the art design is unique and may be very appealing 
 to some.
  
  The Gameplay is very good, but you may have to be very patient. Quake Wars most definelty is not 
 the type of game where you instantly know what to do. It's advised to start off playing against 
 bots and understanding the different classes before playing against real players. Chances are you'll 
 not like the game at first, but if you keep it up. This game features some of the best multiplayer 
 gaming to come along in a very long time.
  
  The thing that makes this game worthy of a 9,0 is the community. If you are polite and ask for 
 help chances are you'll most certainly get it. Everyone has had their share of problems and are 
 willing to share their knowlege with you. There are also going to be a lot of great mods and this 
 game will most likely feature the best competitive play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bartreligion
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  Since the beta first appeared a few months ago Quake Wars opinions have been very diverse. This 
 is mainly due people having wrong expectations of this game, wanting it to be next Battlefield 
 on one side or the next Quake on the other side. But this is Enemy Territory and it's neither of 
 the above. The negative reactions however are misplaced and easily dismissed as nonsense because 
 like all good things in life Quake Wars takes an effort. Like cooking your favourite dinner at 
 home takes more of an effort than going out for a Big Mac, but in the end what took the biggest 
 effort has the biggest reward. Unlike other recent games Quake Wars treats its players with respect, 
 in the sense that it demands intelligence, insight and a taste for the finer things in life. That's 
 quite remarkable &amp; worthy of applause, especially in a world where the trend nowadays is one 
 of brainless, easy and shallow . Sales are everything so it's important for publishers to have 
 a product that's accessible for everyone. The easiest way to achieve this is to dumb everything 
 down so even Umfufu the baboon can play. That's never been true for Id games (and Id related games 
 like this one) . At first Quake Wars is overwhelming, chaotic even. The pace is fast, much faster 
 than BF2. And it has objectives, different ones. BF2 was easy, run to a flag and stand around until 
 it drops and your flag raises. Simple. Doesn't matter which class you are, anyone could raise a 
 flag. Come in Quake Wars, no flags, different objectives every time. Destroy the barricade, hack 
 a computer, poison the water supply, steal the documents, protect the convoy, etc. This requires 
 different approaches every time, one example. Repair the bridge. To repair the bridge a team needs 
 an Engineer. Makes sense, a medic or a sniper obviously isn't equipped for such a task. Team play 
 is important, A lone wolf engineer or even a wolf pack of engineers would get mowed down long before 
 he evens reaches the objective by an decent Strogg team. The different classes however all have 
 a purpose here. Take a medic along to revive the fallen engineers. Take a sniper to counter snipe 
 those pesky Strogg rail gunners. Take a tank driver to attack from the flank and draw heat away 
 from the engineers. Take a field-ops to construct anti-air &amp; anti-artillery units. Take a... 
 You should get the point, the possible array of the tactics is enormous even for just one objective, 
 multiply that by 5 for each of the 12 maps and than by 2 for both Strogg &amp; Human because the 
 objectives differ. Where GDF has to build the bridge, Strogg must prevent. In contrast to other 
 games that have you do the same thing to the same flag for both side namely to capture it. Anyway, 
 you do the math. And I'm only just scratching the surface here. While in BF2 all flags are the 
 same (excuse, there's 2, ones you can take and ones you can't) every objective here requires to 
 adjust your strategy and there's no limit to how far you can take that. The depth and how good 
 it work is just amazing and unseen before in a shooter and I've played them all.
  But, like I said all of that takes time, time to get to know the maps, the different classes, the 
 objectives. The classes take time, yes. They're more complex than usual. The soldier class has 
 more than just a big gun and a sidearm. He's equipped with C4 to take down objectives, barricades 
 and enemy turrets. Different weapons are available to him. A regular rifle comparable to the SCAR-L, 
 a bigger one, like an M-60 and a bazooka with two fire modes, one being point and shoot, the other 
 having a lock-on and the good old shotgun. This is the class you want to play if you're all about 
 fast intense shooter action. Yes, each class has it's own unique game style. From the going all 
 out guns blazing deathmatch style of Quake with the Soldier/Agressor class to slower, more tactical 
 game play with Covert Ops class if sneaking around, moving from cover to cover is your thing. And 
 everything that lies in between.
  The medic class is more standard, having a rifle and the ability to revive teammates. Engineers 
 fix vehicles, drop mines and can deploy all kinds of turrets, when it comes to objectives they're 
 used to construct stuff or keep stuff from blowing up like when escorting a convoy. Field ops are 
 the dudes that stay behind the frontlines, deploying their longe range artillery pieces or directing 
 air strikes. Covert ops are the surgeons compared to the butchers that the Soldiers are. They are 
 equipped with a long range sniper or a scoped version of the rifle. (like an M4 to an M16) . Having 
 smoke grenades to hide from enemy fire and the ability to have radar and disguise himself as an 
 enemy officer. The cover ops class probably has the most diverse role. He's also capable of lying 
 round mines with cameras in them, so you can see your enemy running towards your mine. Also disguising 
 yourself as an enemy is possible.
  Quake Wars is full of the above, deep and rich game play elements elevate this game high above 
 any competitors. This is a game that takes it players seriously and it shows. But don't overestimate 
 it complexity and that's where, perhaps, the true beauty lies of Quake Wars. Once you get around 
 playing for awhile you start noticing how logical everything is set up. Whether you're an engineer 
 fixing the bridge or a covert-ops hacking a computer, all it takes to do so is stand in front of 
 it and press the use button. The game is smart enough to let you do what you need to do at the 
 right time and it never fails to do so. This could easily have gone wrong, but the long development 
 time truly pays off here. Just like everything else, it's lovingly and carefully tuned to sheer 
 perfection. There's so many things to do I could write on for a couple of hours, but trust me when 
 I say that It would well take over 40 hours to do everything in the game at least once, a feat 
 that could be accomplished within few hours with comparable games. Concluding one could say that 
 Quake Wars biggest feats are also it perks. Deep, complex, long-lasting, diverse game play obviously 
 demands to much of some people. For this game you need both brains and the killer instinct so time 
 for you to cowboy up and take time to discover the genius and depth of what is Quake Wars. Truly 
 one the greatest games of all time and if you think otherwise, you're wrong. Simple.
  
  PS.
  The reason I mention BF2 a lot is because BF2 one of my favorite games and before that it 
 was BFV. But unlike many others I'm not too stuck up to admit that something's good or better when 
 it is. Besides its good for the BF series to have Quake Wars take the class based, open area shooter 
 genre (what's in a name) to a higher level. Maybe this way DICE will turn BF3 into something good 
 unlike the glorified mod that was BF2142. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix73nj
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  Lets just get straight to the point. There are alot of people that love the Battlefield series. 
 I count myself as one of them. There are also fanboi's that are desperate to save they're BF playerbase... 
 don't be fooled by they're myopic reviews.
  
  There are HUGE drawbacks to the Battlefield series that QW addresses:
  
  Insane lag
  Insane 
 map load times
  Steep learning curve
  Vets with weapons you can't compete against Slow slow slow pace
  Overpowered Vehicles
  Worse 
 graphics
  No Strog (all human food)
  It's EA not ID
  
  Quake Wars is an infantrymans tactical based shooter. The pace is much faster than battlefield 
 and your going to need to dust off your reflexes but, that's not really a bad thing for some of 
 us. YOU WILL GET INTO A GAME QUICKLY there is no lag and the fights are so fun you won't even really 
 notice the insanely beautiful graphics.
  
  O and btw ID was the first FPS and the first multiplayer FPS and the first team FPS ET: CW so don't 
 believe the BF hype. Go get this game it's a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fuhrer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game, I must have spent hundreds of hours playing the original 
 ET, as well as Quake 3.
  
  ET was a great game, in fact it is the best free game every made. ET was made for teamwork and 
 Q3 for death matches. ET Quake Wars fail in combining the two, and brings nothing new to the table. 
 The graphics aren't too bad, but then again most of us don't really go for graphics when playing 
 FPS game we go for the performance and the highest FPS. (No matter how crappy your game looks) 
 The vehicle controls feel very awkward, Some of the voice chats are very annoying and no VoIP. 
 When I played my 2nd match I already felt bored. Final thoughts.... might as well go and install 
 the original ET and play it for a few more years. I might give this another try if they release 
 a patch or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curi1122
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Extremely overhyped - No VOIP, No sqaud system thats worth anything, No Gore, Outdated engine that 
 makes me question its staying power..... ect
  
  I think this is a game for the younger players (and i dont meen that in a disrespective type of 
 way) . So if you are in your early teens you may have a blast with this one. If however you are 
 looking for something a little more grown up look else where. They should also remove that ign 
 quote Battlefield Killer from their adds public opinion on this game and gamespy stats seems to 
 make a mockery of that paticular statement. 5049 servers, 12712 players Battlefield 2
  1451 servers, 1647 players Enemy Territory: Quake Wars
  
  I guess i will wait for crysis and 
 Fuel of War.
  
  Overall an avarage run and gun game too deathmatchey for my liking.
  
  Edit - I can also only pressume that we have a few fan boys on here posting multiple 10/10 scores 
 to bump the user score up. After my dealings with some of them in the beta this does not supprise 
 me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtomskSNK
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  After months of watching quake wars dev videos, trailer, reading articles I was fairly excited 
 about the game. I thought finally I could play the game Battlefield should have been, mission based 
 but faster. Well, I was wrong. The main issue with Quake Wars is that for all its technical marvel, 
 and how pretty it is, it just can't seem to marry the ideas of a Quake style shooter and mission 
 based shooter well. The gameplay is still way too arcady, with little time or though being put 
 into choosing your weapon, although there are obvious weapons to avoid, for the most part they 
 are un-imaginative and too much alike to care which is which. Along with that, teamplay also doesn't 
 come together as it should, people seem to either completely ignore the goals and go for fast paced 
 killing, or kill and accomplish their goal without really caring anyways. Even nifty features, 
 such as the idea that some classes can deploy turrets or strategic radar is marred by the fact 
 that these turrents dont read the enemies well enough, or you cant put them in a spot that works 
 well. In some cases its the opposite, you put them down, sit back and rackup points, which kinda 
 kills the game and makes it rather unbalanced. Finally, vehicle controls aren't horrible, but could 
 have been made a lot more accessible or simple. Don't even get me started on air vehicles, instead 
 of simple up down control with the mouse and side to rotation with keyboard, they implemented some 
 whacky new scheme that requires the user to have like 4 hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GonzoGamer
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  I tried to like this game. I play just about every squad-based shooter that is released. Some are 
 good and some aren't. This game gets a 5 because they only way I had any fun at all was if I was 
 playing with a squad that knew what they were doing. Game balance is a bit out of whack between 
 the two sides. I find it fairly easy to beat back GDI with the various Strogg abilities. Although 
 both sides roughly correspond to each other's abilities, the Strogg have an edge once you learn 
 to use all the abilities and features (and if you don't read the manual, it will take you a while 
 to do that) . Playing Strogg with guys that knew what do to and how to use their abilities would 
 always shut down the GDI. Hopefully they will fine tune the balance with a patch.
  
  Graphics are okay, if nothing ground breaking. nice thing was I could play this game on a high-end 
 system and a mid range system with options adjusted to match system specs and there was not much 
 discernable difference in the graphics. The whole resetting of rank and abilities is also not my 
 personal cup of tea. I feel if you play a game that has ranks, you should be able to have unlocks 
 that are persistant and don't reset when you leave or change servers. But as I am a diehard Battlefield 
 series player, that is what I am used to.
  
  Just don't like the whole alien vs human aspect and chaotic squad-based play. feels just too much 
 like Quake 3 team deathmatching with objectives thrown in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _KwispY
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 2, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  This game claims to be a successor to enemy territory, but quite frankly it falls short in everything 
 it attempts to do. To sum up the game in one word: boring. There's no novel concepts here, the 
 game tries too much and fails at most of it. It's a battlefield clone for one. Battlefield in and 
 of itself isn't that impressive of a a title. The class elements are pretty much useless, and some 
 vehicles are simply overpowered. In a time where many great multiplayer shooters are being released, 
 this game falls short and should be overshadowed by team fortress 2, etc. Don't buy this game, 
 you'll be severely disappointed. Quake games can do a lot better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vapochill
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  not good to me it just to glitchy and does not run like unreal or fear and it is just a battlefield 
 nock off but of cours batllefield is older and better so that says alot. it is a big let down for 
 50 bucks and do not believe the hype over rated .so if you are going to bye this game wait till 
 the price drops but dont expect to much. fear or battlefield for the price is a much better bargain 
 but in the mean time ill be waiting for crysis or unreal in december. games alot of times are really 
 overpriced and over rated 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BryanBHU
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 8, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to describe how frustrating this game can be. It's not a bad game, but it seems to try 
 to be too many things at once and ends up feeling a bit clumsy.
  
  It's not a twitch-based shooter, the firing isn't drastic enough for that, but it's not a full 
 blown tactical game either. There is a strange blend of short and long-termism, which is good or 
 bad depending on how you look at it. I personally found it to be a little too middle of the road, 
 lacking in every aspect, in that it's neither a hardcore tactical game nor hardcore frantic Quake 
 deathmatch. I think they tried to do both at once, which isn't a bad thing but at this stage it's 
 hard to tell if it has worked.
  
  Also, the game design makes no effort to unite players. Being object-driven isn't enough. It feels 
 more like a single player taking place online. No doubt it will get somewhat better as more players 
 become accustomed to the gameplay and tactics and teamwork naturally materialize, but the game 
 design seems to get in the way. That coupled with the fact that it's hard to achieve everything 
 alone makes it a frustrating experience.
  
  MAYBE, this game is over-optimized for perfect team play. So much so that a little imperfection 
 in the team results in a horrible experience. There are distinct strength to each class you can 
 pick. Especially with deployments and vehicles, only some class do very well against them. Also 
 many objectives can only be done by some class. So if you coordinate a team perfectly by everybody 
 doing their job well, it would work.
  
  But as noted before, the design of this game doesn't help you achieve this. If anything, it seems 
 to encourage a single player style. The only thing I can think of that attempts to encourage teamwork 
 is the respawn system, which parachutes down all your dead teammates together so you all start 
 off together in the same spot. But then, team disintegrates from there as vehicles usually only 
 carry 1 or 2 players and shoot off. Surely they need a regular vehicle to carry 5 or 6 players 
 for this design?
  
  I want to love this game, but as a whole it feels too much of a work to make anything of it. The 
 cycle of meaningless deaths and the feeling of Oh not again don't end throughout the gameplay.
 
  
  I won't mark this down more than this, just because a perfect teamplay MIGHT make this fun. They 
 do need to do more work on implementing a team-friendly design though. Come along, mods and patches. 
 I hope it's not beyond repair.
  
  If it is, tough luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beaglesniffer
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 1, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  I was fairly looking forward to the game after playing the demo, which was a brilliant, great looking 
 map and seemed to be more intense and the game it self was fairly cheap so i bought it.
  Buttttt after playing it for a while i found that there was no battle intesity at all apart from 
 directly in the middle where all the players were and even then not that intense, i think 32 players 
 max was a bit limited and should have been higher, most of the maps were dull i know its an invasion 
 from the strogg but still also i found most of the maps were what you could call just no that good, 
 valley was the only decent level. The performance of the game was pretty good although i would 
 have expected more on my pc but there you go.
  
  Overall: disappointing, not as good as expected, got my money back :D, lacked intesity, not enough 
 players, and as it is just based on multiplayer i would have expected a lot more out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suzail
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 1:59 am PT
Review:  got to be the best fun i have had in years playing online. The graphics are stunning. The game 
 runs so smooth, everything on full. Aircraft are relatively easy to get to grips with. The goal 
 based missions are excellent and so much better than the usual capture the boring flag missions 
 on other team based shooters. The weapons are nicely balanced. The gameplay is very fast too which 
 makes it quite enjoyable. If you like team based shooters and would like a bit more flavour than 
 in BF2 and BF2142 then this game might be for you. If you just like good old capture the flag then 
 id stick with BF2 and the likes. This will take most people up to the release of Crysis which is 
 also worth a good look at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  While team-based blasters are amongst the most thrilling gaming experiences you can have, being 
 slaughtered by spotty 13-year-olds the moment you log on is enough to discourage even the hardiest 
 player. But in reworking the style of trigger-happy teamplay currently dominated by EA's Battlefield 
 series, Quake Wars is the most immersive and exhilarating way to enjoy digital squad warfare.
 
  
  Based in the Quake universe, the game divides players into human paramilitaries and alien invaders, 
 gifting each side with unique weapons and a series of advantages and disadvantages that come into 
 play as the battles unfold. Moreover, players can choose from various class types, allowing strategic 
 gamers to become engineers and build remote guns, or gung-ho twitch shooters to simply plough headlong 
 into the bloodshed. The often confusing action of team battles is also enhanced by giving each 
 side objectives to complete, keeping the action moving and focusing the skirmishes in a succession 
 of chokepoints.
  
  Stunning battlefields and formidable vehicles also help make Quake Wars the best team blaster around, 
 and one that players of all skill levels can enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cd146
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to get into reviewing every tiny detail of Quake Wars, there are other reviews for 
 that. This game is fun, the class system is unique and interesting, and it looks good and plays 
 efficiently. QW just lacks some small but key details. In Battlefield 2 (an obligatory standard 
 for comparison) , in an intense firefight, the sounds of bullets can clearly be heard peppering 
 the ground, the gun in your hands feels real as your arm shakes from the loud blast of bullets, 
 the screen rumbles as artillery smashes the earth beneath you blurring your vision and muffling 
 your hearing, the battle feels real and intense, you get excited. On top of this, realistic movement 
 speed and the clear presence of a KDR stat, along with a longer respawn time, makes you value your 
 life. In Quake Wars battles just feel so light , not real. Your gun feels like its an airsoft, 
 explosives detonate as neon flashes of light, and when artillery lands near you, you'd almost never 
 know you were even hit. Not to mention, death means nothing when you're parachuting back into the 
 fight in seconds, and running at 15 mph. Now I know a bunch fanboys are going to log on and thumbs 
 down my review because they refuse to admit that this game is flawed, but to me it fundamentally 
 is, and so I wouldn't place Enemy Territory: Quake Wars at the very top of my wish list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naztwelve
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 1:40 am PT
Review:  ET: QW is basically a multiplayer game only, bots/lan/internet only.
  Im a huge fan of the quake series and this one does not dissapoint...
  those of you who played 
 quake 3 , quake 4 was a letdown multiplayer wise will like this one :) ...
  
  the EDF are more like a modern day combat team .. the strogg are well quake 4 strogg with some 
 extra pretties inserted..
  there are numerous machines, planes, cars that you can use. If your on the strogg team take the 
 cyclops for a whirl ;) the planes are relativley hard to fly, but that is so as you get better 
 attack bonuses obviously whilst in one
  
  the thing that is great is that yeah you can choose your own class but everyone has different assignments 
 they can choose to do , and you are helped on how to get to these assignments. its not like a random 
 shot in the dark, where do i go etc...
  
  the game will take some time to get adjusted to. The statistics are high and you fight your way 
 to improved performance and weapons and eventually onto badges.
  
  the maps have clear and obvious story settings eg "the strogg crash landed here, the strogg must 
 destroy the ship before the GDF can grab the data for research"
  
  overall im playing this one for a while :) quake never dissapoints 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poobumplum
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 30, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  there are a lot of minor things that make this game good but its also the minor things that make 
 the game really bad to play
  
  its a shame because i like most of the aspects of this game i enjoy eg
  *grenades can blow up 
 landmines
  *you can build your own turrets, radars, and artillery *there are mission to keep track on winning 
 the games
  *good graphics
  
  although the things i disapprove and mostly don't like in the game is
  *delayed timing when pressing 
 the aiming button (by half a second)
  *BAD ENGINE which explains then buggy movement of vehicles
  *both races weaponry are way too 
 similar
  *when stopping the search for games it doesn't just stop it CLEARS all the searches
  *most maps 
 are pretty much the same (most but not all)
  
  my advice is your better wait til this game releases some better updates or just save your money 
 on other promising game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kez1984
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Quake wars enemy territory has 12 maps currently, it may not sound like much, but unlike alot of 
 multiplayer games, each map really does have a diverse feel both visually and in it's sense of 
 game play.
  
  While many may scratch it of as a battlefield 2142 clone, it should be noted that it was in development 
 prior to 2142, game play wise, it is closer to team fortress than that of battlefeild 2, while 
 there are vehicle's, and the maps are grander than those of splash damage's previous game ET: wolf, 
 the game is very fast paced, even on foot, those who have played ET: wolf will probably instantly 
 reconcilable with alot of the games infrastructure, those who play battlefield 2, expecting more 
 battlefield 2, may be disappointed, as stated before, the game plays more like team fortress, unlike 
 battlefield 2 or team fortress, in which it is capture the flag domination style game play, it 
 is objective based in quake wars, but it basically boils down to guard/defend/destroy.
  
  The class system is pretty varied, depending on your game play style, there is a wide variety of 
 roles to choose from, each fun and useful in it's own way, unfortunately at the moment, the medic 
 is barely used, this isn't a huge issue, but it would be nice if they address this problem in the 
 future so that the medic has more relevance or more incentive for players to choose this particular 
 class.
  
  The deployments, which allow you to construct structures within your territory are really neat, 
 they are extremely useful to both you and your team mates and not a gimmick for show.
  
  Of course, each class, vehicles and deployment has a rock/paper/scissors rules each with there 
 strengths and there Achilles heel, this makes for some interesting game play.
  
  Graphically the game has a few issues also, while using my ATI card, along with the hotfix provided, 
 upon entering a game, the computer stutters for several seconds with patchy, then they quickly 
 sharpen and the game runs silky smooth, again, while not a major problem, it could become quickly 
 bothersome in the future. The models and animations look great, the weapons designs for both the 
 humans and the strogg are unique to each class, certain classic weapons such the rail gun and nail 
 gun make reappearance's in the game. Unfortunately the scenery is not particularly impressive due 
 the problem previously stated.
  
  I've been playing this for a few hours, and really enjoying it, the game may not be for everyones 
 taste, if you are a battlefield player or a team fortress player looking for something a little 
 different, this is worth checking out, if you are a quake player, or an ET player, this is a must. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
