-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Enigma: Rising Tide
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/enigmarisingtide/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  2, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.6, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 148 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: Tesseraction Games
Genre: Naval Sim
Date:     Aug 26, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Streamlined but not dumbed down, Enigma: Rising Tide captures the exciting feel of WWII naval combat 
 even if it ignores many of the details. 

  Sims in general are uncommon on the PC these days, and finding a naval sim, let alone a good one, 
 is about as likely as winning the lottery. That's why Enigma: Rising Tide is such a pleasant surprise. 
 Actually, the game isn't exactly a sim, but rather an "alternate-history WWII massively multiplayer 
 first-person vehicular naval combat game," in the words of developer Tesseraction Games. That's 
 quite an awkward mouthful, and the bit about "massively multiplayer" isn't quite correct, but the 
 description does give you an idea of what Enigma is all about. Combining an accessible simulation 
 with some shooter and RPG elements and loads of exciting action, Enigma is a game for people who'd 
 rather watch  Das Boot  than wade through a dry-as-dust volume of official naval history. It's 
 a game that intelligently simulates the drama of World War II tactical naval combat instead of 
 simulating naval minutiae.  

          One down, many more to go.     

  At first glance, Enigma looks like a World War II game. In fact, the very name of the game calls 
 to mind the famous Enigma code machines used by Germany during WWII. Enigma is also filled with 
 ships based on or inspired by actual American, German, British, and Japanese designs. In reality, 
 Enigma is an alternate history game with a very strong WWII flavor. Gameplay begins in 1937, with 
 three major factions waging war across the globe. Enigma imagines a world where Germany won World 
 War I, took control of most of continental Europe, and brought England to its knees through unrestricted 
 submarine warfare. The United States, with its powerful economy, is trying to expand its influence 
 around the world, with bases from Singapore to Morocco to Ireland. The League of Free Nations is 
 a union formed by Japan and the British Royal Navy in exile. From bases in Japan, Hong Kong, Gibraltar, 
 and other key locales, the League fights both the Germans and the Americans in the Atlantic and 
 Pacific.  

  Along with a few dozen individual training and combat missions that you can tackle in any order, 
 you get to take part in both surface- and submarine-based campaigns for each of Enigma's three 
 factions. You start out commanding a single vessel and gradually rise through the ranks, taking 
 on more dangerous missions while eventually getting to issue basic commands to fellow vessels while 
 still directly controlling your own ship. Enigma does a fine job of immersing you in your role 
 as captain and bringing the gameworld to life. Before each mission you read your latest orders 
 and your captain's log entries; the latter give you some insight into shipboard life, how the crew 
 is feeling about world events and your latest assignments, and so forth. In a neat touch, you also 
 see simulated newspaper front pages, where the headlines flesh out the gameworld, letting you know, 
 for example, that Truman is America's president in the '30s, instead of Roosevelt. Occasionally 
 you'll also see a very brief little cutscene of your ship cutting across the ocean. It's a shame, 
 though, that Enigma doesn't include full-length cinematic cutscenes, perhaps done up as black-and-white 
 newsreels, to further flesh out the story and immerse you more deeply in it.  

          You can let the AI man the guns or do it yourself.     

  While some WWII grognards 
 might be disappointed that Enigma doesn't cover real history, the gameworld is interesting, and 
 combat is still combat, even if it doesn't re-create actual battles. Fortunately, combat is something 
 Enigma does very well. This is essentially a tactical-scale game, where you directly control only 
 one ship and where you rarely have to go far to find action. You won't have to deal with supply 
 issues or engage in any long-distance patrols where you have to search for virtual weeks to find 
 the enemy. Almost as soon as you start a mission, you'll find enemies to engage, and you'll encounter 
 a decent variety of them: merchant freighters, tankers, torpedo planes, and various combat vessels. 

  You'll get to command subs, corvettes, destroyers, and torpedo boats of various types, all with 
 basic stats taken from real-world counterparts. Enigma streamlines controlling all these different 
 vessels. When commanding a sub, for instance, you don't need to worry about deciding which type 
 of torpedo to load or entering data into the torpedo firing computer. You simply get a target in 
 your sights, eyeball the deflection, and fire away. Along similar lines, when you dive, you don't 
 directly control the diving planes or regulate the dive or trim tanks. You simply select the desired 
 depth, and after your crew rigs the boat for diving, you begin your descent. You just have to hope 
 you're not taking fire during the tense 20 seconds when you can't fire your deck guns before submerging. 
     

  Other simplifications abound in Enigma. Damage modeling doesn't take into account hit location 
 or ship systems; instead you get a simple hull health bar that shows how much damage you've sustained. 
 Your tactical display is an amalgam of all data from hydrophones, sonar, crew lookouts, and transmissions 
 from allied ships. While vessels handle differently and bear different armaments, they all have 
 the same basic HUD and controls; the only differences are some necessary ones between subs and 
 surface-restricted vessels. All these simplifications make Enigma admirably accessible (though 
 it could still use a fully interactive tutorial) . On the other hand, it's too bad there are no 
 options for toggling on more realistic and detailed features for those who'd appreciate added depth 
 and realism.  

          A surfaced sub takes a hit from a deck gun.     

  Either way, Enigma is filled with drama and action. Playing cat and mouse with destroyers as you 
 glide among convoy ships in your sub during a thunderstorm or fighting off planes with your corvette's 
 antiaircraft guns can be a blast. Since Enigma puts all the important command decisions in your 
 hands and also lets you man individual gun turrets from a first-person view, you're always in the 
 thick of things. And even though many things in Enigma are simplified, the game isn't simplistic. 
 You'll need to make lots of quick tactical decisions as you maneuver to bring your guns or torpedoes 
 to bear, decide when it's safe to surface your sub to recharge its batteries and replenish its 
 air supply, and so forth. Engagements are nail-biters: You'll sneakily evade destroyers in your 
 sub as their depth charges explode around you, barely dodge an incoming torpedo as you manically 
 swing your corvette about, and get caught up in the chaos of surface battles where planes roar 
 overhead, guns thunder, and smoke pours from wounded vessels.  

  For an independent game, Enigma's audio and visuals do a fine job of conveying all this action. 
 The rolling seas and rocking ships are especially well done, and varied weather conditions add 
 visual and tactical variety to the battles (though the sun never seems to shine particularly brightly, 
 even in clear conditions) . All the gun turrets are animated, and you can clearly see the telltale 
 bubble trails from torpedoes as they streak toward their targets. For that matter, when you're 
 submerged in a sub, you can hear torpedoes whiz by as they barely miss you, which is unnerving 
 in a really entertaining way. Alarm bells and klaxons add to the tension of combat, and the game 
 has a powerful, dynamic orchestral score filled with varied themes that really help set the mood. 
 On the other hand, antiaircraft guns tend to sound underpowered, and there are no voice-overs, 
 just boring text to represent your officers' warnings and updates. (If you have a microphone for 
 your sound card, you can issue vocal commands to them, though, thanks to the integrated speech-recognition 
 software.) While Enigma's presentation isn't cutting edge and the graphics can get a bit choppy, 
 the game succeeds overall in immediately sucking you into the action, which is what ultimately 
 counts.  

  For all its great strengths, Enigma could still be improved in many ways. Combat mostly focuses 
 on submarine/antisubmarine warfare instead of the full range of WWII naval combat; carriers are 
 conspicuously absent. The AI suffers from some odd bugs, with aircraft crashing into each other 
 or allied ships for no clear reason. The missions tend to be too easy or too hard and don't ramp 
 up in difficulty as smoothly as they should in the campaigns. You also can't save a mission in 
 progress, and there's no time-compression feature, which is frustrating during the longer missions. 

          Enigma includes quite a few missions but no scenario creation tools.     

  Just as importantly, the game lacks major features that should have been obvious inclusions. There's 
 no random mission generator and no scenario design tools. It's true that the existing missions 
 are diverse and never play out exactly the same way twice, but it's a shame you can't generate 
 engagements to your own specifications. There's also no multiplayer in a game that cries out for 
 it. A persistent-world multiplayer component has been promised, but unfortunately you'll have to 
 pay to play. At least purchasers of the game get a free 30-day trial when the multiplayer component 
 goes live.  

  Even with these problems, it's hard not to enjoy Enigma. Streamlined but not dumbed down, the game 
 captures the exciting feel of WWII naval combat even if it ignores many of the details. Whether 
 you're a WWII or naval combat buff or simply someone who loves a smooth combination of action and 
 tactics, Enigma: Rising Tide can offer a lot of tense challenges and high-seas drama.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 13, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  When I heard a bout Enigma: rising tide I thought that it was another add-on for silent hunter 
 but it was not it was a totally separate game. 
  
  The game play 
  
  You have to choose what country you want and you can choose what sides you want to play the choices 
 are Germany, USA and the Japan, the submarines and ships are very good in detail and the way the 
 fight in the game in the sub you have depth gauges and the lowest you can go down is 200 meters 
 but this is the maximum depth you can go down and you hull will start to creak and that means you 
 are going to implode if you don't get to the safe depth. 
  
  The graphics 
  
  The graphics are very good and the ships and submarines details are very good and when you are 
 hit by a torpedo, the waves from the explosion are very good and when the ship is going through 
 the water a little bow wave is there and it splashes against the ship. 
  
  The sound 
  
  The sound quality is excellent and when a torpedo hits your ship the explosion sound is realistic 
 and the engine noise is very good and when you start the engines up they fire up like a real ship 
 engines would 
  
  So this game is very good and I would suggest that you buy this game because if you like ships 
 and to destroy other ships than this game is for you. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamacowboy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 23, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, good naval sims are hard to come by. Silent Hunter II was a letdown, incredibly long missions 
 (though cut short by the simulation godsend known as time compression) , no open-ended gameplay, 
 et cetera. Destroyer Command was awful, and as GameSpot put it, full of broken features (And I 
 did laugh at the plow into everything bit they wrote) . Hell, they were actually the only two naval 
 sims I had at the time. Needless to say, I was disappointed. So there I was, ambling through the 
 electronics department of Wal-Mart, when suddenly out of the blue, the game's box caught my eye. 
 I was interested, so I went ahead and bought it, thinking this might be another waste of my time. 
 Boy, was I wrong.
  
  The game ran decently well on a Intel Celeron D 2.8Ghz processor, 256 MB RAM and a GeForce 4 MX4000 
 64 MB PCI video card. Apart from the excruciatingly long load times, that is. I fired up the first 
 training mission and found myself rather impressed, and the immediate blaring of alarms startled 
 me as I noticed a convoy of ships on the horizon. Which is another good thing, damn good draw distance, 
 it's realistic! Granted, everything looked pretty damn low-res when I played it, but it still looked 
 good.
  
  The presentation is very well done. Although some of the missions are dark and the ships' details 
 are hard to make out, everything looks detailed. Explosions are purty, smoke effects be purty.
 
  
  Gameplay? Purty. As Scott Osborne stated, dodging ships and airplanes, diving (and crash diving, 
 which is essentially a very sped-up dive command, done in real life when there was no time for 
 a standard diving procedure) , raising the periscope and moving to a safer location, it is a blast.
 
  
  The sound is eh. All the the flak guns, anti-air machine guns, main guns, and explosions sound 
 the same. I would have given it a 10 if there were more of a variety, I mean, you can tell the 
 difference between artillery and an anti-tank weapon, right?
  
  Enigma's a great game for both casual and serious gamers. I'm a mix of both, since I tend to get 
 bored with overly-complicated sims. But hey, I'm not perfect, right? Point is, this game rocks, 
 it's a worthy game, the voice recognition is a kickass addition, and everyone needs to get this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarzyz
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 27, 2006 2:46 am PT
Review:  Well there is a an excellent submarine game, called Silent Hunter III. 
  
  But have you been playing that game and tought "Man, i wish i could control those destroyers/battle 
 ships instead" ?
  
  If you have, this game will be your first choice, in this game you can play as either Germans, 
 USA or Japan, not only do the 3 nations have entirely diffrient ships, they all also have submarines. 
 Ofcouse you souldnt expect Silent Hunter III quality, but its sure is fun enough.
  
  Anyway i play this game because of the ability to play as the warships, i havent seen any newer 
 games that let you do that, only Dangerous Waters, and the graphics in that game is much worse 
 than in Enigma from 2003. Also Dangerous Waters is much more complex, Enigma is more arcade like.
 
  
  example if you wanna go somewhere you dont have to push 10 diffrient buttons, you simply click 
 on the radar where you wanna go, and the ship will go there. Simple and easy.
  
  Well what do you do as a captain on a destroyer? It depends, sometimes your air alarm goes off 
 and you must prepare for an air attack, thankfully most war ships are very well equipped with anti 
 aircraft weapons, you can either control them yourself and let the AI handle it. And then 10 maybe 
 20 enemy planes arrive and hell breaks loose! your anti aircraft guns begins to fire and bombs 
 drops from the sky and while you do that you might even hear an alarm bell and a crew member saying 
 "Incoming Torpedo ! Red!"" Ring ring!!
  
  Now you must find the enemy submarine, and destory it with your depth charges. This is probaly 
 the single hardest thing in the game, planning what deph your charges should explode and where 
 to drop em, to kill the enemy subs. But its absolute GREAT when you hit them.
  
  If you are into naval games, you cannot miss this game out!
  
  Unfourtanly the developer of 
 this game recently closed, they had planned an mmorpg naval game, wich sounds fantastic! it pains 
 me to hear that they will never finish it.
  
  Sound: Good sound, but could be better. i Specially like the sound of the anti aircraft guns.
 
  
  Graphics: The Graphics is average, it is still much better than dangerous waters and thats a 2005 
 game (this is 2003)
  
  Gameplay: Lots of missions, 3 nations with entirely diffrient ships.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
