-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Enter the Matrix
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/enterthematrix/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 20, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 6.5, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 1,504 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Shiny
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     May 14, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
For huge fans of The Matrix Reloaded, it's worth renting for the movie sequences. For everyone else, 
 it's just another licensed game that doesn't do justice to its source material. 

  There have been plenty of games based on movies in the past, and there seems to be an industry 
 subset devoted solely to pumping out run-of-the-mill action games based loosely on books, TV shows, 
 movies, and cartoons. Enter the Matrix attempts to take the concept to the next level by delivering 
 a new storyline that runs concurrent to the movie it's based on,  The Matrix Reloaded , filling 
 in some of the back story that the movie doesn't have time to deliver. While there are a few instances 
 in the game where that is indeed the case, the game's story isn't strong enough to stand on its 
 own, and the gameplay simply doesn't save it, making the game worth a look for hard-core fans of 
  The Matrix  films, but a buggy disappointment for just about anyone else.  

          One of the big draws for  The Matrix Reloaded  fans is the fact that Enter the Matrix features 
 new sequences shot specifically for the game.     

  Enter the Matrix focuses on two side characters named Niobe and Ghost. You'll see both characters 
 sparingly throughout the film, but they rarely get any meaningful screen time. However, it's assumed 
 that the duo is off doing something important when they aren't hanging out with Neo, Trinity, and 
 the rest of the film's principal characters. The game proves that assumption correct, as you'll 
 pick up the story just after the conclusion of one of the short stories that make up The Animatrix 
 and make your way from mission to mission until you reach the game's conclusion, which takes place 
 around the same time as the end of the film. The game's story is very fast and loose, and it assumes 
 that you're already familiar with the film. Even the game's FMV ending is little more than a "Whew, 
 that was close" sequence with a trailer for the film thrown in for good measure. There is a smattering 
 of FMV used throughout the game, but most of the noninteractive sequences are rendered with the 
 game's engine.  

  Enter the Matrix's engine delivers a pretty standard third-person action game. You're able to fire 
 weapons and engage in hand-to-hand combat against a collection of foes. Most of the fighting puts 
 you up against security guards, cops, and SWAT forces, but you'll also face the Matrix's own brand 
 of vampires, as well as a couple of well-placed run-ins with life-threatening agents. The game 
 is objective-driven. It opens with your character in a post office, trying to get to a specific 
 PO box to retrieve some information. As you make your way through the game, you'll chase after 
 airplanes in an SUV, rescue captured rebels, navigate a sewer system, destroy a nuclear power plant, 
 and fight off a sentinel attack from on board your ship, the Logos. None of the objectives are 
 fleshed out terribly well, and it's difficult to really get a feel for what, exactly, your team 
 is doing and how, exactly, it ties into the plot of the film. Sections also stop and start very, 
 very abruptly, as the game pauses to load up new sequences or give you the opportunity to save 
 quite often.  

          Enter the Matrix's engine delivers a pretty standard third-person action game.     

 
   The Matrix  may have been credited with bringing the slow-motion "bullet time" effect to the 
 big screen, but games like Max Payne have already brought the effect -- which slows time down to 
 give you cleaner shots and more control of your character -- to video games. Enter the Matrix, of 
 course, uses this effect, and it's governed by a "focus" meter. You can use focus at the touch 
 of a button, and it does things like let you run up walls, jump farther, and cartwheel out of the 
 way of oncoming bullets. The ironic thing is that you really don't need to use the effect all that 
 often, as the enemy AI is easily dispatched by hitting the action button to disarm them and then 
 finishing up with some quick punches and kicks. You'll pick up an array of guns along the way, 
 and it's quite easy to just pump enemies full of lead rather than bother with your kung fu skills. 
 The AI in the game is also a bit of a mess, so you can expect to see things like enemy cops running 
 into a wall and staying there, enemies clipping through walls and doors instead of running around 
 to get to you, and so on. The game is rarely difficult, and like in Activision's recent movie game, 
 X2: Wolverine's Revenge, you can simply stand still for a minute or so and regain all your health, 
 which takes away almost all the tension. Short chapters and frequent saves combine to prevent you 
 from ever having to replay lengthy sequences, should you actually die.  

  Enter the Matrix's most heinous flaw is that it draws from a highly stylized universe but fails 
 to capitalize on any of those strengths. Even though your characters will occasionally make some 
 pretty daring escapes, you never actually get to do those things yourself. The game lets you run 
 right up to the ledge, for example, but an in-engine cutscene always kicks in just as you're about 
 to jump off. Also, some of the effects just look hokey. The game's subpar animation prevents most 
 of your acrobatics from looking particularly good, and little touches, like the way the agents 
 become a blur when they move to dodge bullets in the film, are totally missing here -- which is especially 
 silly, because it makes the agents look like they're trying to dance whenever shots are fired in 
 their direction. Even the game's final sequence, which has you either piloting or covering the 
 Logos as it runs from a ton of sentinels, seems ill-conceived. Perhaps it's fitting that a game 
 with so much full-motion video has an end sequence that plays like it was taken directly from a 
 Sega CD game -- namely, Sewer Shark.     

  Speaking of full-motion video, one of the big draws for  The Matrix Reloaded  fans is the fact 
 that Enter the Matrix features new sequences shot specifically for the game, using the same actors 
 and locations found in the movie. Of course, the new sequences are really quite limited, and they 
 star the secondary cast almost exclusively. Aside from a short sequence featuring Carrie-Anne Moss, 
 a sequence featuring the Oracle, and a very brief appearance from Hugo Weaving, the only time you'll 
 see the movie's principal characters is when the game is merely replaying scenes from the film. 
 Even then, the scenes never focus on the lead characters. Not all of the film sequences are throwaways, 
 though, as you'll get to see one of the film's most impressive special effects shots. But by and 
 large, the FMV will be uninteresting to anyone other than die-hard  The Matrix  fans, and it doesn't 
 do anything to add depth to the game's razor-thin plot sequences.  

          The game doesn't deliver much story, forcing you to fill in the blanks with things you 
 remember from the new movie,  The Matrix Reloaded .     

  The game does have a neat little element to it known as hacking. When you select hacking from the 
 main menu, you're thrown into a DOS-like command line interface, given a few simple commands, and 
 let loose. As you hack around and discover different commands, you'll be able to watch the game's 
 FMV and look up information on the characters, cars, and weapons found in the game. Cheaters will 
 also be able to enter cheat codes here, as well as drop extra weapons into the game's levels. It's 
 a neat touch that gives the game a little more style, but within an hour or two, you'll have seen 
 everything the hacking mode has to offer. More control over the main game from here would have 
 been really cool.  

  Enter the Matrix bears the additional weight of being a pretty buggy game. Aside from the aforementioned 
 AI bugs that permeate every version of the game, each version has its own quirks. The PC version 
 has a highly unstable frame rate, even on systems that exceed the system requirements by a wide 
 margin. The PlayStation 2 version suffers from serious frame rate problems and a bevy of audio 
 errors, the most troublesome of which causes some cutscenes' audio to be played twice at slightly 
 different times, creating an echo effect that renders almost all the dialogue completely unintelligible. 
 The Xbox version has locked up on us a few times, and the GameCube release has its own frame rate 
 troubles. You would think that, since Shiny has been working on a Matrix game for years, the end 
 product would come out polished and, well, shiny. Add to this plenty of sloppy instances where 
 dead guards clip through walls and the game's generally weak animation, and the whole thing ends 
 up looking like a rush job.  

  To further discuss the differences between the various platforms, it's worth mentioning that the 
 PC version of the game has a drastically different control scheme than the console versions, defaulting 
 to keyboard-and-mouse control. While that's fine for the shooting elements of the game, it's a 
 bit too loose to really work in hand-to-hand situations. The PlayStation 2 controller is the best 
 way to play the game, as it simply has the best button layout. The Xbox version maps your firing 
 control to the black button, which is way, way out of place on the now-standard S controller. An 
 old-style Xbox controller works a bit better. The GameCube version doesn't control especially well, 
 either, using the Z button for opening doors and disarming foes while using one button for a universal 
 strafe command. You have some options as far as adjusting the control scheme goes on every platform, 
 but in the end, the PS2 version is more precise than the rest.  

          Enter the Matrix's most heinous flaw is that it draws from a highly stylized universe but 
 fails to capitalize on any of those strengths.     

  Of course, that's not to say the PlayStation 2 version is the overall best. Graphically, it's the 
 weakest, delivering more pixelated models and more frame rate trouble than the other console versions. 
 The GameCube version looks a bit better, but the Xbox version, with its 1080i support for high-definition 
 televisions, is the best-looking console version of the game. The PC version has the potential 
 to look better, but the awful frame rate on PCs that meet the system requirements really gets in 
 the way.  

  Enter the Matrix is a game that, done right, could have been something special. Never before have 
 games and movies tried to come together in this way, and the concept is a cool one. However, the 
 game serves as little more than an advertisement for the film -- it doesn't have a story that stands 
 on its own, and the gameplay doesn't really offer anything that we haven't seen in better games. 
 If you're a huge fan of the film, it's worth renting to see the few additional sequences, but for 
 the rest of you, it's just another licensed game that doesn't do justice to its source material. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (74 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: garey017
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  Enter the Matrix is a game based on the movie The Matrix, if you hadn't guessed. At the time, Enter 
 the Matrix was one of the most expensive games to create, reportedly costing over 30 million dollars. 
 By playing this game, you can tell a lot was put into it. Unfortunately, you can also tell a lot 
 WASN'T put into it, at least in the way of time. Enter the Matrix obviously fell victim to what 
 most licensed games also fall victim to, and that's a rush to get the game onto the market while 
 "The Matrix" was on everyone's mind. The graphics look nice, and possibly the most popular aspect 
 of the game is it's cutscenes. Serious fans of the Matrix will probably appreciate this game for 
 the depth that it adds to the Matrix story as a whole. But for most other people, this was a game 
 that looked pretty at the time, but played pretty bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsnibbs
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  I brought this game day one and boy was I mad... It had to, just had to be good. It was not.
  
  The story went very well in conjunction with both the Animatrix and the Matrix Reloaded but 
 aside from the story there is quite little to recommend about this game.
  
  The characters chosen, Ghost and Niobe, were bit players in the movies so it was disappointing 
 that these were chose. I know the whole idea was to expand on the story, but I would have much 
 rather played as Morpheus and Trinity and expanded the story that way...
  
  The cutscenes were great in the respect that they got the actors from the movies into them but 
 it always felt like they said, "oh we'll chuck in this character that will keep the fans happy" 
 or "they will see Neo go here in the movie, that will keep them happy".
  
  The game added replayability by having both Ghost and Niobe playable and the did slightly different 
 things but not so much so that you really felt the need to play through twice as once, believe 
 me, was enough.
  
  The third person view generally worked well and combat was mostly satisfying, and I'm a sucker 
 for bullet time so i liked that feature. Gunplay was terrible and the platforming elements were 
 not much fun at all.
  
  And what can be said about the compulsory turret sequence, if you were Ghost you drove, nothing 
 too remarkable. If you were Niobe on the turret, there was a 50-50 chance you would finish the 
 level, even if you didn't die. I got an issue where Ghost would drive the car into an enclosed 
 area and would get stuck and would do absolutely nothing to rectify this situation.
  
  And the ending in the real world was so unbelievably hard, i don't know how the hell i did finish 
 it. I know it took me quite a while to do it... 
  
  Graphics wise this game is, well, ugly. Bland environments, with a greenish tinge, just enough 
 to give it a Matrix feel.
  
  As a fan of the Matrix there is very little to hold interest, and even less for casual observers. 
 Bullet time is cool but I would say that with it implemented in any game. Take it away and you 
 have a mediocre game, at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gokunami
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Matrix is where your pc will take you in this spine bending slow motion version of the movie. Skilled 
 players only need apply. Just cause you saw the movie doesn't mean you will be able to handle the 
 pc version. No joy stick here to control, so professionals only. This game was definitely well 
 built conceptually from start to finish. The story line takes you from beginning to end and they 
 didn't miss a beat. Once you figure out how to alter time and do flips then you're on your way. 
 I loved the post office scene cause enemies are coming at you from every direction. The bathroom, 
 back rooms even through walls. I could have sworn I saw someone come through the wall. Sometime 
 you have to get gangster and just blast your way through. When your clip is empty then you better 
 hurry to find another weapon. Hopefully it's loaded or you got problems. Run up and down walls 
 to avoid being shot. Diving from roof to roof is exhilarating too. Now looking back, I wonder my 
 I stopped playing this game. Don't listen to what I have to say when you can find out for yourself. 
 Playing as Jada Pickett Smith's character was a blast too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saurabh123
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 3, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  Seems Atari is associated with a history of great brand name dilution through avoidable frustrating 
 implementation on the final product. Driver 3 & the recent Alone in the Dark figure well on that 
 list as well.
  
  Being a huge fan of Matrix Reloaded (mainly due to the chase sequences) , i picked up this game 
 with main concern being the "xtra content" and i wasn't disappointed! The game features loads of 
 extra content in terms of in-game movie footage that can make your patience testing with this game 
 a satisfying endeavor. 
  
  Though the game's story is closely aligned to Matrix Reloaded, your major playable protagonists 
 vary. Despite that variety, there is hardly any difference in moves or response. Developers did 
 try executing the slo-mo bullet time combo with great hopes but personally i felt the bullet ripples 
 look ugly & are far away from those "cool momements" they wanted to create! The characters move 
 like they have been warned to death of not letting go of their silly running & fighting animations! 
 Fighting, shooting & even those granite galleries have all been wasted due to thoughtless execution....: (
 
  
  Driving portions are ok, with the vehicles having a weighty feel about them. But nothing to rave 
 about really!. The envrionments have been detailed out real well & shine throughout the game.... but 
 sadly do not offer much interactivity for any of your moves or fights! 
  
  The only thing that allowed me to tolerate this seemingly stupid ride were the cut-scenes which 
 seemed to have been shot specially for the game & are the binding glue to this falling apart entity.
 
  
  Wish i had better things to say about Entering the Matrix, but i wud prefer to stay out of it really! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 3:31 am PT
Review:  Whoa! That must be the thought which comes to your mind when you buy a Matrix game. Why? Stunning 
 graphics and visuals, spectacular stunts to be performed, innovative storyline and perfectly rounded 
 overall. Right? The very same happened with me when I bought the DVD of this game for my PC. I 
 started playing it. Okay, the openning movie was living up to the film. Then, the game turned into 
 the gameplay screen. First shock: what? I am Naobie? Not Neo? That's disappointing! 
  
  But then you play forward and you meet your first foe. You press the combat buttons and see that 
 your charecter is performing stunning stunts. The way we fight is very similar to the stunts in 
 the movie. But soon, we find out that the stunts and the attacking combos are limited to only seven 
 or eight and all you can do is punch and kick by different methods. The enemies are so easy to 
 defeat, that within two kicks on their backside, the'll be lying on the ground, dead. Thats quiet 
 unheard of if you're talking about Matrix.
  
  The gameplay is very repititive and highly boring. You like the game at first but then it starts 
 becoming boring and soon, you would wat to throw the CD away and jump off the fifth floor of your 
 building. The difficulty of the game is very easy. So easy that you can finish the game while sleeping. 
 All you have to do is follow the radar on your map and punch your enemies and open the doors. 
 
  
  The sound of the game is very repititive (again) . Most of the times, all you can hear for the background 
 music is the swishing of air when you punch or kick. 
  
  Basically, this game is a total letdown and not very good for Matrix fans. It dies not live up 
 to its name. If you have just bought this game, say good-bye to Matrix and entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  Whoa! That must be the thought which comes to your mind when you buy a Matrix game. Why? Stunning 
 graphics and visuals, spectacular stunts to be performed, innovative storyline and perfectly rounded 
 overall. Right? The very same happened with me when I bought the DVD of this game for my PC. I 
 started playing it. Okay, the openning movie was living up to the film. Then, the game turned into 
 the gameplay screen. First shock: what? I am Naobie? Not Neo? That's disappointing! 
  
  But then you play forward and you meet your first foe. You press the combat buttons and see that 
 your charecter is performing stunning stunts. The way we fight is very similar to the stunts in 
 the movie. But soon, we find out that the stunts and the attacking combos are limited to only seven 
 or eight and all you can do is punch and kick by different methods. The enemies are so easy to 
 defeat, that within two kicks on their backside, the'll be lying on the ground, dead. Thats quiet 
 unheard of if you're talking about Matrix.
  
  The gameplay is very repititive and highly boring. You like the game at first but then it starts 
 becoming boring and soon, you would wat to throw the CD away and jump off the fifth floor of your 
 building. The difficulty of the game is very easy. So easy that you can finish the game while sleeping. 
 All you have to do is follow the radar on your map and puch your enemies and open the doors. 
 
  
  The sound of the game is very repititive (again) . Most of the times, all you can hear for the background 
 music is the swishing of air when you punch or kick. 
  
  Basically, this game is a total letdown and not very good for Matrix fans. It dies not live up 
 to its name. If you have just bought this game, say good-bye to Matrix and entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Enter the Matrix is a game that is based off of the Matrix movie series. The story starts on another 
 Rebel ship under command of Niobe, her co-captain Ghost, and operator named Spark. Niobe and Ghost 
 go into the Matrix to help win this war. They head into a post office to grab a package to more 
 members of another rebel ship. Niobe's ship gets more assistance from the Nebukineser (Morpheus's 
 ship) later on in the game.
  
  What I liked about this game is the controls can be fixed to a more comfortable setting. Great 
 never before seen footage from any Matrix movie. Cameo apperances from Trinity, Morpheus and Neo. 
 Great Matrix action. It also makes Matrix 2 more enjoyable and understandable.
  Ghost gets a bonus fight from Trinity. Good ol' Matrix stunts
  
  What I didn't like about this 
 game is that Niobe dosen't get a bonus fight. Some weird movements. Graphics could be a little 
 better. If you play as Ghost, Niobe is a bad driver. Trinity and Sephaeus can be tough sometimes. 
 I can't stand those agents when they fight me.
  
  Overall, Enter the Matrix is a great Matrix experience. It strikes me odd that a T for Teen rated 
 game is based of an R rated movie.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  Youve gotta admit that Shiny Entertainment and the Wachowski brothers know how to milk a cash 
 cow. Realizing the number of seriously obsessed fans wholl gobble up any scrap of Matrix-ism, 
 they positioned Enter the Matrix as a must-have for anyone who considers themselves a true aficionado 
 by claiming If you dont play the game, youre not seeing the entire Matrix story.
  
  And in a way, thats true. But unfortunately, you wont get much of a game to go along with the 
 new Wachowski-directed movie interludes.
  (Before we go further, a word about bugs. The Atari Tech Support board has dozens of bug reports 
 involving crashes and lockups, but when I experienced those same issues, a call to tech support 
 got me running hassle-free. Still, the sheer number of complaints means they arent all being solved.)
 
  
  Back to the story. The plot of Enter the Matrix runs parallel with Matrix Reloaded, with references 
 to events that occur in the movie  you even take part in the freeway chase  and FMV appearances 
 by the Merovingian, the Oracle, the Seraph, the Keymaker, Commander Lock, and even Trinity (for 
 all of about 30 seconds) .
  
  You play as either Ghost or Niobe, both of whom appeared in the flick. Theyre equally adept at 
 martial arts and gunplay; Niobe handles nearly all the driving and flying chores while Ghost rides 
 shotgun during the games dreadful railed-shooter sequences. Also aboard the hovercraft Logos is 
 Sparks, the techie who sends the two into the Matrix and whose constant **** serves no purpose 
 other than to indict the Wachowskis script-writing talents.
  
  But whats with all the story? While some gamers will love to learn of Ghosts existentialist leanings 
 or his unique stance on celibacy, most would trade this knowledge for some kickass action  and 
 this is where Enter the Matrix truly disappoints.
  
  It does have some cool bits: Its highly rewarding to spring from a wall to deliver a crushing 
 roundhouse kick or toss enemies around like rag dolls, and the slowed-time effect is pretty cool 
 (though it just seems like a less-cool rip-off of Max Payne  how ironic!) . But the constantly 
 shifting camera makes it tough to pull off some moves, and a lock on feature often forces you 
 to strafe to move toward the next bad guy. Eventually youll find yourself just pounding the kick 
 and punch keys and watching the bodies fly  fun, but not for long.
  
  The third-person perspective means auto-targeting is pretty much a must for gun battles, so all 
 the bang-bang ends up being fairly monotonous. Tossing a grenade is exciting only because you have 
 zero control over where itll land. The enemy AI is at times laughable, with cops running in place 
 or standing idly by as you smash in their buddys skull. Tedious level designs  which tend to 
 feature essentially the same scenery over and over again (the Sewers and Power Plant levels are 
 especially painful)  compound the lack of real adventure.
  
  Its not a good sign when the most interesting feature is the DOS-style interface that lets you 
 hack the Matrix, but thats pretty much the case here. Take away the Matrix setting, and youre 
 left with an action game that really does nothing new  and looks pretty average doing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEPowered390
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 6, 2007 2:35 am PT
Review:  Matrix or Max Payne fans, please gather. This game is a complete winner on all scales. You get 
 KILLER footage that you will never see in any of the Matrix series. You get excellent fighting 
 sequences... even better than Max Payne! (Kung Fo!) . So what the hell is wrong it? It's simply unplayable:
 
  
  4 Years ago, I was able to beat this game using Niobi. The game crashed about 10 times, but I was 
 able to make it through the game. It was a pretty good experience. Nothing worth having your heat 
 beat jump out of your chest about, but it was actually a decent Max Payne style game!
  
  The game is relatively simple enough for my dad to play it with a very low learning curve. It has 
 a great soundtrack, which rare footage of the movie. It's actually, a very decent game.
  
  5 months ago, I reinstalled the game, and tried completing the game with the asian charactor (forgot 
 his name) . My machine crashed on the second level.. and that's where my story ended.
  
  This game is the most unstable game I have ever played in my life. Sadly enough, it has what it 
 takes to be a revolutionary fighter/game.
  
  If you come upon this game. Buy it. You might just be lucky and be able to play the game through, 
 because it's actually moderately fun. Strong gameplay leave this game worth mentioning, but it's 
 graphical and stability flaws make this game simply unplayable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crix01
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jun 28, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  This must be the worst game I ever played......... It has is moments, like bullet fights, and thats 
 about all. It' s seems pointless most of the time, you just have to push the punch button repeatedly 
 to kill your enemys, you don't have to be looking at the screen to do it, every fighting technic 
 that the characters have are completely useless. In the car chase trough the tunnel playing with 
 Ghost, I just looked at the screen and without doing nothing (just pray that the car didin't get 
 stuck) and the level completed itself......... that's an insult for the players..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 10, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  Enter The Matrix was fun on the Xbox and the Gamecube so I figured that it should be a blast on 
 the PC, since games normally have better graphics on the PC. I was wrong. Even though the game 
 is essentially the same as the other version story and gameplay wise with nothing added, the graphics 
 and controls can get in the way of you having fun with this one. First off the story is the same 
 as the console versions which is not much of a shock, a multiplayer mode might have been a nice 
 addition, but there was little to no chance of it being added to the game. So you are Niobi or 
 Ghost. They both are different stories through the same levels but basically you fight along side 
 Neo in the Matrix Reloaded story. In the driving missions Niobi drives and Ghost shoots. The graphics 
 in this game are nothing to look at. In the run and gun missions they are about as average as you 
 can get before they are just plain bad. The character models all look the same, but the game does 
 have a greenish Matrix feel which is a good thing. Then you get to the driving levels where things 
 really start to get messy. The framerate fails here; the graphics are so terrible they would have 
 not even been excepted in the days of early FPS like Half-Life and Dues Ex. The game controls not 
 quite as well as the console versions, because I think that the aiming is not as good as it was 
 on the console, which is not really normal. Still the game controls ok where you can most likely 
 figure it out in about thirty minutes. As far as replay value goes, I would just stick to the console 
 versions of this game. The graphics are better there and the driving levels are bearable. So there 
 is a good chance that these levels will be so terrible that you will just stop playing about 30-60 
 minutes into the game when you get to the first one, other than that I guess a true Matrix fan 
 would probably enjoy playing through both of the stories. Overall, just stick with the console 
 versions, they are cheaper and easier to find that this game, but if you find it for two dollars 
 like I did than you might want to give it a try depending on how big of a fan you are of the sereies. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 20, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  The Matrix movie laid out a fantastic premise which could be best experienced, other than a movie, 
 through a computer game. After all, the matrix was all about a computer created world. Plus the 
 stylised action, the potential types of villains were all in favour of a great game.
  This game came out when the Matrix Reloaded came out. Matrix Reloaded was a big disappointment -- 
 so is this game. I think the makers of this game did not realise that the makers of Matrix the 
 movie were already pursuing too many matrix-based entertainment material; like Animatrix for instance. 
 There were even comics based on Matrix. The creators of Matrix, I believe, started thinking too 
 much about the matrix world -- than focusing on the substance. As a result, the game also came as 
 a kind of side-story of Matrix. Which was unfortunate. The game could have come with neo's perspective 
 only and could have simply moved on as a standard FPS.
  Anyway, this does not mean that you would hate this game. This game starts as a standard FPS -- 
 and puts a lot of action commands (which I have, by now, forgotten) and action sequences right 
 from the beginning. Unfortunately, the game lacks in its driving spirit. You won; t mind leaving 
 the game unfinished.
  The graphics and sounds of this game are standard, but definitely not extra-ordinary. Yet there 
 was this scope to make them better.
  Overall, I am disappointed with the game. After playing this game, I have more or less stopped 
 buying movie-based games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cornishgeezer
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 9, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I got this game when it first came out and was extremely excited about playing it. Gameplay :8 
 because the way the cutscenes interact with the actual play works really effectively and each mission/level 
 is different and interesting.
  i wouldnt give it 10 out of 10 because the fighting and shooting don't have many variations and 
 the game is about the fighting, the storyline isnt particularly important.
  
  Graphics :8 The shine that comes off niobe's suit is great and the mouths and voices are in co-ordination 
 with eachother. The bullettime looks really good, the way the bullets, like in the film, move, 
 creating circles through the air. There a few minor faults but this is easily forgettable.
  
  Sound :9 Basically nothing wrong with the sound, real voices and sounds of combat moves replicates 
 the films.
  
  Value :9 This game has a lot of hours worth of gameplay per character, and seeing as theres 2 characters 
 this provides lots of fun . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hutapamo
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  This game is so cool, I may not have finished the game, but its because it hard. The game is one 
 of the best action games I have ever played, right now I am on the part where the helicopter is 
 above me and soldiers are dropping off from the helicopter and I have to kill them and at the same 
 time destroy the helicopter above me. I am playing with the boy. I love the kicks and punches, 
 It is way better to play by fighting or to play by shooting. It makes it much fun and less violent. 
 I just recently got a new computer, on my old computer it does not work, but on my new one it plays 
 fast well, and the graphics are perfect, this just makes you want to play the game more and more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karljv
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jan 22, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHH it buuurns my eyes...
  I just got to the mail thing or sumthing and the lockers draw in, in front of ur nose and i mean 
 in front of your nose. I am running it on maxed out BTW...
  Fighting is good nothing special, although missions get repetitive!
  
  Graphix is a main part 
 in games and we all know it! In this game it varies, driving around in a car is as painful as it 
 gets!
  
  fighting in sewers is another thing were you'r like wtf i've been her because everything looks 
 the same! Now usual gun fighting ain't so bad, but i got to say that it does get repetitive and 
 yes i enjoyed this more, when i was a bit younger!
  
  SOUND - nothing special!
  
  Overall don't buy it, when you have to then check the discount boxes before!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michygeorg
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  I bought Enter The Matrix PC 3 or so years ago expecting a really awesome game. Well, it didn't 
 take long for me to realize what a waste of money it is. If you let the enemy shoot you more than 
 2 times, your probably dead. I timed it one time and it only took a SWAT guy 2 (or less) seconds 
 to kill me with his machine gun... its really hard unless you use your Focus (or whatever its called) 
 just about the whole time, and even then its annoying. You can do some cool moves but they get 
 old in a hurry and you'll find the weapons SUCK, especially sniping. The in-game video is also 
 horrible, although there is footage from the movie and also some that has never been before seen (but 
 the quality is sorta lousy) . I was really mad because they didn't even have an option where you 
 can watch the movie footage from the main menu. I searched the disk also and it isn't in a playable 
 format.
  The general graphics suck too, especially seeing how the game is 4 GB. I purchased the DVD version 
 of the game which is supposed to be the most up to date edition. Well they may have fixed some 
 of the issues but I couldn't even play through the game with any cheats enabled. As soon as you 
 reach the end of the level the game crashes to the desktop! I emailed Atari tech support about 
 it and they told me to send them some information about my PC and the game. After I did this they 
 never replied! Bottom line: You get a crappy game with lots of problems (PC CD-ROM versions especially) 
 and equally as bad tech support. The game is just not worth using up 4 GB of your HD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brhisawsome
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  i drop dead honestly dont kno wut gamespot is talking bout with this game, i got it for 5 bucks 
 and i LOVE it
  
  
  everything youd expect from a matrix game. awsome guns and gunplay and some awsome killing moves. 
 these are so cool and range from running up walls and shooting to flipping someone by their knuckles. 
 
  nothing to great nothing to bad, however there are movie cutscenes
  
  
 
  pretty cool sound and audio and stuff coming from a uzi
  
  
  insanely fun, awsome slo mo, 
 cool killing moves, good guns, ok graphics
  
  
  kinda short
  
  in the end matrix 
 is an awsome game that i HIGHLY suggest 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 17, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is really just a lame movie tie in. It was fun. I don't regret playing it. I do regret 
 the spending the money I did on it.
  
  I like The Matrix. I am one of those poor dumb lost souls that thinks the whole trilogy was brilliant, 
 and nobody got it. I don't really want to dwell on that, because I realize people have lost eyes 
 having this conversation.
  
  I only say that, because I really did play it just for the extra scenes. It was fun. I enjoyed 
 getting a little more material. But it was only a trifle. Fun, but ultimately unfilling. It was 
 fun knocking around in the Matrix universe. I also liked the characters.
  
  The fighting was ok. It was fun. But it gets old. The mini games are also fun, but also get old.
 
  
  Overall, it was a fun game, but you don't really get your dollars worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe78man
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 15, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  First, if you don't like Matrix fighting scenes, you won't like this one.
  The story is poor, not bad, but poor, the only good point is that fills in just before the third 
 movie.
  The game is just an action game, the moves the character can make are as awesom as the movie presents, 
 hand to hand is really entertaining if you enjoy watching amazing moves and one single guy KO-ing 
 7 armed swat team guys.
  The game presents no challenge, save for a couple of tasks very difficult, but after a few tries 
 you can accomplish them. On normal difficulty, after a fight, when everyone's dead you start healing 
 rapidly, making the game a hell of an easy one. Just as I said, it's just to entertain yourself 
 with good fighting scenes, no chanllenge.
  Another thing that makes it really easy is that it offers you to save the progress very often, 
 so when you lose (something that won't happen very often unless you expect to play just hand to 
 hand)
  It is a fast paced game, and those familiar with max payne will recognise the Focus idea originator, 
 the old bullet time .
  Using Focus everything will move very slowly, including your character, actually your character 
 will move faster than the rest, at this moment, if you jump sidewards, run into a wall, jump backwards, 
 you will see the moves easily found in the Matrix movies. As your character moves faster than the 
 rest it won't be blockable, and also avoid bullets.
  The character aims for you, and he is imprecise, but when you focus the accuracy betters a lot, 
 saving bullets and killing faster, anyway, there's nothing as a good flying kick.
  The driving part should be polished, it's ok, but the handling needs improvements, as it is very 
 sensitive, but after one or two drives you can master it.
  It's also supposed that at some point you drive the Hammer, I haven't get there yet, I just hope 
 it's less sensitive than car driving.
  Resuming, a good fighting game, very easy, the graphics are not something from another world, but 
 they do enough.
  If you are one of those who see Matrix again just for the fighting scenes, you can make your own 
 ones with this game.
  Don't expect a good story, not to mention a challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: federico06
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 16, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  WTF?
  What was that?
  
  We don't play as neo? oh Shut what have the creators done?!
  
  Square Wheels?? The only thing that i will rescue was the graphics of the game-play. without 
 counting the driving scenes that are wretched.
  
  The storyline of the puts us in the skin of &iquest; NIOBE? and &iquest; GHOST? setting us in missions 
 without sense. Stupid commentaries and nothing to see except the judo fighting This is one of the 
 most BORING EASY SHORT And
  STUPID GAME THAT I HAVE PLAYED IN ALL MY LIFE.
  The last scenes are really really wretched. Were we driving a SHip?
  I didn't really understood 
 that.
  And also is only one movie the reloaded i think revolution. Doesn't matters.
  This isn't a good game to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilshorn
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 6, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  The driving is the worst part of this game and it needs to be redone. If you play as ghost, even 
 though Niobe's driving the car tries to go where you mouse is pointing at. This can get you stuck 
 in parking lots and other buildings. Drive as Niobe and the controls go wild which makes you crash 
 too much too enjoy it. The Boss levels are too hard and can get you stuck for a very long time. 
 The levels are pretty hard and the bad weather or when inside a building Dim lights makes you more 
 bored and in some cases even sleepy. The good part is that the fighting style is almost like the 
 movie and you can also do tricks like the movie like walking on the wall, or jumping very high. 
 The weapons are easy to use, but thats also another problem for hardcore gamers searching for challenges 
 because of the auto aiming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ponas_neo
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 17, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  I like it .The Graphics are good , new footage , mission are interesting , big levels and sometimes 
 this game is really funny .
  
  Although I can't complete mission 1 in level 5 with Ghost i completed it all with Niobe .
  I'm 
 currently at level 2 - The Sewers: Abyss with Niobe
  
  When I played this game for the first time I couldn't complete that mission with helicopter ( Level 
 2 with Ghost ) .I stopped playing it , but when I got some codes I started to play it again .yeah 
 that's a shame when gamer uses codes, but I wanted to complete this game , after all I found it 
 under Christmas tree and I think Santa Clauss gave me it .
  THANK YOU SANTA !
  
  I got it 2 years ago , finished it after a few months and deleted to make more space . But now 
 , 2006 I was bored and I watched the trailer and got in the matrix again .
  
  That's true - The matrix has me again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morphieous
Rating: 6.3
Date: Sep 4, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Enter The Matrix (PC)
  
  Introduction
  
  Enter the matrix on its first arrival blew fans away with all the preview trailers and all the 
 hype made about this game. But on purchasing the game its was a huge let down because of all the 
 bugs in the game and for the weak fighting experience.
  
  You play as Niobe or Ghost and you must fulfill missions that will help the one fulfill his destiny 
 or something like that. Whatever the storyline is, it was a great idea to cover what really happened 
 to the not so important characters in the movie. But who doesn't want to play as Neo?
  
  Gameplay
  
  Even though the game is buggy and lacks depth there is still some fun can still 
 be found. The bullet time is addictively entertaining and is well done but you will find yourself 
 always using it to kill your enemies.
  
  What I didn't like about this game was the fact that the fighting elements are so very weak. There 
 are not much combos and even if you do pull one off it doesn't do much anyway or even look cool. 
 After a while of playing this game you will realize that it will get really repetitive fast and 
 you will be praying that the level your on now is the last.
  
  This game has buggy gameplay and controls that seem to make playing the game more of a task than 
 fun. You will find yourself doing missions that only require your skill to run in a room and shoot. 
 Some people like this type of style but most people like depth in their games. The fact that you 
 can follow the paths of Niobe or Ghost is a really cool add-on but when you play as a different 
 character only a few levels are different from the other. 
  
  One thing I hugely disliked about this game was the driving and hovercraft levels. The physics 
 of the cars are so poorly done that it makes turning the car so difficult. The hovercraft in the 
 last level seems to fly so fast you will catch yourself guessing where the turns are and trying 
 to figure out where to go next when you hit a wall. They tried to really make you feel like you 
 are there in the matrix but it really just makes the game much worst than it already is.
  
  Sound
  
  The music is really well done. But the sound effects sound like they did it in one 
 day. The punches and the kicks sound so unreal it sounds like the characters are hitting bags of 
 sand. And most of the gunshots should exactly the same.
  All pistols have one sound and all automatic weapons have one sound also. This was a huge let down 
 for me I really wanted the sound effects to be great but they really didn't try to even make it 
 sound average. At least the music that they actually play during the levels really make you feel 
 like you are jacked in but the weak sound effects really brings down the game.
  
  Overall
  
  This game is average but if you are a huge fan you should definitely pick this one 
 up. If you cannot live without games with bullet time and like a game with dept and good controls 
 go and pick up Max Payne and leave this one on the shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackhawk42
Rating: 4.8
Date: Aug 9, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Enter the Matrix, is a poor game with many flaws...
  
  What the **** were these idiots thinking to produce this glob of poop and forget to flush it down 
 the toilet (a. k. a. cancel it) . 
  
  To speak logically now, the adventure is dumb. You have to guide the paths of either Niobe or Ghost 
 as you make your way through fighting loads of SWAT forces, cops, and Agents. 
  
  There is one level, where you're in the vehicle to get Niobe and Axel but if you make one wrong 
 move from your car, you fail the mission. That might be a game flaw. I hate this game! 
  
  To be frank, stay away from this game. It is a lousy way to spend time, it... it just sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jagoelaar
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 14, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  It's a nice game, and for the fans it's probably the most fun, but it has a lot of bugs, and sometime 
 it's a little booring.
  I liked playing it mostly because I am a matrix fan, but comparing it with something like the animatrix.. 
 this isn't worked out enough...
  The graphics are ok.... the matrix feel is ok, most of the time the slow motion is a lote of fun. 
 I had the feeling that I didn't knew all the moves that a could do, that was a bit frustrating.
 
  And I constantly had the feeling that I was playing an unfinished game. Something that should 
 not be.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nacs
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 24, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  This game is extremely weak and tries to make money solely off the Matrix brand.
  
  The controls are horrible. The graphics are mediocre at best.
  
  The gameplay is basically 
 a "go in the direction of the giant arrow at the top of the screen" and click the mouse a couple 
 times to do some horribly animated punches and kicks (3 punches will knock an enemy character out 
 cold and they rarely ever try to dodge you) .
  
  The worst part of this game (yes it gets worse) is that it is an extremely buggy game. Crashes 
 to the desktop happen every 5 minutes or so. Sometimes the game even manages to freeze up the entire 
 computer from time to time when it crashes.
  
  One of the worst games I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 16, 2006 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Enter the matrix, with its making is a very unique way of how they made this game.
  
  The Person reviewing this made a mistake by saying they took shots from the film for this game. 
 They made these multi-million cut scenes for! the game. The story of the Matrix is being told across 
 a wide range of multimedia. From Ani-matrix, cartoons to making it on the screens of our homes. 
 Normaly a game wouldn't have recieved this much assitance or interests from the Film companies 
 making the film and you would end up with a game that isn't anything like the film they are protraying 
 such as the 3rd person Die hard games.
  
  Enter the Matrix has inspired film directors to be much more inspired and involved with the games 
 and help in providing details and information and material as they have found the games can generate 
 a larger profit return for their movies. So haveing the People playing Ghost and Niobe and the 
 key maker etc, do the extra scenes for the game is something that is very new that can only help 
 the making of future gaming.
  
  Ok that asided everything said about the game can not be faultered. The game is a standard 3rd 
 person game that we have all come to see and play and put back. I've played both characters and 
 found the Characters Niobe has a little replay value where, Ghost has a lot more as you get to 
 fight Trinity (There is even a reported bug with this as Trinitys clothing some times failed to 
 load.) Only after I got the game patched was the game able to run more smoothly.
  
  However the level and the game in a whole got tedious and rathor tiresom too quickly. Finding out 
 the hacking codes was not a challange either as they are in the game files if you have a hex reader.
 
  
  This Game greatly inspired the making of the MMO counter part Matrix online. Unfortantly that game 
 failed to recieve the same support as this game did, yet that MMO game has more playablity value.
 
  
  Fans of the matrix will like this game if they can borrow it defently not one worthy of you $39.99 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumpy500
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 31, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  I was really anticipating this game's release, thinking it would be awesome to play a game inside 
 the matrix. How wrong I was. Not to mention the PC version's lack of gamepad control, the controls 
 are awful. You can barely tell what you're trying to do at any given time, mostly from the bad 
 camera angles.
  Bullet time is probably the only good thing abou tthe game. Time slows down, you move fast, true 
 to form. The bullets even leave cool ripple-y trails like in the first movie. Apart from that, 
 it's just a forgettable game. Don't even bother playing to the last level, because it is the most 
 poorly designed conclusion to a game that I have ever seen. Being a tailgunner for the Logos seems 
 like it should be fun, right? Nope, it's just a sloppy, tacked on final level to give the game 
 some sort of tie into the movies.
  
  It could have been great, but it just falls flat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wralthor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 5:39 am PT
Review:  OK. Before I start to review this game I gotta tell you all that I usually don't like film-to game 
 adaptions... cause more than often, they stinks. But for once, a kind of great movie-game arrives... and 
 everyone thinks it's like the worst game ever... I'm beginning to think people just give it all 
 these bad credits because it's a movie-game adaption!
  
  Gameplay: Okay, when using different guns the gameplay can be rather bad, but when using hand-to-hand 
 combat, it's improved greatly, you can do loads of cool moves, could have been more fightingcombinations, 
 but it's just right. And I don't think it's anything wrong with the camera or the controls either. 
 I give it 8/10. It's not superb, but still great gameplay.
  
  Graphics: Were I the only one who thought the graphics looked really really great? When I first 
 played it, everything looked like it should.. I got the real Matrix feeling. The best thing about 
 the good graphics is that you don't need a very good computer to make it all work without lagg!
 
  
  Sound: The Sound was nothing really special, many of the sounds and music was taken from the movies, 
 but here and there I noticed a couple of new sounds and music. It's nothing really special, but 
 enough for me.
  
  Value: Believe it or not, but I give the value the highest of points! The Value is almost the greatest 
 part of this game. First, you can play through the game as two characters, Ghost and Niobe and 
 when you're done with that, there is a cool hacking program waiting for usage... loads of unlockables 
 ^^
  
  Summary: A great game, fans SHOULD rejoice when playing this... Though that wasn't the case. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jan 10, 2006 4:17 am PT
Review:  If you are a Matrix fan and you need to know everything about the Matrix, this is a great title. 
 It fills in the blanks about how Niobe got her ship crashed and how the information about the drilling 
 machines got to Zion. 
  
  If you are not really into the who, what, where and hows and you are just looking for a beat them 
 up role play game, I think this game is better left alone. There is nothing really in the game 
 that makes it stand out in the crowd. Bullet time would have been a great feature if it was done 
 correctly. But unfortunately when going into bullet time causes the screen to blur and that can 
 get a bit irritating.
  
  Although you can see they really tried with the graphics, they did not really pull it off. The 
 graphics come out a little Paragon and block ish. Note: not pixelated. The game has a LOT of errors 
 in it as well. Cars getting stuck and glitches in the graphics. When doing the stages where you 
 have to drive the car, you really get the feeling that the cars are all hollow and everything just 
 bounces around when there is a crash.
  
  A nice feature was the ability to play with either Niobe or Ghost, giving you a 2 in one type game. 
 It will keep you busy for about 4 hours a character, but it is not a game I would play again. I 
 was glad to finish it and now it can lie in my closet gathering dust.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 8, 2006 12:31 am PT
Review:  The driveing missions differ depending on who you chose. Niobi is always the driver, and you'll have 
 to guide the vehicle around traffic and away from enemy vehicles in order to survive. As Ghost, 
 you're the gunner, and your job is to blow up any car in your way, as well as all enemy cars. As 
 Niobi, the driving scenes are often boring, as you won't do much more than drive forward and hit 
 the Assist button to bring out Ghost to slowly take down enemy cars. As Ghost, the driving scenes 
 are even MORE boring, as you'll just sit there and hold down the Fire button when you're pointing 
 the gun at the car, watching it explode after a few bullets hit. There's too much time spent just 
 sitting there, waiting for an obstacle or enemy to come by so you can shoot it to pieces. A neat 
 bonus for Matrix fans is the amount of live-action footage that was shot solely for Enter the Matrix. You'll 
 have to endure the entire game in order to see it all, though, and some of it is slow-moving and 
 boring, but it's still a great plus for those of us who enjoy seeing the events that weren't shown 
 in the movie. This is one feature that will force hardcore Matrix fans to at least rent this game 
 first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2005 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Enter the Matrix is the game based on the movie The Matrix Reloaded and since the DVD should be 
 out soon I thought it fitting for me to write a review for people who may want to pick this game 
 up along with the DVD. If you dont know what the Matrix is go watch both movies before playing 
 this game as it will spoil some stuff. Now that those who are still reading this review do what 
 the Matrix is and needs no explanation. Instead of making a cheap recreation of the movie events 
 this game got special treatment. See the writers of the movie the Wachowski brother wanted to make 
 a whole new story just for the game so if you want to know the whole story of Reloaded you have 
 to play this game. The game follows the characters Niobe and Ghost. Though they only get minor 
 time in the movie this game will help you learn how important they really are. That is really the 
 big draw of the game being able to watch exclusive movie footage you only get in the game but unfortunatly 
 these movie scenes are the best and worst part of the game which I will explain later.
  
  There are many different type of gameplay modes in Enter the Matrix. There is fighting, shooting, 
 driving, hacking, and multiplayer. In this game you can do some very Matrix like moves like running 
 on the walls and when you get into focus you can see the bullets stream in the air just like the 
 movie. At first this all seems like a great game but somewhere along the way you will just get 
 bored of the same simple 2 button fighting system and all of the focus stuff. They tried to keep 
 this from happening by adding the driving and shooting levels and to a certain extent it works. 
 Its kinda fun riding shotgun as Ghost but driving as Niobe is a pain. See you can play the game 
 as two different characters and their own path is different enough to play twice but after that 
 there is nothing more to do except hacking mode which is really enjoyable. Cheaters can put codes 
 in here and the rest of us can hack our way through the matrix. There are little clues you get 
 in this mode and if y ou get through the puzzles you will be rewarded with stuff like watching 
 the FMV's as much as you'd like (though you can't just go to hacking mode and watch all the movies 
 you have to beat the game to do this so don't go renting this game just to try that) or you could 
 even hack your way to finding samurai swords. Its a nice feature but it doesn't last long enough 
 but hey at least they added it in their.
  
  The graphics in this game aren't terrible but aren't great either. This game has its moments where 
 you may be impressed with nice shiny floors , destructable environments, and added attention to 
 motion capture but there are too many similar looking rooms and just plain awful. I mean yeah a 
 sewer isn't suppossed to look nice and so I guess they inadvertedly got that level right. The characters 
 themselves are quite good actually except when you look at them up close. Of course you all probably 
 don't care about that you just want to know about the exclusive footage. Well they did a good job 
 with the quality except there are two scenes where the bad quality is really noticable but other 
 than those two its fine.
  
  If there is one thing this game has done right its the sound. You really couldn't ask for more. 
 All the actors play their respective roles so you don't get cheap likeness's or any of that. Also 
 the in game sound is great too. The sound is what really gets you into this game at first because 
 you just can't help but feel like your really in the matrix. Unless you don't like the matrix techno 
 your going to want to raise the volume in this game.
  
  Now for the important stuff. Why did I give this game a 1/5 for Christian rating and 2/5 for adult 
 content? Its mainly just the movie footage actually. Yes the reason I actually bought this game 
 and the reason some may want to rent this game. It truly is the best and worst part of this game. 
 Not only do they curse a lot but there are a few times they use God's name in vain. Thats not where 
 it ends either. There are some homosexual scenes in this game also. You can skip the cut-scenes 
 but since they are the best part of the game and the gameplay isn't that great there really leaves 
 no reason to purchase this game. There are also some pretty gruesome finishing moves but fortunately 
 there is no blood just green codes when you kill your enemy.
  
  Final comments. I can't really recommend buying this game. If your really interested go rent it. 
 please don't overlook some of the content though. The game is just too short and gets repetitive. 
 I would almost recommend it just for the movie footage since there are some enjoyable scenes in 
 there that you could use when you watch Reloaded but its just too dirty. If you can really restrain 
 yourself from being tempted in all and your going to watch Reloaded anyway which has worse scenes 
 then thats on you. The gameplay isn't worth it either go play Max Payne or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 11, 2005 5:23 am PT
Review:  The Matrix movie is great, but check out this video game! This game has weapons, and POWERS! If 
 you have not seen the Matrix, you should see the movie because it's the best action movie ever! 
 The game was great action, but I think the game could be made better. The reason is the graphics. 
 The game is hard but it is not the hardest game ever. To beat a hard level, you just have to do 
 cheats. Maybe, i am not sure, but I think you should rent it first. If you cant find a game, then 
 this game would be good as long as you like action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flamingo121
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 9, 2005 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Enter the Matrix. At first theres seemingly nothing to dislike. Good graphics (though plauged by 
 some unacceptable clipping issues) , Intriuging storyline that ties into the movies nicely (and 
 even offers some never before seen footage) , decent length, varied levels but somehow it just doesnt 
 all come together. Don't get me wrong I had a lot of fun with this game and might even be worth 
 buying if your a matrix fan. The best part undoubtebly is the soundtrack., which is rock solid. 
 THis game could ahve been great, but certain scenarios weren't nearly as intense as they could 
 have been. The potential for incredible car chase moments was shot down with a sadly low amout 
 of chasing cars. The poentially breakthrough combat system is plagued by unresponsive enemy reactions 
 and unresponsive controls. The game could have been great, instead its a half baked product that 
 offers some great moments and has enough to keep you playing till the end, but leaves you with 
 a feeling of dissapointement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thatdot6
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 5, 2005 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Enter the Matrix is one of your average games... there isn't anything special about the game... 
 the graphics are reasonable but the cutscenes often get pixelated...
  
  The game was too easy... you can basically go thorugh the whole game without using a gun (except 
 for the parts you need to shot the aeroplane wheel or sniper people) ... even if you using guns... 
 you can just about do the superman move and dodge every bullet and get 100% accuracary... self-healing 
 over idle periods is alright feature to have, but this feature doesn't suit this game... this game 
 is meant to be fast paced but unfontunately the self-healing feature breaks whatever tension which 
 was built up... 
  
  The graphics is alright for its time... but 4 disc is ridiculous to install for a game which you 
 can finish in 5 hours.... the graphics are sometimes a bit pixelated.. 
  
  The sound effects are alright, there is nothing special about it, the roaring of the helicopter 
 in the airport give a hint to what is going to happen next... occassionally, you heard police officers 
 moaning in pain for a couple of seconds... the soundtrack of this game is not well placed... there 
 is tension music when you aren't doing anything and no music at all when you are fight against 
 vampires... 
  
  The game had a nice little feature called "Hacking"... basically is a DOS interface... in this 
 feature if you finish the game you can unlock a sword and when you play the game again, your character 
 will swing around the sword kill nearly anything which it is used against...
  
  Overall... this game is a very ordinary game, it does have anything special... not even the cutscenes 
 are special 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 6.4
Date: Nov 22, 2005 10:06 pm PT
Review:  First off, I have to say that I am a huge fan of The Matrix series. I really liked all three movies, 
 although the first one is still the best of the bunch. I also really liked the Animatrix and the 
 Final Flight of the Osiris. So when I finally got around to playing Enter the Matrix, I figured 
 it would be a slam dunk to like this game. No matter what the negative reviews said, it had to 
 be good, because is was a Matrix property. In a word -- Sorta. 
  
  Enter the Matrix follows the path of two minor characters in the series, Ghost and Niobe. They 
 are gunner and captain of the Ligos. Their story intertwines with the movie and the other properties 
 to flesh out parts two and three of the series. A lot of what happens in the movies makes so much 
 more sense after playing this game.
  
  The basics of the game require you to sneak and fight your way through several long levels in the 
 game. You will start on the first level of the game trying to retrieve the package that was delivered 
 by Jue in The Final Flight of the Osiris. From here, you will connect the dots that were left out 
 of the second movie, but you see them happen from the points of view of these two characters.
 
  
  The action is decent, but is quite repetative. You will find that the same moves are used over 
 and over ad-nauseam. I would of liked to have seen more moves from the characters, because after 
 awhile, you get tired of watching them perform the same dozen moves over and over. But the thing 
 that will keep you playing til the end is the Full Motion Video cut scenes. 
  
  Yes, there is about an hour's worth of Full Motion Video in this game. It is really amazing. I 
 have to say that this alone is what makes the game score higher and made me want to continue playing. 
 Almost all the actors from the movie make an appearance and some bit characters show up a lot more 
 in the game. The sequences do a hell of a job in regards to fleshing out the second movie. Things 
 that were mentioned in the movie, you actually see them happen here, like the subs being taken 
 out by the EMP blast. You actually see that happen in the cut scenes.
  
  The graphics in the game are below average. For when this game came out and the long development 
 cycle, this game should of looked better. It was pixelated at times and the character models were 
 substandard and looked blocky. I would actually be in pain when looking at some of the close up 
 scenes where you could see the pixelation on certain items. It was awful indeed. The game really 
 gets hammered by the ugly graphics.
  
  Sound on the other hand was pretty good. The voice over by Jada Pinkett Smith and Anthony Wong 
 was pretty good. The volume is a bit off in this one though. No matter what I did, the volume during 
 the cut scenes was far too low and the game sounds were way too loud. I never could get the game 
 to compensate.
  
  There is another feature in the game which was somewhat cool. The Hacking mode. The hacking mode 
 allows you to unlock a lot of items that you would not of normally found. But it is done in a rather 
 ingenius way. You are given an A:\ prompt and that is it. You have to hack the system to get the 
 codes and other items. I had some fun with this, but once you get a few steps in, it is relatively 
 simple.
  
  The story in the game is told from two perspectives, but the play is not all that different in 
 the two games. One is driving the car in one sequence, while the other story will make you the 
 shooter in the car. But it does not help gameplay or length in any way. The game looks old and 
 feels unfinished. I would not of completed the game if it was not for wanting the next FMV sequence 
 to fill in the gaps that I wanted to know more about.
  
  Enter the Matrix is not a bad game to get if you want to know more about what happened in The Matrix 
 Reloaded. But as a game, Enter the Matrix falls flat from becoming a game anyone will want to play 
 for an extended period of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2005 12:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is a nice matrix game but not good at all!!!!
  
  Gameplay: You choose from 2 players, a girl or a boy and then you do all the missions that you 
 need to do. I just wish that you could play as neo or as the other heroes.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful. the players look perfect and the areas are dark and smooth.
  
  Sound: 
 Not bad at all. except I wanted more music then that.
  
  Value: You can play for like 30 hours and then be bored to death. You want maybe to try the matrix 
 online game or something like that.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is decent for the action fans. But if I was a matrix fan then 
 I will pick up the matrix online game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_knight150
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 13, 2005 5:18 am PT
Review:  A lot of people didn't like Enter the Matrix, and I can see why. Sure the body detection with fighting 
 wasn' t perfect (aka Ghost kicking a vampire through the face) but besides that I really enjoyed 
 it. Sure the graphics weren't that awesome, but the gameplay and plot twisting with the movie was 
 really well done. 
  You actually play through two seperate games, following the path as Niobe and Ghost as they rush 
 to assist Neo and the rebels with the events which unfolded within and before the movie. Thier 
 paths collide seldem, but both portions of the game are full of action and bullet-time excellence. 
 When you're not using your guns, the fighting is full of moves and combos that really look impressive. 
 It all leads up to the grand finale of the second movie, with a bonus of extras which shows of 
 trailers for the third installment plus more than 60 minutes worth of exclusive shooting specifically 
 for the game. 
  With the not so great elements aside, this game is great for fans (yes I know there aren't that 
 many) of the Matrix Trilogy and anyone looking for an action game packed with intense battles. 
 My only complaints would be how short the game is, and it would have been nice to see some coop. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheN00binator
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 8, 2005 10:24 pm PT
Review:  I played the PS2 version of this game first before I played the PC version. I stopped playing this 
 game mostly because I got incredibly bored of consoles, realized how much I was beginning to hate 
 them, and sold it all. However, this was one of those games I remember to be pretty good even on 
 a console.
  If I was reviewing Enter the matrix for a PS2, I would give it a score of about 7.5, so when I 
 bought the game for a PC after I had discarded my PS2 for eternity, I was expecting a better experience 
 than I had on the PS2. (Because I ALWAYS think games are better on PC's) .
  However, After installing this on my PC, nomatter how hard I try, nomatter how much I play, this 
 game is undoubtably crap compared to its PS2 brother. Its the only game in the entire world that 
 I can say whole-heartedly is better on a PS2.
  
  The most annoying and game-breakingly bad part for me is technical problems!
  For starters, even 
 if I set my graphics on the lowest settings, and put it in 640x480 screen resolution - I STILL 
 GET SLOWDOWN!!!! What's up with that? And the weird part is, it only happens when im in bullettime (or 
 focus, as it is called) . If im just playing without focus, I can play the game flawlessly in 1600x1200 
 with everything on high. As soon as I press the focus key, the game zooms down to 3fps, making 
 it unplayable. This wouldnt be so bad if most of the game doesnt depend on focus to play properly! 
 Without focus, I cant run up walls, do special moves, dodge bullets, or kill anyone in any kind 
 of style at all. Which is what this game is about. I means im stuck to doing simple punches and 
 kicks, which gets boring after 5 minutes of doing so. Even more annoying for me, is how I can play 
 new games like Half-Life 2 and Doom 3 on highest settings, and I cant even play this (quite dated) 
 game on low without slowdown!
  
  Now - controlls! Arghhh. This is as bad as PC controlls get. It was easy as pie on the PS2, on 
 the PC it takes much getting used to, and even then its very annoying! To make matters worse the 
 camera angles suck most of the time during fights, making it hard to see who you are hitting. These 
 two things combined makes it so frustrating you'll probably just uninstall it there and then.
 
  
  Now I could go into the good points of the game, and tell you all about the fun experiences I had 
 on the PS2 version - but this ISNT the PS2 version. its a complete ripoff of the PS2 version. Even 
 I could mention the good points, i wouldnt. Because after playing this its put me in a bad mood, 
 so I dont feel like it. 
  
  This game feels like a badly made mod for a badly made game. If you are still into PS2s, go out 
 and buy it maybe. Its good fun, especially for Matrix fans. If you are going to buy it for PC, 
 STOP! NOW! Unless its on the market for 50p, stay well away from this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndnjedi
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 25, 2005 10:57 pm PT
Review:  The game's buggy as hell, what can I say. But it's worth playing JUST for the plot/FMVs. Rushed 
 out to meet the release of Revolutions? Absolutely.
  
  Death occurs often, and overall gameplay is not that satisfying. So, if you're like me and just 
 want the plot, I recommend *hacking* the cheat codes "infinite health" and "infinite focus." That 
 way it's just like watching an extended movie. Tasty.
  
  Make sure to play through as Ghost AND Niobe!
  
  Gameplay 6 (Bugs abound! And how the hell 
 can I miss repeatedly at point-blank range?)
  Graphics 7 (On the PC the backgrounds look pretty good, but character modeling is booty)
  Sound 
 8 (While in focus, hearing the bullets zip by is pretty damn amazing)
  Value 7 (Okay, so it was obviously rushed out... but the Matrix universe is just so damn cool!)
 
  Story 8 (Hey, it's the Matrix!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rover301
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 1, 2005 3:37 pm PT
Review:  ... but the gameplay isn't very good. I didn't like the way the game plays. Although I'm a fan of 
 bullettime (Max Payne is one of my favourite games) I don't like it in this game. And the level 
 with the driving is one of the worst levels I have ever seen. The driving and shooting are both 
 not good.
  
  The graphics are great. I loved to watch the cutscenes. I think thats one of the best things about 
 this game. The in-game graphics are oke.
  
  The sound is very good. It sounds like a matrix movie. Also one of the best things in this game.
 
  
  The game does have some replay value. You can play the game as Nairobi or Ghost. You'll get some 
 other levels and they're specialised in other things. 
  
  I'm a Matrix fan but I didn't like this game very much. If you're a Matrix fan I think you should 
 buy Max Payne instead of this game. But isn't a bad game although. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackFunk
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 6, 2005 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I have been fighting to get this game working but it simply won't let me run it. Even overcoming 
 the 60 hz issue this game has, after changing all that it still wouldn't allow me any way in getting 
 it to even run into the menu.
  
  Just checking on the internet I've found dozens of people complaining and getting it to work. Now 
 I've done more than my normal effort in getting stuff to work, updating old dll's with newer version 
 from some of my other games. Uninstalling and reinstalling the game, uninstalling and reinstalling 
 video codecs.
  
  One advice: Don't put yourself through the stress, just relax, don't buy this title! Get a decent 
 piece of software. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANSteve
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 14, 2004 9:10 am PT
Review:  Enter the Matrix is probably the best game Ive ever heard of that received so many poor reviews 
 and be so well made. Read on and Ill explain why Enter the Matrix is one of the best games of 
 2003 and every Matrix fan should own it.
  
  Gameplay  Gamespot was right when they said this game is a basic 3rd person action adventure game 
 with a few innovations particularly the focus/bullet-time effect. Well, what more do you expect? 
 3rd person action adventure games have been playing like this for games, heck one new effect is 
 good enough for me. To add to that the games solid story, sound and great graphics what more do 
 you want. Youll have a lot of fun playing the game if you like anything Matrix, trust me. There 
 arent many of these kinds of games around anymore anyway!
  
  Graphics  Alright, first off the animations arent perfects. Everyone can clearly see that BUT 
 I dont think it such a big deal. If you get over how the animations can go perfectly in line with 
 one another and look at how the motion capture really looks great, the textures are above average 
 and the game was made to run on ALL of the consoles I think this game is deserving of some credit. 
 At the very last its pretty good.
  
  Sound  Well, Enter the Matrix features the basic sound set from the Matrix series and very well 
 done voiceovers. Not much else to say here. If you expect the sound to be bad for some unknown 
 reason you are mistake. Thats about it.
  
  Value  This is where Enter the Matrix really stands out. A 20-hour 3rd person fighting game featuring 
 a Matrix storyline that enhances the movie experience! What more could we ask for, seriously. Enter 
 the Matrix is long by any action adventure game standards so expect plenty of value out of it.
 
  
  To sum it up, I really dont understand why anyone hates this game. It actually one of the best 
 games of 2003 not the biggest flop.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lanky333
Rating: 5.1
Date: May 5, 2004 10:07 am PT
Review:  Enter The Matrix has many drawbacks. First Of all in the car levels, Niobe most of the time looses 
 the way and bumps into everything! So the AI is not good. The characters sometimes flickers that 
 is very disturbing, sometimes you can see Ghost's collar flickers and mixes with his neck. The 
 Graphics is really bad, there aren't any real shadows and the environment doesn't look so real. 
 The sounds are good but you have you EAX ADVANCE HD supported soundcard, then its excellent!! The 
 environment also like the characters flickers. The good thing is you do not need a highend system 
 to experience this game totally
  
  The bottom line is that the game is ok only for Matrix fans for game cutscenes as previously stated 
 by our Gamespot reviewers but in other case, mmmmm... nah... dont buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evanslake2002
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 20, 2003 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Zero, I have to give it a zero. It will not install on my new Dell. Apparently there is a known 
 bug. Atari has yet to enter the 21st century, they have not heard of a thing called internet installation 
 updates. I had terrible flashbacks to the 80's of copying whole discs to my hard drive and searching 
 for the proper files as per their instructions. My Dell is 6 months old, I recently suffered a 
 self-induced re-format and installation. Of the 20 top games I've bought in that 6 months and had 
 to re-install, Enter the Matrix is the only one that will not install.
  So once again zero, nada, zilch.
  Atari should be ashamed, as well as the Wachowski Brothers 
 who have profited mightily from this franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phlip
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 16, 2003 12:41 am PT
Review:  This is one game that once you start playing it is hard to stop. The Graphics can be vary poor 
 if not set right the frist time. The wheels of the cars are not even round. When are set right 
 to use the most of your 2gzh cpu and geforce 4 ti4200, they can blow your mind. The Sound is done 
 so well it is just like the movie.
  
  The combate is done so well where if you like you can stay back and blow your foe away with a number 
 of guns, much like as ye seen in the 1st movie. For thoes who love to get close and kick, toss, 
 and slam you foe in to the wall. The kong fu is done even better with moves just like in the 1st 
 and 2end movie. 
  
  To get you feeling like you are in the game it self you can even hack the game to get your self 
 new weapons, levels, and extra power.
  
  I give Enter the Matrix a 9.6 for this is one game i will vist more and more not just cuse it is 
 a good game, but also a vary well done movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GFofgaming
Rating: 4.9
Date: Aug 9, 2003 7:48 am PT
Review:  Enter The Matrix has many drawbacks. First Of all in the car levels, Niobe most of the time looses 
 the way and bumps into everything! So the AI is not good. The characters sometimes flickers that 
 is very disturbing, sometimes you can see Ghost's collar flickers and mixes with his neck. The 
 Graphics is really bad, there aren't any real shadows and the environment doesn't look so real. 
 The sounds are good but you have you EAX ADVANCE HD supported soundcard, then its excellent!! The 
 environment also like the characters flickers. The good thing is you do not need a highend system 
 to experience this game totally: A Intel Pentium III 933 MHZ, 128Mb ram and Geforce 4 Mx440 will 
 do. I reviewed this game using my system Intel Pentium 4 3.06Ghz with 512Mb ram and GeforceFX 5900 
 Ultra from Gainward with overlocking on. 
  
  The bottom line is that the game is ok only for Matrix fans for game cutscenes as previously stated 
 by our Gamespot reviewers but in other case, mmmmm... nah... dont buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: async
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 12, 2003 4:11 pm PT
Review:  This game suffers from a huge problem: the Twins Pursuit level, as Ghost, is absolutely horrible. 
 Aside from that extremely frustrating vignette, I found this game to generally be better than I 
 expected based on the reviews. The way it ties into the movie is fantastic, so it is a must-have 
 for any fan of the Matrix. Moreover, I found the combat easy to learn and yet fun. The graphics 
 seem a smidge dated for my system (radeon 9800, 3Ghz P4, etc) , but the sound was excellent, and 
 was used to great effect as it actually significantly affected gameplay, too. Very much worth playing, 
 unless you're short on cash -- the game only lasts about 12-14 hours of gameplay. Otherwise, check 
 it out. But be prepared to cheat if you play ghost on the Twin Pursuit level; it is just broken. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaJewishGuy
Rating: 2.1
Date: Jun 9, 2003 5:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is a major fallback of what a good game it could have been. The first major problem you 
 will unfortunately encounter are the unstoppably large amounts of load screens. These screens become 
 so very annoying. Then the next problem is the controls. Controls are so fudging imperative. There 
 is no aiming scheme. All shooting is midair and watching the bullets magically turn into some direction 
 that would be impossible. 
  The other game play problems are the fighting with the guards and agents. The guards are all the 
 same in combat wise. They all do the same thing and there is no new innovative A. I. that could 
 create challenge. The Agent fighting is also ridiculous. When you first encounter an Agent you 
 try to fight him and then when you are almost dead the tip pops up and says only NEO can kill him. 
 Then when you think it can get worse the dumbest thing happens. When you open a door it pushes 
 you back then you can walk into the door after you are pushed ten feet away. Which creates huge 
 problems about when you run from agents and they grab you because the door pushes you away. 
  The next major, major problem is the combat system. When you fight someone you can clearly see 
 that that you body doesn't touch him or her at all. For example when you fight with Trinity when 
 she pins you down she hits you but her hand is 2 feet away. Then when you hit her, your foot either 
 goes through her without damage or it just doesn't touch her at all. So that is another major screw 
 up.
  The graphics and sound suck. They have no originality at all. The sound has difficulty controlling 
 when to make the sounds of death or punching.
  This game's last problem is lack of imagination. It steals form Max Payne way to many times. It 
 also announces untrue nonsense on the news and on other gaming sites, which is a major low down. 
 The major thing that will get you is that I read and heard the Infrogrames Company announce that 
 their Matrix game is the best third person action shooter, and that Metal Gear Solid doesnt stand 
 a chance. IF YOU HAVE BOUGHT THIS GAME YOU HAVE WASTED MONEY AND I FEEL SORRY FOR YOU.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stamoz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 9, 2003 6:04 am PT
Review:  Hi all, 
  Once again Gamespot reviewers (Jeff Gerstmann, in this case) have disappointed me by giving such 
 an unfair review to Enter The Matrix game. I am starting to think that they either sometimes dont 
 play properly the games (finish it) or they have issues with certain people. Why I would say that? 
 You can see when the whole attitude is negative from the start of the review. Like when mentioning 
 about the hacking console feature, he says that it lasted only couple of hours and should provide 
 more. Well, please name a game then that it has done this before? So, the hacking console thing 
 should be a positive and not mentioned as negative. With this attitude I can find you always negative 
 stuff about everything. 
  
  
  Here is why I thought it was great against the Gamespot review. 
  
  
  1. Graphics were excellent 
 when using high detail to add more polygons. I dont know with Gamespot rated graphics with 7. Did 
 you see the leather clothes and lighting effects of Niobe? Did you see the bullets passing through 
 your eyes during bullet time? 
  
  
  2. Sound was amazing and far better from the actual movie. There are new songs just for the game 
 and rhythm according to the scene. Please explain me what was wrong with the sound? Unless someone 
 preferred britney spears melodies there? Sound of bullets during bullet-time was great too. 
  
  
  3. Gameplay AI was not that bad. I dont agree with the review about the AI and it seems 
 to me cause you guys just played the first levels against the regular policemen. Did you try any 
 level against special units? I agree though that it could be better. 
  
  
  4. The game was not as easy as you mentioned and we would appreciate if you could tell us under 
 which mode have you played it. Did you try on normal or you just went for the easy one? There were 
 several scenes you had to retry again and again (like fighting against helicopter) . Did you try 
 the agent chasing levels in normal or even in easy mode? 
  
  
  5. The gameplay was great cause you are in total control of your moves. There are so many moves 
 and tricks (stepping on walls and kicking, bouncing on the wall, dodging bullets ...) . The bullet-time 
 feature makes it more impressive cause you can pin-point every second of action, exactly like Matrix. 
 This feature is much better than the one in Max Payne, and I was surprised that Jeff didnt mention 
 that. 
  
  
  6. Story line was excellent. Wachowski brothers did an excellent job to show you the story from 
 the eyes of different people apart from Neo. Several maps have nice plots like the chase from the 
 agent in top of buildings and around the town. This game also explains you a lot of things matrix 
 fans could wonder about (like vampires) . I agree with Jeff (Gamespot reviewer) that this game will 
 be more appreciated by Matrix fans. You need to see the actual movies in order to enjoy and understand 
 btter the plot of the game. Does this makes it a bad rated game? I am sorry I wont agree. Do the 
 rest of games apply to everyone, I dont think so. 
  
  
  7. During gameplay, there are lot of cut-scenes and clips from the actual actors. Extra never seen 
 footage which fans would definetely enjoy and it makes you play more just to see what happens on 
 the next. And again I dont know why Gamespot mentioned that from a negative view only. I have never 
 seen such a good tight between a movie and game. 
  
  
  8. The operator messages feature during gameplay was excellent too (did Gamespot mentioned that?) . 
 While playing you can see pop-up windows fro your operator informing you or guiding you (like when 
 you have been chased by agents) . Makes the action more movie like. 
  
  
  9. The hacking console feature is excellent too, never seen before. You can play with your keyboard 
 and feel like a hacker trying to unlock information and hidden features from the game. 
  
  
  To sum up, I would definitely recommend this game to all Matrix fans. If you are not one then 
 its better to try something else then. The game has excellent sounds/music, action controlled entirely 
 from you, video clips from the actors explaining things and filling gaps from the latest movie 
 and two characters to play with different missions (not entirely all) . Regard it as part of the 
 movie and you will feel like you helped Neo on his conquest against the machines :) I would recommend 
 to start in easy mode first to get more directions help from the operator and start with Niobe. 
 
  
  
  Enjoy your gameplay. 
  
  
  Regards, 
  
  Stamoz 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlickDlux
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 8, 2003 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Well what can i say , this is a pretty decent game (assuming that its a game based on a movie ) 
 . The game play is very stylized and the character models are very slick but the back grounds sort 
 of have that low bitrate that halflife backgrounds tend to show. still looking good though. Bottom 
 line , if you have the system for it (at least a 1.2gigahump and minimum radeon 8500 or similar 
 , and 256 of memory (go for 512 it helps) then get the computer version . it really slick 
  the replay value is pretty high cause you have 2 characters each with different levels 
::::::

::::::
UserName: David_Poulin
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 4, 2003 8:32 pm PT
Review:  It has almost become a standard now in this industry that video games based solely on a license 
 from a big screen movie never truly accomplish what it could do with the certification. With the 
 wait for The Matrix Reloaded coming to an end, many fans of The Matrix were really looking forward 
 to playing Enter The Matrix, the first game based on the amazingly popular 1999 movie on at least 
 one of the four available platforms even though some were sceptic about Shinys ability to do justice 
 to one of the last great science fiction movies.
  
  Just like Morpheus says in the original Matrix, you have to see it for yourself to believe it. 
 Through stunning action sequences and splendid full motion video, a now forgotten way to enhance 
 story-telling in video games, Enter The Matrix comes closer than any other game before to bring 
 to life the movie it is based on. But again, like Morpheus says, you have to decide on your own. 
 You can take the red pill and love the game for what its for: a spectacular third-person action 
 game or you can take the blue pill and focus on the negative.
  
  Yes, the game has suffered from the rush that WB probably put on Shiny to finish the game for the 
 worldwide release of The Matrix Reloaded, but not to the level youd expect. The geometry level 
 of the models of the game is quite amazing even though the textures and some animation could use 
 some work (especially the running) and the game could have used more pixel shaders of vertex shaders 
 to add eye candy but we cant forget that this game is being released on four platforms at the 
 same time. Hence, Shiny had to go for the lowest common denominator and tone down what was possible 
 in the graphics department while still keeping some decent visuals.
  
  The gameplay is where the game really shines. Through the use of the focus key, your character 
 can perform mind-bending moves that closely resemble the ones from the movies. Every new fight 
 feels and looks like pre-choreographed kung fu and it never gets boring as you uncover new amazing 
 moves every level or so. The gunfighting isnt bad either since you can push down the focus key 
 to give you the edge while bullets fly over your head. The development team here made a questionable 
 decision to go with an auto-aim approach to these gunfights. It does take some fun away from the 
 game but with all the moves youll be pulling while shooting down opponents, itd be very hard 
 to hit anything.
  
  The levels of the game are well made (especially the level in the French mansion) and are fairly 
 well balanced with good pacing between fights but the decision of making your health go up every 
 30 seconds or so can make the game feel a bit easy at first, but it would eventually get frustrating 
 because of the skills of who youre going up against. Speaking of which, the A. I. of the game is 
 sometimes too forgiving to your character when we talk about SWAT teams or police officers but 
 be warned: when you see an agent, RUN. Those well-dressed sunglass-wearing men can fight and youll 
 end up finding the hard way if you decide to fight instead of running.
  
  To conclude, Enter The Matrix is a brilliantly well made game that suffers a little bit from the 
 rushed may 15th deadline but dont be fooled by what everyone else says: if you like the movies, 
 try this one for yourself and find how deep the rabbit hole really goes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyrox
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2003 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Man, i dont' know how the gamespot guys could give this a 6.3!! I mean seriously! When was the 
 last time you saw that man "real life" cutscenes? I'm sorry, i'm a big matrix fan. Always have 
 been, always will be, and this game is awesome! The graphics could have been improved (the patch 
 did wonders though with glitches) The sound was kinda off in some of the gun scenes. Sometimes 
 the plot could have stood to be better. Other than that, i have to say it was a great game. Definatly 
 worth playing 2 or 3 more times! Bad gamespot reviewers.... JK! You guys do good work. I normally 
 agree with you on most games, this time must be the exception. I have to say this is the most work 
 i've seen put into a video game in a long time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exmortis
Rating: 3
Date: May 21, 2003 1:52 pm PT
Review:  That the Gamespot staff gave Enter the Matrix a 6.3 seems very generous to me, since this is not 
 an above average game. If you play consoles solely, you'll probably be satisfied, but if you are 
 a PC user, you'll be dismayed to find that unless you have a absolute powerhouse of a computer, 
 you'll either run this game in low resolution with many graphical options turned off, or you'll 
 run it at a dismal framerate. Most disapointing of all, the graphics aren't so exceptionally spectacular 
 compared to games being released soon, like Deus Ex2, or Half-Life2. 
  My point is, this game is one large chunk of unoptimized crap. Whether they say it or not, ETM 
 WAS rushed out the door to meet the Reloaded movie release date. I've seen both the console and 
 PC versions, and while the console version is tolerable, don't bother with the PC version. Without 
 being negative to console gamers, I'll say ETM is a slap in the face to all of us who appreciate 
 the options and power a PC can deliver over the sometimes limiting consoles.
  Lastly, the controls are retarded. The game auto-locks onto enemies when you pull out your guns, 
 so you feel like you're doing some skeet (sp?) shooting. Combos and multiple hits when in melee 
 are a button mashing affair, and sometimes overly simplistic. This is apparent when you hit someone 
 with a big flashy kick that connects three times, after you've only hit the button once. Reee-tahr-ded.
 
  Is this the worst game ever made? Far from it. Is it even a GOOD game? Nope. Enter the Matrix 
 sucks, and I heartilly recommend you steer clear. For shame, Shiny Entertainment. They must have 
 suc****bed to the movie/tv-to-game curse, whereby everything pop-culture that gets made into a 
 game invariably sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArroyoJR
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 20, 2003 10:04 pm PT
Review:  I write in a Mexican Magazine, the videogames section, and I usually get the games some time earlier 
 than the release, I've never seen such a bad game with such a lot publicity. The movie gives a 
 publicity boost to the game, but I don't think that you get what you pay for. Splinter Cell is 
 a much better game than this, and also I don't see why develop your own 3d engine, why not just 
 go with Unreal's or Quake's. Maybe if this would have been the case, Shiny would have had more 
 time to "focus" on the game rather than the engine. The characters look square and even the tires 
 of the cars in the chases look cuadrangual, funny, so much time and you just can't get it right. 
 Frame Rate is a very ugly issue here, even with a P4 @ 3.06Ghz, 1Gb RAM and a GeForce Fx 5800 the 
 game doesn't look all that good (and is my understanding that the game is optimized for such technologies) . 
 Atari better do something quick, because Ubi may get the upper hand now that Splinter Cell 2 is 
 on the way (oops, hope I don't get in trouble for this) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captnshrms
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 20, 2003 2:42 am PT
Review:  This game is like a bad Max Payne, they should have sold a version of Max Payne, skinned with Neo, 
 and Agent Smith, along with the kung-fu mod (which I suggest anyone who does like this game to 
 try, since it is much better in all respects) . I played this on a lower end system, (1.4 athlon/GeForce2) 
 and a higher end system (2600XP/9500 pro) and the graphics/speed were about the same for both, 
 so the reviews saying a high end system helps are just wrong. Graphics are no where near the newer 
 games like Unreal 2, or other multi-platform games like Splinter Cell. Lots of DVD quality FMV, 
 too bad most of it is the actors (I use that term loosely) talking to each other. And doing Matrix 
 style moves is cool, but doing Matrix style moves on a wall, when you are trying to stay on the 
 ground, or loads of Matrix style kung-fu on a corpse, while you get shot in the back, is not 
 so cool. There are some driving portions, which are bad enough to make you like the normal game 
 play. It also seemed like what could be some of the coolest parts, were handled by the computer 
 like an ugly Matrix movie (what the FMV should have been) . Run to the end of the hall and jump 
 out the window, ok, oh, computer scripted again. Why didnt you let me try that instead, I could 
 have done it I havent seen the movie yet, but where do the vampires fit in? If they are not in 
 the movie, then they should have added some Nazis too, just to show they were REALLY trying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: end15
Rating: 3.3
Date: May 19, 2003 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I just got the Enter the Matrix game. I'm a total fan boy and I loved the new movie and the tie 
 in to the Final Flight of Osiris. However this game is a cheap hack. Max Payne kicks all sorts 
 of a** on this game. The character models look okay. The levels however seem a bit long and pointless 
 (I've never seen a post office with 100's of armed guards and endless empty rooms) . There is no 
 detail and it's just a sparse place to kick people around. It's just boring. The camera control 
 is impossible and frustrating. I would say the sound is good but it cuts out every 10 min or so. 
 As well when I try and save at a level it crashes my whole computer. I'm taking the game back today. 
 I think this game could have been very cool but this release is just sloppy. Maybe someone else 
 will get a shot on a followup game that will come out with revolutions and do it right. Till then 
 stick with Max Payne and Matrix Mod. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiddlecub
Rating: 5.6
Date: May 19, 2003 9:46 am PT
Review:  Enter The Matrix is a classic example of a game with great ideas poorly executed. There is no doubt 
 that anyone who has seen the movies would be excited about pulling off cool Matrix moves in a game, 
 and being able to do so is by far the best part of Enter The Matrix. Unfortunately, most of the 
 great ideas in the game are only half-baked, making for a cool, but empty gaming experience.
  
  A lot has been made of the graphics in ETM, and frankly, the graphics are mostly serviceable, 
 although unspectacular, with one exception: cutscenes. The accurate lip-synching and facial expressions 
 are the best I have seen in a pc game in a long time. Shadows and reflections are also particularly 
 well done within the game engine. Unfortunately, other areas do not fare so well. Even with anti-aliasing 
 turned up to the highest level, jaggies are blatantly apparent, and backgrounds lack detail and 
 character. They are also highly unoptimized, and even on my 2.4 Ghz P4/Radeon 9700 PRO system, 
 FPS can slow drastically with only a handful of enemies on the screen at any given time. Turning 
 down graphics options provides some relief, but not much. I would be curious to know how owners 
 of nVidia cards fare; the game's system requirement call for a Radeon 8500 for ATI owners, but 
 only a GeForce 256 (yes, you read that right) for those with nVidia cards. As you can guess, an 
 nVidia logo is found on the front of the game box. It is possible the game is just not well-optimized 
 for ATI cards. 
  
  Unfortunately, some of the good graphics in the game can't be enjoyed due to the poor character 
 controls. The mouselook is practically uncontrollable, with small movements causing the point of 
 view to rotate maniacally, and reducing mouse sensitivity in ETM's limited options menu does little 
 to alleviate the problem. Furthermore, my avatar runs as though he is taking amphetamines, making 
 controlling him next to impossible unless I have "focused."
  
  "Focus" is the gameplay mode similar to Max Payne's bullet time, and it slows your environment 
 to a crawl, allowing you to execute the cool Matrix moves, such as running along walls, dodging 
 bullets, and performing flip/kick combo moves. Upon first use, I was in awe of the execution of 
 these moves, but the lack of polish of the control can make the focus moves tiresome and frustrating 
 at times. Hand-to-hand combat is the crux of the gameplay, and at its best, it is intense and exciting, 
 but all too often, I found myself getting frustrated as the camera moves to a cinematic 3rd-person 
 view, allowing me to watch the scene as though it were a movie. It is a great idea that falls flat, 
 as the camera often chooses bad angles, allowing the player to lose sight of his combatant, a frustrating 
 occurrence if you are fighting multiple enemies. Executing your cool moves ends up being reminiscent 
 of console button-mashing, and involves little finesse; it usually does not matter which move you 
 perform at any given time, as most kicks and punches will fell any given enemy. However, I do like 
 the ability to peek around corners and jump from your peeking position; that move gives the first 
 mission's "lobby" scene a lot of punch.
  
  For those interested in the gunplay, it, too, involves little finesse, as the developers have kept 
 the typical console-type targeting intact. It is difficult to aim your crosshairs at an enemy, 
 and mostly impossible if you are in motion. To make up for this, Shiny uses a forgiving targeting 
 system that allows your crosshairs to move directly to an enemy if your crosshairs are close enough, 
 and actually shooting your target has little to do with how accurate of an FPS player you are. 
 It is a necessary element, however, as the smallest movements of your mouse whip your point of 
 view around, keeping you from pinpointing your targets with any accuracy.
  
  The level design is decent, but extremely linear, and often involves backtracking through the same 
 environments. The game's sound is the best part of the game and does an excellent job of creating 
 tension, although it gets a tad repetitive. The AI is another story: enemies are easily tricked, 
 often stand there staring at you and doing nothing, and do not seem to work together, unless they 
 are following obviously scripted events, such as ganging up to guard an elevator that you must 
 enter. They will attempt to hide behind pillars and execute moves such as rolls and dodges, but 
 the moves seem random, as if they were intended on giving the impression that the AI is better 
 than it really is. The AI animations and spoken lines are incredibly repetitive; for example, innocent 
 bystanders will do the "crouch and shield themselves" move when threatened, familiar to fans of 
 Half-Life and NOLF. However, the animations look unintentionally funny when all the innocent AI 
 in a room are all executing the same animation, bouncing slightly as if they were in a discoteque. 
 For a game that requires four CD's and over 4 GB of hard drive space, gamers should expect more. 
 
  
  All in all, the game is a great idea rushed to the shelves before Shiny had a chance to polish 
 the individual elements that could have made the game a masterpiece. Enter The Matrix is a pure 
 console game, from the terrible menu options to the inaccurate mouse/keyboard controls, limited 
 saving scheme, and awkward 3rd-person cinematic camera. Had Shiny been allowed to develop a single 
 version of the game, the controls and graphics could have been refined, the level design broadened, 
 and the AI fixed. Furthermore, they could have fixed the game's numerous bugs, from gamma settings 
 that don't work to mouse clicks in the menus that choose the wrong option. The game is an obvious 
 rush job, and while fun in spurts, it is an exercise in shoddy details and bad porting. For those 
 interested in a Matrix gaming experience, you will be much better served by reinstalling Max Payne 
 and playing the Matrix mod. Unfortunately, Enter The Matrix is cool for five minutes and mediocre 
 at every point afterwards. Skip it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gargoyle
Rating: 7
Date: May 19, 2003 8:39 am PT
Review:  Your expectations will determine how much you enjoy this game, but like in the movie, it really 
 boils down to a single choice: 
  
  1. If you are not a big fan of the Matrix, you should probably get something else. Take the blue 
 pill.
  
  2. If you are, then you should probably get it. Go red.
  
  I played the PC version almost all the way through.
  
  Combat: The combat is inclined to make 
 you resort to random button mashing. Most enemies simply aren't going to be as good as Niobe or 
 Ghost, so mashing away randomly often gets you good results, unfortunately. But if you take the 
 time to read the manual and look at the controls, you will find that the challenge against most 
 of the mooks isn't in defeating them; the fun is to look good while doing so. Too bad the game 
 doesn't score you on finesse, it would have been better. But damn it looks cool as when you leap 
 off walls and kick two bad guys, or take a gun from someone and blow them away with it. It's fun 
 to watch. (Note to another reviewer: You _can_ walk. Read the book) 
  
  Graphics: Not as good as they should be, but good enough. Some areas are rougher than others. The 
 motion captures makes the character movements look good. The cinematic cutscenes are great. Not 
 a lot of special effects, though there is at least one good (but short) fight scene. Warning: There 
 are spoilers in there. I read somewhere that the action in the game takes place before the movie, 
 but that's not completely true, and some of the video was taken directly from Reloaded and isn't 
 available in trailers.
  
  Gameplay: The levels often try to recreate certain elements of the movie, and sometimes are a bit 
 repetitive. (Lots of lobbies with columns, like in the first movie) There are basically several 
 different types of gameplay:
  - Fighting against mooks. (Cops, security guards, swat teams, etc) This is fun, but random button 
 mashing works too well. 
  - Fights against bosses. This is much more satisfying, but again, too much button mashing.
  - 
 Running from agents. Fun. Don't fight agents. :)
  - S****ing. Not implemented too well. I never felt like I had adequate control of the rifle, even 
 after adjusting mouse sensitivity. And there is no "breathing effect" or anything like that, it 
 just is a bit jittery. Bad gameplay here.
  - Driving. When shooting as Ghost, the AI driver is really bad. REALLY bad. This is easily the 
 worst part of the game. 
  - Hacking. If you like DOS - like puzzles, you might enjoy this, but I couldn't get some features 
 to work, like viewing pictures and playing movies. 
  
  Finally, the biggest problem I have with the game is that it has locked up a couple of times, even 
 after I doublechecked drivers and downloaded a patch from Atari. It seems to be memory leak, since 
 it happens after some time playing and after my framerate slowly degrades. 
  
  Again, if you're a fan, you should get it, if nothing else then for the hour of video that you 
 can unlock and for the cool looking (if not cool playing) combat. If you're not a fan of the movies, 
 don't bother. Red or blue, it's up to you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanhiggins
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 19, 2003 6:06 am PT
Review:  I went against my better judgement and bought this game without reading any reviews. The previews 
 made it sound very interesting.
  
  Unfortunately I've been very disapointed by the game (so much so I've taken it back) . It reeks 
 of a straight console conversion, the graphics and gameplay are poor at best. I accept that it 
 must be difficult developing for multiple platforms but as GTA3 proved, you can pull it off.
  
  The graphics have some serious problems, particularly clipping issues, that'll no doubt be 
 address in multiple patches. The quality of the graphics don't stand up well against many recent 
 titles and even older titles such as Max Payne.
  
  I found the gameplay very boring. After the initial wow factor of the Matrix fight moves you soon 
 get the impression that you don't have much control over what you are doing. Fighting ended up 
 being furious clicking of the mouse buttons whether hand to hand or gun to head. The driving sections 
 ended up being very bland, with the scenery looking pretty much all the same and the physics feeling 
 just plain wrong.
  
  On the plus side the sound and FMV are excellent, and without playing all the way through the game 
 you get the feeling that the story will be interesting. The presentation has a pretty authentic 
 Matrix feel.
  
  I'd recommend that if you are considering buying this game make sure you manage to try it out first. 
 As you can see from the difference in scores in these reviews people are divided on whether this 
 game is any good. Hopefully a demo will appear soon so people can try before they buy.
  
  Overall I would say that Enter the Matrix is a disapointingly average game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denial
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 19, 2003 5:10 am PT
Review:  This game should probably be played on a console. The controls and handling simply aren't working 
 on the PC. It would be interesting to find out if the player perspective is equally erratic in 
 the other versions of the game; your point of view is cast from side to side especially when standing/running 
 near walls. The mouse sensitivity is changing between extreme values depending on the situation 
 you're in, but there is only one setting to adjust.
  
  While appreciating the difficulty in developing a game for different platforms, I still think that 
 the PC version doesn't take full advantage of the possibilities - instead the graphics look rather 
 like an Xbox game.
  
  Bottom line: I regret buying this game, but I'm pretty sure I would have liked it on the Xbox. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wytefang
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 18, 2003 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Reviewed on an Alienware 1.5 P4 with 384meg of RDRAM (800) , and a GeForce 3 64meg 3D card. 
  
  Pros: 
  ----
  Nice graphics and exceptional sound (if you have decent surround speakers 
 you're really in for a treat) . Enjoyable contextually sensitive fighting system and huge variety 
 of fighting moves. An immersive game that at times perfectly captures the feeling of being one 
 of the characters from the Matrix movies! The interface is simple yet fairly intuitive and the 
 game has a helpful directional arrow to point you in the right direction for objectives if you 
 get stuck. Some supposed 'expert PC gamers' will undoubtedly grouse about this feature making the 
 game 'too easy' but I thought it was a great feature.
  
  Cons: 
  ----
  Camera control is a little spotty when things get hectic. Also I did notice the occasional slight 
 slowdown in framerate when there were a lot of people and action on screen but in all fairness 
 that could possibly have been a misinterpretation on my part due to the Bullet Time effect. For 
 some people (myself included) the camera and player motion may cause slight nausea from the perspective 
 shifts and movement in general. I'd like to see the bullet trails last a bit longer while in Focus/Bullet 
 Time mode, but that's a niggling complaint at best.
  
  All in all you'll definitely get your money's worth and enjoy this game. Is it a contender for 
 game of the year? Probably not but it's definitely one of the funner fighting/action games released 
 this year for the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hang5lngbd
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 18, 2003 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Here's the scoop on this game. Those that are reviewing this game as it should be, in the high 
 range, usually have the luxury of having reasonably fast computer, a good graphics card, and most 
 importantly, very fast rambus type ram. Those unfortunate enough not to have these (unspecified 
 necessity) requirements will be sorry to make the purchase of this game. They will not be able 
 to appreciate the pure enjoyment of great graphics, fluid superlative fighting sequenced gameplay, 
 and (my favorite) a kickass soundtrack and superlative integrated surround effects.
  
  I'm running a pentium 4-- 1.8Ghz , 512M ram, Gforce4 TI4200, computer. It runs great. I'm having 
 a blast playing this game. It's really fun to get the experience to not only enjoy the Matrix movie, 
 but jack into the matrix itself to free my mind! Just remember, if you don't have at least near 
 the specifications that I have, you better take the blue pill on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fib112
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 18, 2003 11:29 am PT
Review:  I was sold on this game about a month before it came out. The preview looked awesome and all in 
 information on the game made it seem like Enter the Matrix would be the best game of the year. 
 Imagine my disapointment when it turned out not only to live up to its hype, but also to be one 
 of the worst games I have played recently.
  In many ways the game is similar to Max Payne. The only thing is that Max Payne was made three 
 years ago and looks much better. The graphic in Matrix are not particularly sharp and when you 
 enter the bullet time mode, they become totally blurred. It's clear what the programmers wanted 
 to do: they wanted the bullet time mode to look different from everything else, I just don't understand 
 how blurring things with a green haze makes sense. Max Payne's bullet time was awesome: Things 
 slowed down and the graphics became sharper. That was cool and it was done three years ago. I would 
 have expected Enter the Matrix to have improved on that.
  I bought both this game and Vice City on the same day, so I might be somewhat biased when talking 
 about the driving scenes. I'm pretty sure everyone will agree that they suck. The driving scene 
 was especially hyped up because of the great driving chase in the movie. Unfortunately, it is horrible 
 in the game. The streets are all basically the same and in the first of the scenes, my instructions 
 were to drive around for two minutes and survive. So I drive around the blocks until I hit a cop. 
 When that happened, I sank through the road and the game froze... which brings me to my next point: 
 bugs.
  The game is filled with bugs. On occasion, I can see through walls and into other rooms. That makes 
 it very difficult to decide where to go. I was playing as Ghost and had to give up because one 
 room was so badly translucent. I continued as Niobe and did not run into the same problem, but 
 I did sink through the road, as mentioned earlier, with her.
  I tried to solve the problem. I read to FAQs, downloaded the latest drivers for my GeForce3 card, 
 and downloaded a patch for the game. Nothing helped. I couldn't get the room Ghost got stuck in 
 to be anything but translucent. For the record, I am running a P4 533 bus, 512 mb pc2700, GeForce3. 
 That should be fine for this game.
  The only great aspect of this game is the soundtrack. It's really good. When you walk into a room 
 full of baddies and the techno kicks in, well, that's pretty cool. At least Enter the Matrix gets 
 positive points somwhere. Overall, forget it. I returned the game and re-loaded Max Payne. That's 
 much better and is still exciting to play three years later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sallos
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 17, 2003 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say now that this game does not live up to all the hype it has generated. The game 
 is exciting for the first 5 minutes, but then the second you get to control a character, you begin 
 wondering if there is something wrong with the controls. Very awkward and very jerky is all that 
 can be said about them.
  
  The games graphics are fairly impressive, as is the sound. Although I should point out that in 
 2 days of playing, I have had to reboot from game crashes, and have actually had to turn my speakers 
 off from very annoying sound anomalies in the game.
  
  One major disappointment is the games AI. I can think of a few times when I would come running 
 into a room (there is no walk) , with an automatic weapon, and simply have the guards ignore me. 
 Even after shooting one of the guards, the others seemed uninterested. Other exciting features 
 include randomly spawning enemies (they just appear, wave after wave) , and defeating swat-helicopters 
 with a handgun.
  
  Bullet time is very cool, as is all the special stunts that you are able to do, for about 10 minutes.
 
  
  The game feels rushed, and although the story is very interesting, and works great if you have 
 seen the movie, I still cant feel that the $50 price tag was justified, and although the game 
 might be better on console, it just isnt on the PC.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dungerg
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 17, 2003 1:18 pm PT
Review:  After playing the game for a couple days I would have to say the game is alot of fun. If you like 
 the matrix or even have some interest you would probably enjoy this game.
  The technical aspects of the game could use some work. Being compared against an athlon xp 2200 
 based system with an ati 9800 pro and 1 gig of ram, I found the frames at somepoints, dropped almost 
 to the point where it became unenjoyable and unplayable, even with the low default settings. Especially 
 durring the melee sequences where there are more than one character onscene. (Ironic when I was 
 at the airport stage and saw adds for intel and nvidia solutions.) Hopefully the patches will fix 
 those issues. Control durring the driving sequence during the ghost scenario maybe frusterating 
 at times. Especially as Niobe seems to have an attraction to walls pillars and other cars. 
  
  All these nix's aside, doesn't mean it doesn't deserve merit. The motion capture of the wu 
 ping choreography is outstanding and incorporated extremely well during hand to hand combat. The 
 use of "focus" add to the dramaticism and especially a treat as you watch yourself connect combinations 
 almost seamlessly. Dodging bullets or wallrunning. Definately a selling point.
  Gunplay could use some polish. I often found myself very frusterated having to shoot with the awkward 
 1st person modes. Mouse tracking seems to almost have been directly ported from the console analog 
 controls. 
  
  The game also does a very good job portraying the "Matix universe" with an engaging storyline paralleling 
 "Matrix Reloaded". 
  
  If you enjoy The matrix you definately should give this game a try. All in all the only pet peeve 
 is that the game needs polish, Other than that, its a very solid title and should provide plenty 
 of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pashok
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 17, 2003 10:29 am PT
Review:  Good game, easy to control a lot of moves, i like that the show movie clips, although it is very 
 short it took me a little over four hours to beat it with ghost (without losing any fights) i don't 
 like driving level they are idiotic and graphics of all cars suck, when you zoom in on swat team 
 member's head, you can see the head through the helmet, excellent guns, perfect focus. My final 
 verdict is that every level inside is made excellent every level that is with cars, planes is pretty 
 bad, short game (good that they made two charaters.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadyz
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2003 11:48 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game at Gamestop and I have to say this game is in the end worth the 50 bucks. 
 The music and voice acting is great. After a bit of a problem updating my directX I entered the 
 game and the loading screen got me hyped up! I have to say all thjese negative reviews were too 
 critical. I looked for a fun game with replay value. This game does it for me. Amazing martial 
 arts moves and bullet time is at your disposal. The only thing I can nitpick is that they run kinda 
 funny, like they are running a marathon when I was expecting a jog. Anyway, his game is damn good 
 and if this is bad for pc like some say I cant wait to play it on a console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pata
Rating: 3.4
Date: May 16, 2003 10:09 pm PT
Review:  What huge dissapointment! After all the hype, all the cool gameplay movies on the internet, all 
 the expectation, the fact that it is the first game written and directed by movie directors, the 
 extra footage that was shot just for the game, we come back to the same time-tested conclusion: 
 No matter how much money goes into a game, how much marketing, hype and hollywood movie tie-ins 
 it has, in the end gameplay is king. And it is precisely in gameplay that the Matrix falls flat 
 on its face. I am playing the PC version and the controls are tough, the fighting and shooting 
 camera is confusing, the level objectives are very obscure and some of them frustratingly without 
 any hints whatsoever of what to do next.
  
  The drivin levels are terrible. Why stick this in if they're not going to do it properly?
  
 
  It says a lot that Max Payne, a game that is almost 3 years old is infinitely better than this 
 crap. This game is worth $10. I'm taking my copy back to Electronics Boutique. Another example 
 of some style and no substance at all. Shiny has had a terrible run of games lately and this is 
 the nail for the coffin.
  
  What a letdown! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MNSandman
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 16, 2003 8:37 pm PT
Review:  My doubts about this game have been confirmed, the PC version is a console port "also ran"!!! The 
 graphics in the PC version are straight from the console version! The textures look nasty! The 
 control is very bad! The auto aiming feature is just another confirmation that this is a straight 
 port of the console version, i. e. consoles need the auto aiming feature to help them play closer 
 to the accuracy of a mouse and keyboard.
  
  I am always skeptical about games that are tied into the premise of a film. I thought I'd go against 
 my better judgment and give this one a shot because the creators of the Matrix films were supposedly 
 involved in the writing of the story for this game. I should've never doubted my better instincts!
 
  
  This game wreaks of "cashing in" on box office momentum! I want to write about each and every part 
 of the game that is bad... but that'd just be a waste of time! Here's my quick recommendation: the 
 game is sub-par at best, and just plain boring! Wait a bit on this on this game if you really need 
 to get it. No doubt it'll be in the bargain bin very soon!
  
  A footnote to this is that if you must have it now, make sure you have a videocard that has hardware 
 support for DirectX 9.0! Otherwise the performance of the game isn't very good in addition to its 
 other major faults! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bomani
Rating: 6
Date: May 16, 2003 2:49 pm PT
Review:  If there was no tie-in to the movie, this game would be a 5 or 5.5. The fact that it supplements 
 the movie gives it a slight ratings boost. If you are not a Matrix fan DO NOT buy this game. The 
 gameplay is barely above average and not worth the $50. The graphics are also just above average 
 and the the sound downright average.
  
  It does have an interesting mix of combat/driving/puzzle gameplay. The controls are a bit quirky 
 and take a little getting used to, and the camera occasionally gets stuck. Focus time is fun for 
 about 15 mins. There's only so many times you can flip off the wall and clobber someone before 
 it gets boring. For some reason I found "bullet time" in Max Payne way more fun.
  
  Using your weapons is useless if hand to hand is an option. Hand to hand provides more control, 
 and you can basically kick arse w/o touching any weaps. 
  
  Overall, this is an average game that a Matrix fan/gamer might enjoy. There are plenty of other 
 good games out there worth your $50 though. Then again, there's an aweful lot of crap that's much 
 worse than this game out there *cough*Master of Orion III*cough* 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ItsIce
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 16, 2003 2:06 pm PT
Review:  All right.. it ain't great but I've played worse. The controls do take some getting use to, and 
 that seems to be everybody's biggest issue. But after playing through the first level I felt a 
 lot better about them then when I first booted it up. 
  The best reason to play this game is it's tie-in to the movie, and in that realm, it excels. However, 
 I think they should have waited for the DVD realease instead of the Theatrical release. 
  The graphics are a little bit above average, the cameras is basically stable (a few instances aside) , 
 and the hand-to-hand is great to watch. The basics are all there and are all solid, but this game 
 definetly needed to be tweaked a bit more. There doesn't seem to be any real reason to go to your 
 weapons, mainly because the there is absolutly no hope for control once you go into First-person 
 view, and the auto-aim is harder to get used to than GTA III was. Hopefully a patch gets that quickly. 
 
  My biggest disappointment so far, and needs to be mentioned, is the first time you ride shotgun 
 as Ghost (who is the only character I've played so far) , you are pretty inconsequential. You don't 
 really have anything to do but watch your car crash alot. 
  My biggest advice is to not use the default controls... mess with the mouse sensitivity till you 
 get where you like it and remap the controls to fit your style. That made a alot of difference 
 to me and may clear up a lot of complaints I've heard.
  In conclusion: a great concept, great graphics, really fun "focus" moments, adequate (but could 
 be better) movement and fighting controls ONCE YOU GET USED TO THEM, and really, really bad weapon 
 controls that hopefully can be fixed in a patch. If they could have had maybe 3 or 4 months to 
 tweak, this could have been everything it was hyped up to be, but it's still better than most other 
 movie-to-game translation I've played... LucasArts still hold the crown on that one, and they only 
 seem to get it right some of the time (the JK and the Rogue series) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpond007
Rating: 2.6
Date: May 16, 2003 4:34 am PT
Review:  This game is absolute garbage, do not buy it. I will be returning this piece of tripe ASAP. Graphics 
 are CRAP, Gameplay CRAP and for $50 what do you get...... you guessed it CRAP CRAP CRAP. For a 
 game that comes from a set of computer geek brothers that wrote the Matrix I would have thought 
 it would be better. This game's chances of being fun to play is about the same as the the Wachowskis' 
 brothers chances of getting laid in high school. Further more this just puts more proof in the 
 pudding that if it is a game that is based on a movie, it will SUCK!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drd85
Rating: 4
Date: May 15, 2003 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Imagine a very buggy Max Payne with hand to hand combat. First off I haven't been able to play 
 more than 15 minutes before the sound cuts out. Game is still running but no sound. I have to reboot 
 to get it back. The graphics are alright but I have seen better. This is really a console game 
 and will probably do well on those platforms. The game play is really simple. There isn't too much 
 skill other than moving the mouse to point in the general direction of a bad guy. Auto aiming is 
 in full effect. While the hand to hand combat looks neat, you don't actually get to choose your 
 moves. Just point to a bad guy and click, click, click. You can punch, kick, block, and throw. 
 However I swear sometimes it just decided to do whatever it wanted. I know this game will be huge 
 because of all the fan boys but I am really disappointed. The game is also really slow. I have 
 Athlon XP 2500+ Barton Core, 1GB PC2600 DDR RAM, NVidia Geforce 4 Ti 4200 AGP 8x 128 MB RAM, Turtle 
 Beach Santa Cruz. Splinter Cells flies on my system - this game is sluggish at the default settings 
 of 800x600. The "focus" mode which is basically bullt time from Max Payne was neat the first time 
 but wears thin. Max Payne did it so much better. If you can resist - stay away from this stinker. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
