-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: ER (2005)
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/er/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good voice acting.
 Longer than the average casual game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Shoddy gameplay makes lifesaving a completely droll experience.
 Relationship element is completely inadequate.
 Storylines are weak and seemingly thrown together.
 Dull-looking graphics engine.
 Some occasional bugs and memory-leak issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 23, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.2
Critic Score: 6.1, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 244 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Legacy Interactive
Genre: Virtual Life
Date:     May 31, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
ER's assembly-line approach to the process of saving lives and its utter lack of any meaningful 
 or dramatic storytelling rob it of the two things the TV show is most renowned for. 

  For a game based on one of TV's most popular medical dramas, Legacy Interactive's ER is lacking 
 in the drama department. In fact, this may be the dullest game ever concocted around the concept 
 of saving lives and the sexy, melodramatic stories of those who do the lifesaving. ER basically 
 eschews the medical simulation genre in favor of something that vaguely resembles The Sims. You'll 
 create your own doctor, take him through several "episodes" of mundane medical work that requires 
 next to no effort on your part, and occasionally engage in unnecessary social interaction with 
 the random batch of characters who wander the halls of Chicago's County General Hospital. While 
 the game is squarely aimed at those with an interest in the TV show rather than at those who play 
 games on any kind of regular basis, even casual players will find themselves terribly bored by 
 ER's take on life in the emergency room.  

          Noah Wyle has left the TV show, but he somehow still managed to get dragged into doing 
 this inadequate PC game.     

  The game's general barrenness is apparent the moment you try to create your character. The list 
 of character customizations is limited; you can alter only the most obvious characteristics, like 
 gender and skin color. You'll then fill in a few stat bars with some allotted character points, 
 which help determine your doctor's strengths and weaknesses in the six types of medicine featured 
 in the game: cardiology, neurology, general surgery, toxicology, pediatrics, and orthopedics. The 
 mechanic of learning these different specialties is just about the most stupidly easy thing on 
 the planet. When you first arrive in the ER, Dr. Carter (as voiced by Noah Wyle) assigns you to 
 triage in the waiting room, which is where you'll be spending an awful lot of the game. To diagnose 
 a patient, you click on the patient, which will cause your character to wave his or her arms around 
 in one motion or another, and then a magic diagnosis will appear in the lower section of the heads-up 
 display, along with a level number that indicates how severe the case is. If it's too severe for 
 you, you can opt to assign it to a higher-ranked doctor. If it's on your level, you'll then assign 
 the patient to a bed, at which point you get to play doctor.  

  Unfortunately, treating a patient is no more exciting than diagnosing one. Once you assign a patient 
 to a bed, you can simply click on that patient's icon, and you'll slowly wander over to the assigned 
 bed (as will the patient) . Once you're at the bed, you'll need a nurse. Sometimes one will already 
 be there, and sometimes you'll have to wait for one to show up. After that, just click on the patient 
 again, and you'll begin waving your arms again. Sometimes the patient's injury rating will start 
 to drop, sometimes it'll go up, and other times you'll realize you need a new diagnosis, at which 
 point you'll send the patient to the lab for more tests. Most times, however, you can just cure 
 the patient right then and there, and that's it. That's the extent of the work you'll have to do 
 when saving someone's life. Point, click, point, click, done. It might not be so bad if there were 
 some variation in the process, but there isn't. Occasionally, specialized patients (like a karate 
 master or a robot... wait, what?) will wander in, and one of the main doctors will ask you to treat 
 them, but the only difference between these specialized patients and the regular patients is that 
 the specialized patients often require more lab tests. Otherwise, you're just running back and 
 forth between the waiting room and beds and quickly dealing with them. There are no big, dramatic 
 trauma-room sequences with multiple doctors all trying to heal some gravely wounded person, like 
 on the TV show. The game is devoid of even the slightest measure of drama.  

  ER does try to toss some story at you from time to time, but mostly it's inconsequential stuff. 
 There are themes to each episode, but they don't tie together well. In one episode, a convention 
 center catches fire during a comic book convention, and a whole slew of superhero-garbed nerds 
 start flooding into the ER. While this could have been turned into something interesting, it isn't. 
 Mostly you triage them like you would anyone else -- there just happens to be more of them. Occasionally, 
 the other doctors will toss different objectives at you in the same manner they assign the special 
 patients to you. For instance, in one situation, you have to track down a pair of snooping reporters 
 who are ambling about the hospital. Some of the objectives and special-patient assignments don't 
 have to be completed, but others do, and if you don't finish the ones that are required, it's game 
 over. There's also no checkpoint system in the game, so it's up to you to manually save as often 
 as possible, otherwise you have to restart the game from your last checkpoint, however long ago 
 that might have been.  

  To be fair, there are other aspects to the game, though they're just as mundane as the whole lifesaving 
 thing. One area of note is the character management system, which feels like a low-rent version 
 of The Sims. Your character has three stats that must be maintained at all times: hygiene, energy, 
 and composure. Each one drops slightly as you go through your 48-hour shift in the ER, and after 
 a while you'll need to replenish them by doing things like going and grabbing some food in the 
 cafeteria, taking naps, taking showers, and even doing quick workouts in the gym. Some patients 
 will even give you special gifts, which are boosts to certain stats and abilities that you can 
 use at your leisure. While all of this sounds relatively decent, the stats themselves don't seem 
 to have nearly the effect on your character that's advertised. One of the warnings Dr. Carter gives 
 early on is that you must maintain your hygiene level carefully, or no one will want to work with 
 you. What he didn't mention is that you can let it get all the way to the bottom before it even 
 begins to negatively impact the game, which can take a very long time. You can go next to forever 
 without taking time to boost your stats, and there's no urgency to any of them.  

  The gameplay mechanic that had the potential to add the most depth to the experience instead comes 
 off as completely perfunctory. Essentially, you have the ability to socialize with your various 
 hospital colleagues at pretty much any point during the game. Just right-click on them, and select 
 the interact option. A chat menu will appear, with all sorts of topics and emotes you can select 
 from the conversation. It's a great concept, but it's horribly executed. The whole thing is guesswork, 
 since there's no way to clue in on the best way to begin a conversation. Abject praise tends to 
 work, but even that sometimes causes a negative reaction. Generally, once the person you're conversing 
 with picks a topic, all you need to do is pick that same topic next, and you'll get a moderate 
 boost in positivity. This turns into a weird game of mimicry that isn't fun or interesting. Worse, 
 even though the game purports that the social-interaction aspect is key in establishing cliques 
 and good working relationships with the staff, you really don't need to do it much. An occasional 
 conversation seems more than sufficient, and enacting a romance with another character merely gives 
 you a mild composure bonus. It's a pathetically limited system, and it has no bearing on the gameplay. 

          If the process of saving lives were really this simple, why would anybody need six years 
 of medical school?     

  ER's presentation is better than its gameplay, but "better" in this case doesn't equate to good. 
 The look of the game is somewhat Sims-like, with the camera taking sort of an isometric view of 
 your character and the hospital and all the characters taking on kind of a goofy, exaggerated look. 
 The animations resemble those of sims, with wild gesticulations representing specific actions. 
 While that works fine in a game like The Sims, which is meant to be kind of off the wall to begin 
 with, the association with the name ER makes the atmosphere in the game feel off-kilter. The same 
 problem arises with the cases. One moment you'll be dealing with weird patients, like guys in superhero 
 costumes, and then the next moment you'll be having a somber talk with the other doctors about 
 how you never get used to losing patients. While the TV show does try to mix the absurd with the 
 melodramatic, the game leans way too heavily on the absurd for its own good. The one good thing 
 you can say about the game's presentation, however, is that the actors involved do a good job with 
 the voice acting. Mekhi Phifer, Sherry Stringfield, and the aforementioned Noah Wyle all reprise 
 their roles, and though the dialogue isn't especially well written, they more than competently 
 act it out.  

  The problem with ER isn't that it's a game aimed at a casual market, but rather that the components 
 necessary to make an enjoyable casual game are not developed well enough. Its assembly-line approach 
 to the process of saving lives and its utter lack of any meaningful or dramatic storytelling rob 
 it of the two things the TV show is most renowned for -- not to mention that all the little gameplay 
 elements it tries to throw into the mix to deepen the experience are barely required, let alone 
 useful. It's a half-baked attempt at best, and even the biggest fans of the show will be thoroughly 
 disappointed by it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: iruletheschool1
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game because I was a big fan of the show. I know the graphics and the game play could 
 of been better but it was easy for me so far... I just got it for my birthday and I really like 
 it. I am only like on the 2nd level so I don't know so far. I know you are thinking "He's only 
 on the 2nd level! That doesn't count!" But it does. I had it long ago and I beat it on my computer 
 but then my computer crashed and I lost the disk. But I did beat it. I thought it was really cool. 
 But I may be wrong because that was a long time ago and I forgot. But when I do beat it again I 
 will decide if I change my rating and review or not. So don't get mad if you don't like it because 
 right know I am expresing my Freedom Of Speech so you can't get mad. I know you all may not agree 
 with it but if you do I thank you!!! :-) And I know this is off topic but look: |*-*| a casset 
 tape. Hehehehehe!!! Bye!
  Oh also the game is very very very very very addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecko
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  I was really excited when my brother gave me this as a fan of theme hospital way back when I thought 
 great an update with a twist. Although the game was fun to play it was quite restrictive and not 
 nearly as long as I had hoped. The characters are true to the series and it is quite fun to flirt 
 and kiss the doctors or argue if you like. The perks system is quite ingenious and really makes 
 the game good. If you haven't played theme hospital and are looking for a few hours to kill you 
 might find this enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaskaville
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  This game is highly addictive because it's such a fun game but to bad it did not run on my computer 
 to well. I have to give this game 5 stars, 1 star for the gameplay, 1 star for the storyline, 1 
 star for the characters, 1 star for the challenges, and finally 1 star for the graphics. I love 
 everything about this game because I love the television show (ER) and I like the feature that 
 you can bond with someone. So if you want to play a good game I highly recommend (ER) the game 
 . They should make (ER) the game on PS2 &amp; PS3 who agrees with me?. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indianapepsi
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 13, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  yes a weird game, a lot of bugs at first, but the 2 patchs seems to have cured most of them still 
 some remain. I have finished the game twice, once trying to make friends and once without, so i 
 have discovered that you dont need friends at all, even if all the other staff hates you it can 
 still be finished so i dont see a point to the interaction and relationships. having a wife in 
 the med field too i know that it is highly illegal to work a 48 hour straight shift too lol. There 
 is no drama and most med cases r 50-50 regardless of the injury or ur docs rating, i had a 9 rating 
 in toxi and still lost a patient who was only a toxi 5 so really u just click n hope. the perks 
 were a good idea but since it is a general game and u dont know the sickness till u diagnose they 
 can be useless, (if u take a perk to make your cardeo better it may make your toxi a lil lower 
 only to find ur next patiant is toxi) so u can find yourself easyily wasting perks of curbsiding 
 alot! And navigating is really frustrating, you find yourself having to change direction alot and 
 walk around ppl who get in the way (and most of the time they dont seem to know your even there!) 
 the funest part was in level 5 when a doc told me i was not as good as his latest find who turned 
 out to be a doc dressed in a cowboy suit, but it soon became boring, first time through i made 
 friends with him he didn't get in my way and dissapeared after level 6, second time thro the game 
 i didn't make friends with him and the same thing happened so i have no idea y he was even there 
 or y the other doc tried to say he was better than me it was pointless, like many other things 
 in the game.
  
  so making friends does not help at all, there is only 5-6 fireable tasks and they r all easier 
 than the non-fireable tasks (weird!) and a wreckinball crarshes thro a wall in level 4, but it 
 does not hinder gameplay 1 lil bit which i found strange, and it becomes totally too repedative 
 cause the levels r rather long and it is just the same thing over and over again and same technique 
 is used everytime no matter wat the problem u dont even get to see any cool doctors tools never 
 mind use any, all in all the game looks good, plays ok at the start but gets boring in a hurry 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squall780
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 19, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  In terms of Legacy Games, well, we all know they've kinda' slumped. This is very good compared 
 to their most recent games, but it lacks a lot of things that make ER entertaining. The first thing 
 that bugs me is the only characters there from the show itself are Lewis, Carter, Pratt, Haleh, 
 and Jerry. Everybody else was created off the top of their head. The game consists of 1 hour long 
 episodes (levels) and I'm on the 5th of about 6 or 7 (as far as I heard) . The game has kind of 
 been dumbed down and a bit out of proportion for what you can and can't get a game over for. The 
 objectives on treating patients that the doctors say they want you to treat are always firable 
 if you don't curbside them to another doc if their vitals get too poor, but if you get the call 
 and have no composure and are in the gym and the patient only has 2.5 minutes for treatment and 
 you pump iron, but don't finish treating the patient in time, you still lose. You can get a game 
 over for being late for a meeting, and even for letting your motives slip too low multiple times. 
 Also, the treatment lacks the medical procedures, the patients have vitals on a scale from 1-10, 
 1 being the easiest and fastest to treat 10 being so unstable that you have to try to revive him 
 and a second later he dies. Also, when you're treating patients it's mainly luck, you just click 
 the patient and your doctor gets to work and you hope the counter goes to 0. The drama is lacking 
 a bit between missions (when you're just triaging and treating) , but otherwise the drama's there. 
 I love it, but I'm a die hard fan, I'm just trying to give a fair review based on the facts I got 
 from my observations. Give it a try though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KirkFaulkner
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 13, 2006 3:32 am PT
Review:  As a fan (understatement of the year!!) i was really looking forward to the thought of a game too.... 
 But as with all great TV shows the game was a HUGE let down. Visualy it was ok nothing major to 
 wright home about but quaint nun the less even quite funny at times. But after about 30 min i was 
 board an not even my love for E. R could get me in to this dull repetertive title. Id rather play 
 Theam Hospital. There are onlt really 2 parts to this game Diagnose and treat every now and then 
 you might have to sent one to labs or chase a reporter out of the hospital. So please leave this 
 one on the shelf and make them think again before inflicting this sort of tripe on us!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LisaLisa36
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jan 3, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  ER was fun but challenging to accomplish each task without freeze ups and time lapses.
  Enjoyed having the actors and actresses real voices on the game. 
  It wasn't worth the $30 we 
 had to pay for it.
  After completing each level you get to the end and become a doctor. But there is nothing after 
 that. You could play the game in about 6-10 hours and it is over. 
  I like being able to go back and re-play the game with different things happening.
  Was fun, 
 but not really worth the money.
  Would like to have been able to move about easier and actually use medical equipment and so forth.
 
  Anyways, was good fun whuile it lasted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelsue365
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 23, 2005 3:24 am PT
Review:  even though all system requirements are exeeded ,game runs slow and the bugs make it frustrating, 
 freezing is an issue making the tasks very hard to obtain ,also being assigned several at once 
 seems pointless almost like a butt kiss to whomever assigns it ,maybe if there were hints or tricks 
 to it more entertainment value would be attained but since right now this isnt the case ,its a 
 waste of an otherwise good concept, my thoughts on this are that even though i wanted this game 
 since its release ,i wish id saved my money. i will say this, at least there are familiar characters, 
 i just wish they had included some of the original ones like benton and green 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonKyoto
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 20, 2005 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: ER, based off of the hit TV series, isnt perfect, but if your looking for a good 
 sim game to pass the time, it'll due.
  
  Gameplay: In ER, you play the role of a young doctor new to the ER. The usual cast of characters 
 greet you and inform you of your jobs. The entire game really is point and click, but it suits 
 the circumstances. You primarily work in the Triage, taking care of people who have come to the 
 ER for treatment. You assign them to a bed, and then either work on them ( or pass them off to 
 another doctor ) , and pursue the course of there treatment. Several things happen during the game 
 to give you a change of pace ( such as tracking down reporters in the hospital and such ) , but 
 most of the time, due to timer restraints, these are more annoying then anything. The major problem 
 I experianced with the game, was its memory leaks. Starting the game anew after just turning on 
 the computer, it worked fine, but after 15-20 minutes of playing, it would slow down severily, 
 taking ages to register any clicking, and made turning the game off a real pain.
  
  Story: Your a new doctor to the ER, and are assigned to the Triage, to take care of patients. As 
 your treating them, special patients will arrive, or specific situations or accidents will happen, 
 which will require you to help in remedying the situation in a specific time. Actual storylines 
 within the game are fairly loose, and are based, in episodic format, around a specific problem 
 that has to be taken care of, but any actual 'story' is missing. You take care of the problem, 
 and move on, case closed.
  
  Graphics and Sound: The graphics are fairly well done, albeit annoying at times, along with the 
 sound. The actual actors reprised there roles as there characters for the game, and have done a 
 very well done job of it.
  
  Replayability: Ignoring the memory leaks, id say its worth a replay or 2 if your a fan of sim games, 
 or the ER series.
  
  Final Recommendation: In the end, I give ER a 6/10. The game could have been worked on for an extra 
 month to iron out the problems, but otherwise, its a fair game which can be fun to fans of the 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiteknight1111
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 5, 2005 10:45 am PT
Review:  emergency room is a desent enough game in that gameplay controls are easy, graphics are on the 
 good side and the sound is ok, but the one big bug bare was the constant slow down of the game even 
 on a pc that matched the specs of the game even with the downloadable patch things did not improve 
 much, as far as the game goes a solid title, good fun trying to keep everyone happy and getting 
 people treated on time, levels are pretty hard after the first few but its a worthwhile challenge, over 
 all er is a good game but i only wish they would have sorted the slow down out as the game can 
 become unplayable after you have been on a few hours or loaded in a few times 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n99127
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 4, 2005 2:29 pm PT
Review:  The idea sounded very exciting. Using the Sims engine, ER would place you as an intern in Chicago's 
 County General Hospital, the hospital of ER, the TV show. You would get to treat patients with 
 a wide variety of conditions, improve your skills in a RPG style system, and have relationships 
 with other doctors, some good, some bad, and even some romantic.
  
  In a sense, ER does do all these things, but unfortunately, the execution is quite poor. In terms 
 of illnesses, they are divided into categories, such as cardio, osteo, or general, and then into 
 severity, ranging from 1 to 10. This gross oversimplication of the illnesses leads to a situation 
 in which many of the patients are similar (as opposed to real life in which no two patients are 
 alike) . The RPG system give you experience points which you can use to improve your ratings in 
 various fields. You get points (realistically) from treating patients, but you also get points 
 for doing menial tasks such as walking from point A to point B, which, in a medical sim, should 
 NOT be a way to give you XP to upgrade your medical skills. As for the relationships, ER gives 
 you so many patients to deal with that meaningful relationships are probably hard to come by.
 
  
  As a medical sim, ER falls flat on its face. First of all, you are an intern for the entire game; 
 once you get promoted to a real doctor the game is automatically over - the game is far too short. 
 Also, while there is a variety of different rooms, the way you treat every patient is exactly the 
 same - your character simply waves his arm, touches the patient, and then the patient is cured. 
 In real life, patients are obviously not cured this way, and ER does a poor job of portraying its 
 subject matter in this manner.
  
  Designed by a company known for its medical sims, ER was expected to portray a realistic medical 
 sim. However, ER does a poor job as a medical sim, despite the fact it is powered by the same engine 
 that runs Sims. Legacy Interactive should have invested more time into making ER into a quality 
 medical sim the company is known for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxoidRodi
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jun 4, 2005 9:14 am PT
Review:  Nothing in this game is actually about emergency! It's hardly about medicine! All you have to do 
 is to find sick people in the hospital's waiting room assign them a bed and then just click on 
 them and they are ready to leave (Of course some of them don't forget to give you a gift before 
 leaving) .
  
  When you enter the game you get to customize you character by entering its name, choosing its gender, 
 skin color, eyes color and uniform color! And you can choose its face look, but only few faces 
 are available, you also have to customize its initial personality points (I know it sounds like 
 Sims!) which will affect its medical skills in the game! As I mentioned above, the gameplay in 
 the game has nothing to do with the emergency situations we all know from the TV show! The doctors 
 don't rush to their patients, they just walk VERY SLOWLY!!! Similarly to The Sims, in ER you should 
 take care of your character, you should send it to rest, eat, take a bath etc... Or the doctor 
 will not do a good job. 
  
  A thing I hated about the game is that it never reminds you to save your progress! Even when you 
 advance from level to level! So if anything happens (game crash, or you failed to do an important 
 assignment so you get fired and the game is over) all your progress will be lost, and you'll have 
 to start from the last save YOU remembered to make! And believe me, this is no fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guapsrocks
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 3, 2005 12:11 pm PT
Review:  This is either a bad version of the original sims or a terrible medical simulation.
  First off, the game is loosely linked to the ER TV show, in that they use the actors names. Thats 
 about as far as the likeness goes. 
  This isnt really a challenge of medical knowlege as you just click on the victom and they are healed. 
 Sometimes you send them off for proceedures and such and those victoms will come back to the ER 
 later on. Then you have to FIND them in order to finish their treatment. (More clicking on them)
 
  
  This game is more of a mini fetching quest game, running around the hospital talking to people. 
 The interface is not pleasent to work with. Movement of the character around the screen is painful.
 
  
  The graphics are old school, which would have been ok, if it were not so hard to manipulate the 
 characters. Again it was just painful to move around.
  
  I have wanted a good medical simulation game for a while now and this one doesnt even come close 
 to fitting the bill. I wouldnt recommend this game to anyone looking for a medical simulation and 
 I would recommend something like Sims 2 to someone looking for a social interaction game with character 
 creation and building.
  
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
