-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Eragon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/eragon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Some of the magic attacks are fun to use at first.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Combat is extremely repetitive and tedious.
 Poor hit detection, buggy artificial intelligence, frustrating camera angles.
 The game is short and has very little replay value.
 Local multiplayer only, no online play.
 Ugly character models, jerky animations, and an all-around lackluster presentation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 11, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.4
Critic Score: 5.0, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 399 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Stormfront Studios
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     Nov 14, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Eragon relies entirely on tedious, unenthusiastic gameplay that's way too shallow to sustain interest 
 for more than a few minutes. 

  Eragon the video game is based on the movie, which itself is based on the book of the same name. 
 It's a typical fantasy world full of dragons, wizards, and magic, which would seem to lend itself 
 well to a video game adaptation in the vein of the very good series of Lord of the Rings action 
 games that came out alongside those movies. In fact, the Eragon game bears a striking resemblance 
 to those Lord of the Rings games, which only makes sense because the games were all developed by 
 the same company. But while the Lord of the Rings games were well-polished action games, Eragon 
 feels unfinished and lazily thrown together. It's the same basic hack-and-slash principle that's 
 readily accessible to just about any fan of the film, but Eragon feels like a skeleton of a game 
 that's been padded out with some licensed content. There's not nearly enough to make the game interesting 
 or even remotely worth playing, though. The action is mindless and repetitive at best, and buggy 
 and unresponsive at worst. In addition, the presentation ranges from bland to ugly, the game is 
 short, the fixed camera angles are frustrating, and there is no online play. Even for a straightforward 
 action game, Eragon has very little to offer.  

          Dragons, magic, wizards. How did this go so wrong?     

  Eragon is a young farm boy 
 in the fantasy world of Alagaesia. One day while out hunting, the boy stumbles upon a glowing blue 
 orb that he thinks is a stone. Come to find out, it's actually a dragon egg. Eventually, a dragon 
 hatches from the egg and Eragon discovers that he shares a magical bond with the creature. Turns 
 out Eragon has been chosen as a legendary dragon rider, which is a warrior with special magic abilities 
 that flies around on dragons and fights the impending evil that's sweeping across the land at the 
 behest of a ruthless tyrant. It's up to Eragon to save the day by hacking through an army of clones 
 in several linear, uninspired, and mercifully short levels.  

  You control Eragon, and you start out as a relatively feeble farmer. You have a sword and a bow, 
 and you quickly learn to use magic, as well. There are 16 levels in the game, with a couple extra 
 levels if you're playing the Xbox 360 version. You'll spend most of your time on foot, fighting 
 wave after wave of generic enemies. You have a quick strike, a powerful strike, and a block for 
 melee combat. You can string together combos of the two strikes to pull off special moves like 
 grapples or knock downs. But even with those few moves, the action still boils down to mashing 
 buttons until your thumb (or your brain) goes numb.  

  The enemies are all easy to kill, but they do take quite a few hits. So you can hack away at a 
 foe uninterrupted for several seconds before he finally goes down, only to repeat the process with 
 a dozen more enemies. It doesn't help matters that the hit detection is spotty at best. You'll 
 often find yourself swinging away and watching your blade go right through your foes with no effect 
 whatsoever. You can use a bow in the game to pick off enemies from afar, but since your bow does 
 even less damage than your sword, you'll have to spend a long time slinging arrows at an enemy 
 before it finally dies. There are some platforming sections in each level that require you to shimmy 
 along ledges, climb up buildings or other structures, leap small gaps, and tiptoe across narrow 
 beams. None of it is the least bit interesting or challenging, and it ends up feeling perfunctory 
 and pointless.  

  As a dragon rider, Eragon is able to use magic, which factors into the combat in the game. The 
 magic does actually make for some enjoyable moments, such as when you light enemies on fire and 
 watch as they run off a cliff in a panic, or when you use magic to pull enemies off a high ledge. 
 But even though you can do some fun things with a couple of the magic spells, it does very little 
 to liven up the combat in the long run. Aside from pushing and pulling enemies and lighting them 
 on fire, you can shoot magic arrows and use your magic to interact with the environment. Certain 
 objects in the environment can be moved or rearranged using your magic. It's not very interesting, 
 though, because you can't choose what you interact with or how you do it. Instead, it's usually 
 along the lines of moving a conveniently placed pile of loose boards to create a makeshift bridge 
 between two platforms.  

  Being a dragon rider, you do get to fly around on a dragon from time to time, but it's not nearly 
 as fun as it sounds. The few flying levels in the game play like a rail shooter, where you fly 
 around on a predetermined path and shoot enemies with magic arrows or blast them with your dragon's 
 fire breath. The levels are simple loops, so you fly around in circles and kill the same enemies 
 as they respawn endlessly. It's like being on a very tedious treadmill, because you never actually 
 get anywhere. You just kill enemies until you've met the predetermined quota for the level.  

 
  You can easily beat Eragon in six hours, and once you've done that there's no reason to go back 
 and play it again. Perhaps the only good news is that if you're playing the Xbox 360 version of 
 the game, you can get some easy achievement points by completing each of the short levels on normal 
 and hard difficulty settings. Other than that, there's not much to do in Eragon. A second player 
 can join in at any moment during the game to play cooperatively, but the co-op suffers because 
 both characters have to move in unison to keep all the action contained within one screen. This 
 means that unless your partner moves with you, you can't go anywhere. It's also frequently possible 
 for one character to get stuck behind an object in the environment if the other character moves 
 too far ahead. One solution for that would be to let you play the game online, where each player 
 has his or her own screen, but that feature is conspicuously absent. It's not a major loss, because 
 this game isn't any more fun cooperatively than it is solo, but it's just one more way in which 
 Eragon comes up short.  

  Another way that Eragon fails to impress is in its presentation. The game looks best on the Xbox 
 360, but even then it doesn't look good. The character models are all blocky and undefined, and 
 although it's common in games of this type, the fact that there are only a handful of enemies to 
 face just makes the game look and feel cheap. You'll see the exact same mobs over and over throughout 
 the entire game. The fact that many of the levels look quite similar also makes the game feel repetitive 
 and shallow, as if each level is exactly the same as the one before it. The character animations 
 are no better. The few canned animations look decent, and some of the finishing moves are pretty 
 brutal (and bloody if you're playing the PC or Xbox 360 version) , especially for a T-rated game. 
 However, most of the time the animations are stilted and jerky, and you'll often see enemies or 
 ally characters get stuck behind objects and twitch wildly or clip through solid parts of the environment. 

  Eragon also has an extremely frustrating camera. The game employs fixed camera angles, so you have 
 no control over your perspective on the action. That means that if you're behind an object, you're 
 left to fight blind, which happens much more often than it should. The perspective also sometimes 
 hides the path that you need to take to progress through the level. For instance, you might have 
 to hop up and grab a ledge and pull yourself up to the next area, but with the fixed perspective, 
 you won't even be able to tell that ledge is there.  

          If you have a friend nearby, you can play cooperatively, but then you might end up with 
 one less friend.     

  The sound is also disappointing. Some of the music is halfway decent, but the voice acting is stiff 
 and often missing entirely. John Malkovich plays the main enemy in the movie but doesn't have a 
 single speaking line in the game. The actor who plays Eragon provides some voice-over work, but 
 none of it sounds very good, and the dialogue consists almost entirely of terrible one-liners. 
 The sound effects are functional, but there's nothing about the tinny clink of blade against blade 
 to give the combat any weight.  

  Both as an action adventure game, and a licensed work, Eragon comes across as substandard in just 
 about every way imaginable. It feels like an unfinished game that was rushed through to release 
 in time for the movie to appear in theaters. The combat is repetitive, the presentation is dull 
 and lifeless, and the entire game suffers from an apparent lack of effort.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rmfd341
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 27, 2009 12:26 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I'm going to say in this review is that, if you have little cousins, or if your 
 little brother brought his friend home, and they want to play games in your PC, well, let'em play 
 this one. I've played through this game two times with my cousin, and it keeps them focused.
  
  The Eragon book had a good story, and it could be a good game but unfortunately, this game 
 sucks, graphics are really bad, sound is also not very good. The gameplay is a little bit fun, 
 you can have some fun by doing combos in the beginnng, but there are only a few, but the good thing 
 is that there are different animations for different enemies, there is also a couple of magic and 
 a bow and arrow, which add some variety in the fights. When you're mounting on Saphira, the only 
 thing you're going to use is your bow and arrow, mounting on this dragon, is an awful travel. 
 
  
  Boss fights are boring.
  
  There are extras which can be unlocked by finding eggs through the game, it was hard for me to 
 find'em , so if you are an unlockable fan, you'll have some fun searching for them.
  
  It had potential, but companies keep screwing up great stories...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Byzantiumpirate
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because the demo was so convinsing that I bought it next day. Graphics are OK 
 and the fight system is interesting but gets confusing and makes you ask that how can a little 
 boy grab a big bald guys and beat a s__t out of them.
  Dragon missions are hard and confusing, boss fights are long and repedetive. For an example I can 
 take that I tryed first dragon mission about 100 times and boss missions took 1 try. I was really 
 stuck on one dumb mission for long time. Its a mission where you must catch a dove with a dragon 
 3 times and it is almost impossible and makes really angry. Looking back to that game after completing 
 it you will rather think about it as a good game, but you will also think about that money that 
 was wasted for less than day playing. And that makes you rather cry.
  I wouldonly recommendit to big Eragon fans who just have too much money in their wallet.
  Overall 
 its not very bad but longer gameplay and bit more logic would have made it good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_prince2007
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  ased on the best-selling novel and feature film, this epic fantasy-adventure centers on a young 
 farm boy named Eragon whose destiny is revealed with the help of a dragon. Eragon, now a Dragon 
 Rider, is swept into a world of magic and power, discovering that he alone has the power to save 
 -- or destroy -- an Empire. Gamers will engage in intense battles with an unparalleled combo and 
 magic-based combat system, including stunning finishing moves, multiple grapples and degradable 
 blocks with unique counter attacks. The adventure is heightened with breathless dragon flight-based 
 combat and devastating dragon summon attacks. Fantasy fans can also share the adventure with 2 
 player co-op featuring team attack bonuses and dragon fight/flight combo gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maximiliator
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 20, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  ok,
  
  I played trough Eragon togheter with a friend now, and i must say, it is not bad ! he played as 
 Eragon, and I played as Brom and Murthag. We had a lot of fun.
  
  You have a bright variety of combos to use, a bow, and Eragon can use Magic in combat. The enemies 
 are not that stupid, and block a lot of times. You can burn Urgals with magic fire, or pull them 
 from cliffs. The bow has a nice skill, called skill-shot . This means, you hold fire, aim carfully 
 and take out your enemy with one shot. We created a nice tactic. I ran into closecombat, and my 
 friend shot the enemies with skillshots. quite effectiv.
  
  We managed to play the whole story on difficulty normal . But not the first end-boss. We had ro 
 beat him on easy, because he was to hard. The last Endboss was easier, than the first Endboss.
 
  
  The minus was, that nearly everything was scripted, and you had very little freedom of movement. 
 It reminded me a bit of Lotr The return of the king , from the style.
  
  I can only say, that it was fun playing trough, but i wouldn&acute; t do it a second time. This 
 means, there&acute; s no lontime-fun.
  
  6.5 !
  
  Max 
::::::

::::::
UserName: je_taime_RB_27
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 21, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Apres avoir pass&eacute; &agrave; Musiqueplus, je fais la critique de ce jeu Eragon version PC.
 
  Grace au gars de M. NET je vais pouvoir passer &agrave; la tv.
  Jai donn&eacute; dans ma critique 7.5 sur 10 pour plusieurs raisons que je ne dirai pas.
  Jespere 
 que vous aller voir ce message (&eacute; quipe de M. NET) .
  Je vous regarderez toujours!
  Bye
  Gabriel
  Maintenant ce que jecrit est rien que des conneries.
  jouant du saxophone albert 
 eut lenvi de regarder la television.
  Mais julie sa soeur elle jouait du piano mais malheureusement pour elle, elle ne put regarder son 
 emission de tv car albert regardait mnet (lol) .
  Merci bonsoir 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bireno
Rating: 3.9
Date: Feb 5, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Combat, as said in the gamespot review, is ridiculously repetitive. It'll have you wanting to stab 
 yourself in the eye with a pencil.. similar to that feeling you get during an intermittent windows-button-clicking 
 sound during a Spore gameplay demonstration video.
  
  I couldn't play for more than 20 minutes, which is really disappointing because I actually wanted 
 this game to be better than the usual movie-based game. It's entirely rushed in every aspect &amp; 
 graphics are nothing more than mediocre.
  
  I can't really say anything positive about this game, but I will give constructive criticism that 
 should be considered by all movie-game creators:
  
  Take more time. Don't rush it! Lord of the rings games are essentially the only movie-based games 
 that actually work because the developers spent more than a few months coding various elements 
 of the game. Haste makes waste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slugrite
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 20, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  this game could have used alot or fixing the final product seems to look like a alpha version.... just 
 like the movie this game could of used subtitles to distract u from their poor game play. on the 
 liter side of things i guess i bought me a $40 Frisbee. For the avid joe id strongly suggest against 
 wasting any time with this game. it almost seems as they just threw it together as a cheap attempt 
 to mak some cash with no real motive to supply indepth game play or any form of fun. ERA-GONE is 
 more like it, its time has passed.... let it die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr_7o7o
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 6:18 am PT
Review:  that game was fairly good , and rating it as low as less than 6 is not fair , coz i really enjoyed 
 playin it , maybe the genre of the game isnot so beloved among players around the world , includin 
 me , but this game was fun , if u dont want to explode ur brain searching for secrets and hidden 
 doors, and if u just want to enjoy a good looking fights and moves , and if u want to watch delightfull 
 views from above, riding ur mighty dragon , thats a real fun game , it gives ur brain a rest , 
 but , on the other hand , abscence of secrets and similar sorts made it some how boring , only 
 a little , i wasnt able to play over one single mission at a time ........ it took me 7 days 2 
 finish it , some would wonder, that means its a bad game, no its not like that , i just wasnt able 
 2 uninstall it , i wanted more and more, but , not at one time , not continuoeusly graphics : great 
 when u r on ur dragon , not bad when u r on earth
  
  sound : goood
  
  fight : only can be matched by prince of persia
  
  overall view : good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CordeliaChase
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jan 1, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  This game follows the story line more from the book then the actual movie, in this adventure you 
 are Eragon, your learning how to fight like dragon rider and use magical powers. Good things:
 
  Amazing graphics.
  Intensive battle scenes.
  Sound effects are very accurate, Sounds just like in the movie!
  
  Bad things:
  Lack of guidance 
 on missions, can leave you feeling lost.
  Game Main Menu is rather disorganized.
  There is only one set way of completing a level, would be far better to have multiply ways of completing 
 level/stage in the game.
  
  Unfortunately this game does not leave you feeling like you are on magical adventure. Instead you 
 sometimes feel lost, and dare i say it bored. However i do enjoy the combat side of the game, these 
 battles thrilling I would say the best part of the game.
  
  I feel the game could of been better, but its not bad for game thats come out of movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari20091
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 31, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Yes its eragon the game.. If you've seen the movie you remember sitting through it and thinking 
 you've wasted your life. Well heres exatly as you'll feel after playing the game. It is based closly 
 off the movie usually movie games arn't that good. But when the movie is bad the game is even worse. 
 Graphics: It's definitly no Oblivion. The graphics in the game are sort of lacking over many of 
 the games coming out today. It is a year behind its time on graphics. Though They are good enough 
 to stand playing they definitly don't push you to the gaming experience.
  Sound. The sound in the game was ok however. The sound is probably one of the top qualities of 
 the game. Of course people dont play games because of sound.
  Gameplay: It's all about the gameplay and as you could guess its not great. It doesnt keep you 
 on the edge of your seat. and it seems like most of the game was rushed in order to finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anime-Beast
Rating: 2.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  Eragon is a game bassed on the movie that is based on the book. If you have not seen the movie 
 or read the book do not read further just know the game is crap. Want a good movie book hack'nslash 
 buy the lord of the rings return of the king insted. The movie leaves alot out from the book and 
 the game leaves alot out from the movie. pluss to get through most fights just mash attack and 
 you win for the most part. DO NOT BUY THIS GAEME.
  DO NOT RENT THIS GAME. Go whach the movie or better yet read the book
  
  - Anime-Beast 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awsss
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 23, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  This is a action/adventure game, that although repetitve, provides a solid gameplay experience. 
 It can't be compared, or challenged, because the game sucks in that category. It will/should appeal 
 to ceratin few gamers who, like me, highly enjoyed the demo. You MUST download the demo before 
 buying it, 'cause the game is similar to the demo. This game gave me 10 hours of fun, and because 
 of that, and because of that alone I'm giving it a 7.3 ... Otherwise this game sucks ass. Literally. 
 It's hard to grade this game, because it is an opinionated game, jst like Zelda: TP. For me its 
 a 7.3, but for all I know you gave it a 1.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silph01
Rating: 3.8
Date: Dec 23, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  This huge waste of my money put me off action adventure games for a bit.
  
  GAMEPLAY-
  
  Great. You're a powerful dragon rider with great magic abilities. You can move bricks slightly, 
 use wood to make a platform and make someone spontaneously combust. You wouldn't call this magic, 
 but that's the limit for thi game. You're a dragon rider, and teamed up with this old guy for most 
 of the game, you're out to save the world. Wow, that's not cleuche at all.
  
  The controls are almost identical to that of Pirates of the Carribean - The Legend of Jack Sparrow, 
 with the one exception of the jumping ability. Yes, there are not many hack 'n slashes out there 
 that enables you to jump, but this one does, and what a complete waste. Give that ability to Onimusha, 
 for god's sakes!
  
  You go through extremely linear levels until the level ends as spontaneously as where it began. 
 You fight millions of bad guys through many levels with completely nothing that motivates you to 
 go further into the game. What's more pathetic is that you need to find a blue egg in every level, 
 so on top of the levels being incredibly boring, you're loaded with this feeling of incompleteness 
 unless you find that egg. Then you get special features of how they actually created this game, 
 but it's really not enough to come close to the amount this game bothers you.
  
  GRAPHICS-
  
  It's what I like about this game. The graphics really aren't that bad. It's probably 
 some of the best graphics I've seen for a game of this genre. The art is displayed astoundingly, 
 but sadly, for a really bad game. Most of the camera angles, as well, are very frustrating, but 
 the co-op works well, I think.
  
  SOUND-
  
  Eh, when you're fighting off countless hordes of enemies, you don't really notice the ambient music. 
 Sad, though, it might be more interesting than the game.
  
  VALUE-
  
  If you're extremely curious, rent it. But don't waste your money on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skat137321
Rating: 3.3
Date: Dec 15, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  After watching the screens i've said to myself this must another great game that will be released 
 this year, so i got the game and installed it. First screen that you will see is the one recommending 
 the Xbox360 controller (damn) . Ok, i'ved overlooked that screend and moved forward. There are practically 
 no video options for this game which was a big disappointment. I've started playing and noticed 
 that the game is nothing more than an old style arcade game. Combats take place in an area and 
 all that you are required to do is press as many buttons as fast as you can. The game is pretty 
 easy itself, finishing it taking about 6 or 7 hours, you riding a dragon making fun sometimes. 
 The graphics are not as pretty as they look in the screenshots. So if you are a fan of console 
 games Eragon is worth playing, if not you better stay away from him since the PC version of the 
 game is not worth buying. For me the game was a total disappointment since from the screenshots 
 i'ved imagined that the game will something more like Gothic 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyokozam
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 12, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Hmm... Frankly , speaking I don't quite fancy game that derive from story book. As most of time 
 , I feel that they're out there to make some quick bucks with the release of the show . Such kind 
 of game don't command much depth and replay value . Sadly Eragon is another victim of it.
  
  Got the game from my reviewer. As I need to write a review for a local magazine. No way , I'm 
 going let them rip a penny out of it . No challenge , poor story line , cheap production and disappointing 
 gameplay. A rather short game indeed . The only plus point is that the graphic .. looks great ! 
 There isn't much interest or surprise you can get from the game . Its pretty dull in fact . Camera 
 view is restricted and in certain angle you're being blind from it .Especially , when you're in 
 battle and your view is block . This is truly frustrating .
  
  Seriously , I would not recommend this game . But at the end of day its still up to individual 
 . Whose know it might suit others . Count me out.....
  Happy that I could air and share my personnel view in gamespot . As I have to be neutral when writing 
 review for magazine . Here I can actually voice my true story behind the scene . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 1.1
Date: Dec 8, 2006 2:17 am PT
Review:  This is the worst game ever made, it`s a a shame that it has been released considering the other 
 releases these days. It's a shame that there are still peoples there who are trying to mock us 
 by selling these junk.
  
  This game is linear and repetitive , YOU CAN NOT EXPLORE!!!!!, it's like playing Pandemonium but 
 much worse, the sound are dull and the dialogs are childish, the story lacks and has no substance 
 and finally the graphics are somehow good but not impressing.
  
  You shouldn't buy this game, it's a waste of time and i am sorry i bought this game, truly i am...
 
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 1, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  I see that you dont like this game , but why? its just short game to play for , no but realy its 
 easy and pretty good ( for me ) i realy enjoyed it playing , maybe it to suberb but after all shooters 
 and ather game its realy good to play , There is a storyline but not much of it , if dont look 
 at it , this game becames very nice.
  graphics are nice , no realy nice , buetifull views and ather stuff
  Sound is not very good sometimes 
 in game music gets a little anoying ather things are in sound good
  Gameplay if it wasnt the camera it could be bettar for somebody , but when i played it i played 
 it with gamepad i fell like i was playong devil may cry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erratis
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 27, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I picked this up the other day because the graphics looks great, and the gameplay seemed to be 
 good as well. I was in for a suprise.
  
  Graphics: The best part of the game, it looks really great. Gameplay:
  
  Wow, they were on 
 to somthing, and them it seems the programmers got brainfreeze and forgot what they were doing. 
 The game is strait forward, you cant go the wrong way, the combos works, but they are glitchy. 
 I know its a port, but for the love of god let us remap the controls. It even tells you its made 
 for a controller when you start the game, if you dont have a controller, your in for a fun ride.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  It isnt bad, but it isnt good either. Replay Value:
  
  I didnt find it fun through the second chapter, I dont think I will finish it, or play it again.
 
  
  Recommend:
  
  Sorry, cant recommend this to anyone. There are many better games out there if your looking to 
 pass the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 27, 2006 1:42 am PT
Review:  Eragon's story is based on the actual book and is now a videogame. If you have played the LOTR 
 games you already have a feel of the atmosphere of Eragon. The cutscenes fill in those who haven't 
 read the book but it still feels as though the makers thought you read the book before you played 
 the game. The cutscenes also skip and lag a lot making it hard to catch some of them. The graphics 
 are average but Eragon's combat can be very satisfying with you blasting enemies with your energy 
 shield or smashing an orc's head in with you sword. Even in all of Eragon's combat system goodness 
 in the end it feels very repetitive and needs more creativity. Some people may like the non-free 
 moving camera while others may hate its guts, its pretty much up to the player. Since Eragon's 
 main character is a dragonrider you would think he gets to ride his cool dragon a lot right? WRONG. 
 The few missions you fly your dragon it is very enjoyable, smashing bad guys with your tail and 
 sniping others with your magic arrows, but most of the game you are on foot with another NPC. The 
 controls in Eragon are fairly odd with no mouse support and since it is a console port the devs 
 pretty much want you to use a controller so they don't let you reconfigure the controls. The sound 
 effects sound like a kindergarten class made them but hey thats what you get from a console port. 
 Overall Eragon is just another movie to console to PC game that is highly skippable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHoeTrain
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  I am perosnally a fan of the two so far released books but this game hurts the series so bad that 
 its not even funny.
  
  First of all, this game is sadly short, and the gameplay is really weak. The developers just piled 
 one crappy quest rigt onto the other. Sure the graphics look pretty good ( which has to be this 
 games only plus) but they are also full of bugs and glitches that want to make you pull your hair 
 out of your head. You get lost behing part of the environment constantly. Over all, it is a weak 
 game and feels very underfunded. If you are a fan of the books and are curious about it I strongly 
 recommend you download a torrent of this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
