-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Escape From Paradise City
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/paradisecity/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Varied dialogue clips and impressive voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Repetitive mission goals.
 Monotonous visuals.
 Worthless multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 30, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.2, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 5.9, 212 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Sirius Games
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Oct 26, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Escape From Paradise City blends the stereotypical action RPG with a stripped-down RTS to create 
 one unimpressive hybrid game. 

  One look at the box of Escape From Paradise City reveals a lot of the hallmarks of gaming disaster. 
 There's the name primed to set up a dozen punch lines, the cheap cover art, and a back blurb filled 
 with clichs about a "dystopian world" and "gritty characters." But the game inside is a lot better 
 than first impressions would lead you to believe. Sirius Games hasn't exactly broken new ground 
 with this action role-playing game/real-time strategy hybrid about cleaning up a crime-ridden burg. 
 (You could consider this a sequel to the developer's similar Gangland, released in 2004 when the 
 company was still known as MediaMobsters.) But at the same time, all of the scrapping, leveling 
 up, and thug management rolls along in a passable, if formulaic, fashion.  

           Beating up Julio (and friends) down by the schoolyard.      

  Surprises are few and 
 far between when it comes to story and basic gameplay. Paradise City is a run-down disaster zone 
 where gangs are running wild, a chaotic situation that attracts the attention of NSA agent Walker 
 J. Kovacs. To take charge of this rotten metropolis, he turns to a trio of criminals that you guide 
 through the game's 16 chapters. Most of the solo part of the game is structured like a grade-Z 
 action flick you might have caught at the local drive-in in 1974, and the three "heroes" fit into 
 standard action RPG stereotypes. Nick Porter is a bank robber proficient with guns. Angel Vargas 
 is a speedy street fighter who likes brass knuckles and knives. Fat Boris Chekov is a corrupt cop 
 who's best at firing his pistol and cowering behind hired muscle. You've got the ranged fighter, 
 the melee fighter, and the smart, tricky guy who doesn't need to get his hands dirty to get the 
 job done; these are character types seen before in, oh, just about every action RPG ever made. 
 There is also a multiplayer mode in which you team up to kill each other or take over territory, 
 but good luck finding anybody playing online.  

  Mechanics are fairly routine, although most of the gameplay features are filled out well. Porter, 
 Angel, and Boris each gain experience points to add to core stats such as body, agility, and charisma 
 each time that they level up. Increasing a level also provides points used to pick traits that 
 emphasize each character's talents. Specifically, Porter is focused on firearms combat, whereas 
 Angel is all about knife fighting, and Boris is keen on bonuses that help him order around lackeys. 
 Each trait in turn activates skills used directly in the game. For example, Boris' fatality trait 
 opens up the headshot and earshot skills, which raise damage done by his pistol during combat. 
 However, there isn't much need to really specialize here, given that you can pretty much acquire 
 most of the traits for each character by the time you finish the single-player campaign. They do 
 add personality to how each mission plays out, at least, which means that you need to alter your 
 approach to levels depending on whether you're controlling Porter, Angel, or Boris. Using Boris 
 really changes things up because his average combat skills force you to meet goals with more trickery 
 and the smart use of allies.  

  The characters also have access to powers geared to show how you're becoming a crime kingpin with 
 friends in high (and low) places. As you take over neighborhoods and businesses, you earn the points 
 needed to call up these handy abilities, most of which let you alter the city in some fundamental 
 way or call up assistance. You can use neighborhood lockdown to clear streets, street medicine 
 to summon a medic who heals all allied units, and even airstrike to radio for a bombardment of 
 the selected area. They generally require hefty investments in power and cash, though, and can 
 only be used sparingly.  

  The setup in Escape From Paradise City is a little more original than the character design. Operating 
 under the orders of Kovacs, you lead the three protagonists into different maps with the singular 
 goal of beating the heck out of all of the thugs that control the streets in various neighborhoods. 
 You gradually work your way up to a district boss ensconced in a hideout denoted with a castle 
 icon on the map of each neighborhood, and then smack him around until he says "uncle" and agrees 
 to let you be the new boss. Neighborhoods vary quite a bit in terms of resources, so there is a 
 bit of strategy in your decisions about which area to attack and when. Some are pretty much barren 
 of anything but scum hanging around the streets, whereas others are loaded with flophouse hotels 
 that generate cash, stores where you can buy guns and armor, and bars that sell stat-enhancing 
 booze and attract goons you can hire as henchmen.  

  But even with all of the player-development frills and the strategic layer of gameplay, there isn't 
 much overall depth here. Although neighborhoods differ in terms of their goodies, they all offer 
 the same challenge. You run in, kill everybody you can find with simplistic right-click combat, 
 loot the bodies, then take out the boss -- over and over again. There is little variety in your actions. 
 Enemies frequently show some smarts and run off for help if they're near death, but other than 
 that, you simply move forward while mindlessly whomping everything that moves. As the game progresses 
 and gets harder, you at least have to take more care in setting up attacks. After a certain point 
 fairly early on, you can no longer just waltz into enemy territory and kick butt until the bad 
 guys acknowledge that there's a new boss in town. Nevertheless, even when you have to adopt measures 
 such as calling in allied gangbangers from adjoining neighborhoods to cut down enemy numbers before 
 going in yourself, or even using a power or two, the end result is still a lot of repetitive fighting. 
 And this also forces you into extra busywork in that you usually end up taking over all of the 
 easy neighborhoods on a map so you can surround a tough one and swarm it with goons.  

           Pause from shooting up the streets for a few minutes and check out what CDV and Nokia 
 are shilling this holiday season.      

  Tiresome visuals add to the sense that you're repeating yourself. Paradise City generally looks 
 very good, with lots of grimy detail and a ghetto vibe conveyed through clotheslines and spray-painted 
 walls, but you're forced to trudge through the same urban wasteland in every neighborhood. Streets 
 and alleys are festooned with identical hot-dog carts, neon bar signs, and hanging laundry. Ads 
 for the same Nokia products and CDV games can be found on billboards throughout the city as well. 
 Advertising in games is annoying enough, but it's extra irritating when the signs display the same 
 handful of products ad nauseam. Bars, stores, and hotels all feature similar layouts, and boss 
 hideouts boast almost exactly the same furniture, right down to matching oriental rugs. Everything 
 is also extremely dark, and the city is tough to navigate at times because of the narrowness of 
 the alleys and the height of the buildings. Only the voice samples keep the action feeling fresh, 
 given that there seem to be hundreds of different lines. Most are cornball action-hero fare like 
 "You ordered the lead salad?", but they're spoken with an over-the-top tone and are so varied that 
 they don't get stale until you're well into the midway point of the game. And the voice clips nicely 
 compensate for the barely noticeable techno score that sounds like a cheap riff on those old John 
 Carpenter tunes that adorned his '80s movies... such as  Escape From New York  (that's probably 
 not a coincidence) .  

  Better than it looks at first glance yet not as good as it could be, Escape From Paradise City 
 settles for mediocrity when it could have aspired to much more. The game mechanics and character 
 development are more interesting than you might expect from a game like this, but with more imaginative 
 level design, better graphics, and better multiplayer, this could have been a much better game. 
 If you can get past the game's repetitive gameplay and visuals, you could still say that Escape 
 From Paradise City is better than it looks at first glance, though perhaps that's not saying much. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Cirkelinespark
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I'm thinking, that I don't need to elaborate too much, since the game is very bad and boring. Awesome 
 concept, poorly executed. Gangsters and undeads? Who the hell came up with that dumbass idea! Sounds 
 like the devs been watching too much "Hood of Horror" with snoop dogg. They should have stayed 
 with ganglands idea, that $hit was tight! still is. Conclusion: HELL NO! Stay away from this $hit!
 
  
  100 words? I can't come up with 100 words about this boring P. O. S.
  
  100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words100 words 100 words100 words 100 words100 words 100 words100 
 words 100 words100 words 100 words100 words 100 words100 words 100 words100 words 100 words100 
 words 100 words100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 100 words 
 100 words 100 words 100 words GAMESPOT SUCKS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  Story/Gamplay: 5/10
  - Interesting mix of action with rpg, failed to be very fun. Story is about the NSA trying to blackmail 
 3 different people into doing work for them. You never are really trying to escape the city, and 
 the city is more like slum and gangtown rather than paradise.
  
  Environment & Immersion: 6/10
  - A half decent ammount of items and skills make this game more 
 entertaining. The actual maps are pretty small but what really annoyed me was the camera, the birds-eye 
 view was too far away and when you used the closer third person view the buildings would always 
 interfere or block the view.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 7.5/10
  - Graphics were pretty decent but not too much to really be excited about. Nothing new or interesting 
 physics-wise. The best thing about the graphics was that Dopefish was graphiti on some areas. 
 
  
  Sound: 7/10
  - Sounds were mediocre but voice acting was pretty good. I was suprised that the voices were done 
 so well when this game over all seemed to have failed.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 7/10
  - No performance or bugs I could find. Just terrible camera 
 angles.
  
  Replay value: 4/10
  - With the gameplay as typical and boring as it was and the multiplayer shouldn't have even been 
 included. Nothing much in the game that is even worth replaying.
  
  Value/Originality: 5/10
  - Game is somewhat original, almost a bad copy of Gangland. This would 
 certainly be considered a hybrid game. However the actual value of the game isn't worth even paying 
 for, This should go straight to the bargain rack.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Nope, not 
 at all. Maybe listed for the sighting of the Dopefish Graphiti
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - I wouldn't recommend buying this game to anyone
 
  
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 7 - Failed attempt at a game that could have been very entertaining. Dopefish Graphiti 
 is seen throughout the game. Game was just plain and mediocre and left me with not a whole lot 
 to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wrogun
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 20, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  I loved (and hated) Gangland, which could be called predecessor of this game. This is why it is 
 hard for me to describe my feelings and thoughts about this game.
  
  At first when you start the game, you can see a picture where Mario from Gangland and Boris from 
 this game are posing next to each other, showing, that this is a follow up sequel to Gangland. 
 I wish it would have been the case, but it wasn't. 
  
  I don't even know where to start the description. Let's look at the story. Gangland played in the 
 20th centuries America, where the Italian gangs started to build the reputed Italian Mafia. You 
 were one of them, started your job as a rookie courier until you owned your very own gang of mobsters. 
 It had a unique feeling and atmosphere. This game starts in the 21st century where you have to 
 work for the CIA or FBI and get rid of some nasty mobsters, who are undefeatable, and said to be 
 undead. Ok, I liked the story but the implementation was awful.
  
  In Gangland, you had to get money from shops, distilleries, and mechanics by "defending" them from 
 other mobsters, like in the 50's. The buildings were around your main base and in the neighborhoods, 
 sometimes far away, and you had to walk a long way if you wanted one of them. In this game you 
 only have to "persuade the boss of a district, and every little business is yours at once Ok, 
 it's not always as easy as it sounds, but after you got you character up to lvl 6, after that it 
 is (or for me at least it was) easy as pie. Some reinforcements, some mobsters from an owned district, 
 you own skills and hired mobster (s) and you finished the level in no time. You didn't even have 
 to think hard about how to get it, it was always pure force, no strategy (ok, a little) or brain 
 power needed. Ok, you sometimes had to consider, which district is more important and has more 
 money. But that has never caused any problem. So the strategy part of the game has been really 
 simplified to the extreme. 
  
  The part, where you have to defend what you own, was the bad part in Gangland, and is the same 
 here, but in under other circumstances. In Gangland, it was (on the 6th level or somewhere) impossible 
 to play because of the games AI. I mean, you could not defend any of your buildings, even with 
 your full squad. The AI started with already existing full gangs, with units far over your mobsters 
 level (like ninjas and the Uzi girls, which you could only get in the endgame) , and you couldn't 
 defend against them. Your own Big Mammas and Tommy gun using guys could not do anything against 
 them, they were run over like bugs. Even if you managed to kill half of the gang, then the other 
 mafia started an attack, and killed all your units, which tried to heal themselves. It was like 
 an ant attack no end in sight. They looked like they have unlimited money resources, and you didn't. 
 Not even upgrades could help you, and of course there was no saving opportunity in the gameplay. 
 In this game, it is much worse. You can save but what for The AI does not even think about attacking 
 you. I mean, they just stay near their district boss, and wait until you attack. The number of 
 gang members is allocated at 5, which is a really reduced number when we speak of gang wars, mafia 
 and not to speak of strategy games. In the end, you can kill everybody with your character and 
 your hired mobs, not even using any help. The other real bosses of the game just linger around 
 their own districts, or when they attack, they kill almost everybody, like they were undefeatable. 
 At low levels, it is hard to defeat them, although they are mostly alone. So not even a single 
 hint of AI strategy or just strategy. Not even the usable tech tree or action points count Or 
 just very rarely. 
  These were the bad parts of the game, which you could say is the main essence of a strategy game. 
 Although the sound effects are good, the voices and dialogs aren't bad either, they do not contribute 
 to the games score in the end. Ohh, and not to forget, that in the and, you kill all vampires with 
 simple gang members. I killed the prime boss with policeman, back up mobsters and hired gangs 
 from districts. Plus, they left out the family making part... which I loved. 
  
  So I'm filled me with anger and pain, that I did not get a better game then Gangland, although 
 it was made far after it. I would love a sequel, which plays in the 20th century America in the 
 50's and 60's, where you can really be a mafia boss with a lot of gang members. That is my only 
 dream in this moment. They can ask me for help if they want to make one :D: D Have a lot of ideas 
 :D 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrick00746
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  they said you can choose one of tree character each either porter, angel and Boris but in story 
 mission you cant choose any character, but in chapter 16 the final chapter that is the time to 
 choose whose the character you want to finish the mission...
  but the game is until chapter 16 only that's it... and also they said the game is similar to gangland 
 but i think that's not true and also some gang enemy and this can shoot you even your inside the 
 car, but you cannot shoot enemy while your and car how's the game come with this that you cant 
 do any drive by that most in the gang game always exist...
  also to drive your car all you have to do is point and click that's to bad for a car...
  also 
 and gangland you can find couple to married and have a son or daughter to have more big family 
 and this game is none of it......
  also you can have 2 henchmen except Boris have 3 henchmen...
  also there is some bugs to see 
 you see a garbage mini-map you can fix it by quiting the game and restart again... also at night 
 you can see some building shadow that doesn't not exist, any way i have only 256 MB of DDR2 video 
 card i think that's to high for this game... also there is a time that when your trying to quick 
 load an error come up so i need to begin from the start of the chapter...
  also some cinematic are gone as i see and this site you need to download the patch to fix with 
 it that's another work for this game....
  a short story mission until chapter 16 only............. no more............ 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
