-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Escape from Monkey Island
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/escapefrommonkeyisland/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  9, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 8.4, 45 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,398 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Nov 8, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Veterans of the Monkey Island series will surely enjoy the game in spite of its occasional problems. 
 

 In contrast to most LucasArts adventures, the Monkey Island games have always been really over the 
 top. Whereas games like Full Throttle and Grim Fandango emphasized character and story, the Monkey 
 Island games have increasingly leaned toward trying to make you laugh by means of an endless barrage 
 of puns and pop-culture references. This is true of Escape from Monkey Island, the fourth game 
 in the series. Much of it is funny, although a lot of it isn't. This inconsistency winds through 
 the whole game, from the puzzles to the interface. When it's good, Escape from Monkey Island is 
 very, very good. But the game's missteps do detract from the overall experience.   

  In this chapter of Guybrush Threepwood's adventures, the self-proclaimed mighty pirate and his 
 new bride, Governor Elaine Marley, have returned from their honeymoon only to find that Elaine 
 has been declared dead. This incorrect declaration has ended her lifetime term as governor, so 
 she must now run against Charles L. Charles, a foppish glad-hander with a dark secret. What adds 
 to the political intrigue is that the pirate hangouts in the Tri-Island area are being bought up 
 and made into tourist-friendly venues like StarBuccaneer's and Planet Threepwood, thanks to an 
 Australian land developer named Ozzie Mandrill. To top it all off, everyone seems to be looking 
 for a voodoo artifact called the Ultimate Insult. These events aren't as unrelated as they may 
 seem, and Guybrush must help Elaine stop the gentrification of his stomping grounds and find the 
 Ultimate Insult before it falls into the wrong hands.   

  To reach these ends, Guybrush must once again explore the strange Caribbean Islands that surround 
 his home, Melee Island. He'll visit Jambalaya Island (the island most affected by Mandrill's takeover) 
 and Lucre Island and once again return to the titular Monkey Island itself. Many of the locales 
 will be familiar to longtime fans of the series, as will a number of the characters. LeChuck, Murray 
 the skull, Herman Toothrot, Otis, Carla, Meathook, and many, many others make guest appearances. 
 In fact, there may even be too many cameos by old favorites.   

  There's an old joke. A guy walks into a bar and notices people keep yelling out numbers, and everyone 
 in the bar busts up laughing. He asks the bartender what's going on. The bartender tells him that 
 the regulars have told the same jokes for so long that now they just refer to them by number. Much 
 of the humor in Escape from Monkey Island is like this. Many jokes allude to earlier events in 
 the series, and they're only funny if you're familiar with the references. For instance, the fact 
 that Otis the pirate likes flowers is a gag from the first game, and here it seems like the designers 
 are simply pointing it out, hoping you'll remember how funny it was the first time around.   

 
  It's true that Escape from Monkey Island does have plenty of new gags and characters, and many 
 of them are really funny. The talking figurehead on Guybrush's new ship is particularly amusing, 
 as are characters like Pegnose Pete; Marco de Pollo, the world's greatest cliff diver; and Miss 
 Rivers, the teacher at the pirate reformation academy. The humor is enhanced by the universally 
 excellent voice work. But some of the new characters aren't quite as interesting. Ozzie Mandrill, 
 the evil real estate developer, is only funny if you think simply being Australian is funny - although 
 his particular way of talking does lend itself to a very surreal match of Insult Sword Fighting, 
 one of the more humorous sequences in the game.   

  The bout with Ozzie is the only appearance of the preferred dueling technique in the Tri-Island 
 area. This time, you'll learn Insult Arm Wrestling and Monkey Kombat, a variation on the Insult 
 competition and a parody of the fighting game Mortal Kombat. The concept is funny, but unfortunately 
 Monkey Kombat may be the single biggest problem with Escape from Monkey Island. You must learn 
 to trade barbs in the monkey language, and it all builds up to a really funny parody of Mortal 
 Kombat's famous opening. But the art of Monkey Kombat itself is a frustrating one.    

 Monkey Kombat is a more complicated version of rock-paper-scissors - it features five fighting stances, 
 each of which beats two other stances. You must say three of the four monkey words ("eek," "ooop," 
 "chee," "ack") in a certain order to change stances, and each transition is unique. So, Drunken 
 Monkey to Anxious Ape (and vice versa) might be "ack eek oop," while Charging Chimp to Anxious 
 Ape might be "eek chee ack." These only "might be" the right combinations, because the combinations 
 and hierarchy are randomized with each new game. The only way to learn the art is through trial 
 and error and copious note taking, and it becomes tiresome quickly. However, Monkey Kombat plays 
 a principal part in the entire last third of the game.   

  The biggest change in Escape from Monkey Island from previous installments is that it uses a modified 
 version of the Grim Fandango engine and interface. Grim Fandango was the first LucasArts game to 
 use fully 3D characters on 2D prerendered backgrounds. It also featured a fully integrated keyboard 
 interface that was designed to keep you firmly rooted in the reality of the game. Like Grim Fandango, 
 Escape from Monkey Island uses 3D characters and 2D backgrounds, and it's a testament to the great 
 artistic design that the game manages both to evoke and to improve upon the surreal pirate world 
 that made its predecessor, Curse of Monkey Island, such a beautiful-looking game. The characters 
 themselves fare a bit worse in Escape from Monkey Island, if only because they seem less expressive 
 in 3D, but they still look great.   

  The only problem with the use of the Grim Fandango engine is the interface. Escape from Monkey 
 Island dispenses with the basic concept of Grim Fandango's simple, text-free interface and instead 
 reverts to making you choose from a series of text options and sort your inventory using a more 
 conventional menu. Cycling through the possible actions in any location is a bit cumbersome, and 
 at times it seems like the game would have been much easier to control with a standard mouse interface 
 - though the designers did add some funny bits that you'll discover when you're sorting through 
 your inventory in front of other characters.   

  You'll be cycling through your inventory often. The puzzles in Escape from Monkey Island primarily 
 involve using objects in your inventory in creative ways, and many of these puzzles are good. But 
 there are a few that make no sense at all, even in the bizarre world of the game. Finding Pegnose 
 Pete's hideout requires a leap of logic that is baffling, and even after you finally locate the 
 hideout, the solution makes little sense. But just as LucasArts was the first adventure-game maker 
 to ensure that players would never die in a game, the company seems to be taking an equally strong 
 stance against players getting stuck. Clues abound throughout the game, and a full walk-through 
 is even included in the box - a bonus that seems as cynical as it is helpful.   

  Escape from Monkey Island is a great game that can be frustrating. At times it'll seem as if there 
 were simply too many designers working on it and everyone wanted their ideas included. The puzzles 
 are hit and miss, and so are the jokes. This is best illustrated by the traditional LucasArts post-credits 
 joke, in this case a string of pop-culture references that goes on and on, as if no one could decide 
 which of them were funny so they just decided to leave them all. But in most cases, the game can 
 be a real pleasure to play, because enough of the puzzles are good and enough of the jokes are 
 amusing. As such, veterans of the Monkey Island series will surely enjoy the game in spite of its 
 occasional problems. However, players who're new to the Monkey Island series may get the sense 
 while playing the game that they're watching a bunch of old friends regale each other with old 
 in-jokes; it's easy to feel as if you're being left out of the fun if you don't catch the references. 
 So while new players should approach the game with caution, if you're a fan of the previous installments, 
 then Escape from Monkey Island is highly recommended.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  The classic monkey island series of games were point and click adventure games set in a humorous 
 and whacky setting in the Carribean during the Pirate days.
  
  They were traditionally 2d not necessarily due to a weak minded argument that the technology was 
 holding the graphics back in anyway, afterall there were plenty of 3d games around in 1997 but 
 the third monkey island game in the series took on a superb almost hand drawn look which was great.
 
  
  This however looks like the remains of my dogs lunch after its been vomited up, and yes I thought 
 it looked this bad back when this tripe was released, the 3d is ugly and primitive with poor animations 
 and lacking in details , most disappointingly on the backgrounds themselves which always seemed 
 so vibrant and varied in the previous games of the series.
  
  No im not some sort of luddite who despises 3d graphics, im thorougly enjoying sam and max season 
 1 with its rather tasty 3d look and a whole host of other 3d games - this isnt to say that 3d is 
 someone greater than 2d though which is the point im trying to make, 3D does not make a game good 
 automatically, take the original fallouts and their classic gameplay and now look at the defilement 
 bethsoft is making with its 'new vision' of fallout 3.
  
  Sound wise its good, solid its typical monkey island stuff, catchy easy to listen to music which 
 fits the atmosphere and well done voice overs.
  
  Gameplay wise, it has humour blended with puzzles, albeit some puzzles are quite boring trial and 
 error affairs and some plain down detrimental to the game (monkey combat, throwing certain items 
 etc which assume you know a certain order what point and click adventure games are about, at least 
 it doesnt suffer from the lazy design of broken sword 3 which makes "good" use of its control scheme 
 (which is like monkey island 3 with key movement instead of point and click) were one would push 
 lots of blocks to solve puzzles GRRRRR8!, which ,leads me to another main gripe with this game
 
  
  The control scheme, its no longer point and click thus its no longer a point and click adventure 
 game just a bog standard adventure game, you actually move threepwood around with the left right 
 up down keys which may lead the reader thinking 'so what!?' well it takes away from the easy going 
 pace of the game making it more drawn out fora start, having to actually move your character around 
 instead of just clicking and its also another pointless pathetic stupid change like using the ugly 
 3d graphics.
  
  So in conclusion
  
  Pros
  
  .Good sound effects
  .Its monkey island
  .Humour and story are (relatively) intact although certainly the weakest 
 in the series
  
  Cons
  .Terrible 3D done for the sake of it (OH how modern and up to date it is with the l337 kidz!)
 
  .awful animations as a result
  .and rather bland backgrounds to which is saddening
  .some bad puzzles which dont add to the enyjoment of the game
  .The control system has been butchered, 
 its no longer point and click but a bog standard adventure game albeit slow paced one
  .so horrible that I fear its killed of chances for a future monkey island game (and one that would 
 have been worthy of the title 'monkey island' oh well at least sam and max is still going)
  
  and heres some more point and click adventure games a reader might be interested in playing 
 instead of this surprisingly shallow insult of a game to the monkey island name:
  
  I Have no mouth and i must scream
  The Dig
  Monkey Island 1
  Monkey Island 2
  Monkey Island 
 3
  Beneath a Steel Sky
  sam and max hit the road
  sam and max season 1
  day of the tentacle
  Broken Sword 1
  Full Throttle 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamesEvermore
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 24, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  Here We Go Again Guybrush And His Old Friends And Some New Ones. This Game Is Just Great, Like 
 All The Other Monkey Island Games. The Monkeys Is Better Then Ever=D. I Must Say That i Liked The 
 2D Grafics Better But I Get Used To The New One Pretty Fast So That Aint a Big Problem. The Characters 
 And The Voices All Is Perfect, The Humor Is Killing Me. All in All This Game Owns MI3 And 4 Is 
 The Games I'll Never Gonna Forget, In My Memory Forever =D. Cant Wait For Monkey Island 5. Just 
 Hope They Keep The Old And Good Humor And Charm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ruls28
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 6, 2007 3:59 am PT
Review:  Escape from Monkey Island is alot better than the previous releases. Much more jokes and puzzles 
 are in it .The graphics is certainly also better, a bit harder to play and complete.
  
  The game starts on Guybrush and Elaine's ship, with Guybrush tied to a pole and Elaine, along with 
 her mates battle against the enemy. After Guybrush shoots a cannonball from his position, the other 
 ship sinks.
  They (Guybrush and Elaine) then return to Melee' island, and there they find that their mansion is 
 a target of a catapult, Elaine then says to Guybrush that he must find a way to dispose of the catapult, Elaine 
 then goes to the Town Hall.
  
  That's the only part that I'll tell you, it's still a very fun platform, so you'll like it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peebix
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 25, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  clunky controls, a horrible choke point that doesn't make any sense, and completely irrelevant 
 clueless puzzles. The choke point is right at the end when you have every single item. you have 
 to throw the items at this old guy with amnesia to get his memory back. you have to throw a coconut, 
 a milk jug and an accordion at him in a certain order. you have 50 other items that you can throw, 
 but it has to be these and in order. you don't get any clues about how to do this, it just asumes 
 you know. if you don't do it right, you have to find a save before any of this. the rest of the 
 puzzles aren't deadly, but you rarely get any clues on how to do them, unlike other lucasarts games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junglemanchild
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 5, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  This game is the follow up to The Curse of Monkey Island. A favourite amongst many adventure gamers 
 and definetly my favourite in the Monkey Island series. This game really doesn't live up to the 
 quality of it's predecessor. It is a sloppy effort that left me desperate to play the previous 
 game.
  
  GAMEPLAY 7/10
  
  It is the same style of gameplay as the previous game. Pick up, use, talk to etc. There is nothing 
 wrong with this style of gameplay except when you have to use a keyboard to do it! One of the enjoyable 
 things of adventure games from years past, was the point and click style of gameplay. The keyboard 
 just made it confusing and annoying. There was really no need to change this, it just made it something 
 different but not in a good way. You do the same sort of thing you do in the other games, but these 
 changes ruined the overall feeling of this style of game. GRAPHICS 7/10
  
  The game is now 3D. Another bad choice. I loved the look of the 3rd game. It was cartoonish and 
 fun, just like the game itself. This was another choice that ruined the overall feel of the games. 
 Not only was it 3D but it wasn't fantastic 3D graphics. If this game stuck to the same graphics 
 as the third game, it would be much better.
  
  SOUND 10/10
  
  As usual the music is a strong point. The only strong point in this particular game. Not only that 
 but the voice acting is very well done. All the sound is very well done and it's a shame that other 
 aspects of this game ruined this.
  
  VALUE 7/10
  
  This game will appeal to fans of adventure games. Fans of the previous Monkey Island games will 
 buy this, but I really believe a lot will be disappointed, like I was. Buy it second hand or as 
 cheap as you can get it. If you are new to these games, then buy the third game instead.
  ------
  I give this game a 6.7. References to previous games are always welcome, but this game 
 relies on it a bit much. It just doesn't seem as funny as the previous efforts. The controls are 
 unforgivable and the graphics being changed has ruined the overall harmony of the series. I think 
 the makers tried to evolve and appeal to new gamers. This effort certainly doesn't help their cause. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 5, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  This game Good continuation of Curse of Monkey Island it contunse the story when Guybrush Threepwood 
 and Elain are married and they return to Melee Island as a self proclaimed mighty pirate and Elaine 
 as mistakenly pronounced dead. And now every seeems to going after the voodoo artifact called the 
 ultimate insult. These events aren't as unrelated as they may seem, and Guybrush must help Elaine 
 stop the gentrification of his stomping grounds and find the Ultimate Insult before it falls into 
 the wrong hands. Guybrush now has to explore the Island of Melee Island once again and other islands 
 that people who played the previous games should know.
  There are a number of returing characters from the previous games like Herman Cutthought, Muray 
 the skull and so on.
  
  Gameplay: I did not quite like the new game system that the developers put in when you would face 
 something and a bunch of sentences would pop up and you get to choose I prefered the pick up or 
 use . It's a non point and click it's more like a more modern adventure game where you have to 
 wonder around useing the mouse or keyboard controls. The Humor and insults are not as good as the 
 previous games i think that Ron Gibert should of not of gone and contunied makeing the Monkey Island 
 games.
  The puzzles are quite challanging and might take you a while to figger out and the sword fighting 
 is the same old insult sword fighting though some of the insults are not as funny as the older 
 games in this series.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are now in 3-D which I don't really mind but i think that in 3-D the characters 
 is a little rought and look a little strange compared to the previous character desighs. Other 
 then that the graphics are not that bad.
  
  Sound: As always the sound is amazing, nice and chrisp and as always Love the old soundtrack.
 
  
  Value: After playing it though once you may want to play this though again i personally think that 
 this game as good replay value.
  
  There are mixed reactions for this game some people don't like it as much as the older games but 
 even though this game has it's flaws I think that this is still a good game. I give this game 9 
 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wo33eR1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 4, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Summery:
  Escape from Monkey Island, possibly the final in the series. I have heard many opinions about the 
 title before experiencing it myself and such as with Curse of Monkey Island, I had little hopes.
 
  
  Body:
  Straight into the review, the graphics were, in my eyes, terrible. The graphics engine used is 
 pathetic to say the least, its in comparison with Grim Fandango (another title from Lucas Arts) , 
 I am unsure if they used the same engine (I would not be surprised, I rarely use the words large 
 budget and Lucas Arts in the same sentence, but we wont get into the whole You killed the best 
 games know to gamers you $%!$%s right now.
  
  Taking the game from the 2D graphics into 3D is a step expected in the constantly evolving world 
 of gaming, and completely understandable from Lucas Arts  launching a 2D adventure game, appearing 
 on PC and PS2 would seem like suicide. I just simply dont like the graphical style chosen  far 
 too... cartoony.
  
  After getting used to the unsightly graphics I dont notice the sound, simply because its identical 
 to Curse of Monkey Island, as to be expected. Not a problem with that, since it was well executed 
 in the previous game
  
  The game is certainly of a nice length, long and lots of locations, yet not like Monkey Island 
 2 where there was far too many locations at once, in this case the locations are well designed 
 and spaced out. My main problem with the length of the game would be the difficulty. The game was 
 easy to figure out the puzzles on the most part but I am undecided if this was a good or bad feature. 
 Past games have fallen to having far too difficult puzzles, whilst the difficulty of the game is 
 not as perfectly balanced as Monkey Island 1, it is however an improvement on the frustrating Monkey 
 Island 2.
  
  Apart from the easy nature of most of the game, I found the ending unbelievably poorly designed, 
 without spoiling too much of the story, whoever though up Monkey Kombat should be shot on sight. 
 One could comment on the old Insult Sword Fighting being repetitive when learning the different 
 insults, but playing Monkey Kombat brings it to an entirely new level of idiotic boring repetition.
 
  
  Story-wise the game had a bit of both good and bad, good points being the continuing of the original 
 story and the bad being the completely lack of the usual pirate background.
  
  -
  
  Only play the game if you have experienced the three previous titles, otherwise steer clear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_calzone
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 5, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  Almost everything in this game is bad. Except graphics which is quite pleasant and gives expressiveness 
 to characters despite they're 3D models. Sound is ok too. But that's all one can save. The rest 
 has to be forgotten.
  
  Everything pertaining other Monkey's chapters has disappeared, and recalling old characters to 
 revive the ambience is not helpful, quite the contrary. Dialogs are not as funny as in previous 
 chapters, and characters' personalities are poorly developed. Puzzles are kind of elaborate, but 
 present almost always some non-logical trait. Some other puzzles are just $hit, such as the Monkey 
 Kombat: this unsuccessful parody of Mortal Kombat is neither funny nor clever, just boring and 
 uninspired, a total abuse of the players' time and a real letdown.
  The story is one of the most uninteresting and stupid ever. I mean: not the "good" stupidity of 
 other Monkey's chapters. It is so shallow and foreseeable since the beginning that I was immediately 
 tempted to stop playing.
  
  All this combined with the nasty keyboard controls, which are second only to the ones of Broken 
 Sword 3 on an a degree of horror chart, definitely kills the game. I don't know how I survived 
 till the end, and I admit I was tempted to quit the game for good in several occasions.
  
  Despite my harsh comment, many would find this game enjoyable. Certainly, I expected more from 
 a game including in its title the two magic words: "Monkey" and "Island". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamike15
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 9, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  the monkey island games have always been good. now we come to the forth game. while the story is 
 good the control really killed it. the story takes place three mouths after the end of three. guybrush 
 is returning to a island with his now wife elaine. when they get there they leran that elain has 
 been declaied dead so they are getting a new govener. the story is much like other mokey island 
 games. the control however is really bad. the game is no longer point and clik it now uses the 
 keyborad. moving around is really hard to do with this new kind of control. the puzzles are not 
 that good for you have to deal with the control. the graphics are really good. all the caracters 
 are in 3d. some of them are ugly but others are nices. this game is not that long you can beat 
 it in about 25 hours. overall this game is for any adventure game fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skumakum
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 21, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  This is the most disapointing thing.. a series that you give 10/10 for the first three and the 
 fourth doesnt quite live up to what you have come to expect. I think there was too much emphasis 
 on the graphics and 'feel' of the game and not enough time spent keeping the game real to its predecessors. 
 
  Although there were parts of the games i really enjoied and got a traditional monkey island kick 
 out of, it was innconsistent and oftern just not funny. 
  The prior games never took themselves too seriously and seemed to be developed with the specific 
 type of comedy. Escape from monkey island follows that tradition however I found many sections 
 of the game out of place with the monkey island world.
  In conclusion.. This game has its good points, however, they are few and far between. Not what 
 i personally had come to expect from the Monkey Island series. Disapointing. Hopefully the next 
 will be another perfect ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Griffer38
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 18, 2006 1:07 am PT
Review:  Following CMI which is probably my favorite puzzle game of all time (and probably will be for a 
 while) , i was expecting a lot from this game. I got it and i found two things out. 1) You don't 
 use the mouse anymore which i thought was really stupid. 2) (i already knew this before i got it 
 though it still kind of annoyed me) it was in 3D. Pretty much from the start i missed the fantastic-looking 
 2D graphics from the last game. Yeah, the querky Guybrush is still there and along with him come 
 the funny dialogue. But i loved CMI and this isn't it. It starts out You're getting attacked by 
 a pirate ship and Guybrush is tied up. Even from his tied-down state though it's hilarious some 
 of the things you do. for instance you can knock down this thing that is holding hot coals and 
 then you can pick it up with your feet and then throw it at an enemy pirate. Which gets you nothing 
 but a sword flung at you but (thankfully, otherwise it would have been a REALLY short game) it missed. 
 Moments like this is where EFMI is at its best. It can rely on comic relief to relieve any stress 
 you have over solving the puzzles. Some of them are pretty hard. You'll undoubtedly be stuck dozens 
 of times wondering what to do next. While i wasn't at all impressed by the 3D graphics or the controlling 
 Guybrush with your keyboard part, this game is still a very good buy for anyone who enjoys the 
 Monkey Island series or just wants a good game that will keep them busy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 16, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  After the quite delightful introduction Guybrush starts the game with his hands tied behind his 
 back which I saw as a metaphor for how I felt from that moment on. My hands too were tied as I 
 missed that intuitive and tactile involvement with the gameworld that comes with pointing and clicking. 
 If I can explain it another way ... many of you will remember those machines in fairgrounds where 
 you can see the item you want through a glass screen but you can't reach in and take it. Instead 
 you must manipulate controls outside the screen to manoeuvre a mechanical arm into position to 
 hopefully pick up the prize of your choice. You will remember, no doubt, how difficult and frustrating 
 this was ... well that's how I feel when I am forced to play keyboard controlled adventure games 
 like this one. The feeling of always being on the outside looking in distanced me from the game 
 and prevented me from becoming immersed in the story and puzzles. Added to this there is the annoying 
 necessity of having to remember which of the dozen or so keys are assigned to which task and where 
 they are on the keyboard. I lost count of the number of times I selected an item, pressed the wrong 
 key and promptly put it away again instead of using it as I meant to. With keyboard manipulation 
 I am always conscious of the fact that I am simply playing a game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaroStrile
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 8, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  This game may not be perfect, but it's pretty good. The gameplay is pretty good, it's easy to control, 
 but the PS2 version is much easier to control than this. I enjoyed this game, the controls weren't 
 clumsy, but not the best either.
  
  The graphics weren't exactly great, but at least you could tell what was going on. There's not 
 much special about the 3D effects, but the backgrounds were perfect for this type of game.
  
  The sound was good. It never had anything that was completely unbearable, and it was not over 
 the top, so I gave it a perfect score.
  
  You're not going to regret getting this game, you'll play it over and over again. This game may 
 not be as good as the others, but you will love this game.
  
  In my opinion, this game is practically flawless, but, I have to be slightly more honest than just 
 what I think. It's a great game, if you want to try a new game, this is the perfect one to try 
 out if you only have a PS2. But since you most likely do have a computer, you should play the first 
 three games before this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2005 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Escape from monkey island is the fourth installment of the great monkey island series and it is 
 the best one. Lucas arts done a fine job by making this adventure game that is contain not only 
 lots of puzzles but also funny humors. The games puzzles are the hardest among all the adventures/puzzles 
 games that came to pc. But they are fun to solve. The characters of the game are totally humorous, 
 their speech, appearance and gestures all are amusing. The main character of the game- guybrash 
 tripod is legendary.
  Visuals are look nice though they are looks like artworks. It is one the few good adventures games 
 that you can and you have to play for long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freak24
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 4:19 am PT
Review:  this is a game that unlike some other games, can be enjoyed by many ages and is quite funny.
  you start off coming back from your honey moon with your wife and her crew, then someone tries 
 to take over. when you complete that you come back to the island realising your government wife 
 has been claimed to be dead as she has been away so long. you then have to help and become a great 
 pilot once more.
  the game is full of many different characters, areas and many easy and hard puzzles to solve to 
 get through the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patente101
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 14, 2005 1:26 am PT
Review:  Escape from Monkey Island is the 4th game in the Monkey Island series. It was also the first game 
 in the serie to be in 3D. And on that point, EFMI is not a disappointment. The backgrounds are 
 pieces of art. The characters are well made too, but what I really like of them is their personality 
 ( especially Elaine Marley ) . On my computer, the resolution was stucked in 800x600, so it was 
 somewhat pixelated at times.
  
  EFMI plays pretty well. You have to get used to the commands at first but it's still very playable. 
 Anyone who played Grim Fandango before will feel right at home.
  
  The musics never get boring and the voiceover is nearly perfect. It really helps to create the 
 atmosphere of the game. 
  
  Talking about' the atmosphere, know this : Escape From Monkey Island 4 is really funny.
  The 
 dialogs are top-notch (all spoken) and the unrealistic feel of the game works to its benefits.
 
  
  Monkey Island 4 is pretty long (35 hours) but like most games of its kind, when you're done, you're 
 done. If its replay value you're looking for, look somewhere else.
  
  All in all, it's a very good adventure game LucasArts made. Anyone who liked the other games of 
 the serie or Grim Fandango should give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostWolfen1804
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2005 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Adventure games never really were my style. They just struck me as boring. "Click the arrows, talk 
 to him, click on the clock/chair/table/stature, find item, give it to her, etc, etc." Yawn. But 
 this one gives you a reason to play it: the wack-job humor. Sample dialog: "Ah the middle finger! 
 The most expressive of all the fingers." One of the characters you run into named "Peg-Nosed Pete" 
 is said to have had his nose pecked off by a duck. Good stuff.
  
  Graphics: 8
  "Now in scurvy-inducing 3D!" the box proudly reads. If it is, at least it's not going to cause 
 sore eyes too. Today's standards have long past it by, but the style fits with its game well.
 
  
  Sound: 10
  The dialog is the real star of the game. The exchanges between Guybrush and the other cast members 
 is simply hilarious. Music fits too.
  
  Value: 9
  When it was first released, it cost only $20. For all the laughs you can find in it, it's good 
 deal. Now you can find it for even less, so why not?
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Sabotaging diving challenges, insult arm-wrestling, talking to yourself from a few minutes in the 
 future and then yourself from a few minutes ago are just a few minutes of gameplay. There's no 
 "point and click" action here, it's free-roaming with the keyboard (or a game-pad which works much 
 better) and you select actions when you're near something.
  
  Bottom line: This is how adventure games should have been made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddalet
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2005 8:29 pm PT
Review:  If you are reading this review, you are the choir so to speak, so I wont preach to you. Just 
 join me in appreciating how great this production is. It is a shame that these days Lucasarts has 
 abandoned the one genre it was good at. All in all, what direction exactly, if any, has this company 
 taken that has led to better profits/quality products other than having pursued this genre? 
  
  But fear not my friends, as gaming continues to gain steam, and the community ages, we will 
 undoubtedly see a revival of our treasured genre.
  
  For now, join me in remembering Guybrush and the gang for the root beer, the three headed monkeys, 
 and the memories.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVACROSS
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 14, 2004 5:35 am PT
Review:  THE ESCAPE FROM MONKEY ISLAND
  
  
  this game personally is a great game, technically is the worst of the series, still's good but 
 not too much like any other good game of any platform, still this game is a "Monkey Island", so 
 it is a great game, full of humor, of drama and very cool one..... of course i can't say "this game 
 got an incredible history full of humor and so cool" because there are tastes in the world, so 
 many tastes, and this tastes can't be the same, i can say "Monkey Island is a game with a deep 
 story" i can say this, but i can't say "it has humor" because the tastes, i hope you guys understand 
 what i mean...
  
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  
  this one is the worst, for the year of course, it has somethings very cool, but really really aren't 
 that good.
  
  the graphics in general are nice, with a lot of differents colors, very animated and cool..... but 
 still isn't that great, just fine, but it could be better.
  
  
  SOUNDS
  
  
  like all the series, great music, great sounds, great voicecovers and all stuff, just fine, very 
 good, enternaiment, simple......... just fine, nothing to worry about, and nothing too much amazing, 
 aqre good indeed like it precessor, so......... these are very good too in all senses.
  
  the amazing thing in "The Escape From Monkey Island" is that this game made remakes from themes 
 in "The Secret of Monkey Island", "The Secret of Monkey Island, Lechuk's Revenge", and "The Curse 
 of Monkey Island" and i can really say it......... are very good, and can make you remember all 
 the old times in your old games, very good indeed.
  
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  
  This game has change in the gameplay a lot, now you only are going to play it in Keyboard of your 
 computer (or in the controller of your Playstation 2) , not with the typical mouse click here and 
 click there..... i personally didn't like this one, but it's different, and not bad for that of 
 course, it's just very slow confront the Mouse... you can't do the same things than you could make 
 in the old gam-series... but still is good in a certain point...
  
  
  ADDICTION
  
  
  Like all the others ones of the Monkey Island Series, this game is going to make you laugh and 
 enjoy very much, maybe you can be feel dissapointed about this one, but you gonna enjoy it a lot 
 like all the others videogames, and something than the precessors didn't have is that this game 
 have the situattions of all the Monkey Island Series in 1 game, you can imagine that?, is very 
 good indeed...
  
  
  GENERAL
  
  
  all the game is very good, very classic, very cool and funny in all senses, it's a bit dissapointed 
 but is really good, definitely another Monkey Island, another great adventure based game definitely...
 
  
  If you are a fan of the series you have to buy this game AT ALL COST, it's just simply than that....
 
  
  
  Thanks for reading
  
  Christian Henares D'Addario 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xiaor
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 18, 2004 11:48 pm PT
Review:  I guess im used to the Monkey Island Series all being flat in 2D models. Seeing an updated Monkey 
 Island series kinda scared me at first as theres so much detail now, only a few of the characters 
 are really recognizable. Still, it had to be done, and the adventure genre is falling apart as 
 of late, and needed a game like this to come to the rescue.
  
  Well it did a good job, i can say that im surprised at how well this game actually does. I thought 
 i was in for a horrible make over attempt, but it held it's won and did well.
  
  If your fan of Monkey Island, then you might as well pick this up and laugh a bit at some of the 
 inside jokes from earlier games.
  
  Good Game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha__13
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 29, 2004 8:46 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Similiar to The Curse of Monkey Island, but definently not as good. You still basically 
 dot the same things as before, but you have to use the keyboard. Same funny characters to talk 
 to, but harder to actually do it, I couldn't stand the Monkey Kombat part of the game, it's like 
 an extremely complex version of paper, rock, scissors. Not quite as good as the first, but still 
 very good.
  
  Graphics: Very good, the places you got to are superbly detailed, very nice to look at.
  
  
 Sound: I was disappointed that they didn't bring back all the character voices from The Curse of 
 Monkey Island, but the voice acting is still very good and more great pirate music.
  
  Value: You may play it over once or twice, but then you're pretty much done with it.
  
  Overall: 
 Overall it comes very close to its previous, but not quite as good. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
