-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Etherlords
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/etherlords/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  3, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.7, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 121 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Fishtank Interactive
Developer: Nival Interactive
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Nov 12, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tedious strategy elements aside, Etherlords is the most successful attempt to combine the power 
 of computer graphics with the dynamics of collectible card games. 

 Etherlords is a strange concoction, shamelessly cribbing from Heroes of Might &amp; Magic for its 
 grand strategy and Magic: The Gathering for its tactical combat. It's one of those ideas that's 
 crazy enough it just might work. And sure enough, it does, for the most part. Although the grand 
 strategy is a bit misguided, the tactical combat is a splendid twist on the concept of collectible 
 card games.           Creatures and heroes are brought to life with vividly animated 3D models. 
    

  If you've never played collectible card games (CCGs) , you're probably several hundred dollars richer 
 than those who have. The idea is that you build a deck suited to a particular strategy and use 
 it to duel against other players. You play cards to build up a powerful force and to trump what 
 your opponent might do. You know which cards are in your deck and how they work together. But which 
 card will you draw next? Which cards does your opponent have? It's a combination of strategy and 
 mystery, planning and randomness, order and chaos. Games can be exciting, and deck building can 
 be an enjoyable hobby. Before you know it, you've laid out a nice chunk of change in pursuit of 
 those rare powerful cards to round out your collection and improve your chances of winning. Although 
 Etherlords misses completely the collecting aspect, it nails the dynamics of actually playing CCGs. 
   

  The mechanics of Etherlords as a CCG are almost identical to those of Magic: The Gathering. Magic 
 players will immediately recognize concepts like mana, tapping, blocking, summoning sickness, walls, 
 flying, trampling, first strike, regeneration, and so forth. Instead of tapping lands as in Magic, 
 mana management (or "ether," in this case) is automatic and based on a hero character's experience 
 level. There are a few significant twists that seem geared to prevent long standoffs. Damage between 
 attackers and blockers isn't simultaneous, so blocking creatures won't hit back unless they survive. 
 This means powerful attackers are much less vulnerable, and the end game is more often a bloodbath 
 than an impasse. After ten turns, wizards start taking damage at the beginning of every turn. Waiting 
 your opponent out and making sure you have more health will win a lot of duels.   

  Since many CCGs let you play cards during your opponent's turn, there are all sorts of tricky timing 
 issues and rule exceptions. Etherlords sidesteps these by breaking combat into discrete phases; 
 you can never act during your opponent's phase. This streamlines the action, and it means there 
 are fewer nasty surprise trumps ("Ha! I'm casting twiddle to untap my mountain, then I'm tapping 
 it for one red mana and buffing my shivan dragon just enough to block and kill your serra angel 
 with holy armor!") .   

  However, the gameplay is fleshed out a bit more because each hero has a specialization that gives 
 him or her a constant bonus effect. Some specializations work only with a specific card, some work 
 only with specific types of creatures, and some tweak the basic rules. For instance, life web means 
 that the hero can get double health from a healing spell called spiritual web. Kobold's cunning 
 means that the hero's kobolds have a chance to inflict double damage. Dexterous hands means that 
 the hero might get to draw an extra card every round. There are also skills that can be learned 
 and improved over the course of a scenario and artifacts with limited charges that can cast powerful 
 spells at any time in a duel. Unlike a CCG, there's more to Etherlords than the cards themselves. 
           CCGs never looked this good.    

  Also unlike in a CCG, the graphics are spectacular. Tabletop CCGs use snippets of artwork to illustrate 
 the proceedings. There have been several computer games based on CCG dynamics, but they've taken 
 their card motif literally. In MicroProse's computer version of Magic: The Gathering and Genetic 
 Anomalies' Chron-X, you're actually playing with little pictures of cards. Digital Addiction's 
 Sanctum and Activision's Star Trek: ConQuest Online went a step further with little figures moving 
 across maps, but this was still just static artwork. Your orc fighting your opponent's giant wasp 
 is just pictures of an orc and a wasp. But in Etherlords, they're detailed 3D models with lively 
 animations. Creatures run, attack, and bleed. Spells are brilliant yellow explosions, crackling 
 lightning zaps, or green healing auras. Etherlords finally harnesses the power of computer graphics 
 to bring CCG battles to life. It's a vivid, exciting twist, and it's surprising no one thought 
 of it before.   

  The graphics are lovely, built from Nival Interactive's engine for Evil Islands, a game that at 
 least looked good. The heroes and creatures in Etherlords have personality, from hulking dragons 
 to gibbering gibberlings. The robotic creatures clank, the orcs grunt, and the rats squeal pitifully. 
 There are even idle animations for the creatures, while they patiently wait for you to decide what 
 you're going to do. The game's combination of thoughtful strategy and lively animation is like 
 the holographic chess set in Star Wars or a latter-day souped-up version of Interplay's Battle 
 Chess games. Also carried over from Nival's Evil Islands is some of the most embarassingly bad 
 voiceover work you'll ever hear. From heroes' sound bites during battle to the painful narration 
 between missions, Etherlords is a case study for why you should just use subtitles if you can't 
 afford decent actors.    

 As a clone of Magic: The Gathering, Etherlords is an inspired success. But as a clone of Heroes 
 of Might &amp; Magic, it's a disappointing mishmash. In MicroProse's Magic: The Gathering, the 
 strategic gameplay was all about looking for specific cards. It reflected perfectly the collecting 
 aspect of a CCG. But Etherlords opts instead for messy resource management and puzzle-game mechanics. 
 Although the strategy game looks great, using the same 3D engine as the tactical combat, it's tedious 
 busywork that fills the time between duels.           Although attractive, the strategic game is 
 tedious.    

  You control heroes on the strategic map, moving them around to gather resources, capture resource-producing 
 buildings, visit spell shops, and fight monsters and enemy heroes. The scenarios are set up like 
 puzzle missions, with no randomness and very little freedom. There's a limited range of places 
 you can go until you're powerful enough to defeat the monster guarding the appropriate choke point. 
 Experience and resources are doled out methodically, and you almost always have to concentrate 
 on powering up a single hero to beat the tougher enemies. In the single-player campaign, heroes 
 don't carry over between missions. Bye-bye, hard-earned experience, expensive cards, and precious 
 artifacts.   

  There are two basic material resources, mandrake and black lotus. There is also ether, which each 
 faction uses for heroes and castle maintenance. Then there are four magical gem types, one for 
 each of the four races. Finally, there's the exceptionally rare frozen flame. You need these various 
 resources to buy spells and upgrade buildings, but the resource requirements have no discernable 
 pattern. You'd think the Vitals faction, which opts for healing magic, natural venoms, and woodland 
 creatures, should only need poison emeralds, right? Wrong. Get cracking, since you'll have to find 
 a little of everything.   

  You also have to buy runes to power cards. Each time you use a card in battle, it eats up one rune, 
 which is essentially a charge specific to that card. Heroes can carry five runes per card, so as 
 you play, you'll run low on charges and have to visit rune shops. It's the equivalent of having 
 to go back to town to buy arrows for your archer, and it'll have you wondering whether you should 
 use a card in battle or save it for later. Without actually moving your hero to a rune or spell 
 shop, there's no way to tell how much they cost. There's lots of potential for aggravating situations 
 like gathering a bunch of resources to buy that one powerful card for your hero's deck only to 
 find out that you need two more smoke diamonds. Or, even worse, you can afford the actual card, 
 but two turns later you realize you forgot to gather bloody rubies to buy the runes you need to 
 actually use the card. Instead of playing like a strategy game, Etherlords is like shopping in 
 a foreign country where not only do you not understand the currency, but you have no idea how much 
 stuff costs.   

  The lack of accessible information about costs isn't the only problem with the interface. There's 
 a lack of important information in the duels as well. There's no indication of how many turns have 
 passed, which is crucial since ether disturbance starts damaging heroes on the 10th turn. There's 
 no way to get information on a hero's specialty or skills, both of which have significant impact 
 on the gameplay. There's lots of in-game information available by right-clicking, but this isn't 
 always enough. The manual is thorough but poorly organized, listing spells by type and rarity. 
 This doesn't help when all you know is that a big robot-looking guy just cast something called 
 inconsistent reality, and you didn't see any indication of what it did. A log of all spells cast 
 would have been helpful. More hotkeys also would have been nice.           Spell effects add to 
 the visual splendor.    

  Etherlords has multiplayer support for duels, but the strategy game is single-player only. No great 
 loss. The duels are the main attraction, and they're very flexible outside the strategy game. You 
 can spend points to build your own deck and hero, complete with a specialization, skills, and artifacts 
 to complement your choice of cards. Five-minute instant skirmishes with randomly chosen heroes 
 and decks are a great lunch-break game and an ideal way to learn the various cards. The AI makes 
 some questionable decisions during combat, but on the whole, it knows how to use its cards, and 
 it'll provide even experienced CCG players with a challenge.   

  In the end, this is what counts. The play's the thing. It's all in the cards. Tedious strategy 
 elements aside, Etherlords is the most successful attempt to combine the power of computer graphics 
 with the dynamics of collectible card games. It takes its source material to the next level without 
 compromising it. If more developers were so clearly in touch with their tabletop roots -- CCGs, board 
 games, or RPGs -- clever games like Etherlords wouldn't be such a rarity.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  I believe Magic The Gathering fans or other trading card enthusiasts may find this more appealing 
 since the action is primarily based on a trading card game system. However, the turn-based exploration 
 factor is borrowed heavily from Heroes of M&amp; M. The fusion of the two features in this case 
 seems like a wet dream come true for trading card fans that yearn for the same thrill on their 
 PC screen.
  
  Although I love Duels of the Planeswalker that is really a Magic card phenomenon-turned-PC game, 
 Etherlords upped the ante by featuring lively animated creatures and effects that instead of the 
 usual 2D card art with text. If only Duels would be like that... Anyway, Etherlords win gloriously 
 in terms of sleek 3D visuals and lively environments. I like the fact that you actually bring your 
 character around the map searching for better cards to put in his deck which sort of mimic the 
 way we do it in real life, just that I don't ride on a giant scorpion to do that.
  
  However, I'm disappointed with the fake and awkward narration that spoils the mood of a true fantasy 
 game. The voice actors/actresses basically read off the mission briefing like they never got paid 
 for the job.
  
  Lastly, Etherlords can be overly challenging for the fact that the mission briefing is too vague 
 for you to know what's going on and also sometimes you met strong opponents too early who outclassed 
 you a lot and find yourself in a crappy situation. The battles can get boring too because of the 
 slow combat animations. But it is truly a delightful experience for Magic fans like me to enjoy.
 
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garthos2006
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 6, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately more shallow in both accounts. Although I agree with Gamespot review thats its the 
 best of its type at its release. Magic the gathering (1997) card game elements are far better and 
 graphically superior but its campaign mode is a joke, I recently tried to play it in 2006. Graphically 
 I had an over blooming like contrast problem where everything was to white which I couldn't correct. 
 With that aside not bad for 2001 game, although looking a little old now.
  
  I got this in a fantasy pack 2 of 6 games so I still have etherlords 2 yet to try, which is maybe 
 why I can't get interested in the campaign. Although it did prove better than I was expecting.
 
  
  Not a bad attempt, but I wouldn't recommend it to anyone today unless you can play it on your mobile. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcana
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2005 7:19 pm PT
Review:  If you deeply enjoy fantasy, turn-based, strategy games of the HoMM 3 and AoW 2 type, you will 
 be disappointed by EtherLords. The latter imitates the former in a greatly simplified form.
  
  But EtherLords does not limit itself to be a fantasy empire-builder. It mostly offers a tactical, 
 turn-based, fantasy card-game : both within the strategy missions and in a separate "duel" combat-mode. 
 There, it imitates and greatly simplifies the famous Magic The Gathering (MTG) non-computer card-game. 
 
  
  So, EtherLords will not satisfy fans of the HoMM type of game and the fans of the MTG type of game. 
 But it will enchant players who are interested in a synthesis of both types, for quick games with 
 not too much complexity.
  
  EtherLords, especially in the duel combat-mode, has awesome graphics. The more recent World of 
 WarCraft uses a similar type of visual look, but it does not go beyond the level of quality of 
 the older EtherLords 1.
  
  Since EtherLords 2 does not have the HoMM-like empire-builder of the first EtherLords, I would 
 still recommend it (in 2005) to anyone who would wish to combine a fantasy card-game (for tactical 
 battles) with a fantasy 4X-game (for strategic development) . 
  
  Since the Russians who have made the EtherLords series have obtained the development contract for 
 the upcoming HoMM 5 (UbiSoft having taken the defunct 3D0's place as publisher) , my hopes are high 
 that this fifth edition in the classic series will be visually awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 28, 2005 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Etherlords is a turn based strategy game that plays a bit like Disciples / Age of Wonders / Heroes, 
 with one major difference. You can create heroes, send them out to conquer land, gather resources, 
 etc... just like the games I listed. However, the difference is in the battles. If you are familiar 
 with the card game Magic: The Gathering, the battles are very similar to that. 
  
  Basically, your hero has cards which can be played each turn (in battle) if you have the resources 
 (gained each turn) . Effects range from direct damage to your opponent, summoning creatures and 
 walls, to upgrading those creatures and walls. A very interesting concept for a strategy game that 
 doesn't exactly fail, but leaves much to be desired. 
  
  What made Magic: The Gathering fun was the thousands and thousands of different cards to be used, 
 and formed to make strong decks. Etherlords has too few of these 'cards' so the fun of deck building 
 isn't there, which makes playing those cards a bit of a bore. 
  
  If you like Magic: The Gathering and strategy games, you'll probably enjoy Etherlords for a while. 
 If you like strategy games and want to give a different battle system a try, Etherlords will certainly 
 give you that. If you like the battle systems in Heroes / Age of Wonders / Disciples, and don't 
 really want anything different, Etherlords probably won't be a game you would like. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
