-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Etherlords II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/etherlords2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  3, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.4, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 375 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Nival Interactive
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date:     Sep 30, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Etherlords II is easily recommendable not only to anyone with an interest in collectible card games, 
 but also to those who'd like a turn-based strategy game with a twist. 

  Most everyone has at least heard of Magic: The Gathering -- it's the strategy game where people duel 
 each other with cards representing various spells and creatures. Each card has unique properties 
 that turn the game into a fight of tactics and sometimes even luck. 2001's Etherlords took that 
 concept and managed to turn it into an entertaining turn-based strategy game. Now developer Nival 
 Interactive has produced a sequel that improves the original game's combat -- its best feature -- as 
 well as resolves some of the original game's issues. The result is even better than its predecessor, 
 and brings Etherlords' distinctive gameplay up to today's standards.  

          Enemy heroes will guard passages and precious resources.    The story in Etherlords II 
 takes place in the World of Lords that is inhabited by followers of four ether powers: Kinets, 
 Chaots, Synthets, and Vitals. These factions are always engaged in skirmishes with each other. 
 Etherlords II includes five different campaigns, during which you'll get to play as each of the 
 four sides. The story unfolds from the perspective of a single hero character you control at a 
 time. This is one of the differences between Etherlords II and its predecessor, which let you control 
 multiple heroes spread across a large map, like the Heroes of Might and Magic series.  

  Etherlords II modifies its predecessor's gameplay to let you control only one hero, from a fixed 
 camera angle. The result feels more like Diablo as you walk through the map and search for things 
 to do. You'll find resources strewn across the land, which you need to purchase more powerful spells. 
 You'll also run into wandering monsters and characters in your adventure. The monsters are a good 
 source of experience points and will often leave you loot in the form of new spells. Non-player 
 characters will assign quests for you to complete.  

  These quests will advance the story as well as give you missions to accomplish. Each mission has 
 a linear path, but there are often side quests you can embark on that will make your character 
 more powerful. For example, if you go off the path and explore, you may find a shrine that will 
 make a certain creature more powerful. That not only helps you finish the given mission more easily, 
 but is also more rewarding in the grand scheme of things. One mission may make your treants more 
 powerful, while another benefits ticks. This lets you change your strategy with every mission and 
 makes the game much more interesting to play. But perhaps the best new feature in Etherlords II 
 is that you can carry over your hero to the next mission. A big complaint about the first game 
 was that you would spend so much time in every mission, only to lose the experience, spells, and 
 artifacts as you progressed to the next mission. Etherlords II lets you keep everything you have 
 received, so you truly feel like you're building up a powerful hero over the course of the game. 

          You'll select a deck of spells from a reserve deck.     

  While the adventure portion of the game has been radically changed, the combat has not, though 
 it has been refined. Heroes don't actively fight in the game. Instead, they use something called 
 ether to cast spells from a preconfigured deck. Every spell you find is added to your inventory. 
 You choose 16 of these spells to form an active deck that is used in combat. You start out with 
 five spells when combat is initiated, and your hero receives a new spell at the start of every 
 new turn. Each of these spells has a specified ether casting cost. You gain ether at the start 
 of your turn. You will receive more ether channels as the battle progresses, which allows you to 
 expand your ether pool. Fans of Magic: The Gathering will recognize these mechanics.  

  A deck can comprise direct combat spells, support spells, and summoning spells. Since your hero 
 can't directly injure the enemy hero, you have to choose a deck of spells that will not only do 
 damage to the enemy, but also protect your own hero. Each faction has a unique set of spells. The 
 Vitals have nature-type spells like treants and plants, while the Synthets have biomechanical spells. 
 Summoned creatures can do direct damage to enemy heroes, or they can block enemy creatures sent 
 to hurt yours. They have an attack and defense rating called power and toughness, respectively. 
 The more powerful creatures require more ether to summon, so they won't come into play until later 
 in a match.     

  There are many different strategies you can use in a battle. You can summon a swarm of weaker creatures 
 and hope you can kill your opponent quickly. Or you can use spells to make a few creatures even 
 stronger. You can even capture enemy creatures and use them against your opponent. Matches won't 
 last forever because of something called an ether disturbance. If a match drags on too long, both 
 heroes will start sustaining damage every round. So a viable strategy here is to play defensively, 
 raise your health, and let the ether disturbance dispatch your foe.  

          Creatures are used to damage enemies.     

  Your hero isn't completely worthless in 
 battle. You gain hit points with every level, and you can have a specialization. This specialization 
 can support a specific strategy you wish to pursue. If you have a bunch of velos summon spells, 
 perhaps you'll choose the velos twins specialization. It gives you a chance to summon a second 
 velos for free. You can also have up to five innate abilities. One ability gives you a certain 
 percentage of extra hit points, while another will give you a better chance for your specialization 
 to work. You can also set up the abilities for a specific strategy. If you wish to win by killing 
 opponents with ether disturbance, you can choose an ability that will delay your own ether disturbance 
 for a few rounds.  

  Part of the game is countering your opponent's strategy. You may want unsummon spells if your opponent 
 has a lot of creatures. The problem is that you don't know what spells are in your opponent's deck. 
 This isn't a problem in duels because you can swap out spells in between rounds, but it can be 
 frustrating in the single-player campaign. You'll find yourself saving before every battle because 
 you may need to reload and get the appropriate spells. It can be a tedious process because there 
 isn't a fast way to swap out spells. You have to switch each spell individually.  

  There isn't much to do alone once you've finished the single-player campaigns. You can fight a 
 duel against a computer opponent using a deck of spells that you choose. The duel runs exactly 
 the same as fights in the campaign. The computer may be a good opponent, but this can get old pretty 
 fast. Your only option to lengthen the game is to play multiplayer duels. This can be fun because 
 fighting against human opponents can lead to satisfying strategic victories. There are new options 
 in Etherlords II for multiplayer. You can enter a blind match where you are both given the same 
 reserve of cards to pick a deck from, or you can enter a tournament with up to eight players. The 
 good thing is that there are actually people playing this game multiplayer. But the bad news is 
 that sometimes you'll square off against an opponent who is much higher in level than you, and 
 you'll be slaughtered quite easily. Overall, multiplayer is a good experience for anyone looking 
 to continue playing Etherlords II.  

          Duels let you choose from a number of preset decks or let you create your own.     

 
  Etherlords II certainly doesn't look much different from its predecessor. It uses much of the 
 same artwork as Etherlords. The creatures themselves still look quite good, though. They move fluidly, 
 and the spell effects are nice. There are some new units called pale creatures, which you'll see 
 on the battlefield. There really isn't much to the sound in the game; the ambient sounds are forgettable 
 and the voice acting is inconsisent. That's unfortunate because part of what made games like the 
 Heroes of Might and Magic series so fun to play was their audio.  

  In spite of that, Etherlords II is more or less exactly what a sequel should be to an already great 
 game. The developer listened to fans and critics and modified the gameplay in meaningful ways. 
 At the same time, the core mechanics of the game were improved to complement the change in gameplay. 
 The result is easily recommendable not only to anyone with an interest in collectible card games, 
 including fans of the original, but also to those who enjoy turn-based strategy games with a twist. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bikeking890
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2009 9:46 pm PT
Review:  I am completely serious. You will forego sleep and possibly proper hygiene just to do one more 
 battle in campaign mode alone.
  
  Etherlords 2 is a turn based strategy game that is primarily based on a card system (deck, hand, 
 graveyard etc.) Think Baten Kaitos for Gamecube. There's many cards to build your deck from available 
 in the game, allowing a variety of strategies. Thankfully, though, the cards' abilities are quite 
 easy to decipher unlike some CCGs out there. There's little to no head scratching as to what a 
 particular card does.
  
  Configuring your deck isn't a mind numbing process, as you only get 16 cards in your deck. It doesn't 
 sound like a lot, but the way the combat system goes, it's plenty. Instead of a discard pile you 
 can't touch anymore, cards that aren't used in time merely get randomly cycled back into your hand 
 in a few turns.
  
  The single player campaign gives you plenty of hours of gameplay. You go through the same storyline 
 in each campaign, but through different heroes' perspectives, which I thought was a unique aspect. 
 There's enemies on the map you can choose to battle or leave alone as well as resources you can 
 pick up on the way that are used for buying new cards. Admittedly, I'm a loot junkie, so I always 
 had to stay up just a few more minutes in the off chance I ran into another shop to pick up better 
 cards.
  
  Graphically, it's solid for its time; reminds me of Dungeon Siege 2. Spell animations are rather 
 good, and you won't need to squint to read any important information.
  
  Sound effects and music were present, and adequate. I find no need to have speed techno pumping 
 while I'm playing a strategy game. Nival Interactive kept this in mind, it seems, and gave the 
 players just enough FX and music to accompany battles.
  
  To throw it all in a skillet, Etherlords 2 is a worthy addition to any strategy gamer's collection. 
 The sound and graphics are present and pleasant while not overpowering the (unfortunately) oft-overlooked 
 aspect of actual gameplay. Now excuse me while I deprive myself of sleep once again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 9, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  For Etherlords II, if you ever care, the main improvement has got to be the "carry-over" factor 
 for your main hero, like what Heroes of Might & Magic has done. That aspect actually improves the 
 whole Etherlords experience cos you get to feel the satisfaction of the RPG element even if the 
 main gameplay doesn't really change at all from the first game. In this case, you get to see your 
 character go as high as level 20 and above perhaps, depending on what campaign you play. This makes 
 the last battles often quite challenging and long as the card combinations get more complex with 
 level increase (for the enemies) .
  
  Oh yes, there is another change in fact, which is that the map exploring part is "real-time". Yes, 
 the enemy don't get turns at all which means everything is dependent on your decision when to activate 
 key battles. Sometimes you have to complete certain objectives in a given time-frame but the game 
 is quite lenient on that.
  
  Another recommendable point of Etherlords II is its story, and it's really good! The twist is amazingly 
 well-conceived compared to other strategy games of this genre. It's like watching Sixth Sense the 
 first time.
  
  Other than that, apart from a new card species which is called the pale creatures or something, 
 there is nothing new to the combat system. Even the graphic and sound design is reused from the 
 first game. I believe that if you're a fan of the Magic card games or Etherlords itself, you may 
 be interested in this. For newcomers, I suggest you skip the first one and start right from Etherlords 
 II for a better turn-based strategy experience.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TranquilSlogan
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 13, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  Etherlords appears to be an action packed game full of challenges and similar qualities to games 
 like World of Warcraft III (appearance and character interaction) , Final Fantasy (battle sequences) 
 and other similar turn based games. After playing for 15 minutes I found myself frustrated with 
 the ease of just putting the battles in auto attack and just watching the enemies fall. To me this 
 is not what I expected from reviews. I played this game for about 1 1//2 hours and never lost a 
 fight to an opponent. Enough about gameplay. The graphics are great, the audio is great, the character 
 design is more than great, and the fact that all of the voice actors have some authentic accents 
 makes it even cooler. My only regret is not being more challenged by the battles which are supposed 
 to be strategy based. Other than that it is spectacular.
  
  Thank you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcmembers
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  There are not too much companies who create Fantasy-Turn-Based and I don't know why. So in this 
 case we (fans) should play each and every single one of these games or else you should maybe wait 
 till next years.
  
  This one is my least favour but at least it 's turn-base. We have two kinds of Fantasy-Turn-Based 
 ,First is the one in which heroes are in middle of the fight ,it means they themselves are part 
 of the army like Disciples. and second, are those in which heroes are not directly in fight and 
 they just maintain magic and control the army
  
  Etherlords II is with the second category .your hero is responsible for summoning creatures and 
 casting spells. the game is short and you can finish the game in even one day if you know the basic 
 rules of Turn-Based games.
  
  One of the biggest disadvantages of this game is it's creatures they look like s.. t !! and are 
 good for children story books.
  
  At the end I should say if you have time and you can/t make a good use of your money try this game.
 
  
  cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angelspit_CH
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  Etherlords II is the sequel to Nival Interactives Etherlords, a turn-based strategy title that 
 featured a battle system based heavily on trading card games. Players who have played Microproses 
 computer rendition of Magic: the Gathering in the mid-90s will have a good idea of what Etherlords 
 is about. Because of their complexity, collectible cards games rarely make good computer games. 
 Thats why Nival went the other way around with Etherlords II and built a card game-based engine 
 with which the computer would feel comfortable. The good news is that players new to collectible 
 card games will find Etherlords a good introduction to the genre as long as they can keep up with 
 what is going on during combat.
  
  One part role-playing
  
  The story of four conflicts is told through single-player campaigns that put the player in the 
 shoes of a hero in the Ether Universe. A campaign begins with the players hero on the adventure 
 map, and feels like a competition where the player must defeat a series of increasingly tougher 
 opponents in succession. The two-year old Etherlords engine has been reused with some changes, 
 and I must say that it is aging nicely. Various textures are used on the adventure map, and animated 
 character, building and bird animations keep the environment interesting and lively.
  
  Adventuring consists on gathering three types of resources that are used only to purchase spells 
 in stores. These resources are not used for any kind of city building, a welcome change for anyone 
 who is familiar with the current lot of strategy games. The adventure map also contains some structures 
 granting hero specialties, artifact charges, or additional resources; the rest is just scenery. 
 Moving around the map often feels uncomfortable because of the camera angle, and using the mouse 
 wheel to pan the view does not help much. I was often looking for my way around, since the very 
 small overhead map does not show the teleporters or the roads clearly. You move the hero by clicking 
 on the desired destination, but only a small portion of the map is visible at a time. The game 
 really needed better controls for backtracking during the longer scenarios, and the keyboard would 
 have done the job nicely. But considering how little time will be spent on the adventure map compared 
 on the combat arena, players should not mind.
  
  The roads and cities leave little freedom to the player, and the scenarios are very linear. If 
 it werent for the scenery reminiscent of either Heroes of Might and Magic or Disciples II, it 
 would feel like an adventure game. This makes progressing through a scenario easy enough, especially 
 since the player controls only one hero, a major design change from the original Etherlords, where 
 you were able to control multiple heroes. That single hero moves from one location to another, 
 speaking with NPCs and fighting monsters along the way. Conversations are scripted and do not provide 
 any option to the player. Their purpose is to send the player on various messenger or object-gathering 
 missions, as well as to give some background story. And thats where the main weakness of the game 
 is. While the main characters will deliver their lines with enough enthusiasm, amateurs with a 
 boring, monotonous tone do the voice acting of the secondary characters. They stretch syllabus 
 without any good reason, seem to hesitate before a complex word, and take pauses at the wrong places. 
 The good thing is that the player will discover a variety of foreign accents. It is a welcome change 
 from the American voice acting found in most of the games these days.
  
   One part strategy
  
  Things get more exciting during the combat sequences, when monsters 
 and heroes get close and personal. Once combat begins, Etherlords II is a brand new game. During 
 combat, heroes and monsters face each other with a background based on where the hostilities began. 
 All characters are in 3D and have a few animations of their own, like a taunt or a sneeze. The 
 Etherlords bestiary goes beyond the typical elves and dwarves and features some creatures that 
 have not been seen in other computer games. The Pale creatures who dont get involved in combat 
 until after a transition, the half-snake, half-women Lamias who bring allies back from the dead, 
 and the rushing Giberrlings are the results of good creature design. I found myself changing my 
 decks regularly in order to see all those creatures in action, even if a few of them are hopelessly 
 weak. Additionally, many of the games heroes and creatures are female. This would have been a 
 refreshing change from the usual strategy games if not for the large amount of skin showing on 
 those characters. At times you will be wondering how these girls manage to fight in such outfits.
 
  
  The camera moves automatically and zooms in and out during the combat sequence, and the result 
 looks vaguely like a Japanese-style role-playing game such as Final Fantasy. This can become a 
 nuisance at times, as the constant movement will prevent the player from focusing on the action 
 on the battlefield. The game includes some controls to adjust the camera movement. However, it 
 will keep zooming in to areas where there isnt anything going on, stare at the ground for a few 
 seconds, or keep moving in all directions if multiple attacks or spell castings happen at once. 
 One time during a game, the camera was even stuck on the enemy hero, preventing me from seeing 
 anything else on the battlefield. Fortunately, the strange bug had no impact on the icons displayed 
 at the top of the screen that keep track of all the spells being cast.
  
  Heroes are not directly involved in combat, but instead cast spells at each other in a way similar 
 to Heroes of Might and Magic III. The spells and combat rules are borrowed straight from Magic 
 the Gathering. The terminology is different in some cases (creatures rest instead of being tapped, 
 ether is used instead of mana, and some old MtG spells are featured under new names) , but the concepts 
 are mostly the same. Instant spells take a back seat, with only a few spells being cast during 
 the opponents turn, and attackers deal damage first, something MtG veterans will need to keep 
 in mind during their first few battles. Also, players gather energy for their spells differently. 
 Instead of playing land cards along their spells, they will receive new ether channels in increments 
 of one, with special cards granting additional ether if needed. The Etherlords combat system is 
 simple enough to be accessible to players unfamiliar with collectible card games, yet deep enough 
 to keep veteran players on their toes. The computer player plays a decent game, having been programmed 
 to get the most of the predefined decks included in the game. Unfortunately, some battles end up 
 being tedious and frustrating. Winning a fight usually involves meeting the opponent a first time 
 to see what strategy is being used, and then attacking again with a modified deck until the optimal 
 drawing is achieved. The most difficult battles will require multiple tries, but fortunately they 
 rarely take more than 10 or 20 minutes. Some challenges will be particularly rewarding, especially 
 if for some reason you try not using any creature at all during a battle. Hundreds of deck combinations 
 are possible, and fans of collectible card games know well how satisfying it is to discover a truly 
 nasty combo.
  
  One part satisfying game
  
  While the adventure map section provides a decent setting for the trading card game battles, I 
 still feel that a lot more could have been done for that part of the game. The game lacks a solid 
 storyline and a more detailed character development system. Fortunately, card-based combat keeps 
 the game addictive, and youll want to try those new spells you just found, experiment with deck 
 combinations, or try to defeat a particularly nasty opponent. The game is suitable for short gaming 
 sessions, but beware of the just one more battle illness that kept me away from the bed until 
 late in the night. The multiplayer component of the game should not be overlooked either. Once 
 you are used to the computer opponents weaknesses and believe you have mastered the game, a visit 
 to the master server will make you realize this sequel to Etherlords has a lot of replayability 
 potential. Despite its various flaws, Etherlords II is one of the best computer renditions of a 
 collectible card game to date, even giving the expensive Magic: the Gathering Online a run for 
 its money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wackys
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 19, 2006 12:47 am PT
Review:  First i like card games and that is why i bought this game
  
  The gameplay is cool. It's like heroes and you collect resources and buy creatures and spells i 
 like that. It is cool
  The graphics are good and i like them. I think they were ahead of their time when it came out. Still 
 the game is solid on all fronts and i like it basically because it is a card game and a TBS. I recommend 
 it to TBS and card game fans but even to everyone else. But it gets kinda booring after some time 
 but you can play it in multiplayer and it curies you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ed_mage
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 14, 2005 10:36 pm PT
Review:  If you ever played the card game The Magic the Gathering, nevertheless you gonna enjoy playing 
 this game. The gameplay are very similar to the card game. The rules are familiar, and I can easily 
 adopt the casting of the spell of the heroes. Like the card game, the real challenge is to build 
 or set-up a deck of spells which you think will defeat any opponent. I really having fun trying 
 some combination of spells and test its effectiveness to any opposition. 
  
  I could say that if you like card games, this is a must have game you will appreciate. For those 
 people who don't like turn-based Fantasy RPG, this is not a game for you. All in all it has an 
 enormous graphics, nice ambient, and excellent gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 6, 2005 1:34 am PT
Review:  The first Etherlords offerend a unique combination of games from Heroes of Might and Magic / Disciples 
 and Magic the Gathering, the card game. Etherlords 2 does away with the Heroes of Might and Magic 
 part: Multiple Hereos, turn-based on the world map, etc... etc... Instead, you'll now control one 
 hero throughout the numerous missions with an adventure style of play. Battles, however, have remained 
 much the same, though even more extensive with the addition of many new spells.
  
  In the adventure mode you'll travel around collecting resources through minerals lying on the ground, 
 or by mines that will give you more resources over time. With these you can purchase more spells 
 at shops throughout the world, which are actually fairly abundant. You'll also meet plenty of NPCs 
 along your way that will set you along your main quest, as well as the addition of a few side quests 
 that can result in some fairly powerful spells as rewards. You'll also find alot of enemies to 
 battle as well, and Etherlords II does a great job of balancing them. You won't be constantly forced 
 into challenging battle after challenging battle. There are still plenty of challenging enemies 
 to face, for those of you who like challenges, there will just be a few less challenging enemies 
 in between that provide a nice break for those of us who don't like constant challenging battles.
 
  
  The enemies are also fairly varied too. You'll have to change your strategy, and even spells in 
 your 'deck', out pretty often, though most of the time you'll be able to get through without having 
 to change your deck. It's wise to keep a few extra strategies regardless, since there's always 
 a certain card or two an opponent can play that will completely obliterate your strategy. Luckily, 
 you can do the same. There's no feeling greater than when you play just a few cards that completely 
 crushing your opponents chance at victory
  
  The learning curve for this game depends on what you have played previously. If you've played Magic 
 the Gathering battles will be fairly familiar and you shouldn't have much trouble learning the 
 game at all. For everyone else, the battles take place in turns. Your heroes don't do much in the 
 battle besides take damage, spells will do all of the work. During your turn you gain a certain 
 amount of 'Ether', the resource needed to cast spells, which depend on the amount of Ether Channels 
 you have. Every few turns, as well as depending on spells and abilities of your hero, you'll gain 
 more Ether channels which allows you to cast your bigger and stronger spells.
  
  You have a selection between Sorcery, Enchantments, and Summon spells to cast and in Etherlords 
 II, there's alot of them. Within those categories, there's also plenty of variety that allows you 
 to make quite a few different strategies which can add alot of replayability to the game. You can 
 add as many or as little of these as you want, though usually you'll want to have a few of each 
 since some spells go extremely well together. In order to keep games from lasting too long, 'Ether 
 Disturbance' will occur after a certain amount of turns. This just deals an increasing amount of 
 damage to each hero at the end of their turn, which can also be adapted into your strategy.
  
  If you're looking for a unique strategy game to put alot of hours into, Etherlords II certainly 
 delivers on that. If you enjoyed the first Etherlords, there's enough improvements to warrant buying 
 this. All that and cheap too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcana
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 13, 2005 2:50 pm PT
Review:  This review confines itself to the tactical, card-game "duel" mode (single-player & multiplayer) .
 
  
  If you are a veteran expert of the Magic The Gathering (MTG) non-computer card-game, you will find 
 that EtherLords 1 & 2 have imitated & simplified it way too much.
  
  It is not a problem for me, because I do not have the time to build & test complex decks of cards. 
 The EtherLords 2 deck-designing process has been improved (compared to the one in EL 1) : it is 
 now easier and faster to design a deck.
  
  Even though EL 1's graphics were (and still are) of a high quality, EL 2 has improved them somewhat. 
 It is more apparent on the close-ups of heroes & creatures during a duel : the look is much more 
 smooth, not blocky, without requiring a Pentium 4 and a recent video-card to run. EL 4 came out 
 over a year before World of WarCraft, which has a similar type of look, but EL 2's graphics are 
 more refined, much less blocky. 
  
  The developer of the EtherLords series (the Russian shop Nival) has always designed very beautiful 
 games to look at, without requiring the consumer to possess an expensive computer. I can't wait 
 for Nival to complete the upcoming (2005 ?) Heroes of Might & Magic V. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codepunk
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 1, 2003 5:10 pm PT
Review:  I play RPG's. I don't play card games. But, this game looked intriguing enough for me to want to 
 try it out. Well, I like it. Is it the best game ever made? No, but I am enjoying the time I put 
 into it. The whole card based combat system is way better than your run of the mill "click-click-click" 
 type of combat. Its adds a layer of strategy thats non-existant in other turn based games.
  
  One gripe I do have is that the quest is extremely linear (probably the most out of any game 
 I've seen) . You basically have to follow the path that's laid before you and there is no venturing 
 off to explore for yourself.
  
  All in all, I think its worth the money. I haven't even played the multi-player portion but from 
 what I've heard its fun too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morrolan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 10, 2003 12:59 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. That's what needs to be said right from the start. Etherlords was a great 
 idea which was poorly executed in many areas, and while Etherlords 2 lives by the 'if it ain't 
 broke' philosophy, it fixes virtually every problem that the original game had.
  Etherlords 2 is a turn based strategy game based on card game rules. You design a deck, cast card 
 effects and draw once per turn from your reserve pool. You accumulate more and more energy each 
 turn which allows you to cast more and more powerful card effects. In other words, it will be immediately 
 familiar to fans of card games of this type.
  That said, Etherlords 2 is essentially two games. The first, and least enjoyable, is the exploration 
 mode. In this mode you walk your character around via a top-down, zoomable camera and collect resources 
 and explore the map. Unlike in the original game, however, this portion does not take away from 
 the game as a whole. Where exploration in the original Etherlords was enough to break a man, in 
 this case it's a completely pain-free diversion from the bread and butter of Etherlords 2, the 
 battle mode.
  As you encounter various NPCs, you will either talk to them through fully voiced in-engine cut 
 scenes, or you will do battle with them. This battle mode is, by all appearances, completely unchanged 
 from the original game, and is as enjoyable as ever. Combatants take turns casting spells and summoning 
 creatures. Your character will actually never physically attack the opponent, relying instead on 
 his creations and offensive spells to do damage. The system is as intricate as any found in conventional 
 games of this type, and offers an incredible amount of depth. The vast array of offensive, defensive, 
 summoning, buff, attrition and downright indefinable cards available throughout the game insure 
 that no two battles will be quite alike, and that no one strategy will ever win out. You have to 
 think on your toes, and react to things as they happen, adjusting your plans to fit your card draws 
 and your enemy's actions.
  Right off the bat, anyone who played this game's predecessor will notice that very little has changed, 
 visually. In fact, as far as I could tell, nothing has changed. That's not to say that the game 
 looks dated, however. While the polygon counts are probably sub-par by today's standards, the textures 
 and art direction throughout ensure that this is just an intellectual realization, and something 
 that never registers visually. Etherlords was a beautiful game, and the engine has aged very well.
 
  The sound in the game is one area which has undergone a really dramatic increase in quality. Most 
 of the sound effects are intact from the first game, and the almost notoriously bad voice acting 
 has been eliminated. What its been replaced with may not be the best you've ever heard, but its 
 not painful by any means and in some spots is even very good.
  In the end, Etherlords 2 is a game that could easily win the heart of any turn based strategy fan, 
 or that of anyone enamored of beautiful, deep and involving games. There are a few things to pick 
 at, such as the sometimes spotty text translations and a few types of enemies which require long, 
 arduous battles to defeat, but for the most part this is a very solid game. Anyone who did not 
 pick up the original Etherlords would be well advised to do so now. For those who did and had to 
 suffer through its shortcomings, whether or not this is a smart buy will depend entirely upon just 
 how much they like the idea of the game. For some, it will justify the cost of another full game 
 just to see the idea finally done right. And those people are in for quite a treat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rowedahelicon
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 19, 2003 12:17 pm PT
Review:  What a great game! I've been playing it for the last couple weeks, and don't see myself stopping 
 anytime soon. I can't remember the last game that had me so hopelessly absorbed. When I'm away 
 from the game all I can think about is getting back to it. I've been losing sleep as I stay up 
 at night for hours to complete the current mission (which can take up to five hours) .
  
  So now - I'll spare you further gushing. I'm an amateur reviewer; I'm allowed to do that. ;)
 
  
  It does have its quirks - and I'll call them quirks because I think they add to the game's charm. 
 Most notably I think is the voice acting. It's what will hit you first anyway. Quality in talent 
 ranges from fairly decent to mediocre at best. It never detracts from the experience, and as I 
 said I think it adds to the charm of the game. But I mention it as it may be an issue for some.
 
  
  Another area I think could stand for improvement is camera angles. In adventure mode (I'm assuming 
 you've already read the GS review and know something of what the gameplay is like) the lowest angle 
 you can tilt the camera still feels very top-down. In combat, there are only four preset camera 
 positions for you to choose from (two looking towards the enemy and two towards yourself) where 
 some freedom would have been appreciated. I think with some getting used to, though, it becomes 
 a non-issue.
  
  Other than that, the game rocks. The strategy involved in combat I think is brilliant. And when 
 you consider the number of hours the single player campaign will last you, the remarkable replayability, 
 duel mode, and multiplayer, full price is a bargain.
  
  
  And see I got all the way through without mentioning the excellent use of sound, music and graphics. 
 -- Oh, heck. Since I mentioned it...
  
  The graphics aren't anything cutting edge, but there's something just cute enough and just sharp 
 enough about them that makes them feel more than decent. Things that were impressive technically 
 were soft shadows and the above average particle effects. Artistically I really appreciate the 
 animators' work on the creatures - mouths and eyes are frequently animated. The more important 
 part of every creature was given the most attention to detail. So for example an evil eye (a beholder 
 equivalent for you D&D fanatics out there) has full motion for the eyeball and its lid (it also 
 has a working mouth) , creatures that bite are given detailed mouths, and so on. Unnecessary, uncommon, 
 and greatly appreciated.
  
  The use of sound - voice acting aside - is fantastic (someone save me - I'm running out of complimentary 
 words here) . In combat, creature's idle animations are fully integrated with sound. You can almost 
 tell which creatures are in play simply by listening. Spread onto that a kinetic, energizing, beat-driving 
 soundtrack and you're roaring to go. It's music you may even add to your playlists outside of the 
 game. Again - unnecessary, uncommon, and greatly appreciated. The only think keeping my sound score 
 from being a 9 is the voice acting, which I like... but I wouldn't call it good.. if you follow. 
 :)
  
  I think for you to really enjoy this game, you must look at it from in indie game perspective. 
 While actually it doesn't feel much like an indie game or a mainstream game. It's strange that 
 way. It will also help if you have a vivid imagination. I strongly recommend that at the very least 
 you give the demo a try. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
