-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Etrom: The Astral Essence
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/etromastralessence/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Blend of fantasy and sci-fi RPG themes in the otherwise insane story.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Controls and camera make the game virtually unplayable during combat.
 Ridiculously tough due to camera problems and the number of respawning enemies.
 No way to save on demand, and save points are few and far between.
 Lousy visuals and sound.
 Crashes on a regular basis.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 10, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2
Critic Score: 4.8, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 5.8, 203 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: PM Studios
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Feb 28, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Etrom: The Astral Essence is an unplayable, buggy mess. 

  To Wild Hare, the publisher of Etrom: The Astral Essence and a seemingly new face on the PC game-publishing 
 landscape, a note of advice: hire more play testers! This hack-and-slash RPG should never have 
 been let out the door of developer P. M. Studios, as all sorts of design flaws, crash bugs, an atrocious 
 camera system, and PS2-era presentation values make it basically unplayable.  

          From future cops to zombies in one easy level transition.     

  Even with an alluringly 
 dumb sci-fi storyline, this is one mess of a game. You've got a protagonist named Etrom who's apparently 
 rebelling against a fascist police state in a dystopian future due to some goofiness about visions, 
 finally glimpsing reality due to an encounter with "the astral essence." Uh-huh. The things you'll 
 see when you're on peyote...  

  Beyond this, there is no explanation regarding why you're going off the reservation, nor even a 
 mention of why you're toting a glowing magic axe while many of the armored future cops, ninja thief 
 dudes, and zombies that you get to hack to bits are carrying guns. The same goes for the oft-bizarre 
 backdrops, which abruptly switch from the likes of the aforementioned future world filled with 
 computers and space-age disruptor blasters to underground D&amp; D temples chock-full of zombies. 
 Some of the above might be spelled out in the soliloquies that Etrom regularly lapses into, but 
 his dialogue is so filled with New Age gobbledygook and grammatical errors that it's impossible 
 to figure out what he's trying to say. If you figure any of this out, please drop us an e-mail. 

  Still, at least the gameplay itself is straightforward. Despite the hallucinogenic plot points, 
 the story is a basic scavenger hunt that sends you around the world in search of seven Aurum keys. 
 The RPG-style character development is equally cut-and-dried, with you gaining XP and distributing 
 points to various skill categories every time you level up. Power-ups and weapons are scrounged 
 from slain enemies or purchased in shops. P. M. Studios does mix up the generic stuff with oddball 
 additions like Etrom's ability to pull off magic tricks like transforming into a demon and stopping 
 time, but everything here plays out much like in the usual elf-and-orc action RPG.  

  Yet even though the developer covers most of the basics, the camera system makes fighting an exercise 
 in teeth-grinding frustration. There are no ways to lock the camera onto opponents, and it gets 
 trapped in the scenery every time you get close to a wall. This means that you constantly have 
 to rotate your view with the mouse during battles. And since you're swarmed by a dozen or more 
 goons coming from all directions in nearly every scrap, you're stuck fighting the camera more than 
 you are the bad guys. And, of course, when the camera gets caught on a wall, you can't see anything 
 but a pixelated backdrop for a few moments until you swivel out of trouble. Say hello to instant 
 death, or at least a whole lot of damage, if you happen to be in the middle of a beat-'em-up when 
 the camera goes AWOL.  

  Just to make things even more maddening, it's tough to target an enemy during combat. The targeting 
 circle is remarkably finicky, so you often wind up running around like an idiot instead of launching 
 an attack while foes blast and hack you to bits. Enemies also always turn tail and run away in 
 the midst of a fight if you don't take them down with your first couple of swipes with the axe 
 or shots from a gun, which drags out battles and gives other enemies free shots at your back while 
 you're chasing down the cowards.  

  Since this is an action RPG in which virtually all you do is fight, the above problems make Etrom 
 nearly unplayable. The game is awfully hard, even without the control issues. There are lots of 
 battles to be fought against lots of enemies, all of which respawn every time you exit an area. 
 And because you have to do a lot of backtracking here, you wind up killing the same crews of enemies 
 over and over again. A stealth mode lets you avoid combat in select spots, but not enough to be 
 worthwhile, as it seems like bad guys run out of nowhere and attack you regardless, which soon 
 draws the attention of a mob. Sneaking also reduces your movement speed to such a crawl that it 
 takes forever to cross the game's large city maps. While you might start off with the soft-shoe 
 routine, it's hard to live with it for long. After four or five minutes of creeping around, you'll 
 do almost anything to end the tedium and switch movement back to running.  

  Finally, just to throw in a last little bit of extra hair-pulling frustration, you save and level 
 up in hubs that are few and far between. So you typically have to fight your way across large stretches 
 of maps numerous times, killing respawned packs of enemies for the third, fourth, or fifth times 
 just to save off and buff your abilities. Oh, and the game also crashes to the desktop on a regular 
 basis when entering new locations, which inevitably destroys a lot of your progress since you typically 
 go 20 to 30 minutes between saves.  

          Fascinating? Cryptic? Engagingly mystical? Nah, just deeply, deeply stupid.     

  No 
 eye candy is presented to take your mind off any of this ugliness. This game looks like it was 
 made for the PS2 circa 2001. Levels are flat and featureless, as are most of the character models. 
 Even rain is just a collection of broken lines. There is no imagination in the level design, either, 
 as every map is a straight corridor crawl, and the first levels in the game take place in sewers. 
 Resolution is locked at 1024x768, and there is no antialiasing option to smooth out the many jaggies. 
 The only stylistic touch of any worth is the use of comic book faces to illustrate dialogue boxes 
 during the rare cutscenes. Sound effects are barely there. Gunshots and other battle whangs and 
 bangs are tinny, there is no spoken dialogue, and the music is straight out of an early '90s arcade 
 shooter.  

  It's hard to believe that any developer could so thoroughly mishandle something as formulaic and 
 done to death as an action RPG, but P. M. Studios manages to accomplish this momentous task with 
 Etrom. Gloriously dumb sci-fi story or not, you'll get more enjoyment out of placing this game 
 disc underneath your beverage of choice than you will by placing it in your DVD drive.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: marcus-rex
Rating: 3.2
Date: May 27, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  When I read the reviews of other people here I felt a bit disappointed because I had just got my 
 hands on the game and I was really eager to play. Despite the critics I played it for a while (read: 
 I played it 4 times from the beginning 'cause I couldn't save the game yet) and felt lucky it didn't 
 crash... yet. Maybe it was because I installed the v1.1 patch...? After I got to the Prophet who 
 explained and unlocked some of my powers, I was quite happy with the quicksave-function and the 
 ability to go to the Astral Temple and, after doing my thing, go back to wherever I came from. 
 Although most levels where similar to another, too big (read: too time-consuming) and boring, the 
 game played just fine until I got to the boss-fights. And those can be quite tough, believe me. 
 Most of the time, it takes 2, 3 or more tries to finally kill a boss, while their goons hack and 
 shoot away at you and sometimes keep respawning. Eventually I succeeded finishing the job so the 
 game could crash down my pride by, well, crashing. Especially when the screen is full of explosions 
 or other magical / pyrotechnical effects - it seems the game's engine just can't handle it, even 
 when I have a 256 Mb videocard...
  Believe me - it drove me to destroy my keyboard by whacking it in two by using my knee.
  
  
 Games take time of someone's life. Most people don't care, but I do. I don't mind putting SOME 
 time in a game, not ALL my time. Crashing games and programs that make people lose their work / 
 effort / time should be annihilated from digital existence.
  
  It's a shame. Many characteristics of this game promise enough potential. Nevertheless I advise 
 you NOT to even try this game if you've got a high blood pressure... like me.
  
  Aside of this: I'm no Englishman so excuse my poor English (that includes possibly strange looking 
 sentences) ...!
  
  Kind regards to all who read this,
  
  Marcus Rex 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xebinon
Rating: 3.1
Date: May 16, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  I only played the demo of this, but judging by GameSpot's review, the full version isn't any more 
 playable. I really wanted to find a way to enjoy this game, because the demo hinted at a new and 
 different setting and story that could have been interesting. But I couldn't. If only the developer 
 had taken a little more time with a few key elements, this game could have been playable. It might 
 have taken a lot longer to make it a _good_ game, but just a little more effort might have made 
 it playable.
  
  It's not. GameSpot's review is dead on there. The wretched camera is your worst enemy because it 
 compounds the horrible control problems. Etrom has a lot of fighting to do, which isn't surprising 
 in an action RPG, but the controls and mechanics of the game should be assisting you, not fighting 
 against you. You have to click directly on a moving enemy for each and every trigger pull or axe 
 swing, and missing a click sends you running in circles around the enemy like an idiot. Of course, 
 while you're running in circles around a moving enemy, it becomes even harder to click on them 
 to actually attack. And Etrom won't fight back even in melee without that mouse click. If you can't 
 target the enemy, he'll just stand there and grunt and groan as he soaks up damage.
  
  Of course, before you can click on that enemy, you have to see him, which requires wrestling with 
 the camera, which is also done with the mouse. The camera, like the rest of the controls, does 
 absolutely nothing to make this process any smoother. Programming good automatic camera movement 
 is tricky, and with this game's controls, a poorly done automatic camera would have been disastrous, 
 but this completely manual camera isn't much better. The trick I had to resort to just to get through 
 the demo was hiding near walls to stop and move the camera around before proceeding around corners, 
 and then running for cover when attacked before wrestling the camera around to find the enemy.
 
  
  The game actually boasts that it can be played entirely with the mouse. Unless you only have one 
 good hand and that hand has superhuman dexterity, this is not an advantage. Overloading that one 
 control makes the game harder, not easier, for most people to play. Having the option of playing 
 with just the mouse would make sense, but only in a simpler or slower-paced game, or one that would 
 pick up the slack by assisting you with some of the targeting, moving, and camera control. Requiring 
 you to do all three with one control in an action game is not a good thing. There were a few adjustable 
 keyboard controls, but not enough, and those few were not particularly useful and still didn't 
 solve the overloading problem because the mouse controls were even less configurable.
  
  There might be something interesting or enjoyable about this game, but finding it would be just 
 too much work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 11, 2007 12:44 am PT
Review:  I thought I would check out Etrom due to the lack of RPG I have had in my life. My last new RPG 
 game, Silverfall, didn't quench my thirst and only left me dissapointed.
  
  Etrom sets you in the future as a crazy scientist guy with a special body suit. I wasn't really 
 explained the story due to the great introduction but it had to do with some zombies or something 
 evil trying to attack me.
  
  The combat looks from a 90s game. The graphics aren't far behind with very bad visuals that indie 
 games could beat. There isn't much more to say about Etrom other than it is just another failure 
 to deliver a fun RPG Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quinn212
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 9, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  ... but it's not quite there, yet. The game is solid, with a lot of fun and well implemented features, 
 but it could use a coupple more patches. 
  
  The only thing that's really holding it back for me, right now, is the constant swaying in difficulty. 
 Some parts are mind numbingly easy, while others are impossibly hard. Granted, this adds a challenge, 
 but sometimes it can be frustrating enough to drift off and play Space Rangers 2 instead.
  
  Also, the lack of ability to port directly to the shop when needing to empty your inventory 
 or restock and ammo and health makes the excessively long dungeon crawls (such as the sewers) tedious 
 at best.
  
  While these may all sound like great let-downs, in actuality, they're not. It's quirks like this 
 that show off the true potential of a game. Sure, it lacks polish and the big budget that most 
 major hits have, but because of that, the developers are forced to focus on content, rather than 
 flash, which ends up giving us, the end user, just as much, if not more value for our money.
  
  All-in-all, I would say it's definitely something to check out if you're looking for something 
 to occupy your time, but not something that's so deep that you need to spend days at a time grinding 
 for items, just to enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zazagno
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 4, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  Etrom is a good game with an addictive storyline and a deep and detailed techno-fantasy background.
 
  
  This is a thinking person's adventure who really feels like getting enveloped into a title.
  
 
  The aim of this game is not saving the world, but only yourself, maybe. In this adventure you are 
 not playing a classic hero, but you are finding out about your own meaning, your personal idea 
 about heroism. What will be Epic is the journey towards a new Universe, inside the soul of a 
 character (ETROM) whose choices mirror what he actually is.
  
  The gameplay is good if you like Hack n' Slash/3D Diablo-style games. There are some intersting 
 innovations to discover during the character's development. There are also a good number of objects 
 and weapons to equip. Spells and Astral Powers (and visual fx) are really nice. The Mech and Inner 
 Demon are great!
  
  Graphics and Sound are well done, really deep and dark both.
  
  Overall this game, also for its good price, deserves to be better known by all the rpg players.
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jin_Kazawa
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 20, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  Incredible. One of the worst RPG-s I played in last month. I mean come on. Even the first animation 
 is soooo boring and the voice of a guy ? Geeezz... I skiped it right away. 
  
  Now about the game. Camera is really bad when you stand next to wall. It acctually goes in the 
 wall. Hehe. Fun at first but then, when youre surounded by enemies it is quite not good. Bad acctually. 
 Aiming at opponents is also a problem especially when youre moving. Mouse aim moves too. So you 
 have to have excelent "micro". :) Staff that enemies drop are sometimes too close to each other 
 so its possible you miss some of the loot. Yeah. Graphics are ok, but who cares about it, when 
 gameplay sux as hell. 
  
  Ok, for final words I'll use this : AVOID! AVOID! RUN AWAY FROM IT! BUY A T-SHIRT OR SOMETHING... 
 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AttillaFlagello
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 21, 2006 2:44 am PT
Review:  I was a man, a soldier...... These words give start to a deep and obscure 3D Action-RPG.
  We are in 476 A. H. E. F. (After Human Empire Foundation) : a future time-and-space era, parallel to 
 ours. Created by mystic events, the world of Etrom is dark, made of never-ending, desertic wastelands 
 and huge Megacities. Every Megacity is closed with internal and external walls, protected by Chromatic 
 energy barriers that obscure the sky.
  The inhabitated parts of the land are divided into four big States in war: Republic of Sighund, 
 Neo-Nazist Empire of Hitland, Union of Ursaton and Theocracy of Sakrum.
  In this dark and oppressive background begins the story of Etrom, a former H. W. D. (Human World 
 Defence) officer, whose life has been totally blown by the casual encounter with the mystic and 
 mysterious Astral Essence, which entered into his heart and forced him into infernal visions, 
 strange questions and supernatural powers.
  Breaking the schemes and steretypes of the Fantasy genre, Etrom is in search for answers, he does 
 not want to save the world. The narrative actions has its strenght in the existentialism of the 
 character and in his constant search for his own salvation from the eternal damnation. 
  From the Gameplay point of view, Etrom looks like a furious 3D Hack n' Slash with a completely 
 free (sometimes bad) camera. Hordes of enemies will be smashed down by a frenetic mouse-clicking 
 action. Every ultimate generation Diablo-player is invited to take place into this massacre, but 
 not withouth some strategy and tactics. It is needed to understand the flaws of your enemies, set 
 the right Nature of your attacks and wear the right armour to engage fightings.
  The variety of the action is shown through the use of some extra-genre elements such as the shape-shifting 
 into various creatures (the Inner Demon above all) , the first-person mode for the Sniper Rifle, 
 the chance to ride a powerful War Mech.
  The graphics completely fit with the dark background. Models and textures are almost always good; 
 the characters and the situations will make us feel inside the story, the world and the bloody 
 fightings of Etrom.
  The sound FX together with the music is astonishing and creates fascinating atmospheres.
  The 
 engine is fluid, with nice fx (the meteor storm and the Inner Daemon are really good) , and it is 
 suitable for lower hardware configurations, too.
  
  My Final Comment:
  Etrom is a fascinating game. Its Gameplay collocates it in an evolving line of Hack n' Slash, Diablo-style, 
 with some nice tactical and strategic innovation, like the new RPG system, the Sniper Rifle and 
 the War Mech. All in all, Etrom is a nice title to play and live in first person.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CristiS
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 20, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  I really lounged for a RPG and Etrom seemed to be the right choice to satisfy my desire.
  
  The story. You are a soldier who wondered into a dark cave and found "the astral essence". Afterwards 
 you become a super-hero outcast (why? - ask the producers) and begin your search for answers. (answers 
 to what ? - a. t. p.)
  Anything that starts in a sloppy manner will continue in the same way. The character is very unstable 
 (because of the astral essence perhaps) . For example he starts a dialogue with "Grrr..... I will 
 kill you!!!!" and the next line is something like "I see... your cause is just.... i can feel it 
 is right to help you". (maybe i am exaggerating a bit but the dialogues are awful) . And another 
 thing. During the whole game i had the sensation that i was reading some poorly translated game.
 
  
  Game play. This is the only department with positive aspects.
  You main weapon is an axe which can deal numerous types of damage. You have to adjust your damage 
 type according to your enemies. (this is a classic feature but in this game it is vital to do so) . 
 Another interesting thing is that you will have to figure out on your own, based on "secret" info, 
 some vital locations during the main quest. 
  
  Leveling up is generally a standard simple procedure. Too bad the developers messed it up. You 
 are not going to believe this but the skill points you can distribute after you level up are RANDOMLY 
 generated..... Yes... Randomly generated. (vary from 2 to 5) . So you just save before leveling 
 up and load until you get 5 points.... Way to piss off the gamer.
  Another problem is that the game is totally unbalanced. If in the beginning you are very susceptible 
 to getting killer and after level 21 you become an unstoppable killing machine.
  Max level is 30 and after 29 i needed negative xp to get to 30. How's that for a challenge?
  
 
  Saving. You can only save inside your safe-heaven. Fortunately you have a special ability that 
 will take you there instantly. Unfortunately there is a frequently encountered bug that disables 
 this ability until you restart the game. (i am sure you knew something like this was coming...) 
 
  Another thing that could stress you out is that enemies re-spawn when an area reloads. (hmm... 
 i need to empty my inventory and buy a health potion... if you have such a thought in the middle 
 of a dungeon BLOCK IT! )
  
  Maps. The first maps are common to the genre. Nothing brilliant about them. But the maps from act 
 II are terrible. Imagine a huge square with randomly placed enemies and scenery. Anyone of us could 
 design such stupid maps. So you may be forced to wander for hours in one of this huge squares looking 
 for a portal. (some did.... - check their forum)
  
  Graphic. Way below 2005-2006 requirements.
  
  Sound. Terrible. The music is very similar to 
 the one found in the 90's games. So retro fans will love it.
  
  Value. If you enjoy the game you will be tempted to try all different endings. I had enough with 
 just one. Still the fights and having to change the damage type all the time provided an decent 
 experience.
  
  The game could have been so much more if more time had been invested in it. The game designer had 
 a few good ideas. Too bad the rest of the crew did not support him. 
  The producers have a lot of answering to do.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiSaZuL
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 1:15 am PT
Review:  Got a solid story, made on comic book series I belive. Its not hard not easy its just about right, 
 however grafics are rather outdated tho I dont really care about that they dont make game great, 
 laking contrast in music, and not really an rpg ammount of usable items (meaning you dont have a 
 variety) .
  Controls can look awkward for first few hours but then you get used to them. Has couple of nice 
 things to it, mechs and first-person sniping mode are fun as well.
  Generaly gameplay is good exept for few bugs and misunderstandings its very much playable.
  
 
  But people really should read manual before complaining. You can save anywhere at anytime, w/o 
 teleporting yourself to temple using quick save, exept boss fights :P I still get amazed when people 
 discover demon transformation by the middle of the game, while its usable right after prologue... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Ice
Rating: 3.6
Date: Mar 19, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  This could have been quite good if not for its severe drawbacks:
  bleak and unpolished textures and models and outdated graphics in general
  repetive enemies
 
  slow action, and quite repetitive
  no active pause, which could have been quite useful
  no option to use keyboard for movement control (would have loved this one)
  silly camera
  to 
 few NPC to interact with
  attackers just attack and don't say anything, they just shoot or swing swords
  no EAX sound, 
 no antialiasing, no anisotropic filtering controls
  only one weapon and one attack and you just have to click and keep clicking on the enemy... and 
 even that is hard because the game doesn't readily acknowledge that you have clicked on an enemy.
 
  I understand that it is a bleak future and a totatilitarian regime... but the buildings all look 
 the same, the people are all the same, there is no variation and its quite boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pietror_se
Rating: 2.9
Date: Mar 17, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  i had quite a hopes for this, but they never come true.
  the graphics is like from a medicore year 2000 game, allowing max 1024x768. no antialiasing control, 
 and when i changed the global profile to x4 antialiasing, it was still the same (none) .
  the game design is like a typical action rpg, you just go in still the same areas and kill the 
 enemies. but here, you will be leaded through a long corridor, shooting the same enemies and finding 
 nothing. then you have to get back, and with the game movement control, it really is a pain.
  and what about to say about the camera? sometimes you will see just a wall, hearing that someone 
 is shooting to you, unable to change the view without moving to a better spot first.
  and the combat system is quite wicked, because you have to click to the enemy (mostly on his legs) 
 to activate the targeting yellow circle to hit anything.
  the music sounds sometimes like form atari in 1980, the worst is that in one level there is only 
 one song. when the song ends, you will hear strange beeps, like from a hearth monitor, until it 
 gets started again. (like for 1 minute) .
  Ending words: a great opportunity missed, don't even bothere with this unfinished piece of game. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
