-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Europa Universalis II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/europauniversalis2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 28, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.5, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 526 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Paradox Inter.
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Nov 12, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The new game has a broader focus, one that will interest returning veterans of the first game, and 
 it greatly improves the tutorial and documentation to ease the significant learning curve for new 
 players. 

 History never changes, but a few new sources can open up radical new perspectives and push historians 
 to revise the textbook interpretations. Similarly, the revisions to Europa Universalis II might 
 not seem like much on paper, but a few significant changes make the game play noticeably differently 
 from its predecessor, which was released in the US just earlier this year. The new game goes further 
 to emphasize the social and political specifics of historical nations and opens up the possibility 
 of playing non-European and minor nations. Europa Universalis II also takes steps to maintain a 
 reasonable balance of power, because while the original Europa Universalis wasn't intended to be 
 played as a world conquest game, it wasn't that hard to run wild across the globe. Nonetheless, 
 while Europa Universalis II is superior in many ways, it's hardly a true sequel.           Europa 
 Universalis II extends the boundaries of the previous game.    

  Europa Universalis, transformed from its board game roots by a Swedish developer, met with considerable 
 success for a game with such a serious historical emphasis and a steep learning curve. Much of 
 the game's charm came from its exacting detail: 60 major and minor nations competed on a colorful 
 illustrated map with some 700 territories spread across the globe. War was just one means to the 
 diplomatic tug-of-war between leading nations, but when alliances of many nations would clash, 
 dozens of battles could play out simultaneously throughout Europe in the game's rather abstract, 
 real-time mechanics. And, as the title suggests, the game is very much focused on Europe.   

  The new game has a broader focus, one that will interest returning veterans of the first game, 
 and it greatly improves the tutorial and documentation to ease the significant learning curve for 
 new players. The total number of nations has jumped to well more than 100, and you can choose to 
 play as any of them. While many of the new nations are quite minor, like the once independent French 
 provinces of Brittany and Auvergne, there are now a number of new viable starting places outside 
 of Europe. There are more interesting corners of the world to explore and conquer, and the regions 
 of the globe are more distinct. Each province has a native culture, which can come into tension 
 with the ruling culture of your nation. Religion and the political conflict between faiths play 
 an important role in Europa Universalis, so it's natural that the new game also adds the predominant 
 religions of Asia (Buddhism, Confucianism, and Hinduism) to the mix. However, don't think that 
 large nations in Asia like China are natural winners. The game uses religious and cultural bonuses 
 for research and productivity to give the West the momentum to reach its manifest destiny by the 
 19th century.           The new game's broader focus should appeal to fans of its predecessor. 
    

  Even in playing one of the major European powers present in the first game, it's easy to see how 
 the many small gameplay changes strongly affect the course of a game. Strategies that once would 
 have paved the way to world conquest may now be recipes for disaster. Most of the scripted events 
 in the first game focused on the sudden religion conversions that swept across 16th-century Europe, 
 igniting domestic upheavals and breaking political alliances. Now events cover any number of historical 
 happenings, from treaties and political intrigues to ideological shifts. In many cases, you can 
 choose between two or more possible paths after considering the explicit statistical effects for 
 each.    

 The events help ground the game more solidly in historical fact and flavor and also help to further 
 distinguish the experience of governing one nation from another. There's real bite to events in 
 part because they tie into a new set of domestic policy settings that describe social considerations, 
 like the degree of centralization and aristocratic privilege in a nation, a nation's military preference 
 for land over sea, or quantity over quality. Since the domestic policy sliders allow only a single 
 small change every 10 years of game time, the comparably quick changes from events make the system 
 seem much more relevant. However, the biggest overall effect of events is in decreasing political 
 stability. It's now much harder to expand a nation into an empire and still maintain domestic peace. 
 Rebellions are a bigger distraction than ever and ensure that there's always a lot of work to do. 
           Europa Universalis II shares much in common with the first game.    

  But when your nation's inhabitants aren't rebelling, it's the computer-controlled nations that 
 will keep you challenged. There are a few new diplomatic options to use to keep other nations on 
 your side, but other countries are generally better at banding together to keep a very aggressive 
 nation in check. It's still quite difficult to judge which computer-controlled nations will accept 
 at the negotiating table. Vassals who think well of you will constantly refuse to trade maps, and 
 friendly nations may declare war without provocation. Advisor suggestions, counteroffers, or contextual 
 clues would really help make the diplomatic system less of a guessing game. However, new ways of 
 concluding peace agreements are a more concrete improvement. You can now force defeated countries 
 not only to give up a few provinces but to also accept military access for your troops; or demand 
 that states become vassals as a kinder alternative to full annexation. Since runaway expansion 
 isn't as much of an option as before, you'll have to pay close attention to victory points or other 
 customizable victory conditions to win scenarios.   

  The scope of the game now extends earlier and later, starting out in the late Middle Ages in 1419 
 and extending through the Napoleonic era to 1815. Most of the seven scenarios focus on a manageably 
 small corner of history and do a particularly good job of opening up the later periods for play 
 without having to march through the grand campaign. For those looking to play a straight conquest 
 game without the hindrance of minor nations, there's a fantasy scenario that excludes all but a 
 handful of major nations spread around the globe. While multiplayer in games of this scale is quite 
 daunting, those interested will appreciate the new integrated player-matching service and the ability 
 to save games in progress.           Players who missed out on the original should give the sequel 
 a try.    

  While the gameplay additions have an overall positive effect, the benefit of the graphics and sound 
 revisions isn't as uniform. The game now allows resolutions of 1024x768 and 1280x1024, using the 
 extra pixels to display more of the map at a time. There are also more unit graphics for different 
 time periods and regional military traditions. But the overall effect of the graphical touch-ups 
 isn't noticeable for most of the game if you're playing as a European nation. And while the addition 
 of quality MP3 music for each of the periods is quite welcome, the sound effects are still screechy 
 and repetitive. Relative volume sliders for music and sound would have been a step in the right 
 direction.   

  Europa Universalis II requires more subtlety and more work to play than the first game, as events 
 often crop up to keep you from zooming through times of peace at higher game speeds. Although the 
 new game doesn't represent the jump in production values that some might have hoped for, the gameplay 
 changes should give fans of the first game plenty to work with. For those who haven't played the 
 first game, the better documentation makes this a much more accessible way to try out one of the 
 most engaging serious strategy games of the year.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Talus057
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  //Gameplay//
  I've been playing strategy games for as long as I have been playing RPGs, which is to say 15+ years 
 (I am in my 20s) . I've always had a good mind for playing these types of nation-building type of 
 games; such as ROTK. It has been so long since I have had difficulty grasping a strategy game. 
 Like I always do, I just jumped right in and started up a game as Poland, and boy was I clueless! 
 I totally had no clue at all what I was supposed to be doing exactly. So I backed up, and took 
 a look at the tutorial from start to finish, and I am glad I did.
  
  Now that I know what I am doing, I can really appreciate everything this game has to offer on the 
 gameplay scale. There are SO many more events than any other Paradox title, and they are all very 
 accurate, in description at least -- sometimes they fire before or after they actually happened depending 
 on the conditions of the event.
  
  I can appreciate the combat system a lot more than EU3; CK, Victoria, etc. It is more or less on 
 a tick system where a group of 1000 soldiers is equivalent to 1 manpower, as opposed to 1000 = 
 1000 in EU3, so your modifiers are on a decimal system, such as -0.25, or +1.25. You also do not 
 get reinforcements for your troops, so you have to keep them reinforced. I like this better because 
 I really have to take attrition into account more so than before it seems. If I am moving my troops 
 too much, or forget to take my ships off "patrol" to sit around at port, then my forces will start 
 dropping from attrition, and I will end up like Alexander the Great limping through the desert 
 back to Greece.
  
  EU2 has "autosend merchants", which was not implemented in EU3 until the release of the Napoleon's 
 Ambition expansion, which was not sold in stores, and can only be purchased online.
  
  //Graphics//
  While the map itself is nice, the graphics for the map; Normal, Political, and 
 Economy, and Trade, are not as good looking as they are on EU3. While the political map gets its 
 job done regardless, because you can't really screw up a political map (lol) , I kind of wish the 
 Normal map would have been designed to be easier on the eyes. Speaking of maps, EU2 has seasons 
 just like the rest, although I am not sure how much, if at all, they hinder movement and attrition, 
 but the graphics for the city/colony/whatever show the changing of the seasons well enough.
  
  I was sort of bummed that the medieval units do not have the color of their country, like in 
 EU3, because they are all the same color. But with the flag above, like pretty much every Paradox 
 game, it is still easy to distinguish between who's troops are who's.
  
  //Sound//
  The music is good enough, and it's most notable quality is the fact that it is mostly upbeat, but 
 it gets a little repetitive after a while. It would be nice if it changed songs more often than 
 it does currently. That is my only real gripe with this game, -0.5 for repetitive songs! lol
  
  //Conclusion//
  As a cult-follower of the strategy & strategy-rpg genres, I can't help but 
 play the heck out of this game every chance I get. It is the most historically accurate Grand Strategy 
 game I have ever played, and I have played just about every other Grand Strategy game on the commercial 
 market. It is perfectly balanced and fine-tuned to a point of excellence & brilliance. I have reviewed 
 quite a few Paradox games, and most of them have gotten bad reviews from me all the way down the 
 line, but this one is absolutely perfect. I highly recommend this game for anyone who thought EU3 
 was too watered-down, too inaccurate, too imbalanced, or just flat out didn't like it.
  
  Your search ends here. This is the game you've been looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  EU2 is a grand real time strategy game, you can take control of pretty much any state or nation 
 although some of the world is blanked out (terra incognito) and cannot be revealed, other areas 
 are blanked out at the start but later on can be revealed, you control your nation in the grand 
 campaign from 1419 to 1820, needless to say alot can happen in this amount of time.
  
  Graphically, EU2 is solid, nothing spectacular, it does the job and thats fine enough, like the 
 other paradox games it might not look good but you can run it on a low end PC which is a plus for 
 alot of people.
  
  The sound in the game is great, a huge soundtrack (over 2 hours) with a plethora of musical styles 
 which changes over the course of the game , for example it starts with renaissance sounding music 
 (upsala and falalala!) which will eventually change into classical music that is quite popular 
 even today with the likes of the four seasons etc, cannot fault its sound track and the soundeffects 
 do the job.
  
  Gameplay, this game is very complex compared to your standard RTS, the idea is to take things slow, 
 instead of rushing , building a huge army and declaring war on anyone you can. The game is played 
 out in real time and every few seconds will pass as a single day in the game, you can offcourse 
 raise the speed and thankfully pause the game and issue commands.
  The game reflects what perhaps is the realistic capability of the nation/state you might choose 
 to play, for example if I go the Byzantines who are in their death throes its just a challenge 
 to stave of the Ottomans, venetians or Hungarians let alone retake the old territories of the empire.
 
  And even if you go one of the 'big boy' nations such as the Ottomans, Mughals, English ,French 
 ,Spanish etc you will have difficulty taking over the majority of the world due to a 'bad boy' 
 rating which is imposed for any aggressive wars you might fight or extensive demands such as demanding 
 lots of territories, the more BB score you have the more likely the AI is to attack you, or even 
 form alliances against you which can be very troublesome to deal with.
  
  As I mentioned the game is complex, you have to look not only to preserving your nation/statess 
 borders, but raise armies , build navies, your army/navies ability to fight well will be dependant 
 on your technology rating (so theres another aspect of the game ill talk about later) the level 
 of maintenance (lower maintenance less combat worthy) leaders (a leader will enable an army to 
 fight better / suffer less atrrition in enemy territories) , your monarchs military rating and offcourse 
 troop composition (cavalry, infantry and cannons) .
  The research aspect of the game is done via sliders in the budget, you manipulate the sliders to 
 direct how much gold will go into what area, if your a landlocked empire say, Austria you'll want 
 to invest heavily in land tech instead of naval tech to gain a better land based army to deal with 
 your neighbours should any wars arrise. There are also other bars in the research to consider, 
 these are infrastructure (determines how far you can promote tax officials and so on to increase 
 tax base and lower revolt risk) trade level (helps with Merchants determines how many can be sent 
 to a centre of trading) and stability.
  
  Stability is a hugely important part of the game, the max is 3 but it frequently drops through 
 events and if you start wars with people sharing the same faith or lacking a casus belli. (cause 
 for war)
  Once your stability drops revolt risk shoots up and if your stability gets to -3 expect some serious 
 revolts and maybe civil war with provinces perhaps rejecting your rule and establishing their own 
 identity by breaking away from your empire.
  To increase stability you can up funding into stability slider but still it can take up to a game 
 year and usually longer to get back a single point of stability for your realm.
  
  The final part to the budget is how much gold goes to the treasury , its best I find to consider 
 this to mean how much gold is minted, because you may think oh ill just put this slider really 
 high but this can devestate your economy by increasing inflation which is very difficult to get 
 rid of (later on in the game with a high infrastructure rating you can promote officials in each 
 province to lower inflation by a single percent!) which can mean much higher prices for everything 
 thus nullifying the reason to have a huge income.
  
  Quite complex compared to the standard Civ style game!
  
  Not only this but in the realm settings 
 you can choose to develop your countries ideals, for example you may want to go from a aristocracy 
 to a plutocracy or if you wish to acquire missionaries to convert heathens within your borders 
 you can adopt a more narrowminded approach by moving the slider in that direction, however you 
 can only make these changes sparingly througout the game and it causes a drop in stability each 
 time!
  
  Also you gotta look after your countries merchants, you acquire these (the amount dependant on 
 realm sliders which i just briefly mentioned) and send these off to Centers of Trade, the more 
 you have the more money you get, but it costs money to send them and each time one is sent it has 
 the potential to knock a rival's merchant out of that center of trade, and if you have a high trade 
 research level you can acquire a monopoly and get a huge amount of income, but damage the trade 
 of that center, if a center has too little competition it'll disappear!.
  The further a Center of trade is from your realm the more profitable it is, but the more costly 
 to send a merchant , and even then a rival can if they have sufficient trade tech block your merchants 
 from using that Center of trade if it falls within their borders!!
  
  You also need to look to religious aspect of your realm, provinces which have a different religion 
 to your state religion are more likely to revolt and dont give much to your state as a province 
 with the same religion (most provinces are likely to be both different religious wise and culturally 
 which can mean a low status province) so you may wish to convert them, this takes a very long time 
 and costs a bundle, and if the missionary fails there'll be a riot.
  
  Next up theres the colony aspect to the game, you'll probably desire to create your own colonial 
 empire and most likely will if you're playing France, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain and offcourse, 
 England.
  You get a certain amount of settlers each year dependant again on realm settings, and you can send 
 them of to a province you wish, but they only account for 100 people and you'll need to send many 
 over time to get at least 1k population to make that province a state in your empire which is beneficial 
 because it means you have expanded your tax base, you can promote another official to lower inflation, 
 and its both your state religion and culture!
  However it can be difficult to acquire a new province for your empire, especially when the conditions 
 arnt right, you might have to instead 'grab' a province with a trade outpost (instead of colonising 
 at 100 pop each time via 1 settler) due to high level of native unrest or just to stop rivals claiming 
 that province.
  If natives are bothering you though you can send in your army to slaughter them, although this 
 will mean that there will be little to no population bonus onto your 1k state so you may have to 
 keep on sending more and more settlers to up the population to an acceptable amount.
  
  The war aspect of the game is played out by creating your army (size of which can be dependant 
 on the total manpower in your empire) , merging it all together, if you have a casus belli (a reason 
 to go to war) against a potential target (for example byzantium has a permenant casius beli against 
 Ottomans and Duchy of Athens) then declare war on them, you do get other casius beli's throughout 
 the game via events or people leaving alliances, refusing to honor pacts etc, then you can march 
 your units into that territory, but you can linger because theres attrition in enemy provinces 
 which gradually destroys your army (usually 1% a month but can rise exponentially in winter) , so 
 you're forces will start besieging a fort in the province, the smaller the fort quicker it is to 
 overcome, eventually it'll be replaced by your flag, but you dont own that province yet, you gotta 
 tke over many provinces , But you may bump into an army in a differnt province and the two armies 
 will duke it out, usually an army is not destroyed but demoralised and retreats and will have to 
 wait before attacking again.
  
  Eventually you can make a demand or get a offer dependant on your war scoare, more province and 
 battles won higher war score, and usually the better conditions and maybe even a province or two 
 extra for your empire.
  
  And theres diplomacy, you only get a certain amount of diplomats a year (again dependant on religion 
 and realm slider settings) you can make various standard proposes (alliance, improve relations 
 declare war etc) and offcourse like most strategy games its an important aspect.
  
  Another interesting part to the EU 2 game and the paradox games in general is the use of events, 
 these will pop up at specific dates depending on nation/state presenting a few choices and each 
 with its own consequences, for example as the Byzantines you get an event quite early on were you 
 can create better relations and in a desperate attempt to get allies against the Ottomans convert 
 state religion from Orthodox to Catholicism! And there are the random events which can mix things 
 up quite nicely, such as colonial revolts (which may in turn lead to creation of USA if unchecked) 
 or even beneficial ones such as a province converting to state religion.
  
  It may seem afterall this that theres not much of a purpose, well there doesnt seem to be much 
 of one after you dominate the game which is a flaw, but you can choose to acquire 'victory points' 
 for a final score by undertaking missions with various scores and difficulties such as 'no france 
 in north africa' as a difficult one or a 'keep xyz province for 5 years' as a easy one.
  
  As you can see , EU2 like the paradox games is complicated but extremely indepth and fun, my faults 
 with the game are, after all this time its still prone to crashes, and there can be some strange 
 bugs such as a crash on a specific date whcih will require editing the save game file to have past 
 this date, and after a while the game can get a little boring if you're in such a position that 
 you cannot be challenged by the AI, but at the end the score is a nice touch with the graphs but 
 so much more could be done (its a better touch in EU3 with a timeline and summary of the major 
 events under each monarchs reign within your realm) . Another fault is that newbies to the game 
 are going to have a rough time, its intially complex and thus overwhelming with the amount of things 
 you need to do in the game, but after a few goes its somewhat simple compared to alot of the other 
 paradox games (heres looking at Victoria revolutions and the combat mechanics of Hearts of Iron 
 2/doomsday/armageddon!)
  All in all, a very very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Przem0
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 10, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  If something isnt broken, dont break it, or something like that  that must have been the idea 
 of the sequel and Paradox did great. Europa Universalis was a superb game and the sequel gives 
 us all the greatness of the first part and much more.
  
  Europa Universalis II is a significant step forward in comparison to its predecessor. EU II does 
 what Europa Universalis did but much better. This time we get from the Paradox Interactive game 
 that develops things that have been omitted or not enough represented in the original EU. We get 
 to become a ruler of nearly any country that existed between 1419 and 1795. The timeline is divided 
 into several campaigns like the Grand Campaign which dates from mentioned 1419 up to the 1820 through 
 Napoleon Ambitions, Fantasia, Age of Enlightenment, Exploration, Mercantilism, Revolution and American 
 Dream.
  
  Game is really quite similar to EU. The first difference is the variety of countries. We no longer 
 are limited to few ones prepared by the developer and dont have to meddle in files to unlock other 
 nations. The very instant we click on one of the coat of arms with right mouse button we get a 
 long list of available countries all over the world from Incas and Cherokee through Mali, European 
 countries, Brunei, Gujarat, Manchu and so on and so on. Pretty much all countries from selectable 
 eras are covered thoroughly and that is impressive. After making the difficult choice it is time 
 to start new game. At the first sight not many changes here. Time runs continuously and just like 
 in the previous Europa we can pause it, speed it up or slow it down. First change is the map. Now 
 it is way bigger and feature much more provinces. Graphic engine stayed the same, so no revolution 
 here. So what is new? Few things. Finally we get to manage our internal policy and the direction 
 our country will go. Left clicking on coat of arms opens access to new options. Here we can every 
 ten years adjust one of several sliders a step into chosen direction. We can go with centralization 
 that will decrease time to develop new technologies but will affect the time we will be regaining 
 stability. Furthermore we can go either towards mercantylism or free trade and in few more directions. 
 Proper management of those sliders can give us serious advantage or sentence for year of fighting 
 revolts.
  Provinces gained the culture that is now a very important factor. It will be much harder for smaller 
 countries to conquer the world just because cultural differences between country and provinces 
 will result in revolts. This way game becomes more historically accurate, it is hard to imagine 
 that some far Asian provinces dont suffer severe penalty in stability while under European control 
 and also the other way too. As far as graphics is concerned, EU II offers a small improvement, 
 it is not a leap forward, but a small step. For the hardcore strategy fans graphics is a secondary 
 issue and it is hard to want more from game this type. Well, something had to be changed and we 
 finally can set the in-game resolution which is helpful when it comes to macro management.
  
  Sound doesnt annoy, the vast variety of music divided between the ages just blend in with 
 the game itself and gives you the nice feeling that something accompanies you in the background 
 during your world conquest. Since we face only the game map, sounds are limited to noise made by 
 clicking, selecting armies and moving them, which is enough.
  
  Game is more complex than its predecessor, which makes it less accessible for newcomers. The verdict 
 is, if you are a strategy connoisseur, you will fall in love with Europa Universalis II, if you 
 are new to this game, read paradox forum. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_G_III
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 24, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  This is really one of the best strategy game ever! Few games has such a deep, and still such a 
 good balance between strategy and action. If this game doesnt make you historical interested, 
 nothing dose.
  Also fun in multi player.
  
  The good:
  Great game play, great music and good design.
  
  The bad:
  Somewhat poor AI. Mirror bugs.
 
  
  I had said that this is a must buy , if not the third one is coming out right now I can't do that.
 
  Not much more is necessary to say if you look at the mark it's given by me. 9.8 off ten, superb. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Igotit8675309
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 20, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  The game Europa Universalis is easily one of the best titles by Paradox, as it has good control, and 
 fun gameplay.
  
  Gameplay: Its a little tricky at first, you have to control a nation of any size, and i usually slow 
 the speed down a little to get used to the game, but it runs pretty smoothly, the pause button helps, and 
 you can see whats going on by tabs on the screen.
  
  Graphics: This part of the game is not so great, the graphics arent very well, but do not really 
 need to be for this type of game, but the map is pretty well designed, and the city animation is 
 pretty cool, so its about a medium.
  
  Sound: This game has good music in it, i liked most of it, though the chinese one sounds kinda creepy 
 to me. The sound for units, and upgrades seem good enough
  
  Value: I think this is probably one of the best games for any type of game like this, you can conquer, explore, and 
 rule empires. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fadlee
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 22, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  ========================================================
  
  This is the first time i played a turn based strategy game and actually not a fan of this not so 
 attractive type of game.. i tried playing other game like civ 3 but by far this is the best game 
 ever in graphics, gameplay n its A. I are better rated than other game. After you master playing 
 this.. you would spent a lot of hours of playing this game and it is so addictive.. i hope Europa 
 Universalis 3 would be the next big thing.. 
  
  support this game!!!! hahahahaha n i need to type at least a 100words to post this comment so stupid.. 
 
  ========================================================== 
::::::

::::::
UserName: babunito
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 11, 2005 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Being an utter computer game junky for good past 12 years it is easier sometimes to remember past 
 years in terms of the games I played. Few of them undoubtedly stand a mile apart from the rest. 
 Among the TBStrategy genre these are: Civ, Master of Orion, Civ2, Master of Orion 2, Europa Universalis 
 2.
  
  EU2 is a tremendous innovation due not only to the level of detail of representation of Earth, 
 but to an amazingly deep and balanced game engine. Even at later stages of the game micromanagement 
 on the level of each province is avoided. What makes this game infinitely playable is absence of 
 "sure to win" strategies to take over the world. Any single other game I played can be reduced 
 to finding weakness in AI and shamelessly exploiting it.
  
  After accumulating over 1000 hours of EU2 gaming each time I play requires all my knowledge and 
 skill to lead the nation to victory. Few overly aggressive moves and "coalition of willing" will 
 tear your empire to pieces. Being big in this games helps, but at the same time presents you with 
 the whole host of new problems to deal with (ethnic, religious, etc.) . One will easily understand 
 the problems of running huge and diverse powers (like Russia) , when bulk of resources have to be 
 spent on keeping country together (providing stability) vs internal development (industry and technology) .
 
  
  Event language allowed thousands of history fans who played this game to make their contributions 
 by contributing more and more detailed and historically accurate events and personalities over 
 past few years. I keep getting amazed when the game in "off-hand" mode would realize most of the 
 tendencies observed in real history. As one would expect the further away from the start in 1419 
 the more minor deviations would accumulate. Paradox keeps tweaking game dynamics a bit as they 
 keep learning from feedback by gaming community over all these years.
  
  Other solid and good games like Civ3, Civ4 are good for people NEW to this kind of games. Anybody 
 who enjoyed earlier games from Civ series would not gain nearly as much from recent installments 
 as they can from EU2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason210
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2005 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Quality strategy game based on the board game of the same name. This version, unlike some of the 
 other versions that followed, has just the right balance between complexity and playability, and 
 once youve learned the ropes it can give you endless hours of fun. 
  
  You cant fault this in terms of value and game play. The graphics, on the other hand, were never 
 meant to be anything special in this game, but they are adequate. One can see a nice representation 
 of the buildings in the provinces as they develop; and the animated ships, soldiers and other things 
 create just enough visual interest to bring the interface to life. Although sound effects are average, 
 the superb classical music scores compliment the game perfectly.
  
  Playing Europa Universalis II is good way to develop ones knowledge of history  since the scenarios, 
 events and people are all based on real world ones. 
  
  Other strategy games pale in comparison to this, which probably comes on top of the list.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcana
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  My reviewer's tilt score is 10 because I really love the world-wide grand-strategic scope of EU2, 
 but it is an abstract (platonic) kind of love because I have never had the patience to play more 
 than thirty minutes, since I have never figured out how to play intelligently. I also awarded a 
 10 for its value because I intuitively suspect that this is a very brilliant and deep piece of 
 software : the fact that I have not succeeded in figuring out how to command-and-control its complex 
 logic does not imply that its value should be downgraded. I'm the one who has a neuroprocessing 
 problem: not the game's coders and my computer's Pentium brain. I had to put in a mere 4 for gameplay 
 since GameSpot's scoring-grid does not allow to express an abstention. I should abstain from rating 
 EU2's gameplay, since I have never really figured out how to intelligently play : a 3 symbolizes 
 that a game should not be so frustrating to learn. Spring 2007 : I'm ready to install it again, 
 and to patch it to version 1.09. I will attempt to build a totalitarian, Tantric Tibetan empire, 
 one more time! In what concerns buying EU3 : I tried the demo, and I experienced the very same 
 problems I have described here. I was clueless, and the demo was too short, with no save-game feature! 
 I have to figure out EU2 before I even consider purchasing its successor. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
