-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Europa 1400: The Guild
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/europa1400theguild/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  2, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 7.9, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 225 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: JoWood Productions
Developer: 4Head Studios
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Nov 18, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There's a great deal to do in Europa 1400, and you can choose to take part in all of it or just 
 concentrate on the areas you like best. 

 Europa 1400 consists of several simple parts that add up to an interesting whole. On the surface 
 it's a basic economic simulation. On a deeper level, it's a strategic game about politics and ambition. 
 It's not really a role-playing game, but you have a character with statistics, and these statistics 
 can be improved. Any element examined on its own would seem pretty skimpy, but together they make 
 for an addictive and unique game.   

  It's somewhat difficult to get started. There's a fairly comprehensive tutorial and a bulky manual, 
 but both are disorganized and confusing. The game seems to have suffered from a poor translation 
 in this regard. Even after you read the manual and go through the tutorial, Europa 1400 is a bit 
 overwhelming. There are so many options right from the beginning -- you have to choose your location, 
 your goals, your career, and even your parentage -- that it will likely take you a few false starts 
 to understand the basics.           You can easily get information about your fellow citizens. 
    

  Once you have a basic grasp of the game, however, Europa 1400 is great fun. You can choose to amass 
 wealth, become a master of your chosen profession, gain rank in society, or any combination thereof. 
 But first, you must start small. You pick a profession and get to work earning a meager living. 
 The majority of professions are related to craftsmanship, such as carpentry, masonry, and blacksmithing. 
 You can also choose to run more unusual businesses such as churches, apothecaries, or thieves' 
 guilds. With the exception of the thieves' guild, all of the businesses produce items which you 
 cart to the market and sell. At first, you'll want to manage your business, hiring employees and 
 choosing what is produced. Later, as your responsibilities grow, you can hire someone to run your 
 business for you.   

  When you have a bit of money, you can choose to make a name for yourself by courting a spouse and 
 running for public office. The former is a simple task, requiring you to send the occasional gift 
 and hope your chosen mate doesn't get married before she accepts your proposal. Once you're hitched, 
 you and your significant other will produce offspring who can assume your responsibilities after 
 your demise, provided you set aside some money for them and make sure they are educated.   

  Running for office is more complicated than marrying. First, there must be a position for which 
 you are qualified. The positions follow a pyramid: You must start at the base and then work your 
 way to the top. How a particular position is selected varies from job to job, but it inevitably 
 involves being well liked by the right people. You must pay close attention and make sure you are 
 in good favor with those who make the decisions. You can gain favor by buying special items and 
 throwing parties at your home, provided you have built a room in which to entertain. You can also 
 find ways to sabotage those who don't like you, such as by publicly insulting them, hiring thugs 
 to thrash them in the street, or having them thrown in jail. Once you secure a public office, you 
 can then attempt to have your enemies fired and your friends hired, which helps as you ascend in 
 rank and reap its associated monetary benefits.   

  Europa 1400 becomes exponentially more complicated as it goes along. As you expand your shop, or 
 open new ones, you'll make more money and produce better items, but you'll also have added responsibilities. 
 You can choose a new career at any point, and later in the game you can become a moneylender or 
 purchase raw-goods shops, from which you can obtain cheaper materials for your prime goods, and 
 you can even train mercenaries to waylay your competitors' trading carts.   

  In fact, you can base your entire career around being a general nuisance, robbing and blackmailing 
 and sabotaging your fellow citizens. If you choose to be a thief at the beginning, your game will 
 be slightly different. The thieves' guild doesn't produce items, though you can cart your ill-gotten 
 goods to the market. Instead, you hire thieves who go out and pickpocket the civilians. You can 
 scout homes and shops and then rob them once you've gathered enough information. Once you've expanded 
 your guild, you can kidnap the well-to-do and hold them for ransom. Thieving is one of the quickest 
 ways to get rich in the game, and it makes for a nice break from the otherwise standard make-and-sell 
 formula of the other professions.           Each room in your home allows you to perform different 
 actions.    

  What's most surprising is that the game is so much more high-tech than it needs to be -- a game like 
 this would typically consist of a series of static menus and would work just fine. But Europa 1400 
 has a full 3D engine, allowing you to zoom around the town, watch your workers as they go about 
 their business, and explore the many shops and services the town provides. It looks good, and the 
 game cycles from day to night and even has changes in weather. It sounds good too, with helpful 
 spoken advice and suitable music.   

  If the game has a major flaw, it's the combat. Occasionally, your shipments will get attacked by 
 marauders, and, provided you've hired an escort, you'll have to fight. The combat is in real time 
 and is very basic. It is also, luckily, sporadic -- full games can go by without a single attack. 
   

  There's a great deal to do in Europa 1400, and you can choose to take part in all of it or just 
 concentrate on the areas you like best. Because of all the options, it can be a different experience 
 every time you play. Unfortunately, the early game can get repetitive after just a few games. But 
 the mid- to late-game is involving and addictive every time. Europa 1400 has something to offer 
 fans of almost any genre -- it's the sort of creative hybrid that computer gaming sorely needs.  
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: haritomo
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game. The multiplayer is awesome. I am especially talented in the theft profession. 
 I highly recommend this game. It is fun to build up a dynasty with great political power. Or even 
 just staying as a business and getting rich and having a massive chain of buildings. I guarentee 
 a great time doing whatever in this masterpiece of a strategy/role-playing-game. This has been 
 Haritomo the newb of reviewing and thats that. Apparently that ISN'T that cause I need 100 words. 
 Here is list of proffessions:
  Blacksmith, Tailor, Landlord, Alchemist, Guardsmen, Thief, Robber, Purfumer, Church Warden, Preacher, 
 and there are a couple others that I cannot remember the names of. Also here is a list of buildings 
 for some of the proffesions. Thief: Smugglers Hole, Hide Out, and Thieves Guild. Blacksmith: Foundery, 
 Smithy, and Goldsmith. Robber: (there is only one) Robber Baron's Fortress. Guardsmen: Guard House, 
 Town Watch, and Garrison. That's all the profession buildings I know all the way to the profession's 
 max. DO NOT FORGET that you can only reach up to six master grades in each profession. Now that 
 is all I can tell you about the game. Cya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talus057
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 12, 2007 3:52 am PT
Review:  This game was such a clear disappointment for me because I started playing it for the reason that 
 I had played The Guild 2 and the bugs made it simply unplayable. I had thought that Europa 1400 
 Gold would be an aged yet completed game because it has been 5 years since its release in 2002.
 
  
  I was absolutely wrong. For all its charm, the game was patched with a Beta 3 patch, and I am guessing 
 that the "AddOn" aka GOLD edition was built with this fixes from this patch already in the game. 
 I am not sure if it is even possible to fix these bugs anymore. It is very disappointing and sad 
 that it has come to this over issues in which both games have been criticized for having bugs that 
 could have been fixed by any intermediate programmer with moderate intelligence. "Intermediate 
 Programmer" and "Moderate Intelligence" are both words I take directly from the community, and 
 there is pages of complaints to Jowood that are all ignored. If that is not enough; to continuously 
 make these mistakes in every single release, across multiple genres such as Gothic 3 patches, and 
 both Europa 1400 Gold & The Guild 2, how can one not worry about the future of the strategy gaming 
 industry?
  
  For all it's bugs, and crashes, it is still an entertaining game for those of us who like these 
 types of games. It has a lot of depth that The Guild 2 does not have, such as more Office duties, 
 more businesses & products, more items and historical accuracy that no other game, to my knowledge, 
 has ever had. That is why this is so much of an utter disappointment. It is such a complete shame 
 that no one will ever be able to enjoy this game, and it is even more of a shame that there are 
 some in the industry who outright refuse to learn from their mistakes the first time. If this game 
 had been beta tested privately, before the deadline, none of this would have ever happened, and 
 the integrity of the production team, and Jowood itself, would not be questioned as many times 
 as it has.
  
  For all the above reasons this is the most disappointing game I have ever played in my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: io764
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  
  When i read the blurb on the box, i figured that i had to give it a shot. It sounded like a business 
 RPG, set in a medieval environment. How could a strategy fan pass this up?
  
  There are lots of things to do, different professions to try out, different upgrades to explore, 
 skills to develop and test, etc. the problem here is the total lack of documentation! 
  
  I have the gold edition, and all it comes with is a quick start manual that deals with installation 
 and keys, leaving you hapless and at the game's mercy. There are a ton of options, professions, 
 trait combinations, titles, objects, products, ingredients, etc. which you can only discover by 
 playing the game since there's no other info available!!
  
  I would've also like a pause feature that enables you to explore things a bit. As it stands, the 
 spacebar simply locks you into that particular screen.
  
  I had trouble rating gameplay which i felt was between 7 & 8, but opted for 8 given the fact that 
 it's still pretty innovative. As i got it for $6 from Wal-mart, the value is unbeatable and to 
 be fair, the game is interesting enough for me to continue to explore for some time to come.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  This game is so special you can't enter it in an existing genre. You might say it's a role playing 
 game or you might say it's a tycoon or even a strategy game. Well it's all of this and more. 
 
  
  Basicly you must deal your way in life and must grow prosper and get prestige in the village by 
 starting a business and getting you involved in the intricate politics. 
  
  The fun things is that you will age and once you are dead, you take over the life of one of your 
 offsprings. So you're not starting from scratch cause you're offspring continue on the business 
 of it's elders but you must start over in term of prestige. It's really fun cause each time you 
 might decide to pursue a different path in the city jobs that are offert. 
  
  For exemple, if you run a Thief guild, you might want to get involved in the law offices and climb 
 your way to the top so that you can layout the laws that will give your guild freedom of action... but 
 be carefull cause the law is the same for everyone, even your ennemy. You can also decide to capture 
 a rival that could get a job you seek at the council the day the vote is taken. 
  
  There are so many jobs (and each of them plays differently) you can have and so many path to victory 
 that it will take you 100 hours to touch everything. 
  
  My two only cons are the fact that getting to certain menues you want might sometime be tendious 
 and the instruction manual don't give you much for a game that is out of the standards. 
  
  It's not for everyone (action oriented person stay away) but if you're a Role playing, or a Sim, 
 or a tycoon, or Strategy kind of player, you'll find this game refreshing and mostly original. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LisaGansky
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game crash on me MANY a time... the good news is, the game auto-saves every year, 
 so you're usually ok. You don't lose too much info. It took me a long time to figure some things 
 out, like how to change rooms easier, but I eventually got it. I was surprised that the game didn't 
 come with a better guide. You barely learn anything! The tutorial is ok, but a bit clunky, and 
 difficult to exit. Overall, it seems a bit easy to me. My favorite feature is that you can continue 
 your game even after your character passes away. I worked my way into the 1600s, until I lost my 
 game, due to a hard-drive error, unrelated to the game. Very cool... I was a Prince of the Empire! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 29, 2003 12:53 pm PT
Review:  The first half-dozen times I sat down with Europa: The Guild were mesmerizing. I'd never seen, 
 played or heard of a game like this before. Europa combines elements of some of the best strategy 
 titles of recent years -- a cool economic sim, a semi-realistic political/diplomatic sim, and a 
 fun life/RPG sim -- in a curious post-Medieval package.
  
  It's an open-ended game idea -- there are no real missions or goals or bosses to defeat. I totally 
 lost track of time in the open-ended life simulation, with different strategic priorites based 
 on your trade (thieves develop combat and stealth skills, blacksmiths focus on craftsmen and negotiation, 
 etc) . It's easily a game you sit down with and next time you notice the clock it's 2 a. m.
  
  I've had the game for a month now, and what none of the reviews point out is that this game 
 tires quickly. There really isn't a ton of replay value once you've digested the novelty of the 
 open-end life simulation. Sometimes you need some parameters on a game, like levels and bosses 
 and missions, so you have some sense of accomplishment and something tangible to work toward.
 
  
  The only problem with this game is that it's a little *too* accurate of a life simulation -- once 
 you get used to the game, it can get a little tedious and humdrum. And repetitive.
  
  A functional multiplayer would've helped. Competition against other real players would rock, but 
 the game's way too detailed and slow-going to allow for a fun multiplayer experience. Witness Civ 
 III: Play the World. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
