-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Eurofighter Typhoon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/eurofightertyphoon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  6, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 7.5, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 54 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Take-Two Interactive
Developer: Rage Software
Genre: Jet Sim
Date:     Jul 30, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Having to jump around from plane to plane gives Eurofighter Typhoon a scattered feel in which you're 
 fighting timing rather than flying missions. 

 You might be tempted to point at Eurofighter Typhoon among the new releases and say, "Hey, look, 
 flight sims aren't dead after all!" But you'd be wrong, because it isn't much of a flight sim. 
 It is, instead, an airplane action game from Rage, the creator of Incoming and Hostile Waters; 
 and Digital Image Design, the creator of EF2000, F-22 Air Defense Fighter, and the Total Air War 
 campaign add-on. Although DID's sims have gotten increasingly complex and sophisticated, Eurofighter 
 Typhoon reverses that trend. It has much more in common with Rage's shooters. This wouldn't necessarily 
 be a bad thing, considering Rage's shooters have kept improving. But Eurofighter's wings are sadly 
 clipped by its cloying campaign.           Eurofighter Typhoon forsakes realism for action.    
 

  Eurofighter has only tenuous claims to realism. The actual Typhoon is a collaborative effort whose 
 design and production are shared among Germany, Spain, Italy, and the United Kingdom. It hasn't 
 seen combat yet, but there are several operational models, and it's doing the rounds at air shows, 
 so this game isn't so much outright fiction as it is early speculation. The German consortium that 
 manages the actual plane's development has endorsed Eurofighter Typhoon, but that isn't saying 
 much -- considering that Lockheed Martin endorsed Novalogic's completely unrealistic F-16 Multirole 
 Fighter. Eurofighter isn't quite as simple as F-16, but there's still a lot of silliness going 
 on, and it will turn off hard-core flight-sim fans. This silliness includes broadly modeled sci-fi 
 weapon systems, a simplified damage routine that uses hard-coded hit points, an overpowered flight 
 model that will leap off the runway like Tinkerbell and glide forever if you shut down your engines, 
 enemy aircraft that blatantly violate their real-world capabilities, and even the ludicrous equivalent 
 of a boss battle that's waiting for you at the end of the campaign.   

  The campaign's story involves Russia's attempt to seize Iceland for control of the GIUK gap (the 
 Atlantic passage stretching between Greenland, Iceland, and the United Kingdom) , which traditional 
 Cold War thoroughfare gamers know and love from 360's Harpoon, Microprose's Fleet Defender, and 
 early Tom Clancy novels. Because the game is driven by a campaign in which success depends on managing 
 six pilots in real time, there's a Hollywood sense of a handful of men and women out to save the 
 world from Russia. When you move the mouse to the bottom of the screen, a display slides up, showing 
 each pilot's status. Click on a pilot, and you'll instantly jump to him or her. Every pilot is 
 always doing something, rendered in full 3D, whether it's hanging out in the rec room, waiting 
 to be rescued after ejecting, sitting in a pre-mission briefing, or flying a combat air patrol. 
 You can even jump to a view of a corpse drifting in the ocean when a pilot is lost at sea.     
       You'll see your pilots both inside and outside the cockpit.    

  When they're on missions, these pilots aren't really capable of anything beyond flying from point 
 A to point B, so you have to jump into the plane and take over if you want a mission successfully 
 completed. This creates a few problems. First, when you jump from one plane to another, pilots 
 will blithely plow into the side of a mountain or fly out to sea until they run out of fuel if 
 you don't switch on the autopilot before you leave. Second, when you jump into a plane in the middle 
 of battle, there's no easy way to find out what's going on. Suddenly, you've got a missile up your 
 tailpipe and you have no idea how it got there. Finally, there are situations when two computer-controlled 
 pilots need your help simultaneously. Missions will fail and planes will be shot down because you 
 can be in only one place at a time. This desultory jumping around from plane to plane gives Eurofighter 
 a scattered feel in which you're fighting timing rather than flying missions.   

  Then there's all the downtime as you wait for the computer to generate the next mission. You have 
 no control over the campaign, which is doled out in real time as the computer sees fit. It's almost 
 a joke that you can run the game at double time; if you're going to force players to wait 20 minutes, 
 it's some small consolation that they can trim the time down to 10 minutes. Downtime is downtime. 
 If you're going to allow accelerated time, why not allow players to quickly jump ahead to the next 
 mission? You'll easily spend a third of your time in Eurofighter Typhoon sitting on the sidelines 
 and waiting. It's the flight-sim equivalent of spawn camping in EverQuest.    

 Although there are some dynamic elements, the campaign is worth playing through only once. It's 
 driven mainly by a sequence of scripted events that slavishly repeat each time you replay the game. 
 Russian forces invade Iceland, gaining ground when you fail a mission. Successful missions beat 
 them back one territory at a time. Unfortunately, as a single-player game, Eurofighter is entirely 
 closed off behind its campaign. There are no single missions, skirmish modes, quick-action options, 
 and scenario editor. There are some interesting multiplayer modes beyond simple deathmatch, but 
 without a matching service or a stronger online presence, you won't have an easy time finding other 
 players. Also, it won't work on a LAN unless each player owns a copy of the game.           In 
 battle, you have to jump between six different pilots.    

  Although it uses the engine from DID's Wargasm, which played down close to the ground, Eurofighter's 
 graphics look every bit as good as those of DID's past flight sims. Iceland's green hills and rocky 
 snow-covered mountains are nicely drawn under a lowering gray sky layered with cloud cover. The 
 pyrotechnics and aircraft have been given a lot of attention, and it shows. You'll see some spectacular 
 battles with planes letting out streamers of contrails, bursts of chaff and flares, and bright 
 glowing missiles on columns of smoke. Not many post-World War II sims model flak guns, but you'll 
 find them here sprouting deadly airborne flowers of smoke and fire. The aircraft models are particularly 
 impressive, from lumbering transports to Harriers with camouflage paint and the Eurofighter itself, 
 lovingly drawn down to every last "No Step" decal on the wings.   

  From its previous games, DID has carried over the "smartview" concept, in which a camera jumps 
 around the entire map and shows the highlights of the war in a series of cinematic cuts and sweeping 
 views. This is a great way to make use of your downtime (when you're waiting between missions) , 
 but it's not as flexible as the smartviews from DID's previous games, in which you can choose what 
 you want to see. Oddly enough, the external views aren't very flexible either. DID has created 
 a gorgeous game, but it didn't allow the full freedom to admire it.   

  From inside the plane, the game doesn't look quite as good. The internal cockpit graphics are blurry 
 and low-res against the detailed terrain. Because the Eurofighter uses an advanced "glass cockpit," 
 it is flown almost exclusively using multifunction displays, represented here by configurable inset 
 windows that pop up along the bottom of your monitor. Many of these displays are too cramped (you 
 can't zoom out far enough) or too cluttered (there's too much brightly colored information competing 
 for your attention) . Because the controls are so streamlined, it can be an ordeal trying to target 
 the enemy you want. To Eurofighter's credit, there's a lot of friendly activity in the skies around 
 you, but it's not easy to decipher. You can't target friendly units, and there's no theatrewide 
 airborne radar, like the AWACS in DID's previous sims. This means a lot of the activity in Eurofighter 
 feels like an unknown jumble instead of an actual war effort. What are all those MiGs doing swarming 
 around those green contacts 20 miles from your starboard? Is it a helpless C-17 being jumped? Is 
 it a dogfight with local friendlies? To find out, you have to go look for yourself.   

  Although Eurofighter supposes a lot of new technology, most of it is given to the Russians, who 
 wind up fielding magic cruise missiles and the functional equivalent of UFOs. Your weapons are 
 common to those of most flight sims, but most of them are woefully underdocumented. Pity the poor 
 newcomer who doesn't know how to lead a laser-guided paveway to its target.           Eurofighter 
 Typhoon looks good, but can be frustrating.    

  Some of the weapon modeling is suspect. Since countermeasures such as chaff and flares are fully 
 automated, it's hard to get a feeling for how effective enemy missiles really are. At any rate, 
 they seem much more accurate than your own supposedly state-of-the-art meteor missiles, which are 
 inclined to lose their target lock at the drop of a hat. Then there's Eurofighter's version of 
 the hellfire air-to-ground missiles, called -- get this -- brimstones. These nearly useless weapons 
 seem to be outfitted with a dirt-homing seeker head, because they're more likely to plow into the 
 ground beside a tank rather than actually hitting the tank itself. It's aggravating enough trying 
 to plink hard-to-see ground units without worrying about your useless brimstones. It's a sad state 
 of affairs when you'd rather have a rack of dumb rockets rather than the latest hi-tech guided 
 missile.   

  Because of its streamlined gameplay and suspect realism, Eurofighter isn't going to appeal to hard-core 
 flight-sim players. But considering that it's locked into a campaign that's more about pilot management 
 and cockpit juggling, Eurofighter also won't appeal to casual gamers who just want to blow things 
 up. Rage has done a far better job combining pilot management, a scripted campaign, and graphics-intensive 
 action in Hostile Waters. And DID has done a far better job creating accessible flight sims in 
 its EF2000 series. Eurofighter Typhoon is stranded somewhere between these past efforts, and consequently 
 brings together the least of both worlds.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Vrcruiser82
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Once I finally, figured out how to get it work on Vista it is great. The controls are somewhat 
 rudimentary. But the Damage/physics is fairly good considering the age of the game. Also a one 
 of its kind in flight simulators for the quality of the campaign game. The only other game that 
 can come close in terms of campaign is Combat Flight Simulator 3 which is just as old in terms 
 of software. Overall a good play for hardcore flight sim fans that don't mind a little bit of outdated 
 software engines. 
  The only downfall of the game is some of the ordnance issues while in the game. The fact that if 
 you drop a Paveway or guided missile from to high of an altitude it will just disappear in mid 
 flight, never even reaching the ground. This can be compensated for by just releasing at a lower 
 altitude but watch out for ground fire. It also does not allow for key remapping, which would be 
 extremely helpful with sophisticated flight controllers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 24, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game because it wasn't all about just taking off, completing the mission and then 
 landing back again. Iceland is diveded into territories that according to how you complete your 
 missions will be taken over or defended by either faction (NATO or Russia) . So if you fail a mission, 
 more or likely Russia will take over the territory you were supposed to fly over because you didn't 
 destroy the tanks that were attacking. This dinamically affects you because you can choose to take 
 off from any airport in iceland, but you need to watch out that it doesnt get attacked and taken 
 over. Plus if you get shot down and bail out, you might land in enemy territory and your pilot 
 might get captured and sent to a prison camp for a while. It depends on his skill if he will survive 
 torture and manage to escape to fly missions again.
  The game also has adjustable time settings, you can pause it, fast forward it or even fast forward 
 many hours ahead.
  The only let back i can think of is that sometimes the missions are quite repetitive. Sometimes 
 i was asked to destroy a tank column in the same territory about 3 times. I guess because the whole 
 game is random every time you decide to play a new campaign it just picks out whatever territory 
 it picks.
  Another thing is the air to ground attacks, somehow, for some bug or error, tanks dont always blow 
 up when you hit them with your missles so you'll end up running out of them and fail the mission. 
 Even if you get most of them and leave about one or two tanks, it'll say the mission was failed 
 and you'll just lose another territory.
  All in all i think this is quite a good flight sim. Good for people that are just looking for some 
 fun and arent really sim geeks. The usual flight sim nowdays is just a bunch of long flights and 
 short dogfights with repetitive objectives. This game adds some more surprise to the whole thing, 
 and a dinamic campaign going on. At times an inexpected new high tech enemy fighter or spy plane 
 will be attacking you and you'll have a hard time bringing it down.
  But all in all a good game. Bad only for those frustrating bugs that happen quite often. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
