-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Europa Universalis
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/europauniversalis/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 19, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.9, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 164 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Paradox Inter.
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Feb 2, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Once you get past the initial shock of how big and occasionally unwieldy the game is, you'll find 
 that the detailed mechanics work to produce an unparalleled level of depth. 

 Although there have been many conquest and empire management games for the PC over the years, no 
 such game to date compares with the historical detail and scope of Europa Universalis. It plays 
 somewhat similarly to turn-based games such as Civilization II and Imperialism II, but with a focus 
 on the European continental and overseas empires from 1492 to 1792. This tighter focus lets the 
 game be amazingly specific, as the world map encompasses more than 700 provinces to be explored, 
 conquered, and developed by the 60 or so major and minor nations. Given how much time was necessarily 
 involved in compiling the game's extreme level of historical detail, it's hardly surprising that 
 it's based on a board game. However, once you get past the initial shock of how big and occasionally 
 unwieldy the game is, you'll find that the detailed mechanics work to produce an unparalleled level 
 of depth.           Europa Universalis features dozens of different nations    

 There's plenty of opportunity in Europa Universalis for expanding your empire through military conquest, 
 diplomacy, and mercantilist economics, but it's less about outright world domination than swinging 
 the balance of power in your nation's favor. The game contains 11 scenarios that center on key 
 periods like the War of Independence or the Thirty Years War, where each major nation involved 
 has specific objectives to accomplish. But truly, the heart of the game is the campaign that starts 
 you out in 1492 and challenges you to be the clearly dominant force by 1792. The campaign doesn't 
 artificially level the playing field, so some nations are much stronger than others from the start. 
 But the sheer number of nations competing for power means that no nation is big enough to go at 
 it alone. While commerce and steady research are important considerations, the path to power lies 
 between the complementary poles of war and diplomacy.   

  Europa Universalis starts out right at the turning point for modern Europe, when newly united major 
 powers set their sights on the wealthy Italian states and started profiting from early overseas 
 colonies. Real historical events punctuate the campaign, often changing the dynamics. Shortly into 
 the game, the Reformation breaks out across Western and Central Europe, which suddenly makes religion 
 a factor in diplomacy and in maintaining the internal stability of your empire. There's the option 
 of converting to appropriate alternatives to your nation's religion (including Calvinism, Counter 
 Reformation Catholicism, or Shia Muslim, depending on the region) and to set tolerance levels for 
 other faiths, which consequently affects how adverse their believers are to your government. It's 
 pretty unusual for a game to make religion such a dynamic political force, but it works out to 
 be a global setting that you'll tweak only once in a while, rather like government types in Civilization. 
   

  Since there are so many minor independent powers, diplomacy in Europa Universalis involves numerous 
 loose alliances that can string together half a dozen countries at once. In times of conflict, 
 this can make the game seem chaotic, as declaration of war by an ally on the opposite side of Europe 
 can soon engulf the whole continent in war. Relations with computer-controlled nations are indicated 
 clearly by a numerical scale, which is influenced by such things as diplomatic gifts or letters 
 of insult. It's all handled abstractly, so you won't see talking heads or even much of a description 
 of your diplomatic efforts' outcome. But in spite of this lack of flourish, diplomacy is unusually 
 well integrated into the game.           The graphics are clear and intuitive    

 As if by following Sun Tzu's famous advice, you'll quickly find in the game that war and diplomacy 
 are inseparably entwined. It's impractical to wage a sustained and indiscriminating war, because 
 provinces don't actually change hands until a peace treaty settles things. It's impossible to just 
 march a large army at your opponents and expect to gain much territory in one swoop, but border 
 wars are nonetheless effective over time. Again showing its board game roots, Europa Universalis 
 handles combat statistically, factoring a healthy dose of chance in with the factors of morale, 
 leadership, and technology so that the bigger army can be in for a surprising defeat. Military 
 research and production is also a simple affair. There are just basic unit types -- infantry, cavalry, 
 and artillery -- and numerous small research steps will transform your army from pikemen into musketeers 
 and, later, into orderly Napoleonic-era infantry.   

  Considering the importance of military victory in deciding the fate of your nation, it's somewhat 
 disappointing that so many of the variables in the combat system are hidden from view. While the 
 documentation makes an interesting foray into describing the period's military history, there isn't 
 a specific explanation on how combat is decided. Furthermore, the historical leaders that pop up 
 periodically seem to give a disproportionate advantage to the armies they lead. Later in the game, 
 you may have many qualified generals, admirals, and explorers, and absolutely none at other times. 
 While morale plays a large part in battle, there's no experience system to increase the value of 
 veteran troops. Attrition is another significant consideration that works invisibly, eroding troop 
 numbers inexplicably until you pay close attention to the documentation's explanation of the transparent 
 supply line system. These factors add to the game's depth after you've spent enough time working 
 through the system, but such basic mechanics should have been better explained.    

 Like some recent space conquest games, Europa Universalis uses real-time mechanics instead of dividing 
 your time up into turns. Of course, when there's a lot going on, it's simpler to pause the action 
 to issue simultaneous orders or slow things down to watch each day pass at a comfortable rate. 
 But during times of peace and prosperity, it's easy to speed things up dramatically, which helps 
 the 300-year grand campaign seem less overwhelming. The interface also helps you keep track of 
 managerial events, like when your troops reach their destination, with a system of pop-up windows. 
 These manage to be more useful than annoying, mainly because it's easy to customize whether events 
 are announced in pop-ups or in the scrolling log at the bottom of the screen. In addition to making 
 the game flow more smoothly, the real-time engine has its uses in troop movements -- it lets you 
 march reinforcements in to help in a sustained battle or adjust your border defenses while watching 
 the enemy's actions.           It can be difficult to keep track of all your territories    

 For a game of its depth, it's refreshing that Europa Universalis requires relatively little micromanagement. 
 Since your empire won't crumble away during times of peace, some might take it as an excuse to 
 sit back and watch history move on its own, like an antique orrery. One of the game's key automation 
 features comes in the trade component, as the game lets you delegate continued competition to markets 
 to your state's treasurer. Trade is an important source of income if you can gain monopolistic 
 status in large markets, but once you deliberately place merchants early in the game to gain competitive 
 footholds, there's little to do but watch the gold trickle in. The automatic routines do a competent 
 job of maintaining your market position so that you can pay attention to more urgent tasks. When 
 it comes to your economy, there are tons of variables under the hood -- variables that you don't 
 need to while managing your empire day to day. However, it can be useful nonetheless to take a 
 break every decade or so to sift through the charts and graphs that compare your nation's progress 
 to the other major powers. Over the long term, you will see the causes and effects of inflation 
 and will be able to invest in infrastructure to indirectly increase production or census tax income. 
   

  Unfortunately, Europa Universalis' relatively straightforward gameplay can be initially more overwhelming 
 than it needs to be. There's an in-game tutorial that does successfully introduce the most basic 
 game mechanics, but it's overly long and scripted with such specific goals that it ends up being 
 more frustrating than useful. And although the manual covers topics thoroughly in its 120 pages, 
 it's written in a dense, descriptive style that's poorly suited to getting you quickly up and running 
 in a first game. The saving grace is that the game interface includes pop-up hints to explain most 
 essential functions. The grand campaign in Europa Universalis is more time-consuming than a typical 
 game of Risk, but it will take a run-through to really grasp the game's mechanics and start to 
 understand the complex underlying rule set in order to take advantage of it. Once you do get up 
 to speed, there are plenty of options to keep the game interesting for a long time, as the grand 
 campaign itself offers eight different playable nations, which each naturally require very different 
 strategies. The game doesn't balance the playable nations in multiplayer either, so if you do get 
 a game going with the two to eight other players that the game supports, you'll need to agree beforehand 
 how to divvy out the starting places. There's also no in-game player matching, so it can be a challenge 
 to find opponents for Internet games in the first place. The game's mechanics aren't particularly 
 friendly to multiplayer, as they require the real-time speed to be set before a campaign begins. 
 Fortunately, it's possible to save a game in progress and come back to it later if you can get 
 your opponents back together to continue.           You'll have to be wary of pirates and many 
 other variables    

 The game's visuals and audio are also not impressive. The hand-drawn map that makes up most of your 
 view is more remarkable for its attention to historical provincial boundaries than for its artistry. 
 The 256-color graphics are attractive at the highest zoom level, but they quickly lose their crispness 
 at even just the next step out. Europa Universalis is even more Spartan in its audio, as it includes 
 sound effects only for important military and diplomatic events. We had difficulty getting the 
 music to run at all and found the classical instrumentals to be cloyingly synthetic-sounding when 
 they did play.   

  The ambitious historical setting that distinguishes Europa Universalis won't appeal to everyone, 
 but the polished gameplay definitely makes it worthwhile. The delicate nature of diplomacy in an 
 early modern Europe splintered by feudal territorialism and religious conflict makes the game challenging. 
 There's always a fire to put out, whether it's internal rebellion, alliance shifts, or border wars. 
 For a game of its complexity, Europa Universalis is remarkably polished and stable and has clearly 
 benefited from several updates since its release in Europe last year. It may not be as accessible 
 as Sid Meier's turn-based strategy classics, but Europa Universalis succeeds in creating a new 
 dynamic for an old genre.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ramakandra3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 23, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  ok here it goes, i wont say if its good or bad ill just give you the facts and the occasional pro/con 
 from my point of view.
  
  FIRST OFF, SELECTING AN ERA AND NATION
  
  there are a few eras (each with theyre own name, super powers and missions) which you can choose 
 from. the main difference is the time in which you start, who your allied to / at war with and 
 what technologies (land, naval tech, stability, trade and infrastructure) .
  
  geographically nothing much changes (unless you skip about 200 years) and besides the above theres 
 no reall difference.
  
  the nations, not much ghanges here either, besides the alliences and who your at war with and what 
 technologies you start with. there are monarchs (or whatever your country had at the time) but 
 they dont really influence the game, sure you may have to conquer a provence or 2 less when you 
 have a monarch with good diplomatic skills, but you can also conquer the whole country and take 
 all anyway, or earn money in other ways besides trade.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  to be honoust, the game is very very hard to play, especially if your new to this sort of game, 
 youve only got a limited amount of resources (gold and men aka cannonfodder) and, say, diplomats, 
 who also regenerate very, very slowly. sometimes youll have a few game years of rest, but there 
 will also be times everyone will be after your blood.
  
  once youve build up a nice nation with good income, army, a ready supply of men and possibly a 
 navy, it will be time to look to your neighbours and take what is theirs.
  
  there are bassically two ways of getting what land yo want. either take it by force (which the 
 country it belonged too wont like all too much, as well as nations friendly to them) or you can 
 take it via diplomacy.
  
  the war option is probably the cheapest on your treasury, as you only pay for the original raising 
 cost of the army and the opkeep of it. also its alot faster as you simply march into the province/country 
 and seize (all the) province (s) . after you got what you want (usually the whole country if you 
 want a succesfull deal) you can send a diplomate to the country in question and demand the provinces 
 (or even a full annexation in most cases) you desire most (becarfull, with the countries that can 
 be played by a real life person, the capitol must always survive and thus you can only claim 3 
 provinces at the same time) . this will aggrevate the other countries though and they might decide 
 to declare war upon you, meaning youll be busy for a while.
  
  the other way of taking a country is via diplomasy, basically you just get really close with one 
 or more countries, offer them a royal marraige followed by vassalation. after this its just a waiting 
 game for 10 years, getting your status back to +190 to annexate it diplomatically.
  
  this is very expensive treasury wise (as you have to keep relations up) and not every country may 
 accept when offered, but at least noone will get pissed at you and thus you have less wars.
  
  personnally i prefer the war, but i cheat, so its easier lol.
  
  ABOUT THE ARMIES
  
 
  they look pretty good and there are a few things you can with them and the animations look cool. 
 however, they take a while to get places, especially when they go farther then 3 provinces and 
 the message of arrival while easily be lost in the other messages, especially later in the game, 
 when your drowning in them.
  
  at first its all nice and well, as your country is small anyway and all the armies are easy to 
 find, once youve advanced, 50 years or so though, your terrotry (including colonies) are so widespread 
 it becomes difficult to remember them all. TRADE
  
  well not much to say about this, you can sent traders yourself or have the computer do it for you. 
 i must warn you though, if you let the computer do it, it will only send traders to the nearest 
 centres, or itll sent every trader to a centre where you have a monopoly allready.
  
  for the rest trade doesnt really influence the game, sure it brings in a little extra and it feels 
 kinda kinkey to have all the trade centres, but thats about it.
  
  DIPLOMACY
  
  well ive explained a bit allready, but ill tell you more here for good measure.
  
  first theres 
 preventive diplomacy. whats that? its the kind of dimplomacy where everybody is your friend and 
 your treasurey is empty. but at least you have a bit of time to built some fortresses, armies and 
 economic strength.
  
  there is also war diplomacy. and wtf may that be? easy, its the peace resolution after a war, either 
 the other country offers/demands repayment for the damages done, or you do so yourself. be very 
 carefull with this, as the PC always offers less and demands more then the victory was worth.
 
  
  also on the diplomatic level: alliances, marriage and the like.
  there is a wide veriaty in options, you can influence your relationship possitifly or negatiefly 
 (by gifts or insults) and also offer an alliance or royal marriage. the last 2 will improve your 
 relation and standing in the world, as someone in a strong/strategic alliance is less likely to 
 get attacked.
  
  the choices are endless and very varried, perhaps a bit too much so but that varries per player.
 
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  over all its an awesome game (once you get to know it and/or use cheats) .
  its extremely hard 
 to learn to play if your not used to this kind of gmae. but still entertaining when your bored 
 at any rate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Przem0
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Europa Universalis is a brilliant simulator of a country developed by Swedish company Paradox. 
 General idea of the game is to become a ruler of one of the major countries and play your way through 
 the history. We have option of playing the Great Campaign, which gives us chance to control one 
 of the major countries of the 1942-1792. Besides this we get few others campaigns that start in 
 different moments of time and allow us to play important countries of certain time scale like Holland 
 or USA. Throughout the any of those campaigns we will have pretty good control of countrys expenditures, 
 religion, army, diplomacy or infrastructure plus we will have control over distribution of our 
 income to the different areas of research or we can just spend it on some improvements like governors 
 or sending colonists. Waging wars is the main goal of the game and this is what we will be doing 
 most of the time. The game presents the map view divided on provinces that are under control of 
 certain countries. We basically create armies in provinces and after declaring a war on other country 
 move our armies to conquer enemys provinces in order to annex them, demand tributes or make other 
 country a vassal of our country. Game is pretty complex and touches many aspects of managing a 
 country, diplomacy, trade or technical advance. Multiple options and different aspects that are 
 involved in running a country makes the game extremely interesting and difficult for someone who 
 doesnt have much practice in strategy games and very simplistic tutorial doesnt make things easier. 
 No matter which campaign we choose we are bound by some historical events that had major impact 
 on history, so there are events that involve many countries like reformation (religion is one of 
 the most important factors that propelled conflicts that times and it does it also in the game 
 since most countries can change their religion and different religion of a province from countrys 
 can mean revolts) or just single country like reforms of historical leader. Besides them we can 
 get some random events like unhappy peasantry that results in decrease in stability, random build 
 of manufacture or revolts. All countries start with claims on provinces, so if they are in possession 
 of other country we automatically get a casus belli on that country which reduces decrease of stability 
 when declaring war on that country. While conquering the whole world we have to be aware, that 
 planning is everything in this game. Each war affects our bad boy level and decreases our relations 
 with other countries which may result sooner or later in all our neighbors declaring war on us. 
 Very important option is time scaling, we can make time go faster or pause it anytime in a game, 
 which is very helpful. When we are no fighting anyone it is good to look for some allies, appoint 
 some royal marriages, pay other countries to improve mutual relationships. Having a powerful ally 
 can deter some potential aggressors or help us win a war.
  
  Multiplayer mode is taking this game to the next level. Playing with friends, making alliances 
 and waging war on each other is extremely fun and may consume many hours.
  
  Graphics is nothing outstanding. Map in the 800x600 resolution nicely drawn with decently animated 
 armies and season changes affecting provinces is at least sufficient for a tactical strategy.
 
  Sound is dominated by music, great music I must say that really builds up the atmosphere and composes 
 into the game pretty well, although after dozens of hours spent in front of a screen it is nice 
 to say that we can run this game in no music mode and enjoy music of our choice in the background.
 
  
  There is so many things about this game. It is a compulsory title for every strategy lover and 
 ruler of a country wannabe. Europa Universalis is a quality product that was made by strategy lovers 
 for strategy lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 10, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  Ok I know this game deserves a better review than my little 4 but I'm sorry I didn't get it. You 
 have to be very patient and have a good Wargame strategy background to enjoy this one. I'm a casual 
 wargamer and it didn't get me in. 
  
  I've read a lot of review on this game and I believe there is a good game hidden beind the learning 
 curve. But for me, the documentation was not adequate and I couldn't get into it. Suffise it to 
 say that you'll have to play it a couple of time before even begin to understand you were loosing 
 for the last 15 turns without knowing it. 
  
  All game from that developper are the same. You must be fan of the genre and be use to the systems 
 to get in it and enjoy it. if you're a casual gamer with no background in Wargame, avoid it at 
 all cost 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
