-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Europa Universalis III
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/europauniversalisiii/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Broad and addictive strategic gameplay.
 intuitive interface and tutorials bridge the gap between depth and ease of use.
 full-featured multiplayer options.
 new elements to the series further lengthen the game's scope.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some contrived diplomatic options provide a cheap cause for war.
 newcomers may still get lost in the sea of gameplay options.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 25, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.3, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,305 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Paradox Interactive
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jan 23, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's as deep and broad as you would expect from a great strategy game, but Europa Universalis III's 
 most notable achievement is how easy it is to get into. 

  Europa Universalis III refers to itself as a "grand strategy game" on the game box, and developer 
 Paradox certainly isn't kidding. It may "only" span just more than 330 years of Renaissance and 
 Reformation history, but it lets you take control of hundreds of nations, using any means at your 
 disposal to expand your borders. It's the kind of thing that historical strategists lap up but 
 that often leaves others in the cold. Yet, if you've been intimidated by similar complex games 
 in the past, it's time to rethink your position. Europa Universalis III is bursting with all the 
 features armchair generals expect while welcoming newcomers with open arms and a friendly, intuitive 
 interface. It improves upon nearly every aspect of its predecessors, and the result is an addictive 
 and appealing experience, even for those who usually shy away from games with screenshots that 
 look like a geography lesson.  

          Declare peace or press on? It's all up to you.     

  At first glance, Europa Universalis 
 III may remind you of a turn-based strategy game, yet it takes place entirely in real time. Still, 
 you aren't apt to get overwhelmed, because you can slow the passage of time down to a crawl and 
 pause when necessary, which is not to say that there isn't a lot to do and consider, regardless 
 of how you adjust the game speed. From the moment you play your first game, you must choose a starting 
 date -- somewhere between 1453 and 1792 -- and a nation to control. And yes, you can choose essentially 
 any nation that existed on the date you begin, from major political players to tiny principalities 
 long forgotten by most. Yet even at the starting moments, which newcomers to the genre would normally 
 find daunting, the game suggests some noteworthy dates as entry points and offers information about 
 the nations at your disposal, including a difficulty rating. It also boasts a decent collection 
 of tutorials, which is a welcome feature sorely needed but often missing in similar games.  

  Once you've chosen a starting date, it's time to get to work, but what you set out to accomplish 
 is purely up to you. You don't have a specific set of goals, so if you are content to convert your 
 provinces to the official state religion or send settlers to the New World for fame and fortune, 
 you can do so without worrying about world domination. In fact, the series has never been about 
 establishing universal dictatorship -- it's about shaping and experiencing history in both subtle 
 and profound ways. Don't expect to take over the globe as you would in Civilization. However, you 
 still have a variety of ways to achieve what you want, no matter how small the scope.  

  The military route is one of the most obvious ways to achieve your goals, even if not always the 
 most viable. You can build infantry, artillery, or cavalry regiments. Or if you prefer your battles 
 by sea, you've got a variety of ships at your disposal. As you create regiments, you can then further 
 combine and separate them into armies of various components. Armies aren't very effective without 
 a leader, though, so if you want a general, you must first recruit one. Or if you're feeling particularly 
 self-assured, you can even assign your nation's leader to command your troops in battle. Yet even 
 if you build a sizable army, don't expect to send them willy-nilly into battle, at least not without 
 grave consequences. Unless you have a casus belli -- a reason for war -- you are going to anger your 
 neighbors, cause internal unrest, and disrupt important alliances.  

          A lot is going on at any given time, but the interface makes it easy to keep things under 
 control.     

  Thus begins the tug of war that forces you to maintain every aspect of your government, should 
 you wish to succeed at even the small goals you set. If you want to attack without provocation, 
 you can do so, but with a major hit to your internal stability. The less stable your nation, the 
 more likely provinces will revolt, which in turn creates unnecessary battles that distract from 
 your major military goals. Other less obvious relationships will also be affected. You can be tied 
 to other nations by royal marriage, mutual alliance, trade agreements, and more. And as the web 
 of diplomacy widens, so too must your grasp of the other options at your disposal, even if you're 
 the fighting type.  

  Fortunately, you can influence other nations in several ways, and it's as easy as sending someone 
 else to do your dirty work. You can take the underhanded route and conduct espionage, which is 
 a new addition to the Europa Universalis franchise. Spies have a number of ways of disrupting enemies, 
 from inciting unrest to causing troop desertion. Your spy isn't always successful, and even if 
 he is, there's a chance he could get caught, which may disrupt your goals and even give the other 
 nation a casus belli against you. Fortunately, you can send off diplomats to strengthen and repair 
 (or damage, if you prefer) international relationships by offering alliances, issuing trade embargos, 
 or suggesting a vassalization. There are a few diplomatic actions that rather cheaply manufacture 
 a cause for war, though, such as proclaiming a guarantee, which gives you a reason to attack a 
 nation that assaults the one you offered the guarantee to. Because most guarantees have a 100 percent 
 chance of succeeding, it's a simple way of getting some action, but it comes across as a shortcut 
 that lets you generate war without much cause and just seems out of place as a result.     

 
  Controlling your economy and government is easy to learn but requires a great deal of consideration 
 as you progress, because a single decision can disturb your direction and have unexpected effects. 
 The system of sliders that controls your government's ideals is one such aspect. Serfdom vs. freedom, 
 centralized vs. decentralized, and many more policies are controlled by a system of sliders. Yet 
 these choices aren't to be taken lightly. You can only adjust a slider a single notch every few 
 years, and in doing so, you should expect a decrease in stability and resulting revolts in multiple 
 provinces. Yet the decision can have other consequences too. For example, as the Ottoman Empire 
 you can nudge your trading slider toward free trade and away from mercantilism to start generating 
 settlers and explore unknown territory. However, in doing so you might fail to choose a national 
 idea that allows exploration of the New World and, as a result, cause major internal unrest without 
 benefits you can immediately use.  

          Your leader has died. No worries -- just recruit another.     

  Speaking of national 
 ideas, as you throw money into your government, you can establish policies that open up new gameplay 
 possibilities or offer major enhancements to your style of play. If you enjoy converting heathens 
 to your national religion, you might want to grab divine supremacy, which grants you more missionaries. 
 Grand navy allows you to build more ships. Along with the sliders that control your economy, religion, 
 and domestic policies, these ideas let you slowly mold the shape of your nation and increase your 
 international prestige. You can't establish a new national idea all that often, but when you get 
 the opportunity, it's a nail-biting process of balancing the pros and cons of each choice.  

  Yet as complex as all of this is, Europa Universalis III is easy to learn and get into simply 
 because you don't have to accomplish any one thing. The game's scale is huge, and world events 
 take place all around you with or without your input, so it's easy for newcomers to feel a bit 
 lost. But it's easy to get around the game map and find all the information and options you need, 
 so you don't need to dig through a dozen menus to perform a simple task. Do you want to create 
 a regiment? Click on a province, select the unit you want to build, and you're done. Do you want 
 to see how many merchants, missionaries, and spies you have at your disposal? It's right there 
 on the main display. Do you need to see how far the Holy Roman Empire has spread its ideals? A 
 single click gets you there. There is still room for improvement, specifically when locating nations 
 on the map. You can bring up a list of known nations and your standing with them in your domestic 
 interface, but it would have been nice to be able to click on a nation's listing to immediately 
 go to that nation rather than move to the ledger listing to do it. A set of Civilization-type advisors 
 would have been welcome as well, particularly for those who get lost and need some direction. The 
 game has advisors to be sure, but they function more as research and policy bonuses than anything 
 else, so they don't have any in-game advice to offer.  

  The complete set of multiplayer options is just more icing on the proverbial cake. You can play 
 against others over a local network and connect via an IP address, and if you register your copy 
 of the game, you can enter the metaserver, which is an in-game match browser. The game supports 
 an incredible 32 players in a single game, although it would be tough to coordinate such a large-scale 
 match. Yet even with just a few others, Europa Universalis III is a blast to play particularly 
 because multiple players can play as the same nation, which adds a level of coordination and flexibility 
 the single-player game can't provide.  

          It might look like your high school geography textbook, but don't let that push you away 
 from this deep and addictive game.     

  Europa Universalis III is no graphical powerhouse, nor are most big strategy games of this type, 
 so you won't watch big armies of two dozen individual units clashing or encounter shiny bump mapping. 
 But in the realm of similar strategy games, the game looks quite nice and is Paradox's first excursion 
 into a fully 3D engine. Both the world map and the menus are colorful and clear, and armies are 
 easy to find. The flowing ocean water is a particularly nice touch. There are also some nice details 
 on the topographical view when you zoom in, and visual cues, such as burning cities that indicate 
 a siege under way, are done well. It also sounds attractive, thanks to a lovely soundtrack that 
 manages to mix a number of tunes together without getting grating, which is no mean feat for an 
 audio design that consists mostly of music. It isn't devoid of sonic cues, though, such as blade 
 effects that indicate clashing armies and factory noises when you build provincial improvements. 

  Europa Universalis III is the best game in the franchise, thanks to such new gameplay elements 
 as espionage and national ideas, yet what makes it even greater is just how easy it is for almost 
 anyone to enjoy. If sweeping strategy games with multiple layers of complex decisions have turned 
 you off before, this is the perfect opportunity to find out what enthusiasts love about them. It 
 may be a "grand strategy game," but it can be as big or as small as you want. Just be ready to 
 lose dozens upon dozens of hours under its spell.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (42 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Tike920
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  It's addictive. It' s immersive. It's name is latin. It's that game that no matter how hard I try, 
 I keep coming back to. It's EU3. I had never played an EU game before this, and it is excellent. 
 It goes extremely easy on beginners, even though you kinda have to get a feel for it first. There 
 may be some glitches, and "unpolished" areas here and there, but that doesn't even begin to do 
 anything to this game. It is one of the most accomplished games of our time, and yet I always have 
 that "If your not hardcore, get out" feeling. I just always feel as if the game only wants veterans 
 of the series and genre. I probably wouldn't recommend this to annyone whose never played strategy 
 games before. The online community will welcome anyone, and that is great, but the game seems completely 
 hardcore, and that is where it loses it's points. It is still one of the most awesome games I have 
 ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: May 14, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Their latest effort is their third visit to the ambitious Europa Universalis series, once again 
 offering the historically inclined gamer nearly three hundred and fifty years worth of gameplay. 
 This time around, Paradox has redesigned large parts of the game, resulting in a product that has 
 moved away from its strict observance of historical events and persons to a game that fully realizes 
 the idea of rewriting history. While this may upset some fans of the second iteration, it makes 
 for an enhanced experience that remains just as good as its predecessor -- if not better.
  
  Europa Universalis III, like its forerunners, covers the early modern period in a day-by-day 
 real-time turn-based mode from the fall of Constantinople in 1453 to the start of the French Revolution 
 in 1789. Unlike other games in the series, the developers have let users select the date they would 
 like to start a new game on - resulting in historically accurate monarchs, existing countries, 
 boundaries and easily allowing players access to a period or event they'd like to partake in.
 
  
  Many of the game's core fundamentals have been redesigned, the most significant being the movement 
 away from strict historical observance and towards a system of fluid dynamics. Although lacking 
 some of the informative aspects of the old system, it has the distinct advantage of removing scripted 
 events and instead having events occur automatically and in a dynamic fashion. Nations can therefore 
 mold themselves far more realistically as time goes by.
  
  Several other changes have allowed the furtherance of personality within your selected nation. 
 First, as your nation increases its knowledge, progressively more advanced forms of government 
 become available. Also, with the introduction of 'National Ideas', you may further specialize nations 
 and allow them unique advantages; for example you may adopt the Scientific Revolution and receive 
 reduced technology costs.
  
  One of the weaknesses the series suffered in the first two iterations was its model of land and 
 naval warfare. Europa Universalis III manages to improve to a small extent by copying many ideas 
 seen in other Paradox games. Land combat is now organized around the regimental system, and your 
 technology will advance with research. Naval combat has likewise improved and now nets players 
 captured prizes. Despite these additions, both forms of combat are largely hands off and determined 
 by numerics rather than skill.
  
  In a major change from previous games, Paradox has ditched the half-decade old graphics engine 
 in favor of a totally new 3D engine. Unfortunately, it's sometimes best to stick with what you've 
 already got; textures and units are now muddy and lacking detail, while province borders are jagged 
 messes. There are some improvements however, as many of the overlays prove more adept at conveying 
 critical pieces of information, such as what provinces are disputed.
  
  Sequels often forsake innovation to become cash grabs, but Paradox Interactive has certainly not 
 taken this path with Europa Universalis III. While it covers the same ground, there has been enough 
 of a shift from the old roots to ensure the experience stays fresh while maintaining the features 
 that have made the series the premier example of grand strategy on the PC today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 11, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  The first thing surprising you is that EU 3 allows you to choose 1 of 250 nations ever existing 
 in history and 1 day between 1453-1789 to start the game!!! The developers has successfully maintained 
 the game's context true to what happened hundreds of years ago. That means, with enough patience, 
 you can witness every historic moment in over 3 centuries. Illustrative movies make the game more 
 vivid and sound effect is exciting, all are merged with expressive melodies to revive the atmosphere 
 of a long past period.
  
  It's all but the beginning. More astounding is the game play of EU 3 which is integrated with countless 
 elements of real life. So the tutorial can only introduce you with some basic controls, and the 
 rest is for you to discover yourself. In EU 3, the player will have to handle every issues that 
 could possibly happen with a country: manage resources, develop techniques and science, recruit 
 soldiers, maintain relationship with other nations, colonize new lands... To succeed in these work 
 requires many tricks that are not presented in the tutorial. For example, when you successfully 
 invade a country, you can use lots of evangelists and merchants to settle down the new colony and 
 exploit it faster. Or another situation is that you want to recruit much more troops, then a new 
 doctrine of warfare should work very well. As you can see, to keep the player from frustration 
 while handling tons of work, it's essential to provide a user-friendly interface with convenient 
 controls. Fortunately EU 3 has succeeded in that. Interface and control of the game is much improved 
 compared to previous versions, helping players quickly find their desired function and information. 
 Another change in this release is the way the AI works. In prior games of the series, every nation 
 tends to do as in real history. But now there are many unexpected circumstance: Venice can become 
 dominate over America or Castile could possibly head south towards north Africa... So you have 
 much more freedom in writing the history for your own country. 
  
  Though there are many peaceful methods in resolving problems, you just can deny the importance 
 of military power in EU 3. The military system is upgraded in many details in this version. You 
 can train many famous arms like Hussar (Hungarian) , Dragoon (French) , Longbowman (English) . Each 
 of them has some distinctive abilities to take into consideration when using on battlefield. The 
 military window support well with all kinds of information related to the battle so that you can 
 make decision to attack or retreat.
  
  EU 3 is a good historical strategy. If you compare it to other games of this genre like AoE 3, 
 you will find the its most persuading feature is not graphics or sound, but the rich game play 
 and enormous environment of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stappy
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  I recently got Europa Universalis III. I expected it to be addictive, but not like this. Seeing 
 your nation grow, and your allies grow protective, just has this feeling that other Strategy games 
 has lost over time. I'll use an example to describe this;
  
  I started out as France, having seen how easy they were. In the beginning, i was pushed back by 
 the other two nations, Spain and Austria. However, since you can fast-forward time in the game, 
 i did that. Over time, Austria grew and became weakened. This allowed me to expand further down 
 Spain, eradicating two other nations on my way. If your relations with another nation is good enough, 
 you may try to vassalize them. This puts them under your protection, while it also improves your 
 relations with them.
  
  After being a vassal for 10 years (i think) , you may Demand Annexation. This means all their regions, 
 provinces, and colonies are given to you. But each province worsens your reputation. To make a 
 long story short; I did this to Spain, and started a World War.
  
  Graphically, it looks all right. It's fun to control your own nation, and watch it expand. A downside 
 is the relative long loading times. There really isn't alot more to say than; This is a great game 
 for people that like's Grand Strategy Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackTargetmark
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  Paradox has been long famous for its "paradox-ing" Grand Strategy games, ranging from the Europa 
 Universalis series, Victoria series, to Hearts of Iron series. If we link them to each other, we 
 will realize that they are actually a chronologic timeline (EU Victoria HoI) .
  Europa Universalis III is actualy a good game, two of its major fortes are its better, comprehensive 
 tutorials and a revisioned graphics. But it's really not as good as what it seems. At least, the 
 other two series are better.
  You choose a nation and a starting time at any date ranging from mid-15th century to late 18th 
 century. This game has a strong point on its historical aspect, it's mostly accurate. There are 
 times when Great Britain and Spain haven't unite their states yet, so you'll play as England, Wales, 
 or Castile. You may choose practically any nation, from pre-Great Britain-England to Chinese Ming 
 Dynasty to Indomalay Atjeh to Central American Maya to African Songhays. Depending on your choice, 
 the game might be piece of cake or crushing a cliff with screwdriver. However, a manual difficulty 
 slider is also available.
  One of the game's major flaw is its, basically, gameplay. It's not as deep as the other Paradox 
 series. Not so detailed. The "Terra Incognita" feature is also a bit annoying. Well okay, maybe 
 the game is concentrated to the colonization so that's the use of the feature. However, the "Permanent 
 Terra Incognita" system is not good at all. It's wrecking our eyes. Why don't Paradox remove such 
 Permanent things?
  Talking about colonization, the colonizing process is also weird. Maybe it's designed to ease us 
 players. You simply click a single button to spend 1 of your Colonists and an amount of your Ducats 
 (cash) . Then you'll just wait for the colonist to arrive to the desired area. If the natives are 
 too aggressive, you may fail. Failing is a bit annoying.
  The provinces are also too few. Compared to other Paradox games, they're too insufficient.
  Maybe 
 there are additions like the Holy Roman Empire and the Papacy. But those didn't add up the game 
 too much.
  Graphically the game is beautiful for the rate of a grand strategy game. The seas and continents 
 are animated well, and the views of cities are also good-looking. Generally it's impressive for 
 a grand strategy, and it's not like previous Paradox games.
  The sounds are not bad too. The music are overall good, and the effects of battle (e. g. sword clash, 
 cannon blast, musket fires) are illustrated beautifully.
  It should have been a good game, unfortunately it'a a bit lacking for a deep gameplay features 
 Paradox usually offers. However, this game is worth of try.
  gameplay: 7 graphics: 8 sound: 8
  overall: 7.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enkiduo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Great interface and graphics drew me right in, the gameplay was challenging and interesting enough 
 to keep me around, and the pure freedom of it is fascinating.
  
  I teach a class with the starting screen, showing students how empires grew and fell over time 
 through the beautifully dynamic interface.
  
  The gameplay takes everything this is right about a good board game, simple but perfectly balanced 
 rules that lead to challenging decisions, and expands it beautifully into an awesome video game.
 
  
  It does an amazing job with all the things that other games do wrong, while civ 4 penalizes you 
 so blatantly for growing EU3 just makes it increasingly more challenging to manage a larger empire, 
 which leads the play to be the kind of balancing act that is truly addictive.
  
  It could be a bit faster paced sometimes, but otherwise hard to find fault with.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhiti
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  This is an epic strategy game that I have ever played to date. It comes with in depth historical 
 content in which many possibilities can occur, and this makes the game quite interesting and really 
 enjoyable to play. However, the game is not just hard; it is VERY HARD for an average player, especially 
 if you play a minor race like me. Playing Ayutthaya (Thai) , I found it very difficult to get my 
 kingdom going without cheating. The AI is quite smart and very aggressive. You have to befriend 
 with Ming (China) . If you are at odd with them, chances are that you will lose the game finally. 
 Therefore, diplomacy comes in to play in this case. All in all, Paradox did well in creating this 
 grand strategy game which includes all aspects that a good strategy game should have: i. e. military, 
 diplomacy, kingdom management and city building. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rommel1990
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  All the things that they have added i all great with the f. eks national ideas but there is two 
 things that have destroyed the game for me and that is that they have removed almost all historical 
 events i have always like the Hoi EU series because you could get historical changeless and the 
 events make you feel like you where controlling the country's history where you just improved it 
 and/or changed it, so BRING BACK THE HISTORICAL EVENTS!!!!
  
  And another thing is the speed i way to slow i like when im not at war to have the time go fast, 
 so please set the speed op 
  
  Im okay with the 3D thing but bring it back to 2D so the load time doesnt take half a year to 
 load. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthony9000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Europa Universalis 3 is one of those games that seem completely underrated, underappreciated, and 
 unnoticed from the crowd. It's a game that takes a turn-based game map and puts the whole game 
 in Real-time by deleting TURNS. Ther are 5 speeds at which u can run the game at and u can change 
 em with no probs at all while in-game. It's kind've like the Hearts of Iron series or Knights of 
 Honor. While the game looks worst than the turn-based map in Rome: Total War or Civilization 4...... it 
 makes up in design and gameplay, not to mention replay-value also. Along with all this the game 
 takes up the ''conquer the world'' type of gameplay that actually lets u takover the world with 
 thousands of provinces on it. Now heres y Pros/Cons review of EU3 divided into three categories, 
 Gameplay, Graphics, and Replay-Value.
  
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Like i stated above, the game is a mix of turn-based gameplay and RTS gameplay combined to make 
 a solid game that allows u to conquer thousands of provinces all of which runs well in real-time. 
 U can also make alliances, trade proposals, send spies, etc. too which gives the game alot of depth 
 once u install all of the patches. Since thers alot to say about the gameplay... heres the pros 
 and cons.
  
  PROS
  -RTS-TBS gameplay
  -5 speeds to play the game at whch can be changed easily in-game
  -Literally THOUSANDS of provinces 
 u can conquer
  -Conquering the whole world isn't impossible and is very rewarding
  -Historical events sometimes can effect ur country in many different ways
  -Great AI
  -Lots 
 of diplomacy options
  -Spies are very well done put into the game and can do lots for u and ur allies (with patches)
 
  -Land and naval combat
  -Music fits well into the game and time period
  -Economy is detailed and fully functional
  -Each province has different advantages/disadvantages 
 from another.... even in combat situations
  -Can play as EVERY CIVILIZATION on the map except for priates and revolters
  -Papacy
  -The 
 game is pretty well optimized if u look into the fact that hundreds of civilizations are doing 
 things at once. Even many AI's are running too which dont cause much of a problem either.
  -Multiplayer/co-op
  -Combat system is fairly realistic in most occasions
  -U can turn a country 
 into a vassal which is very fun once u have around 20 vassals fighting with u at once against one 
 country
  -Many other features in the game that dont stand out very much
  -Clean User-Interface (UI)
  -Nice to watch countries slowly advancing technology and eventually 
 having gunpowder guns and such
  -Thers proof that the makers wanted the game to feel and play great.... especially with the large 
 patches they released
  -Addicting
  
  CONS
  -A bit buggy even with patches
  -If u dont have an internet connection to get the patches with on ur gaming comp..... it definitly 
 lowers the score of the game. The patches in EU3 are very big/useful and are very much needed to 
 fully enjoy the game
  -Ther may be some points in the game where u feel like sleeping or just simply have nothing to 
 manage since ur civ. is so small.
  -Countries like france and Ming will take u over easily if ur not ready for em
  -Balancing small 
 and big countries has been done but not very well
  -Muliplayer is practicly useless if ur not doing LAN since the games are so long and its like a 
 ghost town in the chat rooms
  -The combat would be more fun if it was like Knights of Honor or at least a bit similar to it
 
  -Some ppl may just HATE the game because of the pace even with the 5 speeds
  -Loading up the game is SUCH AN F'IN PAIN since it takes like 10 minutes
  -Co-op isnt very fun 
 or interesting
  -Old time fans may not like the fact the game strays less historical than the previous EU titles
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  From seeing the  
 probly noe wat I mean.
  
  PROS
  -Matches music and feel
  -Is quite good since the world is so large and so much is going on in it
  
  CONS
  -Kinda 
 dull and plain
  -Even worst if u cant max the game out
  -Some graphics cards may have some small or very big probs with the game 
  
  
  REPLAY-VALUE
 
  EU3 is probly one of those very few games that just somehow make u wanna play it again the next 
 day. Mainly this is caused by the options and the amount of countries to play on, not to mention 
 how many different ways u can take over the globe. More on this below.....
  
  PROS
  -Many countries to play as again and again
  -U can win the game hundreds of times differently 
 since the AI does many things differently from game-to-game
  -At the end of each game, it tells u wat impact on the world u had put by automaticly writing up 
 all the things u done in that certain game rite on the exact dates
  -LAN/Mutiplayer/Co-Op
  -Just plainly a fun game that u will wanna play again probly even 10 years after putting it away
 
  
  CONS
  -Soley depends on wat kind of person u are and wat games u like. Along with if u played other games 
 like this or not.
  
  Well.... in the end EU3 is a great game that is worth picking up by anyone thats a fan of the genre, 
 series, or if u just wanna waste some time for better upcoming games to come out. If u liked EU3.... Paradox 
 Interactive is also making Europa Universais: ROME with looks good too so be on the watch-out for 
 this game and my review on it also. Srry for messyness and spelling errors, thx for reading. LA8TER. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vince0018
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  I was looking through gamespot at top games and came across Europa Universalis III. I took a glance 
 at it and saw it was a strategy game. And I love strategy games like the Total War series. When 
 I looked at the screenshots I thought it looked kind of bland, like you'd be marching units across 
 maps marked with boarders that had no meaning, and just watching battles over and over with no 
 enjoyment due to lack of action.
  I downloaded the game and when I tried it I checked out the tutorials but they seemed so complex 
 I couldn't really absorb anything they were trying to communicate to me. (By the way I've never 
 played any Europa Universalis games before this or any similar games besides Age of Empires, Empire 
 Earth, and the Total War games, which mind you aren't much like this game at all.)
  After attempting to try the demo over and over for a little bit every day I gave up and said, 'This 
 game really isn't worth an 8. It's kinda sucky.'
  I then got into other games like Warcraft and World in Conflict and one day decided to try the 
 demo again. After making a last attempt I finally saw the light. I realized the enormous depth 
 and strategy in this game. The game wasn't all about building giant armies and rushing to see who 
 could defeat the others the fastest, I've never tried it yet but I bet you could play a lot of 
 the game without any fighting at all.
  I then played the demo over and over again, it restricted me from saving so I got frustrated everytime 
 I had to quit, then start a new game all over again. I had no money but I wanted the game anyway 
 so I got some money off my sister and ran to EB Games to get it. I was surprised to find that it 
 was only $25 CAN. I traded in a game I never play and got EU3 for almost 8 bucks. Now I play it 
 all day as if I were living in the Renaissance (Spelled Right?)
  
  If you see this game too complex and can't get into it, please try a little harder, even if you 
 try once a week for a few months.
  
  Though the game isn't great visually, i'm appreciative of that because my computer can't run games 
 with good graphics or high amounts of objects.
  The strategy is very deep though it misses minor elements (unless I just haven't figured out how 
 to do them) like telling allies to attack someone and things like that.
  The opportunity to be nearly anyone on the globe is really quite amazing. You can choose to be 
 French or English, of course, or if you wanna try a little more east you can choose Russia. You 
 can even be Japan, China or Korea. Or if you're really bold the Inca, Aztec, Huron, Iroquois... etc 
 in America. Though you must expect the penalties that must be taken with each race. For example: 
 if you're the Inca you can't explore out of your country in South America. Sounds terrible right? 
 Well if you think about it that was how history was. They never took much interest in conquering 
 the world.
  The diplomacy in the game is also quite in-depth, especially compared to other games. On Medieval 
 2: Total War there are a handful of nations you can pick from in Europe. As soon as you begin the 
 game all nations are striving to build big militaries and conquer out from their land and make 
 their country half the size of Europe, so it's possible that in the end there will be two gigantic 
 countries in all of Europe battling it out.
  On EU3 many countries don't even have a desire to fight unless you ally with them and make war 
 with another country. Some of them expand a little but here's where it's interesting. They're programmed 
 to expand the same way, or similar, to how they did in actual history. Which is why there are the 
 restrictions on some nations. What would you do if you were being Spain and were establishing colonies 
 in eastern America when suddenly a Japanese navy comes and starts hacking up your ships and making 
 it's own colonies, taking over present-day US. Well you won't see that sort of stuff in this game. 
 While there's only something like 15-20 factions on Medieval 2: Total War there are many more on 
 this game. I haven't counted them but when you look at the national log you can scroll down a very 
 long list of countries. It's very cool.
  
  Writing this review and reminding myself how amazing this game is just makes me want to play it 
 some more. So I'd best be going now, sorry I babbled on for such a long time about stuff you probably 
 thought was irrelivent but I just thought you should see the game from the perspective of someone 
 who loves to play it instead of people telling you all the technical stuff about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarryPalms
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Would-be great if the battle system actually worked. Attacking at a ratio of 5:1 will often send 
 your troops running back, even with morale overhand.
  
  Seen better graphics on the Amiga back in the 80s. I'm not saying that this game should depend 
 on graphics in any way, but at least they should consider not melting my eyes.
  
  Deep and well researched game based on tons and tons of historical data. But no matter how much 
 data they've poured into this, they've forgotten the most important aspect of any game: fun. This 
 game is just outright boring unless you're heavy into statistics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KEKiaulen
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2007 3:07 am PT
Review:  This game could be used to get a feeling for history. This includes diplomacy, economics/monetary, 
 military and politics through the late middle-ages and up until the birth of modern day democracy. 
 Its fun for those cantrafact fans of history.
  
  Difficult to master, but it wouldn&acute; t represent the challenges of time to an empire if it 
 wasn&acute; t.
  
  I leave the game from time to time, but i always return. Its nice to try and reshape the history 
 of your own country or your regions. It draws interesting strings to our own time (politically, 
 economically and religiously) . If you understand the mechanics of the game, you might better understand 
 the mechanics of our modern decisiconmakers.
  
  Its a must for serious gamers.
  
  Downers: Hard to master, could use a world map, would be nice to actually discover Permanent Terra 
 incognito , still flaws to countries names of rulers, towns and so forth. Would be nice to set 
 political/strategical goals to battles. Why cant you repay loans before time? Small things, among 
 others, but annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timofmars
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is for your hardcore strategists. It requires patience and planning. I'm sure some people 
 see the screenshots and think it's like the board game RISK . But it's not. My older brother (28) 
 loves the Civilization series of games, but never got into this game because civilization is arcade-like 
 by comparison. So what is this game like? Well, it's difficult to explain. Basically, you control 
 a single country of your choice, controlling it's spending, military, diplomatic actions and so 
 on. That sounds similar to traditional strategy games like Civilization. But what makes this different 
 is that in Europa Universal III, just about everything you do affects many additional aspects of 
 your game besides main effect. Read the Gamespot review if you haven't already to get an idea for 
 the basics.
  
  One thing that doesn't seem to be mentioned that you wouldn't expect is that for military conquest, 
 simply moving an army onto an enemy province will not give you that province. First you must maintain 
 a siege and either break the city through deadly assaults or patient and sometimes lengthy sieges 
 depending on different factors. Your war strategy can involve a blitz attack to try defeat your 
 opponent's standing armies, leaving only small holding forces to maintain sieges, or you can attack 
 with slow moving front, capturing cities as you get to them. Attrition (representing men dying 
 from the weather, disease, or lack of food) can in many cases be your worst enemy (or your best 
 friend, when it helps defeat an enemy) . After successfully occupying the territory, you will only 
 own the province after you negotiate a peace deal with your enemy that involves them ceding the 
 province to you. The fact that you occupy the province makes it possible to to include it in a 
 peace deal, as well as giving you better bargaining power in negotiations.
  
  My main gripe with this game is that some of it is hard-coded so-to-speak, in a way that penalizes 
 some actions which should not be penalized. I believe it is this way in order to maintain relative 
 balance between small nations and large nations, but for those who understand how the game works, 
 it can force you to make some strange decisions.
  
  For example, the cost of investments in technology in order to advance a level are at least partially 
 governed by the number of provinces you own. But the value of the provinces does not seem to be 
 taken into consideration. So gaining a low-value province can hurt your technology costs as well 
 as your stability costs (especially if the province is of a different religion and culture of your 
 own) . So you may be better off taking only the most valuable provinces, and avoiding the low value 
 provinces even if they would be easy to gain. Of course, it would be extremely unbalanced if the 
 large nations paid as much to advance levels as the small nations, but I think the game should 
 at least consider the value of the province in determining your investment costs.
  
  Another example is your reputation, or badboy points. Badboy points are gained through aggressive 
 and threatening actions. You gain Badboy for declaring war and taking provinces in peace agreements 
 (less if you were the defender who was attacked in a war) . You don't want badboy points, as it 
 can make you a target of nations. There seems to be a trigger point where if your reputation gets 
 bad enough, many nations all declare war at once. Over time, your reputation improves. But one 
 thing that stands out as a major reputation hit is annexing a nation. So basically, you can take 
 many provinces of a nation and your reputation won't suffer too much. But take that last province, 
 destroying the nation, and your reputation takes a large hit. So you generally will just want to 
 make that last single province into a vassal, and only ever take that province after some other 
 country has annexed it themselves. Sure, this is a work-around, but it does feel a bit unnatural.
 
  
  Yet another example is that you get less tax income from provinces if they do not have a contiguous 
 land connection of your own provinces to your capital. This means that if your capital is an island 
 province, you'll have this penalty on every other province you own. For the continental nations, 
 having a connection to your other provinces already has a benefit in that you can better defend 
 all parts of your land without needing separate armies, so I see no reason why it needs further 
 encouragement. Though this may not be too big of a deal in the grand scheme of things and the idea 
 behind it is understandable, it seems like an unfair penalty to some nations. Perhaps a better 
 solution would have been some sort of penalty based on distance of the province away from your 
 capital, rather than land connection.
  
  Some more examples of this hard-coded feeling are:
  
  Pagan religions such as Native Americans 
 have such a steep technology penalty that playing as a pagan country may not be worth it. Of course, 
 these nations are meant to be minor and to be conquer easily by colonial nations, but it seems 
 to be an unnecessarily severe penalty. In addition, the tribal governments can never advance to 
 a more advanced government type unless you edit the game's scripts. Alliances are somehow limited. 
 You can only have about 3 or 4 of them. Some nations can be very friendly towards you and would 
 benefit from being allied with you, but you still won't be able to get an alliance. It would have 
 been best if nations only determined if they would ally with you based on whether it would help 
 them or not (and whether they could trust you to honor the alliance according to your relationship) . 
 Some more teaming up against the strong guys would have been a nice addition too.
  
  
  So that said, the game is still fun and challenging. And if you play as the European nations, you 
 won't really be concerned with any of these hard-coded issues. The game is made to be played with 
 European nations, and other nations seem to be there for a diversion and for completeness. It's 
 still very interesting to see how each game you play causes the regions and powers of the world 
 to develop quite differently because of your influence. Every game you play, you'll probably learn 
 something new about the game, or you'll learn a better strategy for the next game. There's also 
 some mods you can download to change the game for a new experience. Some mods change the game and 
 it's rules completely, while others just add a few touches. So if you're the type who really likes 
 a complicated and nuanced game, you'll probably like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 6, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  EU III another fine game from Paradox! well known for their complex strategy games especially the 
 'europa universalis' based ones which are set on a global scale and in real time.
  
  The game is complicated compared to well, any of your standard mass market games, you can pick 
 virtually any country that existed on the planet during the games time frame 1453 to 1789, although 
 emphasis is on the European factions mainly, what I do like about EU III is that you can now pick 
 any nation/state to go as at any date at all, right down to the day itself.
  
  And EUIII is off course sporting a new graphics engine, I was dubious about the 3D at first from 
 the still screenshots, it just didnt look good but seeing the graphics whilst playing they are 
 quite acceptable.
  
  There is also a new interface which will probably put of a few new comers as they might feel its 
 unintuitive and the game itself overwhelming, for old timers of the EU/Vicky/HoI series it'll seem 
 strange and take a little getting use to but is fine after a while.
  
  You need to manage your nation very carefully, theres taxation, treasury +investment in technology, 
 manpower, army, navy, diplomacy, domestic policies, stability, merchants, religion, colonisation, 
 culture and now with EUIII theres also espionage, new Units, advisors, the 'lucky nation bonus' 
 a 'core' system and a very good 'national idea' system.
  
  The older elements are largely the same as EU2, theres a wealth of diplomatic options choose from, 
 merchants have same role except you cant auto send now (which is a surprisingly irritating omission!) 
 religion is similar, there'll be outbreaks of violence if your religious tolerance for a specific 
 province's religion is too low, or you can convert them so you can further increase your tax, culture 
 again has a similar effect on taxation, colonisation seems to occur much more quickly than in EU2 
 which is good and bad, sometimes the player might come to the party too late and find very little 
 left to even attempt to colonise (I personally havent had this problem yet) .
  
  Manpower is extremely important, different provinces will provide different amounts of manpower, 
 the more is better obviously, it affects how many troops you can create and how many able body 
 men there are for reinforcements, it is crucial to maintain a high manpower level (this can really 
 only be done by having a certain national idea! and expanding) if you get too low you wont be able 
 to reinforce or create new troops and may even have to rely on poor expensive mercenaries.
  
  Domestic policies are basically sliders dictating your countries outlook, are the peasants 
 free subjects or serfs? maybe somewhere in between? Do you want a free market or a mercantile one? 
 Somewhere in between again etc every now and again depending on your government type (monarch, 
 feudal, republic etc etc) you can change one slider one space for 1 stability loss so eventually 
 you can mould your country to what you think is best, each one has its ups and downs, if you focus 
 on a mercantile system you'll get more merchants but they'll be poorer competitors, and so on for 
 all the options.
  
  The naval and land army fights are abstracted like before, you can order them to move and if they 
 walk /sail onto a province with an enemy army/fleet they'll slog it out, some will get killed/sunk 
 and one or the other will retreat when their morale gets too low, ships can blockade ports getting 
 you money and harming the enemies economy, land armies will besiege a fort, eventually the fort 
 will fall and you will occupy the province affecting your war score.
  
  Stability affects how efficient your provinces are at production and how well they are taxed for 
 your benefit, a low stability means this efficiency is eroded and rebels might appear more frequently, 
 so a high stability of the maximum 3 is usually what you'll want to keep.
  
  The treasury and investment (technology) are one in the same, as you 'mint' more coins for your 
 treasury you diminish your investment capacity, and also increase your inflation which means everything 
 gets a little more expensive, a little inflation is ok, but can soon become a huge problem crippling 
 your nation maybe even permanently.
  So to get a good investment you'll want to keep your 'minting' as low as possible even perhaps 
 in the minus to work inflation down and maximise investment.
  
  There are multiple sliders for investment to choose from, some are for 'land' which will affect 
 your armies ability to fight and what units you can get, naval which is same deal but for your 
 navy obviously.
  
  Trade affects merchants ability to compete in centres of trade and maybe a building you can create 
 in your provinces and eventually the ability to attain a monopoly in a centre of trade to further 
 increase income, production is similar except its a slight bonus of usually 2% to all provinces 
 production rate (affects income) and eventually another building will be unlocked for you to build.
 
  
  Stability is lost for declaring war - a huge stability hit for declaring war on nations which have 
 good relations, same religion, no 'casus beli' (cause for war really) or even a huge -5 hit for 
 breaking a truce, so by investing in this you will eventually regain stability which is needed 
 for a happy kingdom.
  
  Government investment, now heres where things get even more interesting with EUIII , now and again 
 by investing in government you'll be given the ability to choose a 'National Idea' from a selection 
 of 30 divided into different categories, naval, land army, exploration, state and culture, all 
 are useful in their own way, and you will only likely be able to get a handful of these national 
 ideals (max of 10) so each nation will be slightly unique with their own strengths and weaknesses, 
 for example if you choose the 'land' option to have national conscription you'll have a significant 
 boost to your manpower (how many troops you can create and reinforce) level and your ability to 
 fight in a long term war is raised but you may regret not focusing on colonisation which can reap 
 HUGE rewards financially by choosing the 'quest for the new world' national idea early on - this 
 is needed to explore new lands and thus colonise. Off course this is only a brief outline of the 
 National Idea element but its very very good one of my favourite parts of EU3.
  
  The 'core' system I mentioned earlier basically means when you annex a province or colonise a unoccupied 
 one, you cant actually recruit from it straight away, you have to wait at least 20 years for it 
 to be truly considered a part of your empire to recruit from, this is because the rival you took 
 it off might also considers that province its 'core' as well and may even try to take it back.
 
  
  The espionage element to EUIII is a very good idea but not particularly well executed, before the 
 patch I was getting spammed by AI spies inciting natives, you have a 'spy' counter much like merchants 
 etc (only a limited amount replenished a year depending on domestic policies)
  and you click on a rival and can choose to send one and have a list of options, the most useful 
 I found to be fabricating claims to provinces given a cause for war.
  
  It should also be mentioned that Advisors can be recruited - a max of 3 and they offer different 
 bonuses but the better ones require a higher salary, they'll offer bonuses perhaps in a specific 
 branch of investment for example land tech, production tech etc, or they might increase the success 
 rate of conversions, maybe even colonisation.
  
  The way the new units are handled is another favourite element for EUIII, as your land or naval 
 tech increases you can be given options on units to recruit dependant on culture (if you have a 
 vast multi cultural empire you can have a huge amount of units to recruit from) for example if 
 im Britain I can eventually get redcoats, hussars and so on, its a very good way of reflecting 
 a armies development and gives more customisation to the player, it also favours the eastern tech 
 group such as the Ottomans in the early days of EUiii but eventually the Latin tech group as was 
 true to history.
  
  Finally the lucky nation bonus, I find this to be a mix bag, its intent is that several nations 
 most near the player will be given huge bonuses (lucky) so they can quickly overcome nearby opposition 
 and really give a challenge to the player, however the problem arises that alot of the time the 
 lucky nations tend to similar ones each time- Burgundy, Austria, Castile, Ming.
  
  EUIII expansion is slow going, deliberately so, you cant just treat EUIII like any other strategy 
 game and build up a huge army and expect your finances to be ok and then declare war on a neighbour 
 and wander why theres suddenly 3 nations at war with you and your stability is minus 3, in EUiii 
 you have to think (this aint Rome or MTW2 boys!) you'll want to get a casus beli on your opponent, 
 check who they are allied with, then build up a sufficient force (not too big otherwise your economy 
 will suffer) and attack, but it has to be methodical, rarely in EUIII can you annex a country, 
 instead you need to battered a rival sufficiently to get favourable peace terms maybe the odd province 
 here and there, but in Europe you need a high war score to do this.
  
  Which leads me onto a problem I have with EUIII, the borders of Europe changed alot, but I find 
 too often I have to occupy ever single province of a European enemy and have them constantly refuse 
 demands which are quite generous (5 provinces max) off course its based on war score im told but 
 it doesnt feel particular fun to spend 5 years annihilating an enemy bringing the country to near 
 ruin to not get anything! Infact I did a test, I occupied 14 provinces of Burgundy 99% war score 
 and couldnt only get 2 provinces - and worse if your aiming to tame a 'lucky' nation from getting 
 to big and rampantly expanding (which I often find its burgundy or Austria controlling all of Europe 
 and most of Russia) this simply isnt going to work, they'll annihilate someone else in short time 
 to get double the provinces they lost.
  Off course whilst I may find this a fault there are others who would welcome this challenge, but 
 I felt it bears mentioning.
  
  Another problem I felt was that often the world plays the same each time, burgundy and Austria 
 become super powerful, maybe even the ottomans and Ming , Novogrod and Muscovy will get whooped 
 by Kazan, Japan by Ming, Egyptians run riot in eastern Africa and Saudi peninsula etc etc so after 
 a few games EUIII looses its replay value as everything feels samey, this is my main gripe with 
 the game its hard to keep wanting to play through the game (and it lasts a LONG time) .
  
  Also the music although it is enjoyable is severely limited, unlike previous paradox games you 
 can no longer edit the soundtrack and add your own songs!!!! Another foul omission, it does affect 
 the enjoyment of the game because the soundtrack is limited so you'll hear the same tracks over 
 and over again and its only a matter of time before they grate on your nerves.
  And I also notice a sound looping constantly, this is when I watch a siege and order an assault 
 if I dont click of the assault the sound keeps playing, pretty annoying!
  
  I feel it also should be mentioned that EUIII is aimed at a mature more patient kind of gamer, 
 yes its a grand epic immersive (whatever buzz word you want) real-time strategy game but that doesnt 
 mean its another Rome total war, the battles are abstracted, emphasis is placed on kingdom management, 
 it can be overwhelming at times and you need to be patient you cant go of on a rampage expanding 
 your kingdom because you have a reputation to consider - the 'bad boy' rating, every time you annex 
 a province you accrue more badboy points which take months to drop in number, and too much bad 
 boy means you'll get ganged up on by many nations.
  
  All in all, I feel EUIII has better game play elements, but a inferior soundtrack (its not authentic 
 music from the era (s) rather it is new so to speak and is as I said, limited and uncustomisable) , 
 graphically its a little better than the previous EU games (but I still dont think Id like to 
 see the 3D engine used in a future Vicky or Hearts of Iron game) but the longevity feels hampered 
 by the 'samey' feel I get from playing the game.
  
  Now this review has tried to touch upon most aspects of EUIII but theres plenty of things Ive 
 probably forgotten to mention (or go in much detail ) but I hope it gives a good idea at how complex 
 and fun this game can be, but the lifespan of the game feels abit weak, still better than most 
 games out there and worth checking out if you are interested in the Europa Universalis series or 
 want a substantial strategy game for a change.
  
  In brief:
  
  PROS:
  -new interface doesnt take up much room , easy to use province finder
  -New units = more customisation 
 which works well in EU3
  -national idea system
  -expanded diplomacy with priestige
  -peace negotiations has been improved-option wise there are more than before
  -spies have been 
 introduced although feel a little underdeveloped
  -advisors have been added
  
  Neutal:
  -Graphics
  -Soundtrack whats there is good just not as good as EU2
  
  Cons:
  
  -Too few 
 historical events! this would have added more spice and variety to the gameplay instead it feels:
 
  -Too samey critically affects replay value!
  -lucky bonus nations is a miss, unfortuantely most nations that are lucky in one game, are lucky 
 in a nother game too.
  -Auto send merchants - an ommision
  -customisable soundtrack - omission
  -Extremely Stubborn AI at the negotiating table 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vahram90
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 22, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  I thought Civ 4 had detail. Compared to this game, CIV IV has the complexity of Pac-man. They used 
 those bytes very efficiently I can tell you that much. There's just way to much to do in this game, 
 if you aren't a good multitasker don't even waste your time with this game. Because through out 
 the whole game you have to concentrate on multiple things, such as your relations with your neighbors, 
 your prestige, your revolt risk, your econmy, and many other things. I've been playing the game 
 for about 20 hours now probable more and only 15 years have passed through the game, within those 
 fiveteen years i've fought 6 wars tripled the size of my country (russia) and over 20 provinces 
 revolted and i've probably killed countless hundreds of thousands of enemy troops. Once again doen't 
 waste your time with this game if you don't have patience, if you don't learn fast, and especially 
 if you haven't played a turn based game. Otherwise don't waste your time reading this GET THE DAMN 
 GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arbitor101
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 7, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game is designed to appeal to history and strategy buffs alike. Meaning, it provides 
 flavours of both, however it is not historically accurate nor for the dim witted who enjoy flashy 
 pits of data and the simple tired plot build X factory, build Y unit type, kill Z Base --- repeat. 
 This game is on a grand scale seldom replicated. Though the historical aspects of the game may 
 not be accurate (most notably, King Henry IV of France's rating for diplomacy and military!) , it 
 gives the gamer a very immense field from which to draw.
  
  Beginning from May 30th, 1453 (A day after the Fall of Constantinople and Byzantium) and onward 
 the player may choose from a plethora of races which he or she may find suitable (go France!) and 
 endeavor to conquer the world militarily, economically, or diplomatically. The game combines religion, 
 economy, military (both land and naval) , colony building, diplomacy and more into a real-time package 
 that appeals to the strategy fan who wonders what if? What if France had won the colonial wars 
 in North America? What if the Ottoman Empire had not be halted at Vienna? You decide! Will you 
 pour your money and thinkers into advancing your army's skills and unit types, or advancing your 
 merchants and trade to crush the competition's? Highly customizable types of game play.
  
  What is deliciously satisfying in this game is how years (in terms of game time) of machinations, 
 which have been clandestinely brought into fruition, may pay off as you anticipated expanding your 
 realm and influence further in a frenzy of action. The game has something for everyone, and I'd 
 suggest highly to go through the tutorial to get the gist of the game before delving head first 
 into it. Hope you found this review helpful! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talus057
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 27, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I really like this game and it is quite more addicting than it was previous. There is a large modding 
 community also which guarantees a large bundle of content always being created. The devs of Civ4 
 started borrowing certain ideas once this game was released, like vassals for example, so you can 
 assume by that alone how much quality this game has. It might get repetitive if you don't like 
 this type of game but then again if you didn't like it you probably wouldn't be here reading this 
 review wondering if you should buy it. So if thats whats on your mind rest assured that you will 
 not be wasting your dollars this time. I don't know what PI has in store for the future but the 
 patches are likely to release more and more content and a rather large expansion is already in 
 the works so you should pick it up now! go go go move out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 22, 2007 5:25 am PT
Review:  Sadly, this is not quite what i expected for. EU2 was a masterpiece. EU3 is well, despite tons 
 of new features its just not striking.
  
  My first impressions about the game: (PROS)
  
  + Court members is a new and good feature. They give bonuses to various fields. They help improvements 
 on technology, stability, reputation etc.
  + Hits in combat is shown on map. This is a nice feature as you see the how well (or bad) you perform 
 during battles.
  + You see tax collected on map every month as numbers float on top of provinces.
  + Diplomacy 
 options are expanded and rounded up and made easy to reach. Diplomacy engine is somehow better 
 when compared to Eu2. At least you can see the probability before using your diplomat.
  + Troop organizations are handled better with the new interface. + Interface is completely overhauled 
 and Every menu is placed well in screen. Especially top right corner menu offers quick access to 
 important stations.
  + Army &amp; Navy traditions, Prestige points and national ideas are nice add-ons. Prestige directly 
 affects diplomatic success as well as yearly increase in national relations. + Regime has been 
 made changeable. This is a big improvement. + Man power and army reinforcement is very well implemented 
 (just like HOI) . + Capturing ships is now possible after naval battles. Which is yay! (just like 
 the imperialism)
  + Battles performed on the map. Yet side panel is highly explanatory (again this is from HOI)
 
  
  The bads are:
  - Poor graphics. They have failed to make EU3 a competitor with todays games and eventually made 
 players to ask themselves So why the hell they made it 3D? I personally prefer beautiful hand drawn 
 2D graphics instead of these bad 3D ones. These new graphics are not an eye candy for sure. Especially 
 in comparison with the beautiful campaign map of RTW, was it so hard to make as beautiful as Rome?
 
  - Sounds are below mediocre. Doesn't give you the real feeling which is very important.
  - Monarchs are not following historical chronology, nor the game follows historical events as EU2 
 did. Neither monarch names nor the events are historical. This is a major flaw in my opinion. It 
 was the main thing made EU the EU.
  - Time acceleration is still slow in max. setting.
  - auto-assign merchants feature is not available in EU3.
  - Province info is non-accessible during 
 sieges.
  - 3D town view is non-functional nor is necessary. its a total waste of resources and obstructing 
 view and nothing more.
  - Spy actions is a well add-on however you can do nothing for an effective spy defense. (and your 
 inflation sky rockets via attacks)
  - Diplomacy system still sucks, AI is unrealistically stubborn in peace deals even it has a horrendous 
 negative warscore. Very unrealistic. Peace offers from Nations you are at war with always ask for 
 your all money to conclude the deal, again and again without reasonable demands nor checking the 
 warscore despite you refuse them all the time.
  
  In overall, it is not a bad game, Tons of things are improved and it is obvious they worked hard 
 for these changes. I support paradox for their innovative and different kinds of games. But is 
 it too much to ask better graphics and better diplomacy engine in return for the cash i give up 
 from my budget?
  
  The most frustrating thing is perhaps the stubborn and cheating AI. I see Mamluks (as i am Ottoman 
 Empire with stability +3 and Land:9) while their stability is -3 and Land:3, fighting like crazy, 
 there must be swarms of revolts in their provinces (I check most of them have a 17% revolt chance) 
 yet there is no uprising, and despite i held 3 provinces and with a warscore 17% they still refuse 
 even a whitepeace??? what did i do ? I accepted their peace deal and paid 3 ducats after years 
 of wearisome wars. AI seems never effected with a -3 stability, except minor nations, not willing 
 for a deal. Paradox should find a solution for this, first thing in line. Force accept peace deals 
 must be implemented if the stability is -3 and the offer is below the warscore. This way, Stability 
 -3 will mean something.
  
  As a conclusion, For such a long wait, i expected a much better work and more eye candy. Somehow 
 i didn't find it immersive enough and cant say it grows on you as EU2 successfully did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bassem182
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 1, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  First time i played this game, on my friend PC, i gave up on it at about 10min from starting it. 
 I chose England as a starting kingdom, and i had all these territories to manage, so far away from 
 each others, some messages began popping up.... IT WAS A CRAZY EXPERIENCE!!!!
  
  After this pitiful attempt of playing this game, i tried it again one week later. I played it slowly 
 at first, i got the hang of managing things. Then i started having a boom of money, i finally became 
 one of the top nations on this planet!!! This game requires patience, a hell lot of patience.... 
 Overall, it's a good game, which you'll get used to after a while, and it can get addictive really 
 fast, trust me.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fidosim
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 1, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Since the dawn of strategy games for the PC, there has always been a select group of gamers who 
 crave as much complexity, accuracy, and immersiveness as developers can possibly put into the game. 
 For those people, this game will be right up your alley. For more casual gamers, however, this 
 game may be a little frustrating and difficult to get into.
  
  Gameplay: Make no mistake, this is a whole lot of game. Hundreds of factions (some super easy, 
 some downright impossible. You'll probably find one somewhere in between based on how hardcore 
 you are.) , each with their own units, religion, and economic status. Plus you can choose a starting 
 date for your nation anywhere between the years 1453 and 1789, although you'll probably opt for 
 an early starting date since the game ends in 1792 regardless of what starting date you choose. 
 You'll be managing every nook and cranny of your nation, from budgeting your money, managing inflation, 
 sending merchants to compete in regional markets, and setting up colonies abroad, to fighting wars, 
 establishing relations with other countries, funding your armies, and sending spies to sabotage 
 the efforts of your rivals. And that's just the tip of the iceberg. It's hard to give you one single 
 depiction of what your game will consist of, because it will vary greatly depending on what faction 
 you chose and your own personal playstyle, as well as the decisions of other nations. Graphics: 
 This isn't for the most part an extremely graphics-intensive game, although there are some nice 
 effects, such as the movement of the water on the map, and the ability to switch between different 
 map modes. The appearance of your units will change as your technology progresses. Overall there 
 are a lot of nice features to this game, but it's not another Oblivion or FEAR.
  
  Sound: Sound isn't really one of the game's strong suits. It's not BAD, per se, it just doesn't 
 really stand out as much. There is some nice music that puts you in the mindframe of the time period, 
 but the generic Battle sound effects are somewhat bland.
  
  Value: This game has more replay value than pretty much every game out there today. There are endless 
 combinations of play styles, factions, etc. There's a lot that can happen much differently every 
 time you play a game, even if it's with the same faction you played before. This game is well worth 
 the price.
  
  Tilt: Personally, i've really gotten into this game. There are tons of features, big and small, 
 that make this feel like a real alternate history. If you're someome looking for a grand campaign 
 game that will consume your social life with its challenges, complexity, and just plain entertainment, 
 and you're looking for something a little deeper than the Total War series (which I also actually 
 love, by the way) I'd reccomend you give this one a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: empion
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 8, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Intro: This game is quite treasure. It offer something that few, if not no, turn base RST offer. 
 I first notice through G4TV, it look absolutely boring, but wait until you get a chance to play 
 it, it will blow your mind.
  
  Graphic: Might as well start with the bad part. The graphic is terribly boring! Nothing exciting 
 happen when they fight. Artillary, foot soldiers, their icons look the same. Hussar, dragoon, nothing 
 different. One of the worst graphic ever (puting technology into consideration) ! Though, it offer 
 a screen including buildings each city posseses. Despite that, the buildings are poorly design, 
 to topple that that, there is about 22 different building in the entire game (not much if you ask 
 me) . In a battle, you either see troops shoot with the same position or cannon shooting with the 
 same position. It's full of bad graphic design. The posters and some pictures designs look like 
 they were stole from Age of Empire III. Regardless of many criticism, the map design is accurate 
 and other layouts (which you can change) are useful. Oh.. and one more thing, I like the distinc 
 look of each nation because each has their own unique flag (which they probably got from a history 
 of flag book) . 6/10
  
  Gameplay: Fantasnic, Classic, Lovely! The history is extremely accurate. What it lack in artistic, 
 it make up in gameplay. It has rich historical characters, numerous trick innovative game play. 
 This game really go in depth in term of diplomacy, military, conquest, and interaction. The diplocatic 
 design surely match with the warlike Europe. You can keep count of your military, and numbers is 
 not everything, it also about skillful general as well. You can conquest the entire world if you 
 have the time and energy. Every game you play, you can reach the outside world. The limit is your 
 imagination. Also, the game offer numerous interaction keys and consequences, royal marriage, military 
 acces, trades, embargo. Overall the gameplay is addictive despite poorly furnish graphic. Maybe 
 it the bad graphic that make the game so good because you can play any nation in the game and you'll 
 have the same unit and everything. You can conquer them all!10/10 Storyline: ( I need to make new 
 blueprint for grading game) Anyway, quite a bit of story live. It let you start with. It base on 
 history accuracy, the history is pretty accurate because I know a lot about history. However, I 
 would like it to add more campaigns and expand the game timeline all the way to the Napoleonic 
 War, including the colonization of Africa and Asia.8/10
  
  Control: It has well sufficient control. Zoom in and out at a large scale unlike most RTS game. 
 The design of the domestic panel is quite impressive, but I have to use a mose to go around it! (deduction!) 
 Many button for you to use with many useful information too. 8/10
  
  Sound: I didn't pay attention to the sound, prbably cause it is all the same. Not much sound. I 
 am just going to give it teh same score of soun as GAMESPOT. 7/10
  
  Overall: 7+10+6+8+8=39/50 -- &gt;78%
  Despite the score, it is still a great game (addictive!!!!!) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartass21
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 5, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  This game is only disappointing in sounds and graphics .The gameplay is amazing , reminds me of 
 the total war games but its much more complex .Its very hard to form alliances and don't expect 
 to conquer the whole world .This game although the name is about the whole planet not only Europe 
 like TW games .Gain Treasury , maintain ur stability ,increase ur government ,gain Casus Beli , 
 gain a nation idea .Whitout a Casus Beli ur stability will drop and increase the chance of rebellions 
 which are annoying .Also stability effects ur income which will drop . This game is not that impressive 
 but it's fun but gets annoying when you gather a big army and are defeated bu a much smaller one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geneo2036
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 3, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  The game has a large number of issues. Mostly design and some poor balancing to the point of game 
 breaking.
  
  everything from Moral balacing to effectiveness of certain armies needs to be relooked that.
 
  
  then there is the merchant issue- they are useless, I have never been able to use the merchant 
 market- it seems that your merchants are the first to be cast out, often even if I send 5 at once, 
 i will only get 1 or 2nd teir and i'll be removed from market before i get my next merchant- utterly 
 useless and horrible micromanagement (there is fun micromanagement and then there is just tedious 
 nonsense, sending a new merchant out every few seconds is boring as hell and needs to be automated 
 plus the entire market needs to be rebalaced so the player stands a chance to get in and hold it 
 atleast for a few year streach, plus makets that belong to you should give you a bonus in ablity 
 to work in them- they are your markets after all)
  
  then there is the general micromanagment in the game. Its not as bad in quantity as most strategy 
 games like civilization, but most strategy games give you good city, colony interfaces to manage 
 your empire. There is next to none here, so its a real pain to scroll around to various terretories 
 to build stuff on them when in most games its simply done off a sub-screen.
  
  all in all, it just fails to amuse. Some people obviously like it and its not a terrible game, 
 but its certainly not a good one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Denizz1991
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2007 3:44 am PT
Review:  What you get is a fantastic game, fun, not so hard to learn, not to deep into micromanagement but 
 still there are alot of options, good graphics and sound, and don't forget it is easiiy moddable. 
 You can install mods without a problem. So if you want more historical depth, install a mod like 
 Magna Mundi. But even the 'vanilla' game is very good to play. The AI isn't dumb at all (it makes 
 good choices) , is competitive, doesn't suddenly betray you (unless you are their weaker neighbour 
 and you got alot of provinces they want, but then it is logical ;) ) . Everything is worked out 
 well and almost bug free, and so I can continue for a while.
  
  It is just a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irvine78
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  You will literally lose days of your life playing this game. The world itself, not a loose Hollywood 
 version like Medieval II, is here for you to immerse yourself deep within it. And graphics, schmaphics. 
 The game isn't all that painful on the eyes, and you will be too busy trying to maintain merchant 
 presence in trade centers, building a fleet to send armies across the Atlantic, plotting to invade 
 Denmark, and building a network of Protestant nations to really stop and smell the roses. If you 
 want the PC game addiction without the World of Warcraft flavour, look no further. Or actually, 
 look harder; I had to look in five or six stores before I found this gem. Totally worth the gas. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Wii
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 29, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  This game literaly came out of nowhere for me. At the time I heared about it I was playing Midevel 
 Total War 2, with a bit of disapointment (not much though) .
  
  After playing the demo for about three hours and then trying to save it (and finding out I couldn't) 
 I realised I needed this game. After looking franticly for it, which I couldn't find it at EBgames, 
 so I had to drive an extra few miles to get to Best Buy. In the end though it was worth pestering 
 a few clerks to finnaly get them to go into the back and find the game.
  
  What makes this game so great is the fact that you can play any of the nations you see, from any 
 place in the world. If you want to be the pope jump on and have some popeish fun. If you want to 
 play as the Republic of Regusa your welcome to, heck you can even play Japan. With so many options 
 of play its no wonder the offical score is 8.7 and that most players who have played it agree with 
 that score.
  
  What makes this game so great is the fact that you get the great ammount of depth that other titles 
 don't give you but its still easy and playable by the masses. You can change your government edit 
 your religon (some times) .
  
  The only dark side is the mutiplayer, my brother and I bought it in the hopes of playing a large 
 scale LAN based game, but it constantly crashes during multiplay. Unfortunatly to this date its 
 still only on patch 1.1 (which was the same patch that was up back in January) , so untill they 
 patch the multiplayer we've had to curb our massive battles.
  
  What would make this game even better would be to add commandable battles (though you'd have to 
 add turns) and create a more detailed map, other than that Europa is a winner for any stratagy 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Termite551
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 16, 2007 3:13 am PT
Review:  This is the third in the europa universalis series and it is extremely addictive and it will truly 
 test your tactical skill. The game can start anywhere from 1430 to 17... something (I always start 
 at 1430) and you may play as any of some 240 nations (it changes depending on what year you start 
 The games difficulty is quite hard (It largely depends on what country you play as, the difficulty 
 slider dosnt do much) . The graphics are fairly ok but not a strong point (what you would expect 
 form this kind of game. The games sound is nicely done with lots of little drum sounds and such 
 to inform you of things going on the world (things your country would know about only ofcourse) . If 
 you are a fan of deep strategy you will deffinetily want to check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walrus8303
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 12, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  I have not played any previous EU games so I will judge EUIII as a standalone and not as a sequal.
 
  
  First of all the gameplay. Allthough the learning curve of the game is quite high when one learns 
 it, he will find that the gameplay is cleverly designed making it quite easy to manage your empire 
 efficiently. The various map modes and the ledger is very useful tools for the emperor. There many 
 options that the player have and the goal of the game varies to want a player wants to do. One 
 can play aggressively by making war or one can stay in peace and become a financial power. There 
 are however some things that I feel are missing from the player. First of all even though diplomacy 
 is quite intelligent does not give the player enough options. Options like making an opponent dissolve 
 an alliance with another nation or demand territory or buy it peacefully. There where some bugs 
 in diplomacy I found too. I did not manage to sell any province at any price even when the nation 
 had claims on it. And what I did not understand was the peace offer system. When you had 100% warscore 
 you where not able to always annex the nation. I had to have just one territory left to do this. 
 But the native American and the African nations could be annexed easily. Finally in multiplayer 
 the Royal Marrage was buggy as you needed to reload a game in order to enable the option again 
 after the first mariage offer between two nations. As far as the graphics are concerned, I found 
 them quite nice and had no problems with them. A bug again here when sometimes navies that had 
 lost a battle (destroyed) where standing still with no ships in a sea square and you had to reload 
 to get them out of there. I would like to have more zoom out too if it would be possible...
  
  The music of the game was great I enjoyed it a lot but I did not liked much the audio effects. 
 There could be some development there. I really enjoyed this game of Paradox very much but I did 
 not liked not to have the option to continue the game after the time was finished. This option 
 would be great as there were many things that I wanted to do with my empire left undone. Great 
 game though! Keep up the good work Paradox! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shegevara
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 11, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  Well, this is a game, you play it in my opinion not for fun, but for enjoyment ant educational 
 program. A lot new interesting thinks to see and do, though you will enjoy almost all the time. 
 Game sets you in Europe and whole world, choosing a civilisation, you prefer, and you like it, 
 play it, and be as best as you can. The best part is, that there you can play a tiny civilisation, 
 which don't have a goal to rule the world. Just play as best as you can. And i like that. Well, 
 tutorials are kinda good, campaigns are good too, though i prefer standard singleplayer overall. 
 I miss somethings but, hey, you can absolutely mod this game as you want. You are really free to 
 do it as you want, and it has (i hope) many new patches to come and to fix few things. Overall 
 this is a great game, with great sounds, better graphics than EU 2, and countless ways of different 
 strategies.
  
  This game is absolutely a must-have for strategy gamers!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe I haven't tried this game before. It's a well designed work of art. Yes, it looks 
 like a map and it is but it's what's going on that map that matters. You can start with any country, 
 great or small and see if you can survive through almost three centries of warfare, trade, exploration, 
 etc... it never ends with just one thing.
  
  I though that this game might be boring looking at the screen shots so I passed it up at first 
 but after reading some reviews I thought why not try it and I'm glad I did!
  
  The only downside is there is so much going on in (real-time) that it might be too overwelming 
 for most but then that's what the pause button is for! Turn Based players of the Civ series will 
 not like this game, why? It's too relalistic for them becaus ethey have to think on the fly in 
 real-time and not by  real life guys! If you 
 ask me this game beats anything Sid Meier's has come out with in the Civ series. Yes, that's a 
 pretty bold statement from me but I'm series, Civ games are for ten year olds, EU is for Adults 
 because you have to know your history, units, political themes of the day to be truely successful 
 in this game.
  
  Graphics are nothing to write home about but they get the job done. I'm getting to the point that 
 ghraphics don't matter to me now since I've matured in the world of gaming and I hold dear the 
 value of great gameplay over everything that comes out now. Animations are cool, if two armies 
 meet each other on the field you see two charactors crossing their guns and gun smoke. When you 
 settle new lands in the Americas there is a guy cutting down a tree and the sound of a axe chopping 
 wood which is a cool effect. Sound is great. The musical score alone is worth the admission. One 
 of the sound effects that stands out for me is when you send a navy fleet or ship to sea and click 
 on it you hear the waves and the ship's boards creaking just like in the movie's, it's really immersive!
 
  
  Overall, EU3 is one of the best strategy titles that I have ever played. It would be nice ot fight 
 your battles on a seperate map like in the Total War series but for the kind of game this is, it 
 does what it needs to do and that is Grand Strategy to the fullest extent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  This is a solid game. There are a lot of things to do and learn. You can play the game in so many 
 different aspects that you dont really finish or win in the game. You can be a aggressive dictator 
 that attacks his neighbors, a diplomatic country who with peace can grow very strong with alliances 
 and turning country into your vassels. One way Ive tried playing this game is a capitalist approach, 
 I was able to build a strong country into a strong market driven economy that I was able to buy 
 my neighbors support. The religious approach is also another aspect of the game. It took me a few 
 tries to even get my country to even survive after five years. The game has built in help bubbles 
 but some of those bubbles are rather vague. The replay ability on this game is rather high because 
 of the history time span it covers and the ability to choose every country in that time period. 
 The graphics and sound are very bland and get annoying after awhile. There are several bugs in 
 the game but I didnt install any patches so I dont know if there were fixed. Most of the time 
 Ive found that reloading the game gets rid of all graphical bugs. The longer you play though youll 
 find your computer system slowing down due to the complexity of the game. If you want a lot of 
 intense fighting this is not the game for you. If you want a more evolved version of Risk than 
 give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earthcreater
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 28, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  this game is one of the greatest games i have ever tried. I have always loved games with big maps 
 and lots of provinces to conquer, games like hoi2, and EU2, but when I came over this when I was 
 on a trip to Amsterdam, it seemed like the perfect expansion to my collection. and when i got home 
 and first started playing, I was hooked from the first second.
  
  the shear size of the game, and all the tings you can do, and decide, makes this game one of the 
 deepest strategy games ever. the only thing i believe this game could do without is the 3d graphics, 
 the graphics they have put in are not good enough. but overall I think this is the best game in 
 the series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mansak
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 26, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Basically this game lets you do anything you want as virtually any country known to the European 
 world at the time you decide to play. You can choose to control powerful countries such as Austria 
 and Spain or attempt to conquer the world as the ferocious and tiny Switzerland. Countries like 
 the Cherokee can work their way up to guns and navies with a seemingly realistic technology system, 
 and as the leader of a country you may find success by investing your efforts into merchants and 
 loaning gold.
  This is also the first strategy game that really represents unit scales as they should be. Unlike 
 the Total War series armies can reach sizes of tens and twenties of thousands of soldiers however 
 this is so only because battles are not simulated as they are in those series and are shown as 
 a representation with squares and phases- again an example of the pure strategy gaming; not Necessarily 
 a good thing. As far as my rating i feel that the graphics are judged too much. This game has fairly 
 bad graphics, or at the least no-frill's. But they are good enough and just not really necessary 
 for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volodnikov9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Europa Universalis III is a grand strategy game that takes place between 1453 to 1789, right before 
 the French Revolution. Essentially, you move your units around on a large map of the world as well 
 as managing the economy and political aspect of your nation-state (you can choose pretty much any 
 nation that existed at the time) . While this may seem fun, it may be unappealing to those who don't 
 have a taste for history, or strategy games at all. Even diehard fans of the original installments 
 in the Europa Universalis series may find this one a bit lacking.
  
  After waiting since I was able to put down Europa Universalis II, I was eager to get my hands on 
 the third installment of the series. After installing and updating with the 1.1 patch, I was ready 
 to go. Unfortunately, it would not come as soon as I had hoped for. One of the first things you 
 notice is how long the game takes to start up. It sometimes keeps me from wanting to play, it's 
 that bad. Fortunately, it's not as bad after a couple times playing, but after installing, it takes 
 about five minutes to load the main menu. The menus are nice, I was able to quickly choose a country 
 from any date and time and continue from there.
  
  Once thing fans of EUII are the graphics. To be honest, they are quite bland compared to the nice 
 map of the second in the series. At first glance, you may think this game is way over date, but 
 you'll get used to them eventually. Gameplay-wise, EUIII is a pretty fun game. You'll spend hours 
 conquering and building for your nation/empire, but it has it's downsides. One thing I particularily 
 found annoying were most war scenarios. It seems that you MUST have a large force in most of your 
 territories because if you win a battle, they enemy army is not annihlated, they retreat, and guess 
 where? To your territory. What seemed like a victory has now turned into a disaster, as you end 
 up chasing the enemy army all over your undefended provinces, no matter how deep from the border 
 they can be.
  
  Overall, EUIII can be a pretty enjoyable game, though it has many downsides to it if you are very 
 picky. I would recommend it, though, to anyone who likes history, especially the 15th to 18th century. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teemuir-fin
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 20, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  I think that the game is half ready, unfinished. It takes more than a simple world map and a few 
 pop-up windows to make a strategy game. The native cultures should have cultural-spefific development 
 options, including generals, buildings, techs and some scifi post-conquest history. They are unplayable, 
 because they develop the europe-specific techs too slow, and there are no alternatives. There isn't 
 much to with any culture, but just to get as many countries and as much income as possible. By 
 the way, nations didn't develop but only in nationalist Europe. They didn't even exist before 1800ties. 
 There are some events, in which the other options has no effects at all, so why not always take 
 the first? Some events are described as a test, and have no meaning at all. Pirates should appear 
 more than just for the first few years of a foundation of a colony. Not to the mention the bugs! 
 The graphics are simple, but with high settings it still bogs down (with Radeon 9550 256 MB) . There 
 are some nice reflection effects on the water, but the terrain mode could use more photorealism.
 
  
  The game speed is also slow, even at it's highest setting.
  
  Music rotates between a 4 or so pieces, to which you get bored, but they are well made. Sound effects 
 are sufficient.
  
  The game is hard, atleast for the first time around, because the enemy will build very large armies 
 and develop techs a lot faster than you, even if you are well off.
  
  I like the feeling of blend of every known strategy game, such as Civilization, Conquest of the 
 New World and Pirates!, but the game is as a 1.1 version simply the same as a good game in it's 
 0.3ties. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conquerant
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 4, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  As a historic strategy game fan, I've always considered EU2 to be the best game ever, period. EU3 
 is very disappointing because it could've been so much more.
  
  EU3 has some great new gameplay ideas, such as national ideas, military tradition affecting your 
 ability to recruit generals and admirals, and recruiting regiments that slowly are reinforced after 
 taking losses rather than recruiting individual soldiers.
  
  But unfortunately, for some reason they decided to completely destroy the historical ambiance of 
 the game. The graphics are just plain ugly and a big step down from the beautiful hand drawn 2D 
 map of the previous game (with the added bonus of people with older systems not being able to play 
 it!) , the music is boring, cookie cutter, cinematic music rather than the great period music selection 
 that changed as you advanced through ages in the previous game (because playing as the kingdom 
 of France, nothing gets me pumped up for war against Austria like a jangly Middle Eastern-sounding 
 track) but by far the biggest loss is their decision to do away with the historical events and 
 leaders that really gave you a sense of reliving history. I haven't quite decided yet if the new 
 ideas are worth the loss of ambiance. I'll play EU3 some more and I may decided that it is an improved, 
 if flawed and highly disappointing, sequel. But I wouldn't be surprised if I eventually decide 
 to resign EU3 to the dustbin and go back to EU2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odella
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 2, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  As a diehard EU2 fan and having followed the developers diary on the forum i was braced for a very 
 different experience, hte major change being the elimination of the predetermined historical events 
 in favour of what Paradox call 'dynamic' events. EU3 unfortunately has so de-coupled itself from 
 history that it there is little or no flavour to any of the nations you can play which makes the 
 gameplay fairly turgid and produces bizarre effects like Ethipia as the Holy Roman Emperor.
  This type of game may appeal to many but my feeling is that Paradox have traded a great game concept 
 for commercial reasons and have created an entirely different sort of gameplay.
  I won't comment further on the graphics which are undoubtedly worse than EU2 but my advice is play 
 the demo before you buy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makinder2004
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 1, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  The title says it, EU III is all substance and not glitz. With this historical strategy game be 
 prepared to spend countless hours trying your hand at creative empire building on the grand scale. 
 By that qualification I mean, this game is NOT about world conquest and subjugation of other countries 
 as such, in fact if you approach it like that you are bound to loose and incure severe penalties 
 to your country's prestige and inivite aggression against you. On the contrary, you are responsible 
 for controlling and shaping your country destiny via domestic and foreign policies, that allow 
 to prosper as a nation and yes to a certain degree you can create your own historical legacy and 
 outcomes even though the game does maintain overall reasonable historical accuracy reflecting a 
 period between 15 century and late 18 th century, 350 years or so... its an awesome game, gameplay 
 is very immersive and easy (there is a good tutorial for newbies) , needless to say the soundtrack 
 also brings to life the era nicely . Moreover I find Paradox has made great strides forward with 
 including a well desgined 3 D world map, only flaw I find here are the unit models, the rendering 
 could have been more detailed, but overall visually the world map is attractive and its fun to 
 zoom in and out at various levels or to view combat that way. This game is for those who like play 
 and shape international history and prefer complexity and thoughtful challenge over glitz, hyped 
 up grafiphs or war mongering or destructive mayhem thats become so common place in most mainstream 
 strategy games these days. Therefore GO AND BUY THIS GAME, ITS MONEY WELL SPENT !
  
  Only thing I will scold Paradox for is their lack of distribution in Canada. The game seems to 
 be found nowhere on the shelves of major retailers (maybe only exception might be EB Games here) , 
 this certainly is a wonderful way of keeping the game restricted to a niche following, but ultimately 
 prevents the game from being known to a wider audience (beyond hardcore Paradox fans) esp in Canada. 
 So Paradox buck up and flood this game into Canada, so people enjoy it ! No worries, there is an 
 alternative .... you can alternatively download the game at GAMERSGATE. com, I downloaded it from 
 there and had no problems, I also got the game 's100 page manual with it ! Wonderful :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2reddy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 30, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Europa Universalis III is one of the realistic historical strategies of the game world. The game 
 is not about conquering all the world, it is about leading an empire (or a small country) successfuly. 
 You must be successful in four areas: Diplomacy, trade, production, war.
  
  Like the second game, war should be one of the last choices when you are in conflict with another 
 country. You can annex other nations by diplomacy and this way you keep your reputation high.
 
  
  If you get a bad reputation (by attacking all the time) most of the countries in your continent 
 attacks you. You got to learn the diplomatic way of conquest in order to grow and (be alive) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yakaspat
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 28, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  I only played EU2 for a short while, as, the pace of the game simply couldn't keep my attention 
 for more than a couple hours. Crusader Kings I greatly liked, mostly because it was set in a time 
 frame more to my liking. EU3 is definately the best game in the series, both in terms of visuals, 
 presentation, and gameplay. The new menu system is a huge improvements, the game is slick and very 
 pretty to look at, and, the re-playability is just endless. If you are into this time frame, and 
 enjoy grand strategy games, this game is a must.
  
  However, if you are like me, and want a slightly more fast paced game, I would suggest passing 
 EU3 up and sticking with the Total War series of games. EU3 is slow, steady, and, even at it's 
 most intense moments, failed to draw me in . Still, the game is meant to be slow and steady, and 
 is more about zoomed-out strategy than in-your-face realtime combat like Medieval 2 Total War. 
 The game also suffers from some strange polishing oversights. For example, sometimes numbers overlap 
 in the display logs, and, for some reason, the intro movie locks up. Even the readme gives instructions 
 for how XP users can end-task on the intro video sequence. Wouldn't most of Paradox's audience 
 have XP by now? If so, why knowing launch a new title if the intro movie isn't fully compatible 
 with Windows XP? Still, this is the definitive grand strategy game currently available. Although 
 I personally prefer the tactical battles in Medieval 2 Total War and would like to see the ability 
 to play through the entire Middle Ages (rather than starting in 1450) , I still found EU3 to be 
 a challenging... if not totally exciting... epic strategy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexChec
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 27, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  Grand strategy has always been a difficult gaming genre to get right. On the one hand you want 
 to have enough options to feel as though you are not being restricted to a few, basic choices and 
 calling that a strategy, but on the other hand you dont want to be so overwhelmed by your options 
 that you feel like you cant make any progress at all.
  
  The first installment of this series had a narrow focus and fairly clunky mechanics (to the point 
 that I divested myself of it) , and EU2, while much broader in scope, suffered from the same clunky 
 mechanics and presented players with so much to do and learn that it was difficult to know where 
 to begin. This latest installment, while very broad in its scope, has some very key changes from 
 its predecessors which makes it both more accessible to newcomers and more enjoyable for novices 
 and veterans alike.
  
  Taking on the responsibilities of a national leader is never easy. Theres a lot to keep track 
 of: your finances, your military strength, your citizenrys happiness, your diplomatic standings 
 with neighbors, and your competitors standings. This is difficult enough to do in peace, and the 
 challenges increase exponentially in war. The EU series has done a fantastic job of portraying 
 the complex character of leadership, but where EU3 shines is how accessible it has made the task.
 
  
  Whereas in the past installments the first part of the learning curve was finding where all your 
 key data was located, the interface in EU3 is simple to understand, and simply rolling the cursor 
 over any object or icon reveals all the key stats a player could possibly want. The menus within 
 the interface have also been designed to give players quick and easy to read access to all vital 
 statistics.
  
  The map, too, is a great improvement over past installments. While not coming close to the polish 
 of the recent Total War maps, the visuals in EU3 are enough to show you where units are, what provinces 
 are building what, and your obstacles in terms of terrain and weather with nothing more than a 
 glance.
  
  Maintaining your government in times of peace and warfare is surprisingly simple, but not so much 
 that you feel as though something has been left out. Financial sliders are easy to adjust in order 
 to build your surplus, advisors  of which there is no shortage  are simple to hire and replace 
 depending on your circumstances, and your standing among nations is plain to see.
  
  Regarding the sliders, EU3 does a fine job of recreating how a nation evolves  slowly  in its 
 national and domestic outlooks. Government ideology sliders can only move once every few years, 
 and the consequences are very long lasting; at the same time, national ideas can either enhance 
 or detract from your slider choices. And when one monarch dies and another one takes charge, you 
 might find yourself in a very different situation  for better or for worse. A poor administrator 
 could be replaced by a keen one, or a great military leader could be replaced by a tactical fool.
 
  
  The way the government runs has direct, lasting results on the direction the nation takes, and 
 its here that you really have to be thinking in the long term before you make a decision, because 
 even your military can be adversely affected by bad ideological choices.
  
  On the military, which will clearly be the biggest attractor for many players, combat is not as 
 simple as rock-paper-scissors or a contest of sheer numbers. Leadership and troop morale are the 
 key elements of winning battles, and without those elements you might see large forces cut down 
 by smaller, more diverse ones or better led ones. Terrain also factors into battle outcomes, and 
 no board-game derivative computer game would be complete if battles were not in some way decided 
 by a bit of random dice throwing.
  
  Furthermore, deciding to go to war can and will have immediate consequences that, if the nation 
 is not ready to absorb, can be more devastating than the war itself. If a war is waged without 
 good cause or stability at home, provinces may revolt, income may dry up, and the result will be 
 that your troops will be left on the battlefield poorly funded and not at full strength.
  
  In short, EU3 is not a game which is merely an overcomplicated way to conquer the world. It might 
 well be your long-term plan to conquer as much territory as humanly possible within the 300-odd 
 years the game provides, but dont expect it to be as simple as recruiting en masse and launching 
 far-flung and ill-conceived campaigns.
  
  None of these elements are new to the grand strategy genre, and nor are they particularly new in 
 the Europa Universalis franchise. What makes EU3 stand out is the execution of these gameplay ideas 
 and elements: they are easy to understand, intuitive to use, and not overwhelming. The steep learning 
 curve of EU3 is in deciding on how to use these elements to build your grand strategy and what 
 effects certain decisions have on nations.
  
  But its not all glowing reviews for EU3. One of the killers is the sound quality: repetitive and 
 simple ambient (i. e., battle) noises and a looping soundtrack (although to be fair, it is a decent 
 soundtrack) can wear thin, especially as you find yourself playing into your sixth straight hour.
 
  
  And while I praise the government model, Im not too quick to praise the diplomatic options. To 
 be fair, I think it is and always will be impossible for any game to accurately mimic the complex 
 nature that is international diplomacy; however, where I fault EU3 is in just how simple the diplomatic 
 model is.
  
  Its too one-sided: You send out an option and get an acceptance or a rejection of your offer. 
 Theres no sense of negotiation or really any interaction. Its also obscenely easy to manipulate. 
 Want to go to war with someone with whom you have an otherwise perfect relationship, perhaps spanning 
 decades? Just spend a few months throwing insults at them, come down with a trade embargo, and 
 guarantee independence to their deepest enemy, and youve got yourself a war that will only minimally 
 affect your stability back home.
  
  The trading system also comes off as one of the more obscure concepts of the game. You send your 
 merchants out to trading centers and essentially have to cross your fingers that theyll get their 
 foot in the market for you. Even when youve boosted your trading efficiency, likely too have your 
 economic competitors, so its difficult to feel like youre ever really gaining in the international 
 market unless all your competition happens to be woefully underdeveloped.
  
  And as much as I would like to shrug off the diplomatic and trade deficiencies to give EU3 a superb 
 rating  because it certainly has the potential  given that youre leading a nation in direct 
 competition with other nations, shortcomings in these areas do have an irking impact on how the 
 game plays out.
  
  However, I strongly recommend EU3 for anybody looking for a good game of grand strategy, veteran 
 and novice alike. It may be difficult to learn, and even more difficult to master, but you will 
 not be disappointed once you crest the learning curves summit. The gameplay experience is fantastic, 
 and this is certainly the best installment of the Europa Universalis series.
  
  ~*~*~*~
  
  Reviewers system specs:
  
  Toshiba Satellite P105-S921: 1.83 GHz processor speed (Centrino 
 Duo) , 1 GB RAM, NVIDIA GeForce Go 7900 GS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ablain1981
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  EU3 feels a lot like its predecessor. The game plays well and is far more polished than previous 
 games in the series. EU3 does still have its own ragged edges though. The biggest sore thumb is 
 the graphics. To be honest, the graphics were almost better in EU2. Nowhere is this more evident 
 than when you have to zoom in and control military units.
  
  There is a nice mash up of all the best parts of EU2 and great new features. Having complete control 
 over what country you control and what year you start is a wonderful addition. Overall this game 
 gives you a greater feeling of control, yet amazingly it is also less overwhelming.
  
  I've got to say if you like EU2, buy this game. If you like in-depth strategy, buy this game. If 
 you like games that take time, care and thought, buy this game.
  
  However, if you're looking for a quick game with little thought, steer clear. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
