-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Europa Universalis III: In Nomine
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/europauniversalisiiiinnomine/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Decisions and specific mission objectives are great additions.
 Longer timeline allows campaigns to encompass the fall of Byzantium and the Hundred Years' War.
 More realistic rebel factions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The core Europa Universalis III game could still use an interactive tutorial.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 26, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.3, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 199 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Paradox Interactive
Genre: Strategy
Date:     May 28, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Just about every aspect of Europa Universalis III is improved in the In Nomine expansion pack.

  Paradox Interactive's outstanding real-time strategy game can already be characterized as falling 
 somewhere between "vast" and "so big you need a doctorate in European history to make heads or 
 tails out of this thing." Despite making the game even bigger, the In Nomine expansion's superb 
 collection of tweaks actually provides more focus to campaigns and makes it easier to hone in on 
 how to best lead a nation from a mere great power to a world-spanning colossus. New features, such 
 as scripted scenario goals and rebel factions, keep you concentrated on the big picture, while 
 fine-tuned elements, such as colonies and the powers of the papacy, allow you to further indulge 
 a love for historical micromanagement.  

  The basics of gameplay haven't been altered much; historical grand strategy is still the prime 
 mover here. All of the real-time action centers on taking control of a nation at some point between 
 the late medieval era and the dawn of the industrial age in the early 19th century. Games remain 
 wildly detailed and complex. You manage every aspect of statecraft from the provincial level on 
 up; economy, military, trade, religion, foreign relations, and even philosophical notions are at 
 your command. The Europa Universalis series plays like the most complicated board games you've 
 ever experienced, valuing serious strategizing over the "war as a shortcut to world domination" 
 cheat emphasized by too many strategy games. Here, you have to look at all of the factors that 
 contribute to building a stable society and micromanage your way to prosperity -- not just crank 
 out the hussars and slaughter everyone who looks at you cockeyed.  

           Poor little Byzantium looks awfully lonely in the midst of that sea of Turkish provinces. 

  In Nomine massages principal elements of gameplay with some adjustments, both major and minor. 
 One of the biggest affects the timeline, stretching it out some 50 years so that you can begin 
 campaigns with the coronation of Henry IV in October of 1399. That might not sound like a big deal, 
 but it does allow you to take part in some significant historical events, such as the final decades 
 of the Byzantine Empire, the invasions of Tamerlane, and the close of the Hundred Years' War. Simply 
 being able to try to save the Byzantines from the Turkish onslaught is reason alone to buy this 
 expansion, especially if you consider yourself a Europa Universalis III pro.  

  But the most significant difference between In Nomine and the original Europa Universalis III is 
 the greater focus on the big picture when it comes to nations. More specific goals are set forth 
 here, providing benchmarks that can be used to tailor make your nation along historical lines. 
 Instead of waiting for the right year to come along and trigger a war or an abdication, you can 
 now take active steps to make these events happen. A new tab has been added to the domestic panel 
 covering "Decisions," which involves taking on national missions. When guiding Byzantium, for example, 
 you're faced with the mission of trying to recover Greece. Each mission and decision is listed 
 along with the specific criteria that must be met in order to make them happen. If you succeed 
 in these tasks, you gain money, prestige, and other bonuses. Failure isn't met by any punishments, 
 although abandoning an accepted mission to try another one involves a loss of prestige. National 
 objectives generally aren't all that easy to meet, but they add a sense of direction to nation 
 building that was previously lacking in the wide-open grand campaign.  

  Each province also has a similar tab covering more down-to-earth local decisions, generally involving 
 trade or infrastructure. These tasks are usually easier to achieve. In France, during the Thirty 
 Years' War, for instance, provincial decisions in Calais involve setting up an embassy and establishing 
 a court system. But the relative ease of meeting these objectives are counterbalanced by sheer 
 numbers. If you play a larger power, such as France or England, you are typically stuck with a 
 dozen or more provinces, each clamoring for four or five decisions to be met. So you either ignore 
 a pile of them or wade into heavy micromanagement. It's too bad that Paradox didn't address this 
 issue in the design stage and trim back the number of decisions to one or two maximum per province. 
 This would have been much easier to manage and would have had the added effect of emphasizing major 
 issues within each province.  

           Completing mission objectives can earn you money and prestige.      

  Rebels spice 
 things up, too. Rebellious factions in provinces can now act somewhat like independent nations, 
 with goals aside from simply causing chaos. If you screw up badly, especially during a war, you'll 
 frequently face serious dissent from within. If you fail to deal with the British when leading 
 the American colonies into the War of Independence, for example, you could soon be up against a 
 rebel army in Massachusetts. This can actually cause the breakup of your nation because rebels 
 will occasionally demand to go their own way and take a province with them. You can use these new 
 rebels to your advantage as well, though. Spies can be sent to encourage rebellions in enemy lands -- a 
 tactic that can pay off big time in provinces that have been recently conquered with large populations 
 of disloyal citizens and those who don't follow the state religion. One of the pluses here is being 
 able to essentially keep wars going on the sly long after signing a peace agreement. Rebels can 
 also wreak havoc in your colonies now, which seems to regularly set off late-game problems with 
 those pesky Yanks when you're playing England.  

  Other additions offer further enhancements. The papacy has been beefed up, mainly with excommunication 
 powers and the ability to call for crusades against Catholic nations. It's sort of neat to see 
 the pope in action like this, although excommunications tend to occur out of the blue without much 
 warning, in the absence of a notable rift with the church or a war. One moment, everything's cool 
 between Rome and the king of Hungary, but the next moment, the monarch is no longer welcome in 
 Sunday school. The same goes for crusades, which are often bizarre. Having the pope declare an 
 English crusade against Granada in 1401 just doesn't appear to make a whole lot of sense. Colony 
 management now does make a lot more sense, however.  

  Colonies are more than just cash cows here because the increased threat of piracy means that you 
 have to build serious navies to keep these overseas settlements running. Some of the pirate threat 
 is a little over the top, but at least these scurvy dogs keep you on your toes. And colonial micromanagement 
 has actually been eased because colonists now create their own cities and automatically send revenue 
 home in the form of tariffs. All you have to do is set a maintenance slider and colonies almost 
 take care of themselves. Missionaries are now controlled in the same way. Whenever you want to 
 do any converting in a province, just send a missionary and then control the fervor of his efforts 
 through another maintenance slider. No muss, no fuss.  

  In Nomine broadens campaign play enough to draw fans back for new attempts at conquering the world. 
 Every change here complements the original game, enhancing playability in far-reaching ways. This 
 is the ideal expansion pack for an already outstanding strategy epic.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: diesel_dejavu
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  I must preface this by saying this is my first exposure to the EU series. I have played HOI2 and 
 saw some similarities. But after several hours, I found myself comparing this to the Total War 
 series. This game is by far more immersive and more historically detailed. I miss the real-time 
 battles found in Total War. There are long periods of just sitting and watching the clock roll 
 off months at a time. There was no handbook that comes with the game, only a tutorial. I had to 
 online for tips and strategies, for this game will tick you off quickly (frustrating to build your 
 economy and army and alliances only to be beaten into a pulp in one sweeping brilliantly executed 
 AI attack plan) . I do however like the history this game includes, but this comes with a drawback 
 aswell: because France and Spain are super powers in real life at this time means that they will 
 be super powers in the game as well. This also makes it very difficult to take a small nation like 
 Milan, Aragon, or Tunisia and build it into a colonial world dominator. When playing these smaller 
 nations your goals must be set much lower (like just staying alive for 150 years) . I like the wide 
 scope (able to colonize the world) and play just about any euro and mid east nations. But it just 
 seems to move very slowly. Overall, good game but not a classic. Good game for the history buff. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Wii
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Ok so when EU: Rome came out I stood behind it, I enjoyed all the gameplay and about a month later 
 I was back on EU3. EUR was fun but it lacked the "grand" feel of EU3 and once again our favorite 
 devs come back to wow us with more.
  
  Now I'm going to focus on the expantion itself, so to get more info on the core game you might 
 wana look that up:
  
  First I must say I'm happy they gave us a longer game timeline, the fact that I can go back and 
 play nations that had already been destroyed was great. I often found myself playing Morea or Tebizon 
 to try and rebuild the empire but thanks to the new expantion I actualy get to play the empire!
 
  
  With that said I'll move into another great area... rebels. In the past they just poped up and 
 created chaos for anyone and everone, no longer! Now rebels have a mission, a purpose and they 
 relentlessly go after it. The game now supports a wide range of rebels from Peasents, Freedom Figthers 
 (destroyed nations trying to make a comeback) , Patriots (rebels trying to rejoin a nation that 
 lost land) and even religious zelots! The rebels will restock armies and they wont leave the contry 
 they're rebelling against. So if your playing Ragusa Serbian rebels won't attack you once they're 
 done with Serbia, rather they camp out in Serbia till the issue is resolved.
  
  Aside from the expanded rebels you've also got nation missions, if your playing the Byzantine Empire 
 for instance you'll have the mission to recapture Greece, then Asia minor. If you're playing Naples 
 you get missions like gaining prestige. The missions are fun, and you can even pick your mission 
 to a dagree which is realy nice, completing them gives you a fair bonus depending on what the mission 
 requires (some are to form up ethnic nations like "Germany" or "Russia" even "Italy" joins the 
 list) .
  
  Along with the great new features EU3: IN adds a ton of fixes, the auto send merchant option has 
 been fixed to the point where it actualy works... yes I've actualy dominated three trade markets 
 without even bothering to pay attention to them.
  
  As always EU3 continues to deliver the best "grand" conquest experience allowing you to play any 
 nation in the world at the time. I stand by it that EU3 is currently the best "High Stratagy" game 
 I've played yet and this expantion only continues to polish an already sparkling gem. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
