-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: EVE Online
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/evethesecondgenesis/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 13, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 7.4, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,955 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Simon & Schuster
Developer: CCP
Genre: Sci-Fi Online...
Date:     May 6, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There's something to be said for EVE's unusually slow-paced approach to the online role-playing 
 genre, but a strong recommendation isn't it. 

  Like many other massively multiplayer online role-playing games, EVE Online: The Second Genesis 
 has a lot of ambitious intentions. It offers you the chance to create a unique persona in its vast 
 science-fiction universe and then seek out power, riches, allies, fame, or notoriety as you become 
 increasingly proficient as a starship captain, a bounty hunter, a miner of rare minerals, an interstellar 
 trader, or an officer in an influential corporation, among other things. EVE features some of the 
 best graphics to date in an online RPG, and it is the best-looking outer space game in years. The 
 game also offers some interesting variations on the conventions of the genre, most notably in how 
 it's not at all focused on your character having to constantly kill things in order to level up. 
 Unfortunately, many of EVE's ambitions remain unfulfilled weeks after the game's release. The lack 
 of clear-cut incentives, risks, and rewards leaves the world of EVE seeming empty. The game can 
 have its moments, since like many online games, it can be entertaining if you happen to find a 
 good group of people to play and chat with. But at this point, EVE is suitable only for very patient 
 science-fiction fans with lots of time to spare.  

          The character-creation process offers the first glimpse of EVE's superb graphics -- and its 
 problems.     

  For better or worse, creating a character is one of the most enjoyable things you can do in EVE. 
 You initially choose from a variety of different races and factions, and you then customize a fully 
 3D character portrait for yourself, defining everything from skin tone and clothing to the exact 
 shape of your character's face. The graphics and artwork here are exceptionally good, suggesting 
 that the world of EVE has a distinct style and original flair to it. Unfortunately, this turns 
 out to not be the case. You soon realize that the character-creation process -- outside of the fact 
 that it lets you determine your starting skills -- is really just window dressing. That first amazingly 
 detailed close-up of your character shrinks down to a much smaller, static image that appears only 
 on your character sheet. What's worse is that it's for your eyes only -- other players only get to 
 see an even smaller, postage-stamp-sized portrait of your character.  

  Your "character" in the game is really just whichever ship you happen to be piloting at the time. 
 You can customize your ship's appearance to a certain extent by outfitting it with different weapons, 
 but ultimately this doesn't matter much, since you'll rarely get a close look at other player-flown 
 spacecraft anyway. One of the appealing qualities of massively multiplayer games is being able 
 to have a unique character that looks noticeably different from everyone else, but EVE disappointingly 
 foregoes that opportunity.  

  EVE also fails to engage you early on. There's a text-based tutorial that kicks off when you first 
 begin playing, but the pages of vague text often don't adequately explain the game's complicated 
 interface. You'll just have to get a feel for it, which will probably take an entire day's worth 
 of playing or more. Eventually, once you get a grasp of it, the interface becomes quite handy. 
 The various semitransparent windows containing things like chat dialogue with other players, an 
 inventory of your ship's cargo, your navigation "bookmarks," and more can be opened and closed, 
 minimized, and resized as necessary, and they can even be merged for your convenience. You can 
 also readily search a bewilderingly huge map of the galaxy for various solar systems or even individual 
 planets and stations, plot a waypoint to your desired destination, hit the autopilot button, and 
 be on your merry way. So, if a player tells you about an asteroid belt halfway across the galaxy 
 that's filled with rare minerals, it's not difficult to plot a course and head over there.  

  Mining is actually one of the most common activities in EVE. The modestly sized player community 
 (to date, about 3,000 to 5,000 people can be found playing on the game's single server at any given 
 time) , recognizing that the game's interface is convoluted, and that the game gives new players 
 little direction, are generally friendly and quick to offer advice when asked, "So what am I supposed 
 to be doing?" No matter which part of the galaxy you're in, the answer is the same: "Mine."  

 
          There's no fun in mining asteroids in EVE, but it's one of the only ways to make money 
 in the game.     

  Mining is the only viable way to make money early on in EVE, and it's really one of the only viable 
 ways of making money in the game at all. You mine by warping to an asteroid belt, maneuvering very 
 close to an asteroid, targeting it, toggling on your mining laser, and waiting for many minutes 
 as your cargo hold gradually fills with ore. Don't worry about running into an asteroid, as you 
 can't sustain damage in collisions in EVE, and you'll usually just clip right through other objects, 
 including things like space stations and planets. So mining is simply boring. Eventually, you can 
 further develop your mining skills and get better mining lasers, improving your efficiency somewhat -- but 
 you'll probably have a bigger ship with a bigger cargo hold by that time, so the effects of the 
 new equipment and skills will likely be negated. After you've filled up with ore, you fly them 
 back to a space station for reprocessing (just a menu button that you click) , sell the minerals, 
 and head on back to the asteroid belt for another go.  

  In your search for better minerals, you'll eventually start mining in dangerous regions populated 
 by space pirates or other hostile computer-controlled ships. This at least adds some tension or 
 risk to an otherwise completely monotonous activity. The combat in EVE isn't very tactical -- the 
 stronger ship usually wins, and the only real strategy is to keep your foe in the effective range 
 of your weapons. Some weapons are good at depleting energy shields, while others can punch through 
 armor effectively, so eventually there's some sense in trying to have a well-balanced arsenal equipped 
 on your craft. Furthermore, with enough money and the proper skills, you can equip your ship with 
 various devices that improve its speed, armor, rate of fire, and so on. Nevertheless, the combat 
 itself is just a slugfest, where you'll merely watch as your enemy's hit points are depleted faster 
 or slower than yours. At least the combat looks and sounds good.     

  The only real, clear-cut goal in EVE is to make money. Money buys you better ships, better equipment, 
 and even new skills. Other than that, your character has a faction standing with various non-player 
 groups in the game, such as the space police, so you can keep your eye on those numbers to see 
 whether these groups are going to attack you on sight or not. Yet other than the amount of money 
 in your character's wallet, the only truly meaningful measure of his or her overall power is quite 
 literally the amount of time that's elapsed since you started playing EVE.  

          The map of the world of EVE reveals that there are a huge number of star systems in the 
 game.     

  You may train only one of your character's skills at a time, and training happens automatically, 
 whether you're actually logged in and playing EVE or not. Training is simply a matter of the hours, 
 minutes, and seconds remaining till your current training session is automatically completed. So, 
 for instance, training a skill to level two might take a couple of hours. Training a skill to level 
 five might take eight days. Your character begins with various skills depending on the choices 
 you make when creating him or her. Some of the skills in the game, such as mining, are essential. 
 Others are worthless or nearly so. You'll probably end up having to create a new character once 
 you learn the ropes enough to figure out that the choices you made when first creating that character 
 were just incorrect guesses.  

  The training system itself is unusual, to say the least. There are some good intentions behind 
 it. For instance, this system theoretically levels the playing field somewhat, preventing players 
 willing to play the game for hours and hours on end from leaving players with more-demanding schedules 
 in the dust. Yet that's not really the case in practice, since you don't make money in EVE when 
 you're not logged in, and money is at least as important as your character's skill levels. There's 
 an interesting bit of strategy in the EVE skill system, insofar as you'll find yourself planning 
 your schedule around your skill levels -- you could train a skill to a low level before you leave 
 for school or work, a mid-level skill just before you go to bed at night, and a higher-level one 
 just before going away for the weekend. Basically, to have a powerful character as quickly as possible, 
 you simply want to make sure you're always training a skill.  

  The problem is there's no real gameplay involved in the skill system, and in practice, that makes 
 most activities in EVE seem rather pointless. In other role-playing games, when you're tediously 
 killing one monster after another, tediously making one leather jerkin after another, or what have 
 you, generally the act of doing so is rewarded by a gradual increase in your ability to perform 
 that type of act. In EVE, the skill system and the actual gameplay are completely isolated from 
 each other. You can go off looking for space pirates to blow up, but blowing them up yields just 
 a little bit of money and maybe a decent item every now and then -- the reward of seeing your actions 
 directly affect your character's abilities is missing. So arguably the single most crucial trait 
 of a role-playing game is completely absent from EVE.  

  Travel in EVE can also be very tedious. You can warp from one point of interest to another, but 
 you leave warp just on the outskirts of where you're trying to get, so you'll then slowly, slowly 
 fly close enough to your destination, whether it's a space station, an asteroid belt, or a jumpgate 
 to another system. The game has a great-looking special effect for when your ship goes into warp 
 speed, as the whole screen starts shuddering and everything zooms by at relativistic speeds, but 
 you'll grow weary of this effect fairly quickly, since you'll be seeing it an awful lot. In the 
 event you need to travel to a distant location in EVE, such as to join with other members of your 
 corporation (EVE's version of other online RPGs' guilds) , you'll set your waypoint, hit the autopilot, 
 and probably leave your computer running while you go do other things. Travel is automatic and 
 can take an extremely long time.  

  The game has some interesting features that aren't fully fleshed out yet, such as its player-driven 
 economy. You can send out a buy order if you're looking for a particular item at a particular price, 
 and someone looking to sell that good can sell it to you. Someone else can theoretically courier 
 it over to you, or you could pick it up. Sometimes the player-driven market seems to break, though, 
 and factories for making items have a limited number of openings and are constantly in use by the 
 game's hard-core players. And the interface for the game's market system is so slow that simple 
 things like buying a bunch of ammo for your ship's guns are needlessly time-consuming.  

  EVE also has a bounty hunter system: If a player in the game slights you, you can put a bounty 
 on his or her head. The higher the bounty, the more desirable it will be for someone to take that 
 player out for you. Death in EVE is pretty interesting, too. You can insure your ship so you'll 
 be compensated if it's blown up. You automatically eject when that happens, so you don't necessarily 
 die -- but your lifepod may be destroyed, in which case you're "cloned" and respawn at a space station 
 with a basic ship. If you're cloned, you stand a chance of losing skill levels, so you might lose 
 literally weeks of training time due to an unfortunate encounter. Purchasing higher-level clones 
 can mitigate the chances of this. But again, EVE is much less focused on combat and dangerous encounters 
 than other online RPGs. In fact, unlike in most games of this type, death isn't an inevitability 
 in EVE, which will seem like a refreshing change of pace for most online RPG veterans.  

          You'll pass the time in EVE by chatting with other members of your corporation and staring 
 at the pretty graphics.     

  As mentioned, EVE looks terrific and sounds good. Space according to EVE is filled with swirling, 
 multicolored gases, gigantic planetoids, and unusual-looking spacecraft. Space stations are appropriately 
 large and lined with flashing beacons, and you can pretty much always see some sort of star shining 
 brightly in the distance. The weapon effects, particularly explosions and missiles, look really 
 good as well. The game's sound is minimal but well done, and EVE features a lengthy soundtrack 
 of appropriately ambient, new age music.  

  Yet all these good qualities don't change the fact that EVE doesn't have the sort of gameplay that 
 most players would find engaging. EVE offers little in the way of instant gratification, and progress 
 in the game is slow and often unnoticeable. If you manage to join a player corporation -- the game 
 at least makes it easy to find one seeking new members -- things can be better, and you and your 
 corporate colleagues can find new ways to make money and entertain yourselves. However, it would 
 take a dedicated player with a lot of free time to get to this point. In the end, there's something 
 to be said for EVE's unusually slow-paced approach to this genre, but a strong recommendation isn't 
 it.   

    Editor's Note 06/13/03 : The preceding review replaces the EVE review that was originally posted 
 on GameSpot, which we deemed insufficiently informative for our users. We are committed to providing 
 our users with thoroughly comprehensive reviews of all games.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (173 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Underwaterkill
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 10:19 pm PT
Review:  At this point, EVE is probably the most graphically stunning game I've played. These improvements, 
 of course, have come at the cost of portability... but then again, it always was a "laptop killer". 
 It's the only game I have that makes me actually worry about the temperature on my gaming desktop, 
 but that's just me... easy to worry.
  
  The social atmosphere in-game is extremely diverse, more so than any other MMORPG on the market 
 today. You might find you fit in with a bunch of carebears just looking for a bit of fun, or a 
 bunch of murderous pirates trying to rack up as many kills as possible. Or maybe somewhere in between. The 
 fact that the entire universe is hosted on one server (currently the world's largest supercomputer 
 network) makes it a lot easier to find people you'll identify with. Also, politics in the EVE universe 
 can be quite complicated (much like real life) , so beware who you might offend if you don't want 
 to have your name permanently added to certain people's KOS (kill on sight) lists... But don't 
 let that scare you; you can always find people willing to help you.
  
  The speed of the game is built on exponentials... Your income rate goes up faster and faster with 
 time, as does your spending (unless you never buy anything new, in which case nothing changes at 
 all) . However, the rate at which you learn skills decreases exponentially... training a skill to 
 level 1 doesn't take much more than an hour at most, but doesn't unlock much. However, getting 
 it to lvl 5 (which presents a big advantage, usually) will take you the better part of a week, 
 and often more. So, it's probably a good thing that you don't have to be online actively doing 
 something in order to train those skills. Also, user-created tools make it possible to monitor 
 your character (and friends' ones) so that you can log in just in time to switch a skill, as well 
 as plan whole skill sets.
  
  The 4 playable races of the EVE universe are also very well-balanced. There appear to be 2 groups 
 specialized against each other, but after a little more analysis, you can see that the other races 
 are not much more or less vulnerable to any one of them. This specialization has recently been 
 taken yet further by CCP with the addition of Tech level 3 ships, which can be customized to fill 
 any tactical role, from damage sponge to damage dealer to support ship to recon vessel.
  
  The recent expansions to the universe itself, with the random appearance of wormholes, adds a whole 
 new layer of difficulty and profitability. The wormholes have a limited duration and mass allowance, 
 so be careful not to get trapped somewhere. They can open either between two separate known solar 
 systems, or between a known one and one far away in uncharted territory. This new part of space 
 is populated with Sleeper drones, which feature a new AI system. They can repair each other, switch 
 targets, and keep you stuck where you are. Their damage types are also different from normal NPCs 
 in-game, in that they deal a relatively even spread, forcing you to fit your ship more like you 
 were going in against other players in unknown ship types.
  
  The entire economy is a giant leap into the future for MMORPGs. The market window can be filtered 
 in many ways, and can be browsed for just the station, solar system, constellation or region you 
 are currently in. Almost every item for sale was put on sale by another player, at a price they 
 decided on. Players can also put out buy orders for items, at whatever price they see fit (beware 
 of scams!) . If you can't find what you're looking for in the local market, check the public contracts 
 listing, as it can be viewed for the entire universe (again, double- and triple-check the price 
 before accepting) .
  
  Also, recent improvements have been made to the new player experience, make the transition and 
 decisions easier for newcomers. It is now actually possible to make money through missions, or 
 even "ratting" (killing NPCs found in asteroid belts) from the very beginning. However, the introduction 
 of new ships and items has caused mineral prices to go up in recent months, so mining is still 
 quite profitable.
  
  So, as a general conclusion I would say that the game is well worth the $15 a month. This cost 
 can be reduced, though. You can buy time extensions with in-game money, as well as by inviting 
 other players to join (note that they then have to start paying before you get the time extension) . 
 Definitely a game worth at the very least trying out... one, two, maybe thirty times....
  
  Be warned, however, that it may consume more of your personal time than you may think or want... 
 but you can always tell your mates that you need a break, set a nice long level 5 skill to train, 
 and put your payments on hold for a month if you need to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthpathfinder
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 7:18 am PT
Review:  Back in the day when i first started playing it i did not realy enjoy the game called eve online.... It 
 seemed like a spreadsheet in space.... It was hard i was on my own and i did not have a clue what 
 i was doing half the time....
  
  A few months later and i get roped back in... by my mates.... This time i was not alone i had help 
 i was given a helping hand and i enjoyed the game for what it was..... A massive galaxy with massive 
 factions ready to do war/trade/rip each other off.... (not in that order)
  
  Also unlike most other MMO's this one runs of one server, so finding the same people is alot easyer 
 and factions can indeed be huge without being overpowerd.
  
  I am still not very good at this game but to be honest that is not the games fault but it is mine... I 
 lack the time and the cash these days but when i did play it doing mining runs and the like to 
 make cash... killing pirates or just getting lost and runing for my life... i enjoyed it and given 
 the chance i would jump right in again.
  
  So if you like the vastness of space and want to pilot great big ships, why not give eve a chance? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csaba69
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 1:17 pm PT
Review:  For those of you old enough to remember in the 80s there was a game called Elite on the Commodore 
 64, in which the player took the role of a starship commander that had to trade materials between 
 stars and kills pirates, etc. Eve is basically an update on this using latest technologies.
  
  The positive is - it is graphically very appealing esp when running on a large resolution. 
 Moreover it is very realistic with lots of options and skill tracks. The fact that there is a huge 
 online community makes this game really very realistic
  
  The negative - you need to spend a too large portion of your real life to become someone serious 
 in Eve - and it's like Tamagochi you need to keep coming back every day as your character (s) need 
 to remain updated. Last but not least, it is very expensive as you need to pay a monthly fee.
 
  
  IMHO if you have lots of time on your hands and your real life is not worth mentioning then this 
 is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: folen
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2009 7:36 am PT
Review:  very fun game but not for the wow crowd , very Complicated , reminds me of anarchy on line.
  
  1) HUGE WORLD , i was on line with 43,000 player and the game didn't feel crowded
  
  2) u 
 can play with 50,000 player at the same server without 2 much lag and disconnects.
  
  3) the coming expansion is spouse to bring a tougher NPC , the old ones are kinda week.
  
  4) it's 
 a pvp game so expect to be blown out allot ;)
  
  
  the skill system is different, skills train by themselves , so u choose what skills to learn and 
 they start learning.
  u can't reach endgame , people have been playing since start and they haven't learned 50% of the 
 skills.
  this is very good for the casual player as u don't see kinds that can play 36h strait reach max 
 lvl (there r no lvls , only skills) .
  but the casual player is still at a disadvantage , u need allot of ISK (the money in eve) , refer 
 to the part about being blown out for reasons , and u can't make ISK offline.
  although u can buy game time through ISK , so hardcore player can play for free and casual player 
 can buy game time and sell to hardcore Players for allot of ISK , casual player and Hardcore can 
 enjoy the game at even grounds (if u sell game time for ISK u get ISK without playing ) and hardcore 
 player can play without spending a dollar for game time .
  
  just a Masterpiece
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rucdoc
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2009 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing EvEonline for over two years now, and I must say that this game is one of the 
 most under-rated and ambisious games ever to be released. And starting tomorrow the lastest update 
 from CCP games will be hitting the public test servers. This new content which is to go live on 
 March 10th. is the biggest expansion this game has ever had. They are adding an entirly new faction 
 and increasing the size of the game universe by 50%. I Highly recommend this game for anyone that 
 wants a game that will let them do anything. Yes I do mean anything. As a pilot I can mine asteroids, 
 hunt npc pirates, run missions, buy and sell items, build items, start a corperation, build a player 
 owned structure, build an alliance of corperations, take over other peoples space, hunt other players, 
 infiltrate other peoples corperations for intel, or if you really want join a corp build a friendship 
 then rob them blind.
  
  The possibilities in this game are only limited by your imagination and the friends yo can make, 
 or the enemies depending on how you want to play.
  
  I strongly advise Gamespot to re-review this game. it has changed alot in the last 6 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnozgonul
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 3:04 pm PT
Review:  When i started it fealt like i was never going to chatch up with the old players , but as i started 
 to learn more about the game , i realized that in EVE the options that are presented for the player 
 is huge, words cant describe it.
  
  the dynamics of the game is so clear that when you play the game , you can be part of it , its 
 fun and exiting to play . every day a new thing, and with the upcoming expensions , its clear that 
 EvE online will get better and better,
  
  if you played WoW or KoToR , startrek .... or fan of it ... than i dare you to try EvE online , 
 because once you get the heat of it .. the game will take you away.
  
  meantime i havent even started about the graphics , if its not enough that its a great game ... 
 but they have also improved graphics so much that its a hole new experiance to play with premium 
 graphics ,
  
  but this game did not get the first prize in my hearth by graphics . its best because of the in 
 the core of the game , there is just about everything.
  
  i used to buy 4 or 5 video games each mounth before i started EvE .... well lets just say that 
 i am saving a lot of money now , and its worth every damn nickle.
  
  also unlike WoW , in EvE even if you are not online , your caracter will still develope its self 
 by the use of REALTIME skill structure. so its a great game Even if you dont have time to play 
 it every day .. met new and great people...
  
  i would recomand this game for everyone .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Endach
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 14, 2009 10:59 am PT
Review:  I think the biggest misconception concerning Eve is that players expect it to be another rigid 
 MMO that forces you to dull your whits and numb your mind beneath the tyranny of endless quests 
 and PvP that could gag a maggot. Eve is what you make it.. You do not download Eve and start following 
 suit with the ignorant masses, you make the game conform to your style of play, you are in many 
 aspects free to go where you dare and do what you wish to a large extent. There are always certain 
 rules and technological limitations inherit in every game that keep you from pressing the 'Death 
 Blossom' button in the middle of a busy trading system (Death Blossom + Jita = Most awesome carnage 
 of all time) , but if people would dare to broaden their horizon a fraction more I think they would 
 find well worth their time and money. I've played damn near every MMO floating around today and 
 Eve is the /only/ one I come back to. 
  
  I would rather pick my nose with a heated soldering iron then run another Point A to Point B quest 
 in WoW or WaROnline. I might even prefer sex with the backside of a hedgehog as oppose to the pseudo 
 PvP that both WoW and War force their players to prescribe to. Eve is not one of those games where 
 a lvl 80 twelve year old whose balls haven't dropped can come running up and smite you with the 
 epic 'I have no life' sword and you instantly die. No, in Eve there is a little something called 
 tactics that come into play and the vast array of equipment, ships, fittings, and skills that contribute 
 to this dynamic pool ensure that smart players can actually escape, kill, or sometimes toy with 
 other less tactically inclined players. 
  
  I am barely going to scratch the surface of Eve and merely hint on the PvP aspects of the game 
 because there is simply too much to put to text on any topic of Eve for a single tiny review to 
 contain. I realize that some people complain that Eve is too slow, or that's too complicated. Well, 
 maybe if you are retard hooked on speed these might be legitimate reasons for you to shy away, 
 but then.. Are they legitimate at all? You will find no shortage of players in the Eve universe 
 to help you and while it might take some time skilling up to use certain equipment or ships isn't 
 that exactly what other players are doing on WoW and other MMOs? Wait, no they are not.. They are 
 slaughtering boars in the forest so that they can run around with a vaporal sword! If you think 
 that's fun.. You were dropped on your head when you were a baby. 
  
  Eve is dynamic and ever changing. When patches come out you do not play.. Nor are your separated 
 from other players on a labyrinth of servers and then get charged to go play with your friends. 
 Not to mention that players miss out on so much viable interaction with people from various nations. 
 They are single player elements of Eve, but to become great you have to find the right Corp to 
 play with. I've flown with some of the best pilots in Eve, men and women from every corner of the 
 globe, from Royal Marines to Norwegian military. I can swear in Russian, Norwegian, Polish, French, 
 English, German, and Spanish. Gone are the inane and utterly worthless care-bear elements of PvP. 
 You can keep most of what you kill in Eve.. You can fly in Gangs with 2 people or Fleets with over 
 200. In Eve, only yourself can hold you back. Even new pilots can contribute to combat with small 
 'tackling' ships. 
  
  The graphics are great. The game play is exciting. The friendships are endearing. Give Eve an honest 
 go and think beyond the 'WoW box'.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FosieC
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2009 5:17 am PT
Review:  As I read the original review made in 2003, I was deeply shocked.
  Not only is it out dated, but it's obvious that Greg did his homework to give a thorough review, 
 but I'm pretty sure he didn't like EVE to begin with. He covered most of the basis, but interpreted 
 it negatively. EVE is different, and that scares people or make them loose interest. But that is 
 just the problem. Look past the surface beneath the ripples of change, and see the magnificent 
 big picture that is EVE-Online.
  
  Here follows my review of EVE after about 1000 hours of experience in it.
  Yes, EVE is a time 
 consuming game. But let's face it, what other MMO isn't? :P
  Yes, it takes longer than other MMO's to get started, but there is just so much in EVE that one 
 need to learn and get to know so you can do whatever you would like to do or achieve, and enjoy 
 the unique mesmerizing fictional experience, never seen before. 
  From my point of view having played some other MMO's, the basic standard is repetitive! That is 
 why most MMO's don't grow on me as it gets boring doing pretty much the same stuff again and again...
 
  You start of by creating your character, then you set off to do whatever you are told to do by 
 having to follow quest objectives in order to gain experience (level up) and gain more knowledge 
 of the game, that end's up being very similar to other MMO's you've played before in any way. 
 
  EVE is unique in so many ways that it blows my mind away! The genius behind how it was planned 
 and put together, balanced and controlled and it's all running very good on one server. Also using 
 almost no bandwidth in comparison to other MMO's:)
  It saddens me that most ppl that are looking for something new and interesting get pushed away 
 by the new ways of doing things, and the freedom to do whatever you want to in EVE... all because 
 they have been indoctrinated by the semi standard way all or other MMO's use. Used to being fed 
 by a spoon by being told what to do, and then off they go...
  I'm not saying it's lame or stupid in any way, I still enjoy other MMO's that follows that same 
 principal. My point is just that most people bail out of EVE too soon and many of the reasons why, 
 is because they get bored or struggle too much to continue. 
  Here's my advice: It's an MMO right? So don't solo! Don't wait around wondering what to do next... 
 If you are unsure about something, or wonder how something works like weapons and the details about 
 the... ask around. There are friendly helping players you know :)
  You have the freedom to go do whatever you feel like! The objectives in EVE is what you make them 
 :)
  Fit out your ship and go hunt pirates if you are a thrill seeker. If you are more into numbers 
 and marketing... Buy and sell is one of the many ways of making money in EVE. I know some players 
 owning the market in some regions in EVE!
  You can also build ships and equipment if that's more to your liking :P 
  If you are more of 
 a mellow player AKA "care-bear"... sure, take up mining and see if that satisfies you, make some 
 money for the corporation to help with funding for all it's members. If you are like me, I find 
 mining quite boring. But it can be extremely profitable when training more towards mining so you 
 become better at it. The same goes for any other interests you might have. 
  Go do missions, exploration, make you own corporation and run it the way you want. The EVE universe 
 is at your finger tips. 
  It's space... If you have tried the game you'll know that the EVE universe is GIGANTIC!!! Every 
 little speck on it, is a solar system! Each with it's own star together with Planets, Moons, and 
 asteroid belts (if that solar system has any) ... and you can go anywhere! :)
  
  Of course as mentioned in other reviews and posts, there are police controlling areas in EVE. Great, 
 so starting off you are protected by the NPC Guardian Force "Concord". But don't think you can't 
 be touched in safe space... it's space! There are always enemies and troublemakers. NPC and human 
 players alike, always keeping you on your toes :)
  Like any other game, there are rules to maintain balance. Rules that protect and also give the 
 option to destroy.
  Breaking certain rules can get you killed, like shooting anyone in safe space for now reason, you'll 
 soon find yourself flouting in your capsule after you discovered that Concord stepped in to stop 
 your naughty behind :P - So don't get trigger happy once you start flying beside other strange 
 ships. 
  
  EVE is the sort of game you can go and explore your own creativity and imagination. Set your own 
 goals and working towards completing them and reap the benefits of your accomplishments. Sci-Fi 
 fans would love EVE, also when you are a Stargate Series fan you will live yourself into EVE because 
 it gives you that feel of space life, different races and the fight for power to defeat your enemies 
 in battles ranging from small frigate battles, to planet size armadas where Titan ships engage 
 in wars fought in low security solar systems. Just to give you a glimpse of how awesome that can 
 be, check out the "EVE-Online: Empyrean Age" trailer on their site.
  And to make the game even more enjoyable, especially for those players loving graphics... CCP has 
 redesigned almost everything in EVE. Better quality models and textures on ships, star gates, even 
 to the big space stations... You can look at the "EVE-Online: Trinity" trailer on their site to 
 see how they have evolved. :D
  
  All in all, it's about game-play. The player must enjoy what he is doing or he'll loose interest. 
 Therefore it all comes down to that old saying "you like it, or you don't"...
  Just remember that space is big, so don't solo. Any MMO is best when playing together with existing 
 friends or one's you make in space. And those who have been playing longer than you can lend a 
 helping hand with anything that you might need help with.
  One can't just give a game a skip because it has less players than the famous World of Warcraft 
 with a player basis in the millions... 
  That means nothing to me, just that they all are still stuck on the same old linear slave system 
 doing what they are told to, and not wanting to try something new and innovative because they are 
 afraid of learning new ways they are not familiar with...
  
  Go watch those two brilliant trailers I mentioned, and if you feel compelled in any way whatsoever 
 to go check out more about EVE, I'm confident that you will enjoy it.
  
  When anyone asks me what MMO I'm playing... no matter which one I'm currently busy with, I always 
 respond with "EVE-Online baby! EVE-Online :) " 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yephoe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  I won't go into details about EVE - other reviewers did that already with more eloquence than I 
 could muster. But I'd like to emphasize a few key points which in my opinion differentiate EVE 
 from other multiplayer game.
  
  The 2003 Gamespot review is no longer accurate - EVE has changed a lot. With the exception of the 
 learning cliff.
  
  EVE is PvP. CCP does a decent job at providing PvE content for all the non-social players (and 
 I include myself into that group) , but the real meat of the game is playing with or against other 
 players - be it in space battles, or in the market place.
  
  A friend described the difference between WoW and EVE thus: WoW provides stories for the players, 
 in EVE the stories are written by the players. If you don't know what to do with yourself on a 
 dark sunday afternoon, EVE is not the right place for you.
  
  EVE is strangely addictive. I played for seven months, lost all my in-game fortune to couple of 
 bad decisions and thus stopped playing for three months, now I am active again - go figure.
  
  You must be able to treat EVE as just a game. Sooner or later you will lose a fortune to a 
 miscreant - better be ready for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zee666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  I was always of the strong belief that any game that you have to pay subscription for isn't worth 
 playing, but then free trials for MMOs started coming out and i though i might as well try them 
 out. I tried many out but after a few I reached the a little game called EVE online, many people, 
 I found out, hated it for being complicated, too slow and the like but I quickly discovered a diamond 
 of a game.
  
  Indeed it is slow, indeed it is complicated but if you find it to be too slow or too complicated 
 then perhaps you should move along and leave it for those with enough patience and intelligence 
 to enjoy it.
  
  I started out and immediately noticed that everything was very big and was overwhelmed and confused 
 on the outset but it was simply just a drive to explore and find things out that led to a quick 
 and constant stream of knowledge about the game. Learn about things one at a time and it's just 
 a matter of remembering them all.
  
  Indeed EVE has complexity but, at heart, it is a very simple game for those starting out. Do missions, 
 mine a little, do more missions, find a better mining spot and repeat until you're rich enough 
 to buy the next big ship. Unfortunately this can get repetitive and boring if you concentrate too 
 much but the trick is to not concentrate on the mining and concentrate on the overall vision. 'Do 
 I refine or don't I?' 'Do I go to that station or this?' There is one goal at this early stage 
 that must be reached and that is efficiency.
  You must find the most efficient way to make money so to reduce the time mining and go out there 
 and blow things up, oh and the amazing, lonely soundtrack helps alot too when you're mining I find.
 
  
  Now that you may or may not have got a kick ass ship I'll go to what you bought that kick ass ship 
 for; killing stuff. Fighting is a slow and back seat affair but, when the fights get harder (and 
 they sure do, very quickly) you notice tactical elements. 'What guns do I get?', 'what guns do 
 I use?', 'how far away should I orbit?', 'what target should I go after first?' all are questions 
 you have to consider and the answer boils down to, again, efficiency. You need to be efficient.
 
  
  But, and there is a but, you reach a stage in your trial which you can consider endgame. You have 
 a big ship, a fair amount of money and a butt load of skills for weaponry, trade, science and piloting 
 and there is no point in you doing anything else. You have to ask yourself; 'Do I continue?'
  
  I didn't so I do not know what other treasures are out there in the EVE universe but I know 
 they are many and they are brilliant so I give EVE an 8.7 out of 10.
  Perhaps I will return to EVE and discover the things that I had lost by quitting and I recommend 
 you do to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stpain
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  EVE is a mmo game that is more suited for the more mature players. With it's quite hard and complicated 
 gameplay & game mechanics. Its hard for new players to venture into the universe of eve. But when 
 you spend some time to develop your skills, get a new ship and understanding the game. Its great 
 and addictive.
  
  The game starts with a small tutorial which teaches you the basics of fighting and mining. After 
 you did the tutorial ( Which you don't have too do ) . Your free to do what ever you want, this 
 aint as easy as it sounds. Because to do something is one thing, but to do something good in EVE, 
 takes time & ISK (eve's in-game currency) .
  
  All of this takes place in empire space, which is safe for new players, but for the best action 
 you need to venture into 0.0 space. Every system in EVE has a security rating where 1.0 to 0.5 
 are mostly safe for players ( if you get attacked, concord will come a help you ) but the 0.4 to 
 0.0 systems aren't protected by concord, and you can easily get killed and lost your ship (which 
 can cost you millions of isk )
  
  For example: Lets say you want to go and mine (Which is a great way to make money for both new 
 & long-time players) . You can develop your skills to harvest more ore, or develop your skills to 
 fly a new ship, both are required to get the most out of mining and it takes time to get all the 
 skills you needed.
  
  There is great PvP in eve, corps (Guilds/clans) battle it out in 0.0 space for control of entire 
 solar systems, and sometime it takes place with hundreds of players with all kind of ships. This 
 gives eve one of the most epic battle situations I ever encouterd in a game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazman3434
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  This is a very unique game. As a player who would spend a long time working in this game, he could 
 make a great difference. Instead of constricting players to a tight, scripted game, EVE allows 
 players to travel the universe, blowup space stations that wont magicly respawn, and ruin someones 
 week. The main cons of this game are what makes it great. The game still has a terrible death penalty 
 as well as the potential for long and repetitive tasks to make it to the next level. The massive 
 scale of EVE is astounding. If there were not these "gates" that would take you solar system to 
 solar system, you would die of old age trying to reach from one side of the EVE universe to the 
 other.
  The EVE online game with it's recent expansion packs and patches, has improved greatly from the 
 demo I downloaded a long time ago. You still can only travel the system with your space-ships. 
 You can establish your own freeking empire from trading to military command. You can directly command 
 people and sometimes against their will! You can be a currupt buisness man like a mob boss and 
 slowly build power in the universe. Of course, it will take a tech savy, pateint person to accomplish 
 this. The 15 day trial is a very generous offer allowing you to download the entire game and play 
 it for 15 days for free. I have yet to see a massive increase of spam in my e-mail account.
  One feature not seen before is the ability to warp from one object to another. You can cross a 
 solar system in seconds from asteroid feild to planet. This has annilated the horrible system of 
 travel before. The reason why this game is so addicting is that there can be so much at stake and 
 so much potential for victory. You can build your own space station which not many EVE people can 
 offord to buy. These people are the real buisness men of the game. Cross them, and they can ruin 
 you.
  Other than the empires of space, there are the pirates. All the empires are against the pirates. 
 You can become a pirate and even get AI pirate ships to help you. You can plunder the seven seas 
 of miners and foolish vigilantees. Have I mentioned the main source of income throughout the game 
 is basic mine ore. Then the mine ore is refined to basic resources. Then the resources can be used 
 to build ships. This complex economy is what also makes the EVE game ausome.
  Some of the economies in this game are controlled by the AI but alot of them run purely on the 
 players and miners who fuel the entire economy. If you find a spacestation running out of a certain 
 resource, you can go there and sell some a little space rock to make a small fortune. You can have 
 a buisness of building and selling ships. Ice mining is a complex and potentially disasterous venture 
 for you. You buy a huge ship for a-lot of money. Then, you go and suck up some ice from a moon. 
 Then you return to sell your stuff for a ton of money.
  All of these options available add to an epic game. There is a wonderful, big world at there. It 
 may be an apathetic world full of people who will kill you and take your wallet if they have a 
 chance, it is worth it. If you ever want to have success, you will need to devote alot of time 
 to the game. You may want to find a freind who plays this game to help you start up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hairymammoth73
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  EVE-Online is one of those games that is for a very select group of players. The game has a very 
 steep learning curve than can only be learned through talking to other players. You will find very 
 few kids spamming on the chats, or being a pain in the but in general. What you will find can be 
 very unique in comparison to other games.
  
  Difficulty: Very hard - EVE is a hard game in that it takes a very long time to learn how to play. 
 In unison with that, you must slowly train your characters "skills". These skills affect everything 
 from how fast your guns fire, how fast your ship is, how much damage each shot or missile does, 
 all the way to advanced sciences for researching and invention for the ability to create ships. 
 With that said, once you learn how to play the game it all falls into place nicely.
  
  Visuals: Rather Good - The visuals are pretty good and can take your breath away at times. Explosions 
 are well done and within recent months EVE has undergone a visuals upgrade. This upgrade greatly 
 increased the visuals and made it look amazing. You can play the game with the basic package or 
 with the visual upgrade, the choice is yours. Another thing to point out is that you can run multiple 
 clients easily and do other things while playing with ease.
  
  Length of Game/Diversity - Godly - The game can be played endlessly. Because the game is constantly 
 being updated with new content there is always something to do. There are four races with all different 
 beginning bonuses. There are no pre-defined routes in the game, you can mix skills so that you 
 can do whatever you choose. That is what is great about the game: You aren't restricted to doing 
 any single thing at any time. You can be a pirate, a mercenary, a miner, a trader, a hauler, a 
 corporation leader, a fighter, or a capital ships expert. You can do whatever you choose at any 
 time, and everything is entertaining in its own right. Along with doing those things there are 
 agents that give you missions. The missions give you standings with factions and corporations which 
 allow you to buy limited items and make loads of money. Unfortunately it can take a lot of missions 
 to upgrade to the next agent, which can be a major downside to those that can't contribute the 
 time.
  
  Time needed - Depends - You can either play the game relaxed or play like a WoW nerd if you wish. 
 If you play like a WoW nerd the game can be very rewarding as the more time you play the more money 
 you can get. Even though you can constantly train skills, and there are a load of them, they become 
 more and more expensive to acquire which requires a lot of money. So much money later on that it 
 can take months of savings, even an entire years worth, to get a new skill or a ship. If you play 
 relaxed you will find that after about half a year your income will not keep up with what you are 
 training for. The choice is this: Either go into low security space. where CONCORD (space-police) 
 cannot protect you, and risk losing everything but gaining everything, OR stay in high space and 
 spend more time on the game doing regular things. This can be a deal-breaker for some people, so 
 be aware of this!
  
  Interface/Feel of Game - Unique beyond explanation - The interface has a LOAD of things that allow 
 you to do anything at any time. In the beginning of the game you will use very few of the items 
 listed, but later in the game you will come to love the interface. It has everything you need at 
 a moment notice and you are able to customize it in any way you wish. The game has an in-game browser 
 although it doesn't work well, but that is to be expected. The game can be slow at times, and has 
 a VERY unique feel. You must click to do everything, including movement and everything else.
  
  A side note: Ships can take months and even years to acquire, and can be lost easily. This 
 game is NOT for the light-hearted!
  
  Overall - Excellent - I am giving this game a 9.5 from personal experience. I have been playing 
 almost a year and love the game. I was able get a good group of friends to teach me the game and 
 am able to play whenever I have the time. (MiningMammothMaster and Slithering Menace are my names) . 
 The game is fun, able to play while doing other things, and an easy way to talk and meet new, MATURE, 
 people.
  
  If you want a game that will keep you entertained for months and years AND can be very rewarding 
 for putting in the time, then EVE-Online is for you. If you are a kid that has a brain the size 
 of a peanut then this game is NOT for you.
  
  Hope this helps all of you that are on the edge of playing. If you aren't sure if you want to play, 
 email me at kevin_alte@hotmail. com and ask me for an extended trial version. On top of giving you 
 the free extended trial version, I can also give you help in the game both money wise, protection 
 wise, and just learning the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommyambrose
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 1:39 am PT
Review:  I played eve for 6 months and then stopped but came back to play and have been playing for over 
 3 years steady now. I consider myself a journeyman gamer , from Ea Sports games to Splinter Cell. 
 I find myself drawn to EVE because of the flexibility that the game offers me. I can be social 
 if I want, mine asteroids, I can engage in battle if I choose or if I just want to explore in my 
 Cruiser ship. Its a passive game which I happen to enjoy very much. The Constant high intensity 
 shoot em up games have their place as does EVE. In EVE you get the choice and that too me is the 
 difference. I have guns and missiles on my ship and I do get the urge to fire them off, I do. and 
 when I want a kick ass Screensaver I just warp out to one of my secluded spots and just cruise 
 through space, I have made friends and I hope EVE goes for a very long time because CCP has always 
 delivered on game Improvements and the game gets better and better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samiup
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  im only writing this review because of the GS 6.6 rating for this game, i mean honestly, if the 
 Game Spot reviewer gave it an 8.5, i would be disappointed, but 6.6 is even stupid...
  why?
  
  well lets suppose this game is a total disappointment in matters of game play and mmo 
 quality, just supposing... which is definitely not true. not even then it would deserve any less 
 than a 7 or 7.5, the grfx are rock solid, and leave every single other mmo in the dust. the skills, 
 upgrades, ships etc... are so well designed that i really urge any sci fi fan to take a look at 
 them even for those non interested in mmo. in one sentence : "this is the MOST seriously developed 
 sci-fi game EVER". 
  
  the in game market window is a masterpiece by itself, you can get market trends, graphs, historic 
 of almost every single item or ship...
  
  the first thing ive noticed on this game is the freedom from the "grinding" thing that almost every 
 mmo tends to love as a standard and cheap game play feature, in EVE i found myself free to go into 
 a war career or a trading career... or BOTH or ALL, the only thing between me and anything i could 
 wish for in the game is time and my will. in EVE i was in total control of my skills, for example, 
 if i want to go for head hunting missions where you have to do war with one or many ships to get 
 an objective done, then i train basic skills for warfare like those that will allow me to pilot 
 bigger ships and to handle more powerful weapons... in order to do that i needed in game money 
 (ISK) to buy the skills and time train them, the money i could get easily by mining asteroids for 
 minerals and selling them on stations... after a couple of hours i got my cool looking frigate 
 with some hand picked weapons and defences, and even my own deployable war drones !
  of course bigger ships and weapons will require more money and skills, to do so i just need to 
 train a few basic mining and trading skills for example, and money i will make.
  
  the point i want to make here is that, unlike other mmos, in EVE you do NOT have to be stuck with 
 a job that u don't like, you can be both a good miner with a huge cargo ship and hight tech miming 
 drones and at the same time have a huge battle cruiser that you will use to click some @$$, as 
 in real life, there is no such thing as you get stuck with the choices you have made, in EVE the 
 possibilities are endless... skills varies from trading to politics, command and corporation management... 
 all the skills have levels that are bought and then trained over time.
  
  the ships arsenal in EVE is the most complete and detailed i have ever seen, it is clear that the 
 devs spent quit a few moments thinking about parameters, functionalities and dependencies, and 
 thus came up with most complex yet accurate system ever.
  
  the complexity of the game is pretty high, the learning curve is off the charts comparing to any 
 game on the shelves today, but thats a fair price sci-fi fans are willing to gladly pay for realism.
 
  
  the gfx are quit impressive knowing that it is an old game, but i think the updates were quit successful. 
 the game is also very stable, didnt crash on me even once... i can alt+tab back and fourth from 
 it without loosing the full screen which is great for an mmo.
  
  EVE client have a few small but significantly nice gadgets, like an in game calculator and basic 
 web Browser !
  
  over all, EVE online is a dream come true for any sci-fi fan.
  
  
  Summary :
  Pros:
  -1 server !!! = (no ghost towns)
  -revolutionary: like nothing you have 
 ever seen
  -impressive skill training "leveling system"
  -good looking
  -every aspec/item/feature of the game is well studied
  -not a "rush to make money for the studio" 
 game like most mmos
  -not a grinding mmo 
  
  
  Cons:
  -hard to learn
  -at a noob stage, you usually dont know what the hell to do
  
  VERDICT :
  
  GamePlay : 
 9.5 
  gfx : 8.5 
  sound : 8.5 
  rpg : 9.0 
  mmo : 9.5 
  
  TOTAL : 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: komstadius
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  I been playing Eve Online since early 2003 when it was released as beta. It was not love at first 
 sight, but after a couple of months I became, and still is, madly in love with New Eden and everything 
 it represents.
  
  New Eden is a cold and unforgiving place to live in. If you die (and you will, I promise) , the 
 death penalty can be extremely steep. You can loose years of investments in the blink of an eye 
 if you don't use your brain when playing. 
  
  The harsh death penalty makes pvp the best and most fun gaming experience you can have in any game, 
 on any platform, period. Nothing comes even close the the immersion and tension you feel when defending 
 your homeland from invading forces. The feeling of being part of a 200 vs 200 fleet battle, which 
 will decide if you have to leave your beloved region or if you will dock in glorious victory, is 
 indescribable.
  
  The economic aspects of Eve Online are also amazing, the market are almost 100% player driven, 
 which gives players the opportunity to be major influences of the political landscape without ever 
 using their guns. Research, production and trading in Eve Online are second to none here.
  
  I could talk all day about Eve Online but I probably shouldn't (hey, stop nodding in agreement!) 
 Let me just say that there are a lot of more to Eve then I have written in this obviously biased 
 review. If you're a new player looking to try out this game, expect a complex, pretty hard and 
 never easy game, with a great and mature community, that will reward hard work (and punish the 
 lazy) and in the end give you an unbeatable feeling of being immersed in something greater. 
  
  Welcome to New Eden, your new home! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiery_beacon
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  If you don't mind training your character for 6 months before actually playing, then you might 
 actually enjoy this game. PVE missions are repetitive and tedious, and if you want to PVP, then 
 you'll need to wait months before you have anything useful. CCP knows what they're doing with this 
 game. They make you wait months to get into ships, meanwhile your dishing out cash month after 
 month for the subscription.
  
  The learning curve for EVE is just obnoxious. To say it's a 90 vertical angle would be an understatement. 
 You can play this game for months and still have no understanding of basic core game functions. 
 If you like spending half of your gaming time reading manuals, then this game is definitely for 
 you! 
  
  I'd like to confirm what is already mentioned in other reviews: THIS GAME IS SLOW! 70% of your 
 time will be spent traveling back and forth between systems (I'm serious, this is not an exaggeration) , 
 and you will spend hours putting a ship together from parts you had to acquire from several systems, 
 to only have it lost in the blink of an eye to someone that has higher skill points (aka: years under 
 their belt) .
  
  If you like to chat with others this game is good for that. I joined a player corporation and within 
 a week of joining was forced to stay docked in a station for days doing nothing due to being at 
 war with another corporation that had higher skill point players. They camp the stations, and if 
 you undock from that station they destroy your ship, and you lose what you have spent hours collecting. 
 Again, there is plenty of time for chitty chat! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happyokie
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 23, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  game is so full of bugs.. you will lose everything you play for.. CCP will not stand behind there 
 mistakes.. so if your looking to fail lose everything.. this is the game for you.. you can lose months 
 of what you have worked hard for to a bug or lag.. CCP will not stand behind your loss.. find another 
 game. or you will be sorry.. i wasted 9 months.. just to lose everything to a bug... and CCP said sorry 
 for you loss.. they wont stand behind there mistakes.. and they are many.. PLAYERS BEWARE.. DONT WASTE 
 YOUR TIME LIKE I AND MANY OTHERS HAVE... lag is the second thing.. so much lag you will spend alot 
 of time frozen.. while the enemy bangs away on you... find another game this one you will fail... i 
 wish i had read more before i started... wasted to many hours to lose to bugs in game.. DONT PLAY 
 THIS ONE.. YOU WILL BE SORRY YOU DID 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJGebauer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I wanted to love this game. Really. It has a skill based system vs. the level treadmill we see 
 in every other MMO. Takes place in the distant future. Sci-fi theme. Has some nice visuals. Even 
 the sound effects are understated but pleasant. 
  
  The giant failing of EVE is that it's nothing BUT outerspace. Have you been outside of Earth lately? 
 Not much to see. After awhile, all the settings and locals of EVE blur together. There is no planetary 
 interaction. Planets are present for visual purposes only. Just you and your ship, flying around 
 the same asteroids. 
  
  And then we have the community interaction. A player could spend hours not encountering another 
 ship. Again, you're in outerspace. It's vast. You shouldn't see a gaggle of ships wherever you 
 go. But it's this realism that hurts the game. You feel isolated and alone. The ships are nice 
 eye candy but when you do encounter them, they're cold and heartless. Doesn't help the feeling 
 of isolation. 
  
  While all of these points could be dismissed on the basis that in actual space exploration that's 
 how life is, this is a game. Not reality. Meant to be enjoyed. EVE has (had?) potential given that 
 it chose the path less traveled but it made too many departures from the classic MMO mold to be 
 recommendable. It's a niche game at the moment. Good for some but not for most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alarikulf
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I had my own doubts at first, but once the download finished and I ran the game, it just clicked 
 with me from the beginning. The further I go into the game, things just get funner from there. 
 Also a plus for me, as someone who enjoys a wide set of customizing options, is the character customization; 
 it is literally the most broad and detailed selection I've ever come across. Not to mention there 
 is a very helpful tutorial at the beginning that is extremely simple to understand while still 
 covering everything you need to know about the game play basics.
  
  Not only that, but you can even customize your ship according to what you need in order to accomplish 
 what you want to do in the game. You start out with your race's rookie ship, and as you go further 
 into the galaxy and learn more skills, there is such a wide variety of ships to buy throughout 
 the game, and so many upgrades and rigs to add. Oh, and I should add that on your character, you 
 can learn cybernetics and virtually enhance him/herself with electronic implants, pretty cool I'll 
 say.
  
  The only downfall is that the skill training doesn't go by a set game-based time (ie; hours = minutes, 
 minutes = seconds) , your training lasts for actual, real time hours. But this does not stop you 
 from doing other things in the mean time, because training does not interfere with game play, rather 
 it runs in the background until completed. 
  
  I suggest training in what you can early in the game and getting a head start in key skill basics, 
 however certain natural skills such as gunning and ship commanding upgrade automatically as you 
 go, just like driving and stamina in GTA.
  
  All in all, I give it a 9/10 for being original, immersive, and all of the above. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix73nj
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  Eve is truly a disappointment for me. The game has so much potential. Im sure you've all read about 
 the sandbox MMO play style and that truly is in full force and fantastic in Eve, in Eve you truly 
 are the master of what playstyle you choose. The player stories, the corporation wars, the economy, 
 the sci fi setting ... all perfect. A shining beacon of what MMO's could be...
  
  That being said I have 2 huge issues with Eve that I couldn't get over no matter how hard I tried. 
 Believe me try I did and I still feel saddned I wasn't able to overcome these issues.
  
  Combat is just straight up boring. Sure the drama of having an expensive ship on the line is thrilling. 
 Setting up your ship correctly and fitting a niche in your hunting team is outstanding. The coordination 
 of a hunter killer team is exciting... but actually fighting is really bad. In today's day and 
 age it's really hard for me to get excited about a fight when it comes down to pressing a few Fkeys 
 when told to and hoping for the best. In this respect any other MMO I've ever played has wiped 
 the floor with Eve. While there definitely was excitement to be had... even that was often hard 
 to come by and rarely as fullfilling as it's anticipation. MMO's need to embrace gamey game mechanics 
 to some extent or Im just not interested for long.
  
  Secondly, Eve is an empty world. There is no real "content" to speak of. I realize that the "content" 
 of Eve depends on the player and they're connection with the community but, in a world post Wow, 
 I feel there needs to be a healthy amount of interesting dev sponsored content to shore up the 
 player driven content and allow comunities of nubz to find each other and cut they're teeth on 
 less threatening beasts than the local all powerfull uber corporation (quests, instances etc) . 
 In Eve this content is limited to Empire missions which were endlessly boring and gave no benefit 
 for grouping. Thus there is no real way to form alliances with other noobies and learn to work 
 together. While corporations in Eve do recruit nublets, your ability to contribute to said corporation 
 is often with tedious or suicidal tasks that are rarely if ever fun (tackling, mining, erand running) .
 
  
  In conclusion, I think Eve is an important MMO that shines a light in the right direction... but 
 for god sakes I want to actually FLY my damn ship thxs and landing and fighting planetside* hint 
 hint planetside* would also add to the experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectralmerc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  I'm gonna say it straight: EvE Online is the best MMORPG I've ever played. Is better than WoW, 
 is better than Guild Wars, is better than Ragnarok Online, is better than all of them.
  
  "Blasphemer!" I can hear you say. Well, here are my arguments.
  
  Many MMORPGs tout themselves 
 as freeform and open experiences. None of them actually delivers that. I remember an ad for World 
 of Warcraft where they said "Tired of killing rats? Enter World of Warcraft, where you are a true 
 hero", or something like that. Sure, we don't kill rats on WoW. We kill tigers, imps and wolves. 
 And if you look at it, deep inside, WoW is an extremely shallow "on rails" experience. You either 
 quest or grind. Period. No other way to earn gold, or to earn experience. Quest. Grind. Sure, you 
 may make and sell stuff. But where do you get the raw materials? Grind. Or quest. Plus, the classes, 
 while very nicely drawn, they are very specific.
  
  Anyhoo, I'm not writing this to bash WoW. WoW is a great game (spent one year chin deep on it) 
 but EvE manages to outperform it on almost every aspect. Here's why.
  
  EvE is the first MMORPG I've tried that offers a true open world experience. Want to quest? Go 
 ahead. Wanna grind? Sure. Wanna mine? Be my guest. Want to PvP? Go get 'em tiger. All of this without 
 any kind of experience restraints. There are PvP for everyone, and you are not subject to race 
 and faction limitations. (For now: The Empyrean Age expansion offers faction wars) . I hear you 
 say "Then how the heck do you level up?" Easy. By time. You just put a skill to train and wait 
 until it finishes. "Booooooring!!!" I hear you say. Maybe, until you realize a skill takes around 
 6 days to level up. "6 DAYS?!?!" I hear you say. Yup, even more sometimes. See, the cleverness 
 of this system is that, even when in your character creation process you do choose a "class" (determined 
 by ancestry and bloodline) , this is more like an specialization. If you specialize in mining, you 
 can still learn all the combat tree. Sure, it will take you time, but there is actually no limits 
 to what your character can be. The only limit is imposed by time. And given the scale of time on 
 EvE, is best to choose wisely than trying to level everything (one skill at a time per account, 
 kids) .
  
  So, how about the money making? Sure, EvE has it's "grinding", only here is called mining, and 
 even when it is as simple as finding a rock, firing your lasers, wait for cargo hold to fill and 
 then coming back, I find it less tedious than searching for creeps to blast with your fireball. 
 There are many different types of mineral, that yield different results after processing. You can 
 become an ore entrepeneur, or you can use the minerals you mined to manufacture ships and a myriad 
 other items (no silly grey-green-yellow-red items) . Then you can sell them, or create contracts 
 for raw materials for you to manufacture and viceversa (fulfill contracts yourself) . This can get 
 you on the economic race in a jiffy. If you don't feel like mining, you can engage in piracy or 
 bounty hunting, which will net you some juicy profits if you are good enough, all of this without 
 ever visiting a quest agent (though the tutorial agent is a must)
  
  That last thing leads to the extremely steep learning curve. You see, EvE is a thinking man's MMORPG. 
 You do not have direct control over your ship (only arrival points, speed and combat options) and 
 everything is handled through window panes. However, is one of the most satisfying things to learn, 
 and being able to start your first contract or learning to pilot a new type of ship feels way better 
 than dinging on WoW. 
  
  Of course, in the technical aspect, this game is flawless. Not only does it run on Linux, Mac and 
 PC, but it's also one of the most beautiful games out there. The backgrounds are simply gorgeous, 
 and the amount of detail put into everything is just scary. When you realize that all the stars 
 on your view are ACTUAL stars you can go to, the whole scale of the game reveals to you.
  
  Is a very complete game, easy to learn but hard to dominate, which, if played with patience and 
 calm, it can reward you with one of the best gaming experiences ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerguy46
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 2:07 am PT
Review:  Let's be honest, this game will not appeal to everybody. My buddy had one big complaint, and that 
 was that the traveling took forever, and he is absolutely right. From getting from system to system, 
 you have to take an intricate path of warp gates... it takes a while. I'm actually writing this 
 mid-flight. 
  
  But for some good, the point and click aspect, though it does have a steep learning curve, feels 
 right after using it. The sheer size of space is fully realized (be it good or bad) and you can 
 travel to hundreds of different locations. 
  
  I do like the idea of a user based economy, and while it feels like it is working, there is definitely 
 room for some enhancements. The graphics are pretty enough and the sound is pretty solid (despite 
 the fact that there isn't any actual sound in space) . 
  
  All in all, give it a try. There's a 14-day trial deal going so that's more than enough time to 
 let you figure out if you like it or not. Personally, the slower pace is actually nice because 
 it allows me to take my eyes away from it to do things, but once there's something to do, I can 
 focus on the game itself. It's a solid MMO and I give it my thumbs up.*
  
  
  *Results may vary 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luwo0629
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is very immersive and hardcore. I definitely that its a game that you love, or hate. 
 This is NOT for WOW players. The only thing I don't like about this game is the supreme amount 
 of 'grinding' this game has. But since i have been recruited into a 'Corporation' it makes the 
 game much easier and fun to play. The new expansions have fixed all of the issues from the first 
 game and is even more immersive then ever before. I would like to ask Gamespot to re-score this 
 game for someone who loves the game, not a WOW player. I would like to ask Gamespot to re-score 
 this game for someone who loves the game, not a WOW player. I would like to ask Gamespot to re-score 
 this game for someone who loves the game, not a WOW player. I would like to ask Gamespot to re-score 
 this game for someone who loves the game, not a WOW player. I would like to ask Gamespot to re-score 
 this game for someone who loves the game, not a WOW player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revenger681
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  For those who love Space Simulation games, Eve Online has no equal. It is hard to find a Massively 
 Online RPG that is dedicated to Space Flight and battle. From logistics, industrial, trade, and 
 combat this game covers it all. Complete with in-game stock exchange and capitalist corp management. 
 Most complain about the high learning curb to this game. If you are a sci-fi lover and a fan of 
 space based games, you will fit right in. I came from a background of Wing Commander, Star Trek 
 Armada & Starfleet Command, SINS (Sins Of Solar Empire) ... This game fits right in. It's like playing 
 your favorite RTS with direct control over your ships.
  
  You get a free trial period. There's nothing to lose! The Eve world is FULL of wonders, massively 
 huge. It'd practically impossible to explore all it has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sephiroth_311
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 26, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  There is a variety of different things that you can do in this game, but it is hard to make a well-balanced 
 character. You sort of have to stick to one thing, which is a disappointment due to all the things 
 you can do in EVE Online. The game play is incredibly slow and the learning curve is unbelievably 
 big. I found that it is a good game to have running in the background while you are doing other 
 tasks. That said, EVE has a very Epic feeling to it that can really grow on you. Even the simple 
 task of mining feels epic, in spite of the fact that it takes forever. The epic feeling rubs off 
 after about a month or so, however, so I would say that you should play it for about a month (when 
 you buy a month you also get to keep the time from the 14 day trial) , then cancel your payments 
 after that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diehard_Si
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 5:13 am PT
Review:  Eve is all about POWER!
  
  I've been playing Eve for 2 years now. It's tough to get into, but you are well protected by the 
 in game mechanics. In high sec you are kept safe by Concorde ( the police so to speak ) , but venture 
 into low sec and 0.0 only when you are ready to take on other players!
  
  It's all skill based and so take your time, join a corporation so that others can help you. No-one 
 really wants to just play it on their own mining or killing NPC's as the beauty of the game is 
 its interaction with other people. Basically the developers CCP provide the enviroment, you make 
 the rules!
  
  You can play the game however you want, at a slow pace being an industrialist making and mining 
 ships to sell, as a mission runner, as an anti pirate, a pirate, as a fleet member of a large alliance 
 in 400man ( laggy) battles or just generally roam around the 0.0 space killing everything.
  
  The game is all about power though, and the acquistion of it. Some people like making huge 
 amounts of money, others just for the thrill of killing people. You make a mistake and lose your 
 ship... it's gone. This adds to the addrenaline. As a newer player you WILL lose your ship to pirates 
 at some point, but when you build up your charachter and find yourself in the other seat the reward 
 is like no other game available. You feel every lost ship but also marvel at every great kill or 
 that finding a faction or officer NPC that makes you rich.
  
  There is also no real end game. The biggest ship, a titan, will take about 3 years to train for 
 and so much isk ( in game currency ) that it would make you think it was impossible when you start. 
 But there is so much to keep you going on the way. You work your way up the ship and item technology 
 tree basically, and will take you a year to have a fully developed character really. But in the 
 meantime you will still get lots out of the game, and can sitll compete and have a purpose in all 
 fights.
  
  Eve is a game for the long term! But its a rewarding one at that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Winzip_98
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  EVE Online, a game of 6 years' age by the time of this review. Epic in size and complexity. There 
 is so much to be said on EVE, and I am going to say it.
  Unlike other MMORPGs, EVE is built, first and foremost, on slow pace. Though you can start being 
 trigger happy, you'd be working yourself to climb higher in the hierarchy soon enough. The game 
 is balanced out in its array of ships and weapons, with skill and practice being actually taken 
 into account.
  The player has a lot of saying in the EVE universe, and that what makes it so awesome. Corporations 
 (Guild for dummies) and Alliances (bigger Guild for bigger dummis) have a lot of saying in the 
 NPC political climate. 
  There are no goals in the game, except the ones that you make for yourself, and thats part of why 
 its so good. You can virtually be whatever you want: trader, pirate, mission runner, PvPer and 
 even industrial and miner. No options are barred from you.
  The leveling up, or more correctly, skilling up system is time based and attribute boosted, making 
 it ideal for working people, who are the core demographics of this game. It also means that you 
 can't have "superman" characters in the game, since everything is based, like I said, on actual 
 skill of the player, and his tactics.
  Every ship and every weapon has a counter, each suited to different players' tastes. From fast 
 paced action of frigates and interceptors, to the endurance battles of Dreadnoughts.
  PvP is even better in fleet action, where corporations and alliances can field alot of support 
 ships ( from jammers to repairs) .
  A game that let you become a trading tycoon by learning the right skills, or an industrial leader 
 for the same reasons, cannot be bad!
  However, some people think that that slow pace is hurting the enjoyment, for that I can only replay 
 that you can all bugger off back to World of Warcraft.
  Since its slow paced, most annoying teenagers with fuming mouth gibbering don't show their face 
 here, making the player base a bit more intelligent than that of other MMOs.
  Lastly, I want to point out another great aspect of the game, and that is the developers' deep 
 connection with the player community. Players can make suggestions and converse with the developers 
 themselves, who also play the game! That way there is always feedback and improvement in the game.
 
  Of course there are bad things, no game can be perfect, except Total Annihilation. The interface 
 is complicated, the tutorial is as much helpful as a heart massage to a corpse is, and some elements 
 in the game universe are obscure and incomprehensible.
  But maybe I am not suited to review this game, since I am already biased for it, after all I played 
 it nearly a year already, and paid for it, so I either loved it, or trying to rationalize my continued 
 loss of money.
  Whatever it is, I feel whole playing EVE Online, and I imagine that in 20 years I still will play 
 it. Decide what you want, it still is a great game in my eyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Murakir
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  More and more is happening within the world of New Eden. I have read reviews that say that EVE 
 has no story; frankly I am astonished that people can think this is true! It is farther from the 
 truth, the fact is that EVE has one of the most deep and interesting back-stories that I have ever 
 encountered. Plus there is more happening as you continue to be a member of the EVE Online community, 
 these 'news events' are released in the form of news that you read when you log in or by using 
 a Concord (the police type entity) Billboard. Currently they are heating up as Factional Warfare 
 is set for a June 10th release date, there are more and more reports of violence and unauthorised 
 military presence in space. What people who still think that EVE has no story fail to realise is 
 that EVE is a sandbox game where you make your own story, you can do whatever you like, whenever 
 you like. If you like you can also report on your doings by writing in your Bio which other players 
 can read if they so wish.
  
  One of the biggest faults that people have raised about EVE, and I agree with them on this, is 
 that you are restricted to the bowels of your Pod which gets inserted into ships to pilot them. 
 However, another expansion (beyond the FW one) is Ambulation which will allow you to get out and 
 walk around the stations, visit your Corporation (Guild) offices, go to a bar or even set up your 
 own commercial premises. This is aimed for an Autumn (Fall) /Winter release yet it may get pushed 
 back like so many games do these days.
  
  Obviously it is a very pretty game, when Trinity (the recent graphics overhaul) was released I 
 spent around half an hour flying around looking at everything, yet it is one that is sadly underappreciated 
 due to the steep learning curve and the time the tutorial takes. But if you consider yourself a 
 patient person then I would recommend this game to you in an instant.
  
  One final point; for gods sake Gamespot, redo your review as it is massively out of date and EVE 
 has evolved to a point of almost non-recognition since its release in 2003.
  
  Some useful websites which will help you understand eve: 
   www. eve-online. com
   
 
   http://www. eve-online. tv/ (click on the FanFest icon on the top right for a bunch of 'lectures' 
 on what's happening)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gambit002
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Game was simply too uneventful and slow. Money is too easy to come by making the game too easy. 
 Storyline is fairly non existent. After a few months of play i could see the game becoming fun, 
 but who wants to pay for three months of membership to wait for your training to become fun. the 
 idea of advancement being time based not xp based, which allows casual players to advance at a 
 similar pace. this does make it difficult to compete with vets... they are so much farther along 
 in training with no way to catch up. It is no secret that the gameplay is slow, some people may 
 love it, not me. You spend most of your time flying through space on autopilot with the game minimized. 
 My friend still plays the game but only while he waits for something else. I dont even have any 
 interest to play the game at all... i guess i wont play anything while i wait for Warhammer Online
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDI_P
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  After 3 years, i got back to the game. CCP sure did a good job to make the game sustainable. After 
 played for 2 weeks, i don't think i'll find this game bored any more. There are too many things 
 to do in EVE universe.
  
  Basically there are a lot of freedom in this game.
  
  In PVE, A player can choose to be a trader, manufacture, miner, or running around n shoot npcs 
 (doing missions) . So a player can have multiple alt, and switch among alts to play different role 
 to ease off the boredom. 
  
  PVP aspect of the game is awesome. Each player has different ship setting therefore you never face 
 the same battle twice. Therefore each battle you face in PVP is fun and exciting. Player can be 
 a pirate too!! which i think is the best part. Player can go to asteroid belt and threated miners 
 to give you money. If not, blast their ship off. 
  
  There are so much stuff to say here but i think i'll stop here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F00tballguy2002
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 11, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is, you gotta give the devs credit for their creativity.
  The way they designed this game, and each race's characteristics, is very clever.
  
  For example, 
 Amarr is very religious, so their ships do EM damage (like lightning) . Another example would be, 
 when the Gallente Titan fires its doomsday device, the whole screen turns black. In Greek mythology 
 Erebus (the largest Gallente ship) is the brother of Nyx (the second largest Gallente ship) , and 
 he represents darkness. 
  
  sdfsdf sdf asdf asdf sd sdf sdf as afs s sdf sfd f f f f f f f f f f f f d sf asfsd fasdf asdf 
 asd fasdf asd fsdaf asd fdas fasd fsadf asdf asdf sdaf asdfasd sdaf asdf asdfasdf asd fasdf asdf 
 asdf asdf asdf sdaf asdfasd fsadf asdf asdfasf asdf asdf adf ads fasdf asdf asdf asf sad fasdf 
 asd fasdf asdfasd fasdf asd fasdf asd fasdf sadasdf asdfsadf asdfas dfasdf asdf asdf asd fasdf 
 asdf asdf asd fasdf asdf asd fsdaf asd fdsa fasdf sad fsdaf asdf asd fasdf sadf sda fasdf sda fasdfasd 
 fsadf sdaf asdf adfa adf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ilthik
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 9, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  There are a few things you should know about EVE before sinking lots of time and money into the 
 game. 
  
  1. There is no twitch combat in the game. Throw away any idea you have of running into battle, 
 guns blazing, and using your superior marksman skills to wipe out a small fleet of ships. Expect 
 a lot of pointing, clicking, orbiting, and watching to see whether you blow up first or your enemy 
 does based on a roll of the dice.
  
  2. Bring your epeen. EVE is PvP. The PvE is worse than Minesweeper and even if you wanted to engage 
 in PvE, the PvP is not optional. For most people the game revolves around acquiring ISK (money) 
 to buy ships to go blow themselves up. 
  
  3. You'll hear a lot of the phrase, "Just wait, it gets better." EVE is not a game you can pick 
 up in a day. It will take months to properly outfit any ship worth fighting in. It will take about 
 as long to pick up on all the intricacies of the game so you have the real life skills required 
 to use all the skills you got in the game. 
  
  4. Expect to sit around a lot doing nothing. Travel is very realistic. If you need to meet up with 
 your buddies halfway across the galaxy expect to get there in an hour or two. If you need to coordinate 
 a fleet battle expect the preparations to last as long. And we won't even get into mining... just 
 bring a book. Realize that when you log into EVE you'll probably be spending the rest of the day 
 there - not necessarily because you want to, but because you need to in order to accomplish anything 
 meaningful.
  
  5. The game is not solo-friendly. That's not to say it's impossible to solo the game, but you just 
 won't get very far. Because your character advances so slowly you need to team up to take on anyone 
 else. Because PvP is not optional you constantly need to defend yourself when doing peaceful actions. 
 Because PvE is so terrible in the game, you may as well PvP. And because you may as well PvP, you 
 may as well win. And the only way to win is with superior numbers (or huge ships, but it takes 
 a team of people to build/buy one of those and then support it in combat) . 
  
  EVE is not a casual gamer's game. You'll either end up loving it or hating it simply because there's 
 no way to sink the amount of time that EVE requires into a game that you just like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Xodus-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  So, I picked up EVE Online (well, downloaded the trial) on Saturday. There's a 14 day trial, so 
 I thought I would download it and see what the game was now like after I had downloaded it and 
 quit before I finished the tutorial because it was so damn confusing. Well, let me tell you this 
 game has improved so **** much it isn't even something I could fathom. The tutorial is text-based 
 AND speech-based, the gameplay is so good, the graphics **** blow my mind, the battles are awesome. 
 Gamefly, what the hell is wrong with you? Why the hell did you give this game a 6.6? That is such 
 an underrated game that it isn't even funny, its sad. I gave the game a 9.5 myself and I've seen 
 about four or five 10s with reviews just on the first page of the player reviews.
  
  I'm not too sure who reviewed the game but whoever it was must've been smoking some crack when 
 they were writing the review, and I'm not kidding. I've attached some screenshots to prove my point 
 that EVE Online is the best MMO game that has ever been downloaded on any computer. Ever. Period, 
 end of statement.
  
  I said this and more and have some screenshots in my blog: copy and paste link in your web browser 
 ( http://www. gamespot. com/users/-Xodus-/show_blog_entry. php? topic_id=m-100-25391170 ) . Review don't 
 allow links for whateve reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unst4blec0d3r
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  To appreciate Eve Online as an MMO, you must first throw out much of what you believe an MMO to 
 be. The introduction of World of Warcraft brought with it a slew of new gamers getting their first 
 taste of the MMORPG. Now as some of those gamers become tired of WoW, they look to other games 
 with increased interest.
  
  Eve is not a typically high fantasy RPG. It's at this time, probably the only true space MMO available. 
 Spaceships, lasers and cold, dark and brutal rules of space await the players of Eve.
  
  The quickest and simplest way to differentiate Eve Online from many other MMO games, including 
 WoW is the simple analogy of the sandbox versus the theme park. WoW for example is a theme park 
 design. It consists of content that the developers of the game provide to the player. The players 
 enjoy this content over and over, and then begin to get bored and wait for a new content to be 
 released.
  
  With the sandbox design, the developers focus more on giving the players tools. What they do with 
 those tools is what creates the content for the game. It's like putting kids in a sandbox and giving 
 them shovels and other items in which to play with. A good example of this is the pirates in Eve. 
 There is no pirate class that people must roll to be a pirate. The pirating and ransoming of players 
 for money is something that emerged out of game play. The fear of the penalties of death makes 
 people inclined to pay others to spare their lives. The pirate in Eve is born.
  
  But how does one combat these pirates? If only there were other players that could help protect 
 the weaker players from such evil. The mercenary is born, the players that offer their combat expertise 
 for a price. These are but just a couple examples of what type of content can emerge in the Eve 
 universe.
  
  Many players trying out Eve Online are use to the theme park design. They enter the game and expect 
 to see yellow exclamation marks over people's heads telling them what they need to do next. Not 
 many games simply allow you to do anything you want. However the new player experience in Eve Online 
 is something of increased focus by the developer of Eve, CCP, based out of Iceland. Although under 
 constant improvement, the experience of the new player is lacking. It's especially lacking if you 
 were to consider a WoW player downloading the 14 day trial of Eve Online. 
  
  There are no classes in Eve, there are no levels. What you are is the combination of the skills 
 you train. Any player can train any skill; it's only a matter of training time. In Eve, you pick 
 a skill to train, usually after having purchased the skill book and it will train on or offline. 
 Yes, you did read that right. Even a husband and father of 4 could be spending the weekend with 
 his family and his Eve character would be gaining strength by training a skill. This is a unique 
 idea to the typical grind for XP in order to level.
  
  After spending hours and hours playing other MMO games, where you are trying to get enough XP to 
 level up, you'll find your life getting sucked away. Playing Eve, immediately allowed me to reclaim 
 my life as I could take a break anytime I wanted and still be making progress.
  
  Another huge difference between Eve Online and other MMO games is the fact that the entire Eve 
 universe resides in a single world. No realms, no shards. Every player in Eve is part of the same 
 universe. Why is this a wonderful thing? Many reasons including player population. Anybody who 
 has played games such as WoW understands how frustrating it can be when your character is on an 
 under populated server. You log on and have a hard time finding anything going on. You can bring 
 in old friend and meet new ones and all be in the same world. You can try to make a name for yourself 
 in the universe, and it would be just that, the entire game universe.
  
  One could write pages and pages about the numerous innovations Eve Online has brought into the 
 MMO industry. Those of us following the development of Eve Online know that there are great new 
 things in store for the game in the near future as well.
  
  It's not a game for everybody. It is a complex game with harsh death penalties, blood pumping PvP 
 and a player run economy that will amaze those more inclined to manufacturing then to combat.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TooNu
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  EVE has more to offer than any other MMO out there with its indepth political, crafting systems. 
 It's seemingly infinite combinations of craft and gear. The endless roles you can play in the universe.
 
  
  Basically it is the only open ended MMO out there that gives you more than ample oportunities to 
 change how you play at the drop of a hat. It gives more customisation options than any other MMO 
 going. More choice means more options for play means more ways for your own game and thus... fun!!
 
  
  This is why i love EVE, its not a game i can play and get bored because there are many ways to 
 play it. Eitehr go corporate or go running missions or go shoot at pirates. The other plus for 
 EVE is that while you are offline you are still skill training and this cuts the grind down tremendously, 
 the only thing your going to grind and its not especially hard to do, is for ISK (the currency)
 
  
  Its been updated with a load of new content over the years, something your not charged for (Take 
 a bow Blizzard) so each expansion that has come out has been covered by your monthly fee. 
  
  As it has a stable server IMO that supports 70k+ players at any given time i would say that 
 is pretty decent. And as such there is no player shortage that some MMOs suffer and as the game 
 has been out for years it is full of new players everyday so do not feel like you are alone out 
 in the HUGE universe.
  
  These are my short opinions, the game is too huge to explain here but i love it and its something 
 more mature and taken a little more seriously what with the economics and politics than most (if 
 not all) other MMOs out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  EVE is simply so huge you can not capture all it offers in a couple of hours, days, weeks or even 
 months. The game is so huge, and offers so much options that it would be a shame to simply try 
 to shoot some stuff and go ranting how it sucks. 
  
  It is quite normal this game does not offer much thrill when you start out in your small frigate 
 with low level skills. Probably the only immediate downside of the game is just that. You must 
 put a lot of time into it, and have quite some patience before you get anywhere. So if you are 
 looking for "a log on, kill some, log out" game you will be disappointed.
  
  EVE is an rpg game with an irregular approach of advancement, instead of gaining experience and 
 leveling up, you do no have levels or classes in this game. The game is based around a skill system 
 which let you learn skills to do certain things, fly certain ships, use certain equipment and become 
 better at it all. With the skills system you can choose to learn whatever you want, and allows 
 you to do all kinds of activities without being bound by classes. I will not go on and summarize 
 all aspects of this game again, you can read them in the other reviews here on game spot, but I 
 would like to say you shouldn't be discouraged by people who comment it without knowing what it 
 is about.
  
  It is true this game is very complex, and dazzles newcomers with all it has to offer, but my advice 
 is to check for a newbie friendly group and check out how they live their life within the universe. 
 This will also allow you to see what the possibilities are in th game and how you can achieve your 
 goal. It is true the progress in the game is slow, certainly as a new player, but patience and 
 effort are certainly rewarded, in many ways more than any other mmorpg you will find.
  
  It is true that the skill systems requires you to check in regularly with your character so you 
 do not loose time training up, but if you are a slave to this system it is not the game's fault, 
 but strictly your own. Heck, I often loose training time and I don't bother too much if I have 
 lost several hours because I was outside having fun. It is true the combat system is not that spectacular 
 when you start, but I can assure you that changes once you start flying other ships and more specific 
 when you start getting better skills and get more proficient with the ships and modules. For all 
 who say the combat is boring I would suggest a visit into low security space, or giving a try to 
 a high level security mission.
  
  in fact the game has so much to offer next to combat it would be sad you did not check them out.
 
  
  Other than that this game looks great, has the best community around, and provides a large expanded 
 universe where all player are together on one server. The explosions are cool, the profit is good 
 and it can keeps you busy for hours and hours. Only downside is it can be very addictive, and take 
 over your personal life. It is complex and overwhelming, and requires lots of time if you want 
 to achieve anything. Stop doubting, leave those orcs and elves for what they are, and come pay 
 us a visit in the most impressive universe computer entertainment has to offer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petrovsk
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  If you are anything like me, you might be tired of "MMO" developers cramming a story down your 
 throat, hoping to keep you interested with the promise of more power by mimicking the raid-boss 
 square dance of the guild before you. Or perhaps you are tired of instanced PvP and PvE, giving 
 the impression that you are actually playing a cooperative RPG with no sense of human interaction 
 or community whatsoever.
  
  After providing the aforementioned rants, the wiser would tell me to try EvE Online. "No" I replied, 
 "I don't really care for spaceships."
  
  Oops. Spaceships be damned, EvE is truly one of a kind. EvE is a game where the biggest challenges, 
 the most powerful people, the most dangerous people, the most righteous, the most backstabbing 
 people are all players. Want goblins? GoonSwarm will be happy to overwhelm you. Want orcs? Its 
 only a matter of time before you wander into a pirate-infested solar system.
  
  There are no instances in EvE; you are thrust into a living world of 35,000 people who's only goals 
 involve doing something to each other - be it acquiring more money, blowing them up, or forming 
 the largest alliance in the universe. It is the game's best and worst aspect. Other players may 
 provide you with the best gaming experience of your life or may just waste a day of your time bumbling 
 about.
  
  Make no mistake though, EvE is a PvP game to its core. If you're not blowing up someone else's 
 ship, you're probably wrestling for their assets on the market or scrounging your way up for revenge. 
 That means EvE is very cutthroat - you are not safe anywhere. The police won't protect you if your 
 assassin is devoted enough and if you're not in an NPC corp, the police will happily accept bribes 
 to turn a blind eye. Every time you leave a space station in a ship, everything on you and around 
 you is money in the pot. At the same time, you will have a blast drumming up world-takeover schemes 
 (or maybe smaller ones.) 
  
  That said, clearly it is not a game for everyone. Many a player has come and gone thinking they 
 could mine or run missions without attracting the attention of others and have met a disappointing 
 end. There is no consensual PvP in EvE. Only corrupt police.
  
  Hundreds of MMORPGs have claimed to be online worlds while really only forcing cooperative marriages 
 of convenience in a predetermined world. EvE Online is truly an online world; truly, massively, 
 multiplayer.
  
  P. S. Watch out for that learning speed bump. It's a doozy.
  
  ~Petrovsk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MediForce
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Players of EVE Online are able to choose and play in any number of in-game professions and activities, 
 thats not the only point I gave the credit for but looking in the interaction and messaging system 
 really impressive, 
  
  furthermore, the friendly 3d interfaces and the whole flexibiltiy to select and the clear visualization 
 of reading in-game information and the stream of data flows to the players makes the game Comprehensive.
 
  
  what i most like in this game beside the visual effect and design, is that the Neocom (player's 
 profile) allows you to have skill books after you purchase it from the market and the levels makes 
 snese, in the end you have the capability to create stuff like ships, weapons and selling them 
 in the market.
  
  The playing environment in EVE Online Consistent , the universe in EVE Online contain over five 
 thousand star systems ( nearly about 66 regions) and the Map is not a mere image map , but rather 
 have the full interaction with the player such as setting the route and giving star or regions 
 information up to date.
  
  EVE Online use cash economy ( isk ) which add more fun to the game, and there is a chance in future 
 to convert it into real cash.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NetGod
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  One word? Amazing. I've been on COH (City of Heroes) for almost 4 years now, but i have tryed other 
 games. Some left me feeling alone or empty. Others thrilled and excited me. But nothing since COH 
 has really 'done it' for me. Nothing except COH has pushed me to the edge of pure gaming bliss 
 . . . until now. It must have been a combination of fate and excellent timing, because now, EVE 
 Online seems to be the hottest thing since sliced bread. Whatever software issues they had in the 
 past, seem to be gone. Yes, this is a VERY old game, (2003?) but thanks to several recent upgrades 
 and graphical enhancements, this game could have just as well hit the shelves for the first time 
 this month (February 2008) . Yes, the game feels that new and fresh. It's not easy to just pick 
 up and play, but if you stick with it, you really do get the hang of it. The game itself is a fantasy 
 come true. Get the chance to pilot hundreds of different ships, each customizable to your hearts 
 delight. You may start out small, but after just a month, you'll find yourself in some pretty big 
 ships, playing right along side the big boys. Earn money and own as many star ships as you can 
 buy, (flying them one at a time of coarse) . Very social too, (unlike WoW) , the players of Eve are 
 bright, intelligent, warm and friendly. Upon my request, I was taken under the wing of an old school 
 veteran who really took the time to explain the basics. We even went on missions together. Awesome, 
 awesome game. In addition to it's own very personal, unique flavor it seems to be super fine mixture 
 of elements you know and love without being cheesy about it . . Star Wars, Star Trek, Babalon 5, 
 Battlestar Galactica, and StarGate, it's all there in a fantasitic ultra-cool scifi epic you've 
 been waiting for your whole life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xile2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Eve online is a huge game. over 30000 people at peak times and a universe made up of 5000 systems 
 - with many under the control of powerful PLAYER alliances. there are many ways to make money in 
 eve - the recommended one in the tutorial is mining - but you can make money off bountys posted 
 on players and NPC's - with bountys on players being supplied by other players. You can also make 
 money off salvaging - which can cost you a steep amount to get started (read 950k isk) , but pays 
 off almost immediatly. The game is hard for beginneers, ut that changes quickly
  
  EVE has flaws - mainly the autopilot which comes out of warp between 20-16 km from a gate - i only 
 activate mine so i can use it kinda of like a intersteller GPS - it highlights the gates i need 
 to use. And with Trinity, the new Expansion pack, the new graphics can sometimes cause lag - i 
 find most notable when coming out of Warp, a Spacestation, or coming through a stargate. you should 
 also disable the shadows to minimise lag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThornFalconeye
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I played through four of the free 14 day trial accounts before buying eve, because I could not 
 decide whether it was worth it to invest in a game that I could not play whenever I wanted [being 
 as I have never really played a MMO beyond free trials] . Eve seemed like a great game: with its 
 player driven economy, security only in high population systems, and an actual LOSS system where 
 if you died, it was not a run back to your corpse, but actual monetary loss. 
  
  Everything was great for the first 2 months, I was slowly acquiring around 40 million ISK, enough 
 to buy and outfit my first battlecruiser, by chugging missions. The missions are not so bad, because 
 everywhere you kill people, you are bound to find interesting items [as there are at least 10 types 
 of a single size and ammuntion gun, with varying prices] and i was just selling them, using the 
 market to get some good money. After I had bought this battlecruiser, my friend urged me to join 
 him in low security space, where he made about 20 million in less than an hour. I joined him there, 
 joined his guild.... then things started getting bad. I got in a couple of fights, and while combat 
 is pretty fun, it still amounts to tons of clicking and knowing what beats what. But when you get 
 into low security, everything changes. Because people there have so much to lose, there is actual 
 bargaining for your ship if you are caught. People send out serious spies, they have actual deals, 
 you can see each ship and really feel as though there is someone controlling it. But. If you do 
 not have the time to spend and become a great member of your guild, of which there are many: you 
 may be caught in an endless loss cycle like I was. I left this game because my character is now 
 perpetually stuck in enemy territory; my guild had left the bigger alliance of our solar system 
 earlier that day, and I did not know about it. So every single ship I would see for at least 5 
 systems [areas] would kill me on sight, and everyone was more powerful than me. Because I was not 
 a big player ,only playing on weekends, noone knew me or could vouch for me not being a spy. So 
 every time I would try to play, I was killed off, and I ended up in a spiral of death.
  
  Pros:
  excellent economy, good graphics, great sounds, very nice open ended world and sense of 
 community. Good risk system, Tons of things to learn/do. Thousands of items, each is different if 
 not in stats it is in price.
  
  Cons:
  Leveling up is based on time, not skill or doing things. Rich people throw their money around, but 
 not at you. Must join guilds to have fun in low security systems. Traveling places takes a long 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geowil
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing eve for around a year and a half now. Let me say this early, this is not a 
 game for idiots and impatient people.
  
  
  Ratings:
  
  Game play: 9.8
  
  they game play is very nice, everything feels realistic down to bumping into objects (except that 
 it causes no damage) .
  
  Warping could be a little better, a little more graphical, but it suffices.
  
  Gate jumping 
 could be A LOT better, all it is is a cloak, map load uncloak, instead of what i think it should 
 have been, like showing your accelerating down the gate and into hyperspace for example (like the 
 acceleration gates in Ded space missions) .
  
  The weapons system is hard to get the hang of at first as not all weapons are created equal and 
 some crappy ones are high priced (price =/= good sometimes in eve) .
  
  The skill system is a double egded sword to eve. Not only is it innovative and sleak, its also 
 a pain in the arse to deal with.
  
  Only one skill per account and per character can be trained at any one time. This means if you 
 have alt chars in the same account, you wont be able to train skills on both the chars at the same 
 time.
  
  The skill system is also an effective money grabber for CCP as most of the skills you want to max 
 take literal months to finish, some even take nearly 3 months depending on the skill rank. (hint: 
 learn ALL the learning skills first this cuts training time in about half) .
  
  Contrary to what the GS review stated, Mining is NOT the only way to make Isk in Eve,
  
  There 
 is mission running, ratting, mercing, and bounty hunting.
  
  Mission Running:
  The task of carrying out missions from Agents. Ranging from Courier to actual pirate encounters.
 
  
  Encounter missions are much better usually then courier because not only do you get the mission 
 rewards but also bounty kills for the rats as well as isk from any items they might drop.
  
  
  Mercing:
  This takes a slightly experianced pilot with a few months under their belts 
 and at least a cruiser class ship. Not to mention a nice coproration to back you up.
  
  This is the process of taking orders if you will, from other players. IE kill this person (s) or 
 find me this ship or blue print.
  
  I have seen all out wars fought by Mercs taking contracts from less powerful corps to settle scores 
 with enemy corps.
  
  
  Ratting:
  As the name suggestes this is the process of flying from asteroid belt to asteroid belt and hunting 
 down npc pirates.
  
  you get a certain amount of isk for killing them and they may also drop items that you can salvage 
 and sell or keep.
  
  
  Bounty Hunting:
  
  One of Eve's downfalls is their aggressive pvp system. Anyone cant at anywhere and time kill you 
 if they so choose to. The means of how they do it, or how far they kill you are the only limitations 
 in Hi-Sec systems.
  
  
  Bounty Hunting is the finding and killing of bounty headed players for isk. This ranges from a 
 few million isk to hundreds of billions.
  
  
  
  And lastly there is Mining:
  
  Mining takes a specialized character to do, or lots of training. Best to make a mining char in 
 addition to your normal one.
  
  With the right skills and the right ship you can easily make over 100 million isk an hour (this 
 would be after months of skill training on a normal mining char)
  
  
  Music: 10
  the music is absolutly stunning, ranging from the fast pacedrock beats of battles to slow and mellow 
 travel music.
  
  
  Graphics: 10 (if i could i would say 50!)
  As of the update to trinity, Eve has taken graphics to a whole new level. They ships are now more 
 realistic then ever! and the systems are just gorgeous.
  
  Plot: 3
  there iusnt much of a plot line in this game, you make the story based on how you play it. If you 
 want to p*** people off and become a pirater, then you can do so, if youw ant to be a bounty hunter 
 you can, if you just want to quietly do missions you whole eve-life you can also do that. the only 
 set story line is with the storyline missions that give great rewards and the news/backstory/current 
 events on the website.
  
  
  The Good:
  Awesome music and grpahics, the ai is superb, plenty of pirates to kill, a universe so vast it 
 would take you a month just to cross it
  
  the Bad:
  Very slow paced, skill training is a pain sometimes, The constant threat of going kaboom when around 
 other players with low security statuses, hard paced money making tactics.
  
  Overall this game is a must play for all who are tired of conventional rpgs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameboy00j
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 26, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  TLDR VERSION:
  Game is good. Fun. If you don't mind joining a guild right away and having things handed to you, 
 by all means play. If you have a lot of patience and don't mind waiting weeks and weeks to advance 
 the way YOU want to, then get this game, it'd be great. If you have limited time, and want to play 
 the game solo for a while, or to choose the exact path you wish (mining/industrial) , then it will 
 frustrate you and be a waste of your time.
  Under the current layout/business model (one game server/world) , those just starting are simply 
 too far behind the curve to have fun, imo.
  
  FULL VERSION:
  After trying it out some in September (not enough apparently) and then buying it last week, I found 
 myself very disappointed. The game really could be something great. It is defiantly a risk/reward 
 type experience, and you should always be on the edge of your seat, as you are never truly safe. 
 I have no problems with that. Everyone who plays the game goes through that, and that's a good 
 point. The graphics are fine, and the setting as a whole is good. I love the ship graphics with 
 the new 'premium' content'. And I'd recommend to anyone that wants to try it, to go ahead. 14-day 
 free trial IS worth it!
  
  However, where I have the problem is in the business model/approach to the game. There is one game 
 world (realm to you WoWers) , run on one server (or cluster of servers) . So anytime you play, you're 
 playing with the entire "world of EVE". Sounds cool. (There is a test server I believe, and maybe 
 a private server, but for 99% of us, it's all on the server "Tranquility") . So what's wrong with 
 this? The problem is, if you are just starting out in the game, you can not simply play it the 
 way you want to. The game itself is built on the premise that the world is your playground. You 
 can do 'anything' in EVE. Well, it's true.... if you're willing to wait weeks to do what those who 
 started playing the game 2 years ago could do in days. The reality is, there are enough hardcore 
 players/corporations in the game already that unless you join one, you are going to have a tough 
 go at it as a new player. For me, I don't want a sugar-daddy guild member giving me ships and ISK, 
 I want to make my own living. But I can't, at least not the way I want, in the time I have. 
  
  Example: I wanted to do some PvP. To do this, I thought I'd start out training some mining 
 skills and mine ore to build a little income. Then I'd buy a good PvP vessel and start that path. 
 However, after around 5 hours of flying around the other day without finding one single Asteroid 
 Belt (where you mine for ore) , I find out in the help channel that it's common for Mining Corporations 
 (again "guilds") to strip mine entire regions. For those who play WoW, this would be like you, 
 at level 10, wanting to level mining. But entire guilds of 70 hunters (all with aspect of the cheetah 
 to run around faster) have mined all the nodes in every zone from level 1 to level 35. Except, 
 the nodes only respawn on Monday and Friday. So guess what, QQ and grind quests. Funny, doesn't 
 sound like an open ended game to me... at least not on a time budget.
  
  This is just one example, I'm sure there are more. But at the end of the day, with the way the 
 skill training is set up and the time it takes to get good at things, to then find out that you've 
 wasted your time because that door really isn't open to you (as a new player) is too frustrating 
 for me. I don't want anything handed to me... I want to earn it. But with just ONE server and that 
 being on GMT time, or close to it, a lot of us are hosed. 
  
  Am I crying? Yes. I'll have to suck it up and move on, but it's a pity, because I really enjoyed 
 most of what this game had to offer. So life goes on. I just wanted to vent a little and perhaps 
 save others from wasting $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 22, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  this is going to be short and sweet. EVE online is bad. first and foremost. you have to pay to 
 play. i have always been against this formula of game since first hearing of WoW. and my opinion 
 hasnt changed. secondly, i used a trail account of this game which was 14 days long and i can tell 
 you, if you wanted to get anywhere in this game you'll need to pay for a year just to get up the 
 money for a decent ship (cruiser) . i was stuck in a constant limbo of buying the ship i needed 
 (a minmitar frigate called scout) for mining runs and small time NPC farming, getting killed too 
 easily but that one NPC that always seemed to turn up as i hit the 1 million isk mark and having 
 to spend 400,000 isk just to kit it out again and then reapeating. then after using up 8 of my 
 14 days i finally had enough money to buy a cruiser. finally, a sense of achievement. then it was 
 taken away from me when my corp decided that a 14 day newcomer didnt need a cruiser and pod killed 
 me and stole my equipment. at that point i simply quit the game and de-installed it. why play a 
 game which takes sooo long to gain up enough money to get anywhere? missions start out easy the 
 the impossible mission comes around which cant even be completed by a destroyer (my corp tryed 
 to help me out but three ships couldnt do a lvl 1 task) my opinion is that if you liked WoW and 
 enjoy burning wads of money for the sheer hell of it and like wasting months of your life which 
 could be spent elsewhere (like on your personal hygiene) then go ahead and enjoy yourself. anyone 
 with a brain, either WoW or stick to your BF2 and COD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steffen_P28
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I`ve played computer games since the pc came out, and that includes basically almost all the online 
 games there is, one thing i think that are essential for any game to be worth playing is that there 
 have to be a gain from time spend without having to just sit in some space station or what ever 
 it might be do nothing but wait for a single skill to get up .. and it takes an enitre day.. usually 
 more then that in Eve online. Sure you can go haul some minterals getting about 100.000 isk pr 
 run in the first ship you get or kill some other spaceships, ( but if you havent got about 5 million 
 isk inter stellar credits) then dont count on surviving the encounter.. usually more then15 million 
 isk are required for just a half decent ship to get around in are needed in Eve online. in short 
 the game is bloody boring and has no real long term goal for players to strive for except for the 
 next big ship witch you by then have spend the better part of a year trying to get only to get 
 it destroyed by one of the more wanted pirates in the game that usually have gotten their things 
 by illigally buying their isk online or something like that. I for one do understand why Gamespot 
 have given it the grade of 6.6 i wouldnt even have given it that. if you want this game to be an 
 even bigger success then i think the time consumed to do a simple thing like training skills would 
 have to be dramaticaly decreased. the graphics are nice though, and i you do really get the sensation 
 of how big space really is, but its just plain boring. so save your money and a lot of time and 
 stay as far away from this product as possible. Even the newest addition that caused peoples computers 
 to be damaged if they had windows XP (it removed an essential boot. ini file that the computer needs 
 to start the operating system with.) as their operating system might hold better graphics and new 
 ships, but its still the same time consuming crap. im shocked that a company would allow that sort 
 of thing to slip out to the public, apparently we are their test dummies, and unless you are one, 
 then do not buy this product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gugyzajbl
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  I have played WOW since February 2005 till now. but i have stopped playing it. i just grew tired 
 of it i guess. so i was looking for something new. 
  before WOW i have played Knight Online for about a year. i have tried Anarchy Online. and i never 
 found good enough substitute for WOW. it is a hard game to match. It is in my opinion the ultimate 
 game after all. 
  but when i came across EVE Online i think WOW has met his match at least for me. now i have just 
 finished tutorial and done first 2 missions but i think ill be seeing alot more of EVE Online. 
 its an amazing, deep and good looking game.
  at the start it is a bit strange to play which was never the case with WOW for me but in an hour 
 or so of tutorial youll get it, picked it up or get used to it and after that you see that its 
 really good playability. and then the final frontir awaits you. you have whole space to see numerous 
 solar systams to discover. it seams ti has no limits. 
  even though WOW costed me 12/month and EVE costs almost 20/month if im not mistaken i think its 
 well worth its money. if you are addicted to MMORPG and as me sick of WOW this is it. 
  EVE Online, not 2 tumbs up, but 4 thumbs up ( im using my legs:) ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djin
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Too bad Gamespot is too involved with doing horrible reviews and fireing people.
  
  They should redo EVE with its over 40,000 population and growing, online, one server, same time.
 
  
  The game is truly amazing now. I admit it's gotten a lot better over time, but hasn't every MMORPG? 
 (Well most)
  
  6.6 even for 2003 was lame and low. It was because the game was too complex for the easily fools 
 at Gamespot who think World of Warcraft is the best thing out there.
  
  People need to wake up and see though the bullshit here.
  
  I don't know what else they want 
 me to say, but I have to do at least 100 words and I just wanted to express my feelings on the 
 game now. It's one of the best out there if you have the time to actually sit back and understand 
 the complex nature of this beast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kram590
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  This is unbelievable. I never noticed that Gamespot has reviews online that are so old it's embarrassing! 
 2003 review of Eve? Thats not even the same game. Though this is a incredible game, it's definitely 
 not for everyone. Can't wait till tomorrow when the new graphics are released. Took me four times 
 over the years to grasp this game. (Just so different then killing bats outside gates of Freeport) 
 The fourth time things just seemed to click. Much inproved tutorial now then from it first started. 
 I have played most every game out there, and found the Eve has a strangly addicting quality to 
 it that's hard to describe.
  
  Come on Game spot, get with the program...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireBird228
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  Upfront Disclaimer: This is not for the casual gamer.
  
  That being said it is a great game, that in my opinion pwnz WoW in every way possible (except maybe 
 learning curve) . 
  
  There is both limitless depth and breadth to this game. The galaxy is both so huge, that it is 
 virtually endless. This is also the most complex game I have ever seen or played. There are also 
 very slick graphics, and many (perhaps too many) items. Because this resembles real life so much, 
 it is not an easy game. There are pirates in the game that will kill you as soon as they get the 
 chance, if you're in a weaker ship, once you get out of the proteced zones. The character creation 
 is also very professional looking and allows not only in depth physical customization, but also 
 customzation in terms of skills and job field. 
  
  It is impossible to sum up such a complex game in just one review, so to experience the full complexity 
 of this you will have to play yourself. But beware, if you play this either make a commitment or 
 don't, because this game doesn't work with just a few hours per week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gutterdude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  OK! So, let me start off with how to get the game. Download the trial from their site and after 
 14 days if u fancy keep playing just suscribe and pay a monthly fee like all games. The first month 
 is 20 buckaroos for the game and sub for that month. Then I beleive 15 buckarros every month after 
 that. It is important to point out that u dont buy expansions. All expansion are free. Thats what 
 your sub fee goes towards to as well I believe. So the game itself now is not the same game that 
 was reviewed by gamespot and all those critics. Now, with all the prelimaries said lets get down 
 to the game. Highly friggen complex. Do you like space simulators? This is what this game is. AND 
 an MMO. So it begs the question "Do you want to play a game where u live in space in a real universe 
 to do whatever the hell you damn well please, including pirating, trading, mining, hauling." If 
 so this game is for you. AND! It has its only politcal system. You can deeply immerse yourself 
 in this game and possibly have an impact on the universe. But this aint for the feignt of heart. 
 If you die it costs a lot because ur ship is destroyed and u gotta buy new ship or use one of ur 
 other usually inferior ships. And the game starts off very slow and travel between systems can 
 take a verry long time so dont be expecting to be a pirate right off the bat. You gotta work your 
 way up to it and it'll take quite some time. But no other universe is quite as alive and real as 
 this is. No other, that i can think of anyways, that is as player driven as this game is. But with 
 all that said I do not play this game anymore. And here is why and it may also be why some of you 
 will chose not to play it. Gameplay. You know how in typical mmo you click on an opponet and click 
 attack and some skills. Here you do that too but instead of skills you click on ship parts and 
 such and you know its just really not that exhilerating. And mining and hauling? ehhhh. But it 
 is a great social networking game. It feels so real and I wanted so much to love this game but 
 I can't and I kind of feel bad because if I was just more patient this game would be a god of a 
 game. Damn CounterStrike look what youve done to me. I hope I still love ff7  _  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stalin1945
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  This game is the most in-depth game ever designed. WOW can only aspire to what EvE has achieved. 
 I've never played any game that is soo freaking addictive for years to come, its like a 2nd job. 
 Though at times the game is harsh it only makes it soo much more fun to be the one dealing the 
 harshness. One day they will un-nerf Amarr race and .... well, by then I'll be fully trained in 
 Minmatar, nvm :) Anyways, this game has 20k-30k users playing anytime you login to it. All these 
 players fight over limited resources, its crazy. If you are a hard-core gamer you must try this 
 out. Tip from the start, is join a pvp-based corp and ASK QUESTIONS! The playerbase is mostly adults 
 spanning the entire globe so it should make your gameplay easy. 
  
  PS. If you do try it, and get addicted don't forget me :) In game char name: Ronja 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanvett
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 2:54 am PT
Review:  I am a Sci-Fi fan. So, of course, I have ever played EVE Online. In my memories, I first played EVE 
 Online in 2005. The world of EVE online is vast. Graphics is great. Music is extremely good and 
 some music seems Enya's composition. The development of characters of EVE online is convenient 
 for players. You can set a skill to be automatically trained. It's a good setting for offline. 
 Missions are fair. The auction system of EVE online is as good as WoW. PVP system is fun and good. 
 Though EVE Online is good, I think Mankind was still the best Sci-Fi MMO game forever. Does Mankind 
 remind you of something? :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Discombob360
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  There is a huge learning curve, but that keeps all the gamers who would screw around, or not be 
 serious away. Extremely complex, but once you've got it down, its very enjoyable. Don't be deterred 
 in the first day because you don't understand it, just stick with it and you won't regret it. There 
 are NPC's, almost everything you run to, is either controlled by or is a person. Huge universe, 
 and thousands of ways you can earn money in this game. You'll never get bored.
  
  You can take the role of a criminal, a trader, a researcher, a harvester, an escort, and much much 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carrefo_basic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  I always have a few games installed in my PC, since I never play one game to the end. One day I 
 play one, the other day another... but since I started this one, well, I just un-installed all 
 the others, because I can't stop playing this one.
  The day they put in-station player's interaction, like was promised, then I will give the game 
 a 10. Congratulations CCP, great job, great game. Only thing to change is to get rid of the Macro 
 miners, and let those that stay at empire regions, and only want PvE, don't have to deal with aggressive 
 PvP.
  Recommended to all those who like space MMORPG games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mistel162
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Good Game, graphically detailed, and deep game play. Though it does prove slightly intimidating 
 to the newbie, especially when considering the economics of the game (more specifically the trading 
 system) and the time required to advance to bigger better ships. Much time is spent training character 
 levels and traveling between star systems which might become slightly tedious to the fast-paced 
 game lovers out there. However, with all things considered, I greatly enjoy the depth of the game. 
 This depth would include the ability to establish your own galactic corporation and seemingly endless 
 exploration possibilities. Interaction between players is very good and the pvp battles can be 
 quite fun (though destruction is imminent for those new to combat) . I would recommend this game 
 to any mmo-rpg player that desires a break from the average quest based games common to this genre. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcana_Dei
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  The complexity of this game is phenomenal. The fact that you can buy stock, start a Second-life 
 career in almost anything (my favorite is the spy/bounty hunter) . You can place bounties on peoples 
 heads and fund the bounties through your corporation! How cool is that?! Also, if you are ruthless 
 and have no etiquette, you can kill another player and if they haven't kept their clones updated 
 and their ship insured, you can set them back weeks to months!!! where's that kind of risk in WoW?! 
 Also, your actions will affect the gameplay for another player that has never crossed paths with 
 you. YOUR ACTIONS AFFECT THE POLITICS OF THE STORY LINE!!! Play it and love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: don_fernando
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 2:24 am PT
Review:  Serious time-eating but thats half of the awesome thingy with this game! I have never played such 
 a deep and advanced game, ever!
  
  I can't even understand how gamespot gave it such a bad rating.. I guess the guy gave up the learning, 
 coz its very dificult, or doesn't appreciate adult SCI-FI. I usually trust Gamespots review, but 
 this time I got really disapointed. Kicks the s**t out of most online games.
  
  JGMAGELLANs review sais everything. I don't think I need to even try to write something that good.
 
  
  Awesome game plus as JGMAGELLAN said, it's an other envrioment when it comes to the sociaty part. 
 People are so much grown up than other games.
  
  Totally awesome.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JGMagellan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  My words will not do this game justice, but I will try. First, the upside.
  
  EvE is enormous! With over 5000 systems, I would wager that 50%+ of this game has been virtually 
 unexplored except for a few daring to go that deep. Everything is on one server that shuts down 
 once a day for an hour to keep up with maintenance of the servers. At peak they have had over 30k+ 
 people online at once. Now, this can be a problem in several main systems of over 200 people, but 
 for the most part, that won't matter. It's safe in those areas as the cops (Concord) patrol there 
 and you would have several battleships, destroyers, cruisers, and frigates on you if you tried 
 any hanky panky. So, don't worry about lag death in busy systems.
  
  I have seen people complain about the cops not doing anything when they are attacked. Let me say 
 this: this game is very complex in its rules and weeds out silly 13 year old weekend warriors wanting 
 to pwn everything in less than a month. The skill system is set up where you learn over time instead 
 of grinding. Grinding to level in this game is non-existent. You purchase skills to help you use 
 different types of equipment, ships, and access to higher level agents (people who give you missions) . 
 Your attributes help you learn different types of skills quicker, so you have to know what you 
 are getting into.
  
  Being that this game is difficult to learn, there is much help in the community, corps (EvE version 
 of guilds) , and tutorials. Most of the people I have met in this game are in their mid 20s to mid 
 40s. Bigger is not necessarily better. You start out in the game in a small class of ship called 
 the frigate. There are several ships per class and an elite section of most classes. The elite 
 ships are called Tech II or other terms, and look almost the same ship of the regular class with 
 some differences. Oh yeah, and they are pumped up on steroids. What does this mean for a player? 
 Let's put it this way. There are people who say that you need to have a character for a year before 
 you can do anything in this game. That is a load of bs. The frigate class ships are fairly inexpensive 
 and you can learn all the skills you need to operate the effectively within a couple of weeks at 
 most. There are long time players who like to go around in these ships in packs of 5-10, outfit 
 them for about 1 mil isk (isk is the monetary unit) and take down battleships that are outfitted 
 for over 100 mil. Sure, 2-3 of them might go down, depending, but that's nothing compared to what 
 the battleship loses. This brings me to the main type of combat in this game. It's all tactics. 
 If you can organize a fight and get everyone to carry out orders just like in rl, you will dominate. 
 This is not about whoever has the biggest ship wins. It is about the use of several different classes 
 of ships that come together as a whole. Larger ships have a very difficult time tracking and shooting 
 smaller ships. A battleship will have trouble hitting a frigate because they orbit far too quickly. 
 A battleship could take out a cruiser fairly easily though. The size of classes of ships from small 
 to large are: frigate, destroyer, cruiser, battlecruiser, battleship, carrier, dreadnaught, and 
 titan. There's more than that (motherships, mining ships, industrials) , yet those are the main 
 ones used for combat. As you can tell, I got a little excited up there and rambled. I should mention 
 the score is amazing. The tech support is reasonable. Bugs are fixed within a reasonable amount 
 of time and are rare imo. ALL EXPANSIONS ARE FREE! Aren't you tired of paying another $40 or so 
 for the newest expansion a few months later on top of the subscription fees?
  
  The game is balanced between those who want to break the law and those who don't. Don't expect 
 the law to protect you everywhere. There is plenty of space where the law doesn't go or goes on 
 a very limited basis. Pirates are cunning and they can work around the system. This keeps the game 
 entertaining. Oh, and for the most part, the players are very civil and love a good fight. Don't 
 think you will own the biggest and baddest ship around for quite some time. Once you get up there, 
 you'll be able to afford them just fine. Most corps that you can join will help you get into a 
 decent ship.
  
  The corporation system in this game is better than any I have seen in every game I have played. 
 You have complete control over all assets and personnel. You can assign security ratings on your 
 player owned stations so that only certain people can use them. You can form alliances to help 
 control your assets and grow as a community.
  
  The market system is amazing. It is player run and many items you can only get as loot from killing 
 npcs or doing missions. You can learn trade routes and save up for that 1 billion isk Freighter 
 you have always wanted and watch it turn like an oil tanker while carrying enough water to fill 
 Lake Michigan. You can create items and ships with blueprints you have acquired. You can pretty 
 much do anything.
  
  Overall, this is the best game I have come across in a very long time. EvE is very well thought 
 out game that many people have come to enjoy. I won't lie, it is difficult to learn and become 
 accustomed to, yet that is half the fun of playing. There is always something new to learn. Challenge 
 yourself and give EvE a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerpeters
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  Yes, EvE is hard to learn for new players. Yes, if you lose your ship, it's gone forever; get over 
 it, it's part of the game. Yes, the death 'penalty' can be severe; don't fly what you can't afford 
 to lose. Yes, new players are never going to catch up with people who've been playing for 4 years. 
 Having said all that, there is no other game (yes, I mean that) available that has the depth, complexity, 
 evokes its players' passion, and level of strategic planning that EvE does. You can own entire 
 areas of the map, make millions in trade, and fly through a universe that is absolutely beautiful.
 
  
  If you like complex games, where you will still be learning about it over a year later, then try 
 EvE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  - Graphics
  - Sound
  - Player driven economy
  - Players can take over the galaxy and change it
  - No levels
  - Not linear
  - complex
 
  - Biggest mmorpg to date with over 35k people on the same server at the same time at peak times.
 
  - Polished
  - Great future ahead like atmospheric flight and walking on stations.
  - Mature community
  - Lots of risk involved in dying, not forgiving.
  
  Cons:
  
  - Doesn't 
 appeal to everyone and theres a high chance you wont like the slow gameplay style.
  - Patch days can be nightmare
  - Doesn't have full characters yet but they're coming in with 
 walking on stations.
  
  I played Eve Online from launch 2003 until late 2005 so my opinion will be on then and on upcoming 
 changes which might get me back. So Eve is a beautiful looking game with more graphical updates 
 to come like high res textures sooon. It's a very niche game because it's very slow paced and takes 
 alot of your time + really really complex so it will turn most people off who are just looking 
 to have quick fun after work or school.
  
  Basically in Eve you create your portrait of your character but you can't see the whole body because 
 you wont see your character apart from that picture for the whole game. Your basically in a pod 
 in your ship so all you'll see is a pod or a ship. However Eve Online has fantastic changes coming 
 which will add atmospheric flight on planets and walking on stations where fianlly we'll have whole 
 characters. You'll log into the game and have a fantastic and well made tutorial which is quite 
 long and tells you the basics of the complex galaxy of EVE. You'll have few options at the start 
 but as you play longer the galaxy of EVE will open up to you with so much freedom. Basically as 
 a new player you'll have a option to mine asteroids and then sell them for money. You could gain 
 skills in crafting and buy blue prints and craft items then sell them on market in which you could 
 buy the materials you need to make the item or you could mine and kill NPC pirates for some of 
 it but sometimes you just have to do both. You can run agent missions (most popular and just like 
 eve's version of quests) which you'll have 3 basic types at first and ones kill quests where you 
 hunt down NPC's or the other is fed ex missions where you deliver stuff and finally protection 
 missions. Also you can do trade routes which is buying low selling high.
  
  Theres no classes in EVE so basically you'll just train one of the many many skills the game has 
 (more than you could ever train) so i'd recommend you specialise in something like combat or mining 
 or industry etc etc. Most people try to do everything at once and get nowhere and realise you have 
 to take your time and not rush, your not going to be the best in a month, it'll take much longer 
 to advance in EVE. Skills train over time and you can only have one skill training at a time, you 
 can also train them when you've logged off and then come back whatever time the skill said it would 
 be finished and train another one. So your character is constantly evolving even without you playing.
 
  
  In EVE it's all about money and money = power, kinda like the real life. The game has a full working 
 player driven economy which has been compared to real life and they even have a guy hired to work 
 just on the economy of eve. You'll just spend your whole time making money in Eve to buy more things 
 and to get you somewhere with people. So theres no XP grind in this game which is great but you 
 could say because you need money that this is the grind in EVE.
  
  As a new player you should get into a player corperation and players will help you out soo much 
 because EVE is a lonely game to play on your own. What comes with a corperation aswel (player guilds 
 in otherwords) is player events for fun and group missions and mining etc etc. What also comes 
 with Corps are the corp wars and territory gains and stuff like that. Basically all the major corps 
 fight for 0.0 space which you can place player made stations and defend them constantly. Theres 
 always corp wars going on because people want their own territory so only the strongest survive.
 
  
  Eve is split up into different security space and 1.0 and 0.9 security space are totally harmless 
 and you can't be killed there by any pirate NPC's because they don't exist. Also if you get attacked 
 by another player then the police will come and destroy his ship which is too much risk. When your 
 ship is destroid then you'll be left with a pod and players can pod you in PVP which means if you 
 havn't got a clone of your character then your going to lose Skill points which are really valuable 
 because you can't get time back. However Clones get more and more expensive the more skill points 
 you have so make sure you always have spare money for one otherwise you could be screwed.
  
  Then 0.8 - 0.5 space is still safe from PVP because the police will come but theres NPC pirates 
 which can destroy your ship. Then 0.4 - 0.1 which will have weaker sentry guns to by stations and 
 jump gates which will still atatck you if you attack another player. However Asteroid belts are 
 game for anyone and thats where the PVP will be in these zones for ore and theres also tougher 
 pirate npc's. 0.0 sec space is where the game starts for alot of people and these places are controlled 
 by player coperations and anything goes because theres no rules and no police. Basically if you 
 get podded here then thats your fault and noone will protect you but your corp. This 0.0 will be 
 constantly PVP wared for by corps and if you get int he way or take their ore or anything then 
 they'll pod you.
  
  Eve is mainly a dynamic player driven and changed galaxy which is sooooooooo massive that it takes 
 days to get to the other side of the map like. It's all about unforgiving PVP where you can lose 
 alot if your stupid and the game doesn't really have much PVE compared to games like WOW but thats 
 because it's not designed for this.
  
  The graphics in eve are really fantastic and the game has lots of atmosphere also a new engine 
 upgrade soon which will make the game look better. The sound in eve is also really great with a 
 nice little voice over of your ship telling you stuff. Also Eve has a jukebox with music built 
 into it which are very nice to listen to.
  
  Eve Also has a nice Ui and so it should because you control your ship via the UI and not by the 
 wasd keys or w/e so theres no free flight where you control your ship. It works very well however 
 and you can point and click to move like other games like Guild Wars which is nice too. I thought 
 i wouldn't like the controll system when i heard about it but it works soo well with the game and 
 suits it where in other games it would be horrible.
  
  So Eve online is a innovative and revolutionary and a masterpiece of our time in the mmorpg world. 
 Everyone should try this game specially if they're bored with the same old fantasy EQ format mmo. 
 It also has free expansion packs which add great value for moneyw ill the game because the games 
 free and you just py the standard monthly sub and get expansions for free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mechassault3000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 4:25 am PT
Review:  Generally I played this game for 1 day and was hooked, I advise playing this game for yourself, 
 but you need to make friends as soon as possible to survive, the risks of dying compel the players 
 to continuously improve and creates an ever changing game enviroment, along with the corporations 
 and alliance wars this game offers a unique and amazing pvp experience. I highly recommend this 
 for anyone who enjoys a strategic side to your mmo's or even just to RP, Summed up I have to say 
 personally compared to most other popular mmo's eve has to be at the top of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  A refreshing change to say the least. I am extremely tired of RPGs who's gameplay completely revolves 
 around grinding your character to a high level and grinding for gear. Fortunately for me, not all 
 MMO's are like that.
  
  EVE is almost completely what you want it to be. You can mine. You can go into production. You 
 can run missions for agents. The basic stuff. Or you can get creative. Start your own Corporation 
 and then Alliance and then try to take over, well, everything. Or start a Corp that focuses on 
 infiltrating and destroying another Corp from the inside. The tools are there, all you need is 
 the will to do it.
  
  The complexity of EVE can, at times, be overwhelming. Even after playing a trial for two weeks, 
 new players often won't continue simply because there's so much to learn. Personally, I love this. 
 I get bored quick but with so much to learn it's guaranteed I won't get bored any time soon.
  
  Among other refreshing changes is the fact that PVP actually matters. While there is 'Empire 
 Space' where a police force guard those who want to PvE, there's a much larger part called 'Lawles 
 Space', which Alliances really can take over. There's nothing quite like battling an Alliance invading 
 your home space, or invading and forcefully taking someone else's!
  
  A word of caution, though. The game is all about Risk vs. Reward. A police force may guard Empire 
 Space but all that means is they'll kill those who attack you, which often means you'll be dead 
 before they can arrive. As long as you're smart, this is a very rare circumstance. It mainly happens 
 when some fool decides to take billions worth of modules that pirates will gladly sacrifice a ship 
 to get.
  
  That sounded too tedious for me at first, but it brings me to the most important part of this game. 
 You NEED to get into a good Corporation / Alliance. When you have like minded people who will watch 
 your back and you watch theirs, the game is much easier and much much much more entertaining. There 
 are many Corporations so no matter what you want to do, you'll find a Corporation out there for 
 you.
  
  It's a game where you have to think instead of mashing buttons, where you have to weight Risk and 
 Reward, and I for one welcome that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Little_Wolf
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 14, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  Good game to play if you have some friends who want to start a new game with you. A major plus 
 is that you wont get harrassed by kids. This game is too complex for kids. Community is great too. 
 Interesting forum.
  
  In-game support is superb. Trust me on that. I had some problems when I first started and the game 
 masters solved my problems really quickly. Asian players can try it out too. I don't get too much 
 lag playing it in Singapore.
  
  Those who want to try it out, you can create a 14 days trial account, I think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FragMonkey09
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 30, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  The following is from an email I sent to a buddy to convince him to play:
  
  Alright now where to start! Really, Eve Online is very much a different MMO than most others. You 
 simply have to play it to see what it is like. It has its own economy, all controlled by players 
 and market demand. Its got a corporation system (Ill explain later) , its got some of the toughest 
 PVP around, and many more things.
  
  And yes, you can play Eve and still have time to live life :) . The major difference in Eve than 
 in other MMO's is that there is no leveling system. That being said, the only way to check someone's 
 experience is through their age and skill points. Skillpoint in eve, unlike in other MMOs, are 
 NOT spent to get skills, but instead are gained by learning skills. One thing that will take time 
 getting used to is the fact that if you basically want to do anything from fly a certain ship, 
 to using a certain type of ammunition, to equipping a mining laser will require you to buy a skill 
 book to learn the skills necessary to do what you are wanting to do. Some skills can take you days 
 and sometimes even weeks to train! This way, you can live your life if youre waiting for a new 
 ship's skills to train. Currently I am training a skill that takes 10 days to complete so I can 
 get my Industry skill to lvl 5 so I can fly this shiny new Retriver I've had my eyes on :) The 
 game might seem very intimidating at first, but a few weeks in, youll get the jist of it and about 
 a month in, you'll know what you're doing. After all, Ive been only playing for a month and a week 
 so far!
  
  The galaxy of Eve Online is MASSIVE. I once had to travel from point A to point B about 1/8 of 
 the way across the galaxy and I spent over 30 minutes of straight flying, that is without any mishaps 
 or pirates trying to kill me for instance. The regions in the galaxy are divided into security 
 systems ranging from 0.0 space to 1.0 space, being the one with the most security and police. If 
 you decide to become a pirate or something and attack other players and take their stuff, you might 
 want to hunt in the 0.0 space becase at .4 or above space is considered high security space and 
 the intergalactic police force known as Concord will omgwtfpwn your ship in a matter of seconds 
 if you venture there :)
  
  There are SO many things you can do in Eve, and they are helped by the Corporations system. A Corporation 
 is basically a guild as in other MMOs but is so much different. Its got its own name and symbol, 
 and has the ability to build and control space stations in the lower security space. Rival corps 
 can declare war on each other, forge alliances, and fight for control of the 0.0 space regions. 
 Currently there is a war going on between the two largest corps, Band of Brothers (BoB) and ASCN, 
 with each corps' total fighters amounting to over 4,000 people fighting for each side, with hundreds 
 of other players in their industrial divisions making ships and parts for the war effort.. Now 
 to the complicating side of corporations. There are hundreds of types of them. Some corps are mercenary 
 corps, making contracts to other corps to do the dirty work for them. Some corps are industrial 
 corps, mining and manufacturing items for other corps or simply influencing the markets current 
 prices. Seriously some Corp CEOs have the ability to cause a market crash and plunge the world 
 of eve into a great depression just by simpl y sneezing and pushing the wrong button :) There are 
 also pirate corps and stock brockerage corps and corps that have created a lottery and make money 
 that way, and theres corps that help you make a corp, and corps that teach new players how to play 
 (the type im currently enrolled in) , and corps that anti-pirate and corps that try to do everything, 
 and so much else I cant think of.
  
  One of the neatest things is that Eve Online is played on a SINGLE server, unlike just about every 
 other MMO and on any given time, the number of active players online can swell from 17,000 to over 
 30,000, all on a SINGLE server, so you will always be with your friends no matter what, and will 
 always be able to get into the server, with lag baically being nonexistant.
  
  Combat is especially fun in Eve. NPC Agents offer missions that put you into combat with NPCs but 
 nothing compares to fighitng other players. Combat in eve can be horribly expensive at times, and 
 with the hundreds of ships and thousands of different parts for your ships, loosing a ship can 
 really be a kick in the mouth. Your first time in PVP combat will have you sweating with adrenaline 
 as you hope your Shiny new Brutix can beat a Ferox with its missiles flying at you, and hoping 
 that the insurance payment will be enough if you do end up loosing the fight :P IN the larger scale 
 combat operations, each player has a sepcific role with his/her ship fitted out for it, and with 
 commanders in insanely large capital ships, or maybe even in one of the few titans flying around, 
 combat can be a sight to behold!
  
  Oh and the player base is very mature, just about the maturest I have ever seen. None of those 
 little winey twelve year olds are running around asking for free money as in other games. The community 
 is awesome. The forums on the game website has all sorts of subforums for just about every little 
 thing. Players can declare war on each other, or post bounties for pirates, or CEOs can post Press 
 Releases about stuff happening in game, and just about everything else.
  
  This is the most community-involved game ever, and you won't be dissapointed playing it, albeit 
 it might be a hard start at first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: feanor_76
Rating: 1.8
Date: Jul 27, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  Why i'm writing this abset rewiew, because, this game has un balanced, no player protection on 
 anything. I'll explain all by one by one. Unbalanced: ok lets say in game you are doing something, 
 mining, mission or something else, and a scum player coming on you, starting a pvp and 10 km away 
 there is Concordia --&gt; Police force of Eve-online , the stupid guys doing nothing, you can see 
 that , that guy has a Skull emblem on him (PK: Player Killer) that means he is an out-law, ok here 
 is the stupity, concordia only acts if he kills your pod, not your ship, this is like this in real 
 life : When you go out from your home , you see someone trying to burn your Car, you are colling 
 police, they are coming and watching the person, you are asking what the hell are you doing dont 
 you see he is burning my car they are answering err! we cant do anything unless he kills you dohhhhhhhh!! 
 what the hell. You dont belive me right, ok go spend the Game go in in someplace of the game you'll 
 encounter this and you'll smash your head to somewhere when this happened all your goods gone ship 
 gone3 months, 1 year of work gone waste and they are saying you to do insurence if this happened, 
 hmm , lets see, lets say you made insurance they give you money not the ship, not the goods nothing 
 just money, and the games best items drops from high-end missions, that means you'll only buy standard 
 items and oh i forget to say that insurance is only for the Ship's price that means you can buy 
 everything that you have before shortly if you die you eat the ... you understand what i mean. 
 So this game isnt that Super Duper Fantastic like at every add on at every side Game of a Life 
 Time This is the Best This is the Game this year i cant get up from my chair bla bla , belive me 
 its not so that great. But choise is yours waste your money, go play something else instead of 
 this or wait for Infinity : Quest for Earth i'm doing it now after 1 year of Eve-online playing, 
 Stupid me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gafuudy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  well, probobly every body know about eve by now, and may have played it, but dispite what some 
 people think eve is really a work of art. the graphics are top notch, they still impress me even 
 in 2007. The sheer size of the galaxy you have at your hands is awsome. imagine how much time the 
 developers must have spent just naming each base planet and system. while eve has its share of 
 problems, what game doesn't, besides, imagine how hard it would be to work out every single glitch, 
 problematic sound and graphic engine problem. So before you go jumping to conclusions on how many 
 problems this games has, think of all the content put inton the game. I would sertainly recomend 
 this game to any hard core mmorpg gamer, but inless you are atleast o. k. at mmorpg's i would recomend 
 you stick to differant ones before you play this one. it is a very advanced game. you may find 
 you self flying for days just to get to a place you need to. Or waiting for hours on end for a 
 new skill to train. So over all eve is a great game, abeit advance i give it a 8.9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torresmatt
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 19, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  I started playing this game on two-week trial and liked it enough for the two-weeks to purchase 
 my first real month of gameplay. It's the first MMO I've ever even considered paying for. I think 
 what drew me in was that it was scifi and that it wasn't like anything else I'd ever played. Having 
 said that, unless you're going to PVP, get ready to become bored doing one of two things: (1) Mining 
 or (2) doing repetitive pirate-killing missions. I liked the idea that I could train skills while 
 I was away from the game, but this just didn't save it for me. After losing 4 or 5 ships to repetitive 
 combat, my desire to keep playing just went down the drain... I won't be renewing. To be fair, my 
 problem might be that I just deep down do not enjoy MMOs. If you do, though, this might be the 
 one for you. It's very unique. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex294
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is very deep. And has a lot of stuff that can be done. Since this game doesn't require 
 dumb grinding to level up, you just train your skill. It takes time, the farther along the skill 
 gets, the longer it takes to train the next level. It does suck at times when you are training 
 a skill for 30 days, yes i said 30. Some are even longer than that.
  
  Some things you can do range from running PvE missions for agents, you can go mining in the asteroid 
 belts and try to make some extra cash, you could go out and do my all time favorite, PIRATE!!!, 
 kill noobs unexpectedly in a low security system, and steal their loot. Being a pirate in this 
 game is hellafun.
  
  Join a corporation (guild, clan, etc..) . If you don't join one, you will become very lonely very 
 fast, running around with 20-30 people and getting to know them is fun, and you make lots of friends 
 in this game with the right connections.
  
  If you are just trying for your first time, expect it to be kind of slow. Not even close to compared 
 to WoW, a lot harder to get use too, but once you've gotten the hang of the game you become a very 
 skilled pilot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PacoTaco
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  To call EVE Online deep doesn't come close to really explaining what a complex and ultimately, 
 addictive experience this MMORPG can be. One caveat, be prepared to spend extensive time asking 
 questions ingame in rookie help as well as on the forums, in your corp or alliance.. and you will 
 just scratch the surface of EVE's crust after several months.
  
  The game's tutorial will explain the basics of gameplay, moving your ship around, acquiring missions, 
 mining, fighting, using the market. It will not delve deeply into any of those subjects, which 
 are far more complex than the tutorial would have you believe. One example: The tutorial teaches 
 you how to make a basic purchase on the market. What it does not teach you is how to use the advanced 
 buy/sell order feature, check price histories or market data. You're left to discover that yourself. 
 So, suffice it to say, EVE is far less noob-friendly than say, World of Warcraft. Unlike World 
 of Warcraft though, you have a whole galaxy to explore and commit piracy, trade, missions, mine, 
 pvp and establish bases.
  
  Your ingame experience and learning will be greatly multiplied by joining a corporation as soon 
 as you feel ready. A corporation is exactly what it sounds like, and corps belong to alliances, 
 which are large unions of various corporations working together to control sectors of space, build 
 the largest starships and starbases and fight other alliances in the lawlessness of 0.0 security 
 space.
  
  Give EVE a chance if you feel you can commit a few hours a day to learning the intricacies of the 
 game. Be warned, there are no levels in EVE, only money and learned abilities, which take real-life 
 time to learn. So progress is stable but limited; no matter how much you play you can only learn 
 new skills at a set rate.
  
  Fortunately, EVE runs smoothly on almost any system, and with the graphics tuned to the highest 
 levels, space has never looked more beautiful. Ships twist and fire and explode in pvp moments 
 with great effects. Sound is sparse for the most part, but the musical score is not lacking. EVE 
 runs on the world's largest MMORPG server, so one can spend time with over 35,000 simultaneous 
 players. EVE Online is a great, albeit complex game which rewards patience and learning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zanetanos
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 19, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  EVE Online is what an MMORPG should be. Immersive, innovative, deep, and hardcore. EVE is in my 
 opinion, the most complete and exciting MMORPG created to date. However, it takes a different kind 
 of player to truly enjoy what EVE has to offer. EVE has a steep learning curve, even by MMORPG 
 standards. To get a basic feel for the game, even experience gaming veterans may require as many 
 as 10-24 hours to truly get a feel for the ebb and flow of the game. Even then, they're guaranteed 
 to only have scratched the surface. So what about the gameplay? Just like the vast majority of 
 other MMORPGs, gameplay is about the advancement of one's character. EVE is no different in this 
 regard, but it is rather exceptional insofar as the character advancement system and varying paths 
 to said success are diverse and rather untraditional. Players familiar with Earth and Beyond may 
 recognize the similarities in career path, but this is where the similarity to any other game ends. 
 To advance in EVE there are two basic axis which a player must consider. The first is his or her 
 set of skills. These skills, rather than being obtained through experience gained by killing NPCs 
 or harvesting are gained over the course of real time. EVE's skill system has players train skills 
 in real time, regardless of whether they are online or not. How fast a skill trains is dependent 
 upon the attributes of the character. Some attributes allow industry (crafting) , mining (harvesting) , 
 or combat skills to train faster. The second axis of advancement is the earning of ISK, the in-game 
 money of EVE. There are a variety of ways to gain ISK and the primary method by which a player 
 earns his or her ISK is generally how one defines his or her career path (there are no official 
 classes in EVE, it's more of a fluid system defined by the skills which a player chooses to train 
 and the activities he or she chooses to engage in) . Players can choose to mine, manufacture, research, 
 mission run (usually combat) , collect bounties on NPCs (i. e. traditional PvE type combat) , trade, 
 bounty hunt other players, or pirate other players.
  
  The last two career paths aforementioned bring us to the point of PvP. In this regard, EVE is truly 
 hardcore. You can kill (or attempt to kill) anyone, anywhere -- with large consequences for both 
 you and your victim (or would be victim) . In areas for newer players, the police will essentially 
 ensure that you are not targeted by other players. But in lower security space, it's a free for 
 all. The mechanics for this are quite extensive so I won't go into great detail, but let's just 
 say that everything has a consequence for you.
  
  Overall, EVE is a unique and exciting game for anyone interested in a more methodical, slower paced, 
 but still amazingly engrossing gameplay experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xeno89
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 19, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  What can i say except... WOW, this game is absolutley amazing (and addictive) . This MMO is like 
 no other, its huge! there is so much to explore, so much to do, theres updates all the time that 
 increase the item database and the size of space, its ever growing, just when you thought you had 
 seen it all, more is added! All I can say is try this game! Let yourself learn what it has to offer, 
 just because the game itself is slow to get into, give it time and you will soon become an avid 
 EVE gamer.
  EVE is a revolution of all MMO's. It's indepth gameplay is breathtaking, theres no more hours of 
 farming to get one skill up, your skill gets trained even while your offline. Theres no boredom 
 of just hacking a monster with a sword repeatedly, theres the freedom of exploring a never ending 
 space which grows and grows as time goes by.
  This game is a must have to all MMO fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidi1234
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 28, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  Theres something to be said about every aspect of this game... and thats bad... because its a very, 
 very big game. Its big because it has to sustain your curiosity at all times, an MMO implies playing 
 a lot, giving a part of your life to it and making it a habit. This is where EVE truly shines... 
 in its complexity. There are days in your MMO playing life when you are just tired... tired of axe 
 hacking, sword bashing, skull crushing... but you cant afford to be tired, no... you have to play. 
 You need to farm items, get levels, and generally that implies more of the above resulting finally 
 in a very complex, eye rewarding game of whack a mole . This is about the time you start asking 
 what this has to do with EVE... and the answer is NOTHING! EVE doesnt have that! Thats the beauty 
 of it... if you are tired of fighting... you can just stop and do whatever else you like without 
 losing any skill time. If you know what you are doing sitting in a station for a week in order 
 to trade, running freights or mining can bring you more money than any fight. This game is so full 
 of life that it practically scares you... everything is player owned, player run, player powered... and 
 even if you arent a hardcore gamer you can still feel the living world. Prices climb, soar and 
 fall, corporations flourish and reward their investors, only to fall in war by the hands of the 
 enemy. This is gaming depth at its best... nothing out there really compares to the EVE universe...
 
  So, what can i say to wrap this up... try the game, be open to learning it, give your ship a spin.. and 
 maybe i will meet you in space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Dark_Hart
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 27, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  This often underestimated MMO deserves more credit. It is the first MMO to truly revolutionize 
 PvP since Dark Age of Camelot. This innovation has been furthered with it's free expansion pack, 
 Revelations.
  
  EVE Online is every sci-fi nerd's dream. You get a space ship, you can upgrade it, give it new 
 weapons, upgrade your engines, buy new ships, plot hyper drive routes, mine asteroid fields, build 
 colossal ships. It makes you feel like you really do own a space ship.
  
  One thing that is truly unique about this MMO is the freedom given to the player. You can attack 
 anyone anywhere, although in most areas there are police who totally obliterate you if you do. 
 But there is plenty of Dead Space , which is lawless space, where you can do whatever you want, 
 kill other players, steal stuff, wage war between corporations and much more!
  
  The crafting and mining in this game is wonderful, the economy is fully dynamic and mostly player 
 run. Mining is easy and quick to get into. Where you use mining lasers on asteroids. Then you can 
 refine it, sell it or craft with it.
  
  The quests in this game aren't that good, not immersive. They are merely there to help you get 
 good at fighting so you can go onto PvP. Though PvP is not limited to higher level players in anyway.
 
  
  Overall this game is innovative and ground breaking. Though is far more for the Hardcore PvP MMO 
 player, than the casual Solo Quester. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  I played this game from beta 2003 till Exodus which i personally didn't like the direction of the 
 game. I knew it would come where they would add more and more ships and items and so i tried to 
 get all the gameplay i could outta it. I also knew they wanted to focus more on Corp structures 
 for owning territory and on Titans. However the game is just becoming too crazy and tooo much like 
 a 2nd life for me to keep playing, i liked it when there was only a handful of different style 
 ships and when corps stayed in the public stations. I also liked it when you could have cruise 
 missles on a frigate lol.
  
  However times have changed and i'm sure they've changed for the better but it's just not for me 
 anymore. People grow tired of games anyways and to last me 2 years or so is great for a game.
 
  
  EVE Online is a very open ended sci-fi sandbox game, where it gives you full freedom and rewards 
 the clever and greatly punishes the stupid. The death penaltys are harsh and this makes PVP heart 
 pumping good fun, altho i wish sumtimes i coulda just PVP'd for fun in bigger more expensive ships 
 without caring bout losing it.
  
  There are no levels and just skills where you train even when your logged off, theres no limit 
 to how many you can have as they trian by time so you wont get ever get them all. Theres no 3d 
 avatar, just your pod and ship + your avatar 2d picture which has a great chaarcter creation.
 
  
  EVE Online however is planning to add planetry flight and walking on stations, so this will broaden 
 the market abit as people will be able to walk about and fight like that i hope.
  
  You have the freedom to be bad or good or run your own business. You can do lots of stuff and you 
 only play to gain more and more money and power with your corps and alliances. You can do anything 
 you want and you can even scam people which is very kool.
  
  It's open ended nature however forces you to create the content and have the imagination, some 
 people wont like this as they want to play content allready in the game like WOW. This game gives 
 you the tools and the basics but wants you to be creative.
  
  I love the graphics and the music/sounds they're the things people notice most and they're all 
 beautiful and its amazing for a game engine that was around in 1997. The character creation was 
 also very detailed, i can't wait till we get bodies, that'll ber very kool maybe you'll change 
 things like length of toe nails lol.
  
  Most people quit because they don't get into a Corp (guild) and without being in one then you wont 
 have any fun playing on your own. It's basically a corp game where you fight in the masses for 
 power, not anyone person can do much but annoy people and kill them lol.
  
  Anyways Eve Online is a very Niche game, not everyone will enjoy it however that doesn't stop it 
 from being one of the best most original mmorpgs ever! Theres no competition for it in the Sci-fi 
 genre let alone the space one lol.
  
  Try the 14 day free trial (google eve online free trial) and if you don't like it then you've wasted 
 no money :)
  
  Btw it's a very hard game....
  
  Also on the value thing it's the same as WOW price but you get all expansions for free so it's 
 good value seeing as you get the game for free aswel vvia download on the site. Only downside is 
 the monthly fees but for a mmorpg its the cheapest one around seeing as no paying for the above 
 ^. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rintaran
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Eve Online, a powerful engine with breathtaking space scenes, truly fantastic racial sects, and 
 great opportunity for revolutionizing the space genre, unfortunately fails to do so. As an MMO, 
 you would expect Eve Online to be a little more active, for there to be more cooperation and competition 
 between pilots, and for there to be more than just an endless series of mining, delivery, or minor 
 drone-kill runs. Unfortunately, Eve has failed on all of these points to date.
  
  When you first join Eve Online, you get the tutorial, an excellent series of missions that quickly 
 and easily get you in control of your craft and familiarizes you with the game. Great. In fact, 
 that's better than many of the big name MMOs (I'm thinking FFXI, WoW, and Guild Wars) . Of course, 
 the reason for the tutorial is your absolute need to go through it. Just dropping into Eve Online 
 leaves you lost in space without a clue how to move your ship, let alone enjoy the thrill of battle. 
 Once through the tutorial, you're given a number of minor runs to complete to work up your cash, 
 and hopefully upgrade yourself and your ship to a decent level. The idea of implants is great too. 
 The skill sets are nice and diverse. I like all these things.
  
  The problem is that once you're through your initial quests, you're on your own for a while. You're 
 in space, with literally nothing to do. You need to figure out what it is you're going to do on 
 your own, whether it's trying to find some rogue ships, or capitalizing on the worth of mining, 
 it's not just completely up to you, it's mindlessly so. A lot of the time that you will spend playing 
 Eve will be spent doing something other than playing the game. Not that the servers are down, just 
 that it's a slow-build game. Mining and transportation take time, and lots of it. I used to research 
 and write my honours essays in between jumps and mining runs. If you're a multi-tasker, then this 
 is good game for you, but if you want a good rush, quick scenes with instant reward, avoid this 
 game.
  
  Another aspect of Eve Online is the PVP. PVP is good, and you can pay for clones to be made so 
 you aren't completely obliterated. But unless you're the pirate taking out people's ships, you're 
 probably outclassed, and you never know where you may find someone, anyone, in the vast expanses 
 of space. A key thing to do is get yourself in a guild. Don't bother with starter guilds, you won't 
 get anywhere in those. Starter guilds focus on one thing, mining, and since you're all out in your 
 mining vessels, you won't be able to fend off even a little bot's attack, let alone a pirate's. 
 If you want the rush of combat, get yourself into one of the big guilds, one of the ones that are 
 mentioned regularly on the news page. Those guilds build themselves up for PVP combat, and run 
 sector-wide armadas. If your computer can handle the strain, it's an absolutely fantastic event, 
 and well worth watching if someone captures it on video. But chances are, unless you've a monster 
 machine, you'll quickly drag at 1 FPS, or less, be neutralized by those with machines that can 
 handle it a little better, and miss out on the entire battle without even knowing that it's started...
 
  
  Additionally, by becoming a part of a guild, you actually have people to play with. This is a great 
 advantage in this game, as space is a pretty lonely place without friends to chat with.
  
  My recommendation: If you like being able to do something else while the game runs itself, and 
 are willing to sacrifice your processing power for a fair chunk of time in the hopes of eventually 
 enjoying the lasting thrill of high-intensity battles, play Eve Online. If you want instant combat, 
 ease of play, interaction with other players, or quick &amp; easy PVP, Eve is not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legendarymgm
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  If you like slow paced space games this is the one for you. When you first start off the game has 
 a good tutorial that helps you learn the game and earn a bunch of credits to get you started on 
 the right path. There are many different ways to make loads of credits when you have been playing 
 for a while and when first starting. Missions are fun and always new. The best part about this 
 game is the off line skill learning system and you can cancel your account and wait for the skill 
 to finish training then reactivate it. Another awesome thing about this game is the vastness of 
 the universe eve-online takes place in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PG213
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 11, 2007 4:02 am PT
Review:  When I say 'probably' the best mmorpg I do this because I still think you can not compare all mmorpg 
 that easily. Even if they are all akin to one gere, it's hard to compare a space simulator with 
 a fantasy hack 'n' slash or a futuristic FPS cyberpunk setting.
  
  Nevertheless EVE is a great game and certainly worth checking out.
  
  I have read through a 
 few of the reviews and saw a few people give negative comment on certain aspects of this game. 
 I would suggest yo do not take much consideration to a review by some one who has playedthis game 
 for only a few hours, or for that matter, some one who did the 14 Days trial version.
  
  EVE is simply so huge you can not capture all it offers in a couple of hours, days, weeks or even 
 months. The game is so huge, and offers so much options that it would be a shame to simply try 
 to shoot some stuff and go ranting how it sucks. I am now 2 years in the universe of EVE, and even 
 now after I got a bit bored of it all I would still recommend it as one of the coolest mmo and 
 computer gaming experiences I ever had.
  
  It is quite normal this game does not offer much thrill when you start out in your small frigate 
 with low level skills. Probably the only immediate downside of the game is just that. You must 
 put a lot of time into it, and have quite som patience before you get anywhere. So if you are looking 
 for a log on, kill some, log out game you wiil be dissapointed.
  
  EVE is an rpg game with an irregular approach of advancement, instead of gaining experience and 
 levelling up, you do no have levels or classes in this game. The game is based around a skil system 
 which let you learn skills to do certain things, fly certain ships, use certain equipment and become 
 better at it all. With the skills system you can choose to learn whatever you want, and allows 
 you to do all kinds of activities without being bound by classes. I will not go on and summarize 
 all aspects of this game again, you can read them in the other reviews here on gamespot, but I 
 would like to say you shouldn't be discouraged by people who comment it without knowing what it 
 is about.
  
  It is true this game is very complex, and dazzles newcomers with all it has to offer, but my advice 
 is to check for a newbie friendly group and check out how they live their life within the universe. 
 This will also allow you to see what the possibilities are in th game and how you can achieve your 
 goal. It is true the progress in the game is slow, certainle as a new player, but patience and 
 effort are certainly rewarded, in many ways more than any other mmorpg you will find.
  
  It is true that the skill systems requires you to check in regularly with your character so you 
 do not loose time training up, but if you are a slave to this system it is not the game's fault, 
 but strictly your own. Heck, I often loose training time and I don't bother too much if I have 
 lost several hours because I was outside having fun. It is true the combat system is not that spectacular 
 when you start, but I can assure you that changes once you start flying other ships and more specific 
 when you start getting better skills and get more proficient with the ships and modules. For all 
 who say the combat is boring I would suggest a visit into low security space, or giving a try to 
 a high level security mission.
  
  in fact the game has so much to offer next to combat it would be sad you did not check them out.
 
  
  Other than that this game looks great, has the best community around, and provides a large expanded 
 universe where all player are together on one server. The explosions are cool, the profit is good 
 and it can keeps you busy for hours and hours. Only downside is it can be very addictive, and take 
 over your personal life. It is complex and overwhelming, and requires lots of time if you want 
 to achive anything. Stop doubting, leave those orcs and elves for what they are, and come pay us 
 a visit in the most impressive universe computer entertainment has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pearbush86
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  This is the only MMOG I have enjoyed playing. You may hear from others that there is nothing to 
 do but repetitive mining or trading or missions, but those people haven't even scratched the surface. 
 Eve is the most dynamic, player driven and player oriented online game I have ever come across. 
 You chose what you want to do; there are no classes to pick at the beginning; you make yourself 
 what you want to be. You can be a trader, a miner, if your looking for lots of money, but you will 
 be vulnerable to NPC and player pirates, which are plentiful. You can be a pirate, bounty hunter, 
 or a gun for hire and engage in lots of legal and illegal combat. Yet, you can also get the classic 
 questing experience that is characeristic of WoW and do NPC missions by yourself or with friends. 
 It all depends on what you want.
  
  I do recommend joining a corporation or finding friends to play with; not only is it more fun, 
 but it will give you protection. Yea the NPC's guard in some areas of space, just like in WoW, 
 but if you want to go in dangerous parts, you need to travel with others. The other thing that 
 separates it from the other RPG's is that there is no leveling up. You learn skills, which you 
 can learn even when your offline, and these skills allow you to pilot bigger and better ships. 
 But Eve gives equalizes the battlefield a bit. I want to stress that the biggest, strongest ship, 
 dont always win the battles. I have heard a lot of idiots say that combat in this game basically 
 comes down to who has the bigger ship. NOT TRUE AT ALL. I have seen groups of smaller weaker ships 
 take out larger battleships. Each ship has its weakness and strength. Most of the battleships and 
 motherships are good against other capital ships but are vulnerable to smaller, more agile fighthers, 
 frigates and bombers. This game is an awesome experience. Before you listen to those naysayers, 
 give this game a try and do the 14 day free trial. You will see that combat takes a lot of planning. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nachofoot
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 14, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Great Concept and Idea. This game will make you believe you're playing a Star Trek type of game.
 
  
  Pros: The Point Clicks to navigate somewhere are reminiscent of Bridge Commander. Combat can be 
 fast paced. Warp speed lets you feel like you're shaking with the ship. Graphics, especially stars, 
 are awesome. Market and corporations are innovative... something new and much different. Learning 
 skills actually caters to the casual gamer.
  
  Cons: Clipping is bad: You fly through space stations, other players, and even planets. Navigating 
 around them might be better. Ships are ugly and limited to third person play. Traveling can get 
 dull and boring. Ships turn on a dime when they change directions. Reviewer's Take: Would it not 
 be for the bad design in ship navigation, this game would have it all. As it is, a player is limited 
 to a certain cap on imagination when playing a game and snafus like clipping through planets can 
 break that instantly. Likewise, the potential of this game gets a 9 but all the turn-offs can leave 
 you wishing there was just a little bit more coding. So, I give it a 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramileous
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 12, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  It took me three trial periods over a year to realize the potential and reason of this game. Aside 
 from it being the most beautiful sci-fi game out there, it draws your imagination in far after 
 it draws your eyes. It is complicated and that may turn some off initially but if they take the 
 time to learn what all the options mean, they will see it gives them far more replayability over 
 the long haul than any other game.
  
  This is a game for those who like to make their own adventures, who use their imagination more 
 than they do the game mechanics. This is an OPEN ENDED game bar none. You can be or do just about 
 anything and it is literally its own galaxy for the taking, mark your territory with diplomacy 
 or force and enjoy the view. This game is not for kids, it is for those who want more for their 
 dollar, a real experience that only a game can bring. In EVE the skies really is the limit. Come 
 try it out... again... and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooperkhoo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2007 2:31 am PT
Review:  After i had read from a various point of view about the game. It seem that this game is not an 
 easy game. If u wish to have a titan class ship then u need to work harder n wise like Donald Trump!:) 
 Furthermore after a scandal report about ccp and all the comments about this game. This game is 
 as usual as u seen in typical leveling game. It need a economic and business (in others word u need 
 a corporate skills) mind in order to succeed and rule in the game. After all this game should be 
 a good game and u wont find other like it in the market !! so the score should be 10 coz it is 
 exceptionally difference from the other games out there u can find! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeciusHelwig
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Out of all the RPGs out there, i wold have to say this is my favorite. Its very interactive and 
 the world is based on the players. Eve is a space-based MMORPG. The first thing you do, like any 
 other MMORPG, is to create a character. You can choose from one of 4 races, each race having 3 
 bloodlines (base starting attributes) to choose from. Every race and bloodline has their strengths 
 and weaknesses, and it's up to you to decide which combination will suit your play style. You will 
 then be asked to pick which starting skills you would like. Once you are done you will be asked 
 to embark on a long, tedious, but necessary tutorial (which has been VASTLY improved since the 
 gamespot review was originally done) .
  
  Yes there are NPCs. If you are lucky enough, you will find a corp that lives beyond the boundries 
 of NPC controlled space. In NPC space your activities are restricted by the rules that NPC corps 
 and police have implemented for the good of the universe, but once outside of those boundaries 
 the game becomes an open ended book. You, your friends, and you enemies will be responsible for 
 writing the Eve history books. This leads me to another beautiful aspect of Eve. it all takes place 
 in one server .
  
  Your character does not level up in a conventional sense. Your character's skills simply improve. 
 Here's the catch though. It's a time based progression. So, for instance, every skill has 5 levels 
 within it. The first level will take you 15-20minutes to train. The second level will take you 
 a little over an hour. The third will take you 6 hours, and so on and so fourth. The nice thing 
 about this is you don't have to be playing Eve for your character to improve. The drawback is that 
 playing the game a lot really only yields you money, respect, and fame (or infamy) , but you will 
 find that the before-mentioned three things are very important in the game. You must have patients 
 to play this game. Skills also continue to train even when logged off. So click on a skill before 
 work/school/sleep.
  
  Skills allow you to use better equipment, and better equipment allows you to be more efficient 
 at whatever task you are undertaking. So, it will take your character some time before he/she is 
 really proficient at doing anything, but worry not because you will need that time to acclimate 
 yourself to the huge universe set before you.
  
  So in a sence, what ever your character uses [Ship, guns, shields, etc] is the high light of where 
 you stand in the game. None of the arbituary levels (where a lvl 34 could beat a lvl 45 in some 
 games as an example) . Not only that, but once you have built up who you are and join player controlled 
 corporations, you can accually start building stations in 0.0 security space (meaning the NPCs 
 arent there to protect you from unlawfuls and computer enemies) . You can build you own little society 
 out in a pocket of space. There is PVP and thus wars can start between different corporations. 
 You have not played EVE iuntil you have experianced a enormous battle such as these.
  
  Bounties can also be placed on people heads, and these bounties can be posted on these Video boards 
 out in space so you physically see the characters face and his bounty. There are many small things 
 like these that make the game all more realsitic . EVE Online is unique in itself and Revolutionary 
 to Space ScienceFiction and MMORPGs. If you enjoy either one or both. Definately Get this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redman100111
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 29, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  Now I played this game for about 10 hours or so.
  Took for ever to learn the controls and that.
  Then when I did it got really boring I Mean EXTREMLY 
 BORING! 
  The tutorial was long and boring... Barly knew what to do I would have to say
  Make a tutorial To Learn the Tutorial and I mean that!
  God! very hard to understand whats going 
 on in the story line.
  If you download it... Don't pay get the free trial version first.
  It looks like from iages and that, That you would be able to fly and control your spaceship and 
 use them for war, and that you would be able to land on islands and explore them. No it is not.
 
  Looks can be deceiving and in This Case they were!
  Like my classification says. All flash, no substance 
  That is 100% true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remixrunixlp
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 8, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I must admit when I first entered the world of EVE, I was awestruck by the sheer amount of customization 
 available to your character's avatar. I was the instantly confused by the 4 hour tutorial the game 
 requires you to endure. I was even more confused after this tutorial, as I was left to myself in 
 what is the largest MMO world currently available in all of video gaming. Make no mistake about 
 it, the world of EVE is huge and frightening. The chat rooms serve as a recruiting forum for thousands 
 of competing player factions. The game's economy, the driving factor behind most if not all of 
 the actions taken by the player, is an amazingly deep and absurdly confusing system that will bankrupt 
 the rookie player if he doesn't find help immediately. Your ship will routinely be attacked by 
 other players seeking to disrupt the different governments present in the game. Racism, economic 
 standing, who your allies and enemies of those allies are, your standing with the established governments, 
 traders, and pirate groups, and who you've killed... all play an intricate part in the way you attack 
 the world of EVE. Anger a player, you may find your picture on a billboard with a bounty on your 
 head, or you may have started an interstellar war between the larger factions in the game, or you 
 may disrupt the economic stability of an entire region of space.
  
  In short, the world of EVE is one of the most malicious, invigorating, and adaptable world available. 
 The creators of the game have gone through great lengths to allow the gamers the ability to fully 
 roleplay in a very capitalistic realm. Actual gameplay - flying your ship to combat raids, organizing 
 pirate hunting parties, mining for minerals to build a battlecruiser for your corporation - takes 
 a backseat to the interactions you have among the more that 30,000 players that can be logged in 
 at any given time, most of whom are totally in character. Some will be racist bigots capable of 
 running slaves across the stars without blinking, others will be self-righteous heroes who will 
 be your best friends in the early parts of the game. Still others will be guiltless pirates, others 
 hired mercenaries seeking the initiate wars, others bounty hunters, others simple traders or ship 
 builders or fighter jocks or fleet admirals... all seeking to make their impact on the overall evolving 
 storylines in the game. Talk is just as important as actual missions in this game.
  
  The actual gameplay in EVE is disturbingly simple but convoluted. You buy a ship. You buy upgrades 
 to the ship. You buy and learn the skills necessary to operate the ship. And it is here that the 
 game's biggest flaw becomes overwhelmingly apparent. EVE is a slow game... a really slow game. To 
 learn skills, you must by the skills off the market and then activate them as the skill you want 
 to learn. Then you wait, and wait, and wait. Skills don't require you to fight, or you to do something. 
 They are all learned over a time period that is established by your character's base statistics 
 you chose when you selected your avatar's race. Some skills may take a month to learn. Others less 
 than an hour. The positive side to all this is that these skills can be set to learn while you 
 are not logged into EVE. Thus, if a skill takes a day to learn, you can activate it, log off, come 
 back the next day and have the skill available to you.
  
  Then there's the issue of space travel. As said before, the world of EVE is monstrous. There are 
 thousands of solar systems in the game, each possessing anywhere between 5 to 12 planets, their 
 moons, asteroid belts and space bases. You can warp between systems instantaneously, but you must 
 travel between warp gates in a given system. This isn't much of a big deal in a 5 system jump. 
 However, some situations may call for you to make a 25 system jump through hostile areas. These 
 trips can take up to 45 minutes while on auto-pilot. Getting up and leaving your ship traveling 
 isn't a feasible option either, as it can and will get attacked by pirates who camp just outside 
 of the warp gates. Thus, you are forced to sit and watch as your ship meanders its way through 
 space. EVE Online is an absolutely incredible achievement in gaming. Players define the way the 
 world evolves, and create a very active, and daunting, environment that takes a while to get used 
 to. If you can put up with the slow speed of the game and are looking for an RPG experience unlike 
 any you've ever imagined, EVE is definitely a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cresley
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 29, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This game has grown so much in the last 3 and half years it's been out. When it first came out 
 it was bearable but I only stayed with it because a friend of mine played. Every patch that came 
 out made the game that much better. Way back when we sat down and discussed all the things we would 
 change to make the game better. Today most of those things have come true, in some sense anyway.
 
  The game is so versatile: Ive can play anyway I want depending on my mood for the day. I can 
 build anything I need, sell the extra stuff to support my life. You can mine for your materials 
 yourself or buy them. You can buy and sell off the market you can PvP or pirate. You can put up 
 your own station.
  Dont expect to play like you would in a game like WOW or DDO. This is NOT a hack and slash. You 
 can log in go out and kill something and come back but you will be horribly bored after a short 
 time of doing this. This game takes tactics, skill, and patience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hphatecraft
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 17, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to say it's completely wrong, but the review gamespot provides is not entirely accurate. 
 First off, I must say that I have played numerous MMOs so I have some frame of reference for what 
 the average MMO contains. That said, Eve offers far more options than any other MMO out on the 
 market. In the end, this is what will set Eve apart from every other game you are likely to play. 
 Okay, so let's get down to the brass tacks.
  
  Eve is a space-based MMORPG. The first thing you do, like any other MMORPG, is to create a character. 
 You can choose from one of 4 races, each race having 3 bloodlines (base starting attributes) to 
 choose from. Every race and bloodline has their strengths and weaknesses, and it's up to you to 
 decide which combination will suit your play style. You will then be asked to pick which starting 
 skills you would like. Once you are done you will be asked to embark on a long, tedious, but necessary 
 tutorial (which has been VASTLY improved since the gamespot review was originally done) .
  
  Okay, so now you are released in to a massive playpen of unimaginable proportions, where you decisions 
 really do directly impact the political and economical landscape of the Eve universe. There are 
 really only a few main spheres of activity in Eve, but those spheres have many, many different 
 facets to them. There is PVP, PvE, Industry, Trade, and Management. One cannot begin to really 
 explore all of the subtleties of each of these spheres, but lets just say you will not be able 
 to do it all.
  
  Before I can continue, I feel compelled to tell you that nearly everything you see, buy, or use 
 can be built by players. Some people devote their entire character to building items. In the universe 
 of Eve, money really is power so if you are not into PvP, this game has a lot to offer. The PvP 
 in this game is still great fun, and definitely my most satisfying video game kills have come from 
 this game.
  
  This leads me to bringing up what makes and breaks Eve. You simply can't be self-sufficient and 
 still be able to accomplish everything that you want to accomplish (though PvE can be a very solo 
 playstyle) . It is in the new player's best interest to get in to a corporation (a clan/guild) as 
 soon as possible. Once in a corp, you will find that your gaming experience will improve vastly, 
 as you will have people to advise and explain to you the finer points of the game. You will also 
 find that most corps have a diverse group of players who specialize in different things which will 
 allow you to get a taste of everything Eve has to offer.
  
  If you are lucky enough, you will find a corp that lives beyond the boundries of NPC controlled 
 space. In NPC space your activities are restricted by the rules that NPC corps and police have 
 implemented for the good of the universe, but once outside of those boundaries the game becomes 
 an open ended book. You, your friends, and you enemies will be responsible for writing the Eve 
 history books. This leads me to another beautiful aspect of Eve. it all takes place in one server 
 . Unlike most games, say World of Warcraft, where there are several different mirrors of the same 
 universe, there is only one Eve no 5000.
  
  Okay, I don't want to get too long-winded here, but I feel obligated to give you as much info as 
 possible so bear with me if you are still interested.
  
  Your character does not level up in a conventional sense. Your character's skills simply improve. 
 Here's the catch though. It's a time based progression. So, for instance, every skill has 5 levels 
 within it. The first level will take you 15-20minutes to train. The second level will take you 
 a little over an hour. The third will take you 6 hours, and so on and so fourth. The nice thing 
 about this is you don't have to be playing Eve for your character to improve. The drawback is that 
 playing the game a lot really only yields you money, respect, and fame (or infamy) , but you will 
 find that the before-mentioned three things are very important in the game.
  
  Skills allow you to use better equipment, and better equipment allows you to be more efficient 
 at whatever task you are undertaking. So, it will take your character some time before he/she is 
 really proficient at doing anything, but worry not because you will need that time to acclimate 
 yourself to the huge universe set before you.
  
  Many people will find they simply do not have the patience to play Eve, but most of those people 
 will not do their best to find a corp that suits their needs. If you find a decent group of people, 
 you will be doing your chosen profession at an above average rate in about 4-5 months. After a 
 year, not only will you be addicted, but you will be extremely good at what you do given that you 
 specialize in something.
  
  Ok, I do feel I should elaborate upon some of the drawbacks of the game. The people of Eve can 
 be extremely ruthless. This can make a new players experience very difficult, but don't worry because 
 there are other good guys out there too (or worse guys that will help you take revenge on the bad 
 guys) . It is also a huge time sink. You will find it difficult to afford the higher-end ships and 
 items unless you are a brilliant business person, or you spend a good bit of time in your profession 
 making money. That said, you don't need the best items to wtfpwn someone, you simply need to be 
 smarter. Finally, the biggest drawback is that it really is a team game. You cannot accomplish 
 the biggest feats in the game (such as a permanent starbase that will be there until the game shuts 
 down) without a large amount of teamwork.
  
  In the end, for everything bad I have to say about Eve, I have something good about the bad to 
 say. I have played for over a year now, and I still learn new strategies and tactics everyday. 
 It really is the largest, most open-ended playing experience you will find in the MMO genre. I'm 
 probably not the best writer so my review may leave you with many questions, but I am far more 
 equipped to give you an accurate depiction of the game than someone who merely fiddles around with 
 the game. If not from me, take it from the hundreds of thousands of subscribers, Eve is a man among 
 boys. It is the most advanced, engrossing, risky, and rewarding MMORPG on the market, and while 
 it may have its faults, it is the single greatest hidden gem on the gaming market today. Try it 
 for your 14-day free trial +1 paid month (and put some effort in to it) , and I assure you that 
 you will, at the very least, see the beauty behind the madness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anteares
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 15, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  But I after the trial run, the only thing I found worth a monthly subscription was creating my 
 character. Beyond that, there was much to be desired. For instance, you have to click to control 
 your ship... not something I like. I like space sims where you can manually control your craft as 
 well as a waypoint system. Space ship games should also be somewhat about the players piloting 
 skills. Combat is a joke in this game... you set your craft to 'orbit' around the target... WOW... how 
 NOT fun.
  
  Also, there are also so many different menus that its easy to get lost in what you're doing. The 
 map of the galaxy (which is HUGE) should be broken into sections or semi/constellations and colored 
 coded. Other than that, I didn't have to much of a beef with the skills system as the GS reviewer 
 did. I kind of like the ability to have it train on its own over a period of time... especially 
 with a game as vast as Eve.
  
  But, I think Eve has to many 'could of beens' for me to pay a monthly fee to play it, which is 
 too bad, because its the only type of game of its kind other than X3.... but that has Starforce 
 unless you get the Steam version &gt;:- ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostPower
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 11, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  It is a game of PVP. It is ruthless. There are many safe areas. These areas are good for things 
 like running missions (small quests ) , and mining minerals of intermidate value (mining is a good 
 way to make money, however tedious) . The eve universe is big, very big. Think of the milkyway galaxy, 
 but scaled down a bit. Eve has thousands of solar systems, each one containing moons, planets, 
 and astroid belts.
  
  The safe area is empire space policed by NPC's to protect against most PVP. (Even though, u can 
 get griefed occasionaly, if your stupid) . 75% of Eve systems are 0.0 security. (Open PVP) . These 
 systems are claimed by corporations (guilds) and alliances (alliances of... guilds/corporations) . 
 Moons can support structures (Small starbases) , safe havens with protective guns. Used so corps 
 and alliances can make a home in 0.0 space. There is also a bigger structures outposts which can 
 be built after months of hard work from hundreds of people. But I wont get into detail. The point 
 is, the Eve universe is built by the players! Wars come and go, alliances are made and broken. 
 Empires are destroyed, and Player Pirates look for easy prey, chased off by the big alliances when 
 a large fleet arrives!
  
  You never leave your ship. Your character creation requires making a portrait and whatnot, but 
 u play as a ship. There are 100's of ships to choose from, with thousands of modules to fit on 
 a ship. There are no classes what you fit on your ship be it tank, damage, or electronic warefare 
 (think status effects) is your class. You can train to fly different ships, and fit different modules. 
 Ships range from the smallest frigate, to capital ships that make large bosses in most MMO's look 
 like a small insect. All, which you can fly! In time.
  
  Training in Eve takes time, not grind. Training is done while you are online or off. You set a 
 skill, and it goes. Some skills take 15 minutes. Some take a week or two. A few take months. Races 
 dont matter, you can choose to learn anything! While some races of character start with certain 
 skills, you can switch to a different races ship anytime you want! (obviously starting from the 
 lowest level ships and modules) . You never lose training, u can fly multiple races ships and keep 
 the skills for all of them. Once its learned, its learned.
  
  The Grind in Eve comes from making money. Big ships take BIG money. Some Capital ships take hundreds 
 of people to fund and build. You can make money by Grinding NPC's in astroid belts, grabbing loot 
 and making bounties off the NPC's (basically free money for killing them) . You can mine minerals 
 from Astroids. You can Build Items from minerals (if you train to do so) and make profit on the 
 market. The ENTIRE eve economy is player run and controled. Some corporations even control price 
 because of their production ammount, and prices of items can change based on what the players do.
 
  
  Making Money is Eve's Worst Grind, and sometimes the worst part about eve. Losing a ship in PVP 
 can sometimes be hurtful. However if your smart......
  
  PVP is AMAZING. The reason to play Eve. I want you to know one thing about this game! The PVP will 
 make your hands shake, your heart pound, And after the dust settles, you will be an Eve addict.
 
  
  PVP can range from Solo (risky) , small gangs (10-15 people) patrolling, to some battles that have 
 been recorded of 300 vs 300. I have personally experienced 100 v 100. It is INTENSE. Billions in 
 game money can be lost in minutes. Fleets decimated from 100 to 30 people in one engagment. But 
 dont worry, you dont have to have the best ship, and the most skillpoints to be in these battles. 
 As you grow in eve, so does your fleet. Small ships are easy to replace, and become better as you 
 skill up. You can chose to bring out the big guns for the big battles. And on a day to day basis 
 never risk anything that will hurt you, or set you back.
  
  Eve is not for everyone. It does not hold your hand, it lets you lose in a sandbox. If you like 
 to control your world. And make your enemies pay! (Im not talking about a Graveyard trek!) Eve 
 is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PatrickWO
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 7, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  I'm playing this game now for 6 days, and I'm totally addicted !
  I have to go back in time to Civ2 to find another game that had the same immersive effect on me.
 
  
  The purpose is to slowly build up one to three different characters.
  The keyword is slowly , because it will take a lot of time before you have enough skills and money 
 to buy the more interesting stuff.
  For some people, this can be a turn-off, but for me, that is exactly the beauty of the game. It's 
 like you are in for a never ending adventure which gets more interesting, the longer you are in.
 
  Some games give you a lot in the beginning, but then come to grinding halt. This game seems to 
 be just the opposite.
  When you buy your next ship or upgrade some components, you appreciate the value of it and you 
 WILL care for it, because it took you a lot of time to get that far.
  And caring for your stuff is something you need to do, because everywhere in space, sharks are 
 lurking just beneath the surface.
  Especially low-security systems are simply deadly for beginners : I was twice stupid enough to 
 start mining in low-security zones (the rich ore asteroids there were so inviting) and both times 
 lost my ship, the second time faster than I could count to ten.
  I learned by the mistakes I made and sooner or later, I will return to those systems with a vengeance 
 :-)
  
  This is a game I'm going to play for a veeeeeeeery long time ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zer0frost
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 7, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  You pay for the grind (literally) ... I would make more sense if you could pay 1 year of game play 
 without wasting that entire year waiting on this **** leveling\mission system to give you the next 
 upgrade.
  
  Its a ridiculous way to steal money from peoples pocket and make them like it... Sure, sure... 
 the visuals is AWESOME, but if u pay close attention its the same crappy background repeated 1000 
 times over and over, the only thing from keeping it completely obvious is that they set it apart 
 from 1,2 galaxies (or how ever u call them little dots on the map)
  
  The fighting system, trust me... its amongst the most boring around the entire M. M. O comunity it 
 only depends on how much time you've played (how much MONEY+time you have wasted to play this crappy 
 game) and the worst is that you get eagerer by all these SOLD OUT reviewers to play a crappy game 
 when they are on that companies pay roll (of course they are gonna say its good)
  
  For those of you lost and dont understand where all this is coming from picture this...
  
  
 Lets say you want a rank 2 adv. system repair brain implant for your character you click on it 
 and below it would say how much time you will need in other to get that upgrade... not so bad, 
 well here is the catch... you actually have to **** wait that time... and after lvl 2 its a 24HOUR 
 wait for an upgrade minimum and it increases each time you upgrade !!! -_-''
  
  Tell me that isnt the biggest BULLcrap around!!! So there is no way in hell i recomend the crappy 
 game... and i feel bad that i cant get hat 1st month that i payed for (while i only played for 
 like 2 days)
  
  Pros:
  Ships look good
  Character protrait creation is FUN Visuals are good
  Sound is OK
  
  Cons:
  They are stealing 
 your money and time for little fun factor
  $$$ - time = &gt;_&lt; ''
  PVP'ing sux at is worst
  most of the time you are alone with nothing better to do that to mine 
 a rock for resources of beat down the same BORING AI over and over -_-''
  TOO expensive for how much time you need to get a decent ship and after you get it you find out 
 that pvp'ing sux and the only kewl thing is the ... mmm ... nothing o_0
  
  In conclusion game sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btwillett2003
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 3, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  I am not going into depth, that will take too long. The game is good, all around. I just recently 
 discovered this game and it is a great alternative to the WoW craze. If you like space, guns, missiles, 
 explosions, money, etc. This game is for you. Learning will take awhile but once you get it down, 
 you will be shooting everything bad guy in sight. The new revelations is a great addition to the 
 game, now you can jump within 0km instead of 15km. If you are unsure, download the free 14 day 
 trial and give it a shot. Trust me, shooting missiles and railguns and arty cannons at spaceships 
 is the way to go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slannmage
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 30, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  EVE online has to be THE best mmorpg out there today, which isn't hard to say for me as i'm fed 
 up of the current grind to end level by doing boring kill quests, then get bored of the game because 
 all your doing is Raids or worthless PVP.
  
  Problem with mmorpgs today is there is no death penalty and theres no risk vs reward. Also LEVELS, 
 they tend to ruin the gameplay because it's not skill based and limits customisation.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The tutorial is great and really helps you out, if you skip this you'll probally 
 quit within 30 mins :P Also egt yourself into a corp or you jsut wont have any fun :)
  
  You make your own gameplay, it doesnt tell you what to do and the gamplay doesn't come to you. 
 You have to create it yourself.
  
  For example;
  
  THe game has a player made economy so you could create a loan service or scam aload of people out 
 of money by creating a bank. you can become a pirate and scam/kill people you see or you can be 
 a nice player.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Truely amazing, with more HD stuff and DX10 to come.
  
  Sound:
  
  Music really puts u in the atmosphere and everything else is perfect.
  
  
 Value:
  
  Great value altho the monthly fees are a put off for most people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eklypse0
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 28, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Eve-Online is a game that allows you to do so many things. You make a difference in the game world. 
 Unlike just about every other MMORPG out there. Eve allows you to control territory, build an economic 
 foundation, form corporations (guilds) and alliances (groups of guilds) .
  
  Another part of the game that I highly appreciate is when the developers design new content, it 
 is part of a new patch. You don't have to go out and purchase another download or upgrade to use 
 the new toys. Everyone has access to the same opportunities. While ever other MMORPG I have tried 
 out has come and gone with in 2-7 months, I've stuck with Eve since the beginning. The reason for 
 that is I can do so much with it. If I want, I can just relax and mine. I can do missions from 
 NPC agents, either courier or combat. Just hunt in the belts or explore the dangerous no security 
 space. NPCs do not really make this space quite as dangerous as the PCs that protect their territory 
 does.
  
  I'm excited that they are in the works to adding Avatars to the game that will interact with each 
 other in the stations. Which is another thing that keeps me going.
  
  The game comes with free 1 week trials, so you can try it out without having to spend a single 
 penny.
  
  Enjoy!
  
  Shain Edge 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spown8661
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 25, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the GameSpot review of EVE-Online should be updated because The Second Genesis is 
 old school and right now there is a new expansion on. EVE-Online is by far the best MMORPG I have 
 ever played. The game is very complex but fun in the same time. It's not true that you have to 
 mine all the time to get ISK (currency units) . I personally prefer hunting for npc pirates and 
 collecting their bounties. There is also missions (something like quests) , trading, manufacturing, 
 research and some new activities to do (exploration, scavaging, etc) . It's true EVE can be pretty 
 expensive but you can find time codes for less than $13 if you search well enough. My recommendation 
 is not to subscribe for $19 but instead use time codes every month (or two) . It's much cheaper.
 
  
  EVE-Online is a highly social game. I recommend joining a good corporation and make sure you actively 
 participate in the activities they provide (PVPing, NPCing, etc) . If you have no friends/contacts 
 in EVE, you're lost.
  
  Overall I think EVE deserves a better review than GameSpot's 6.6. This online masterpiece deserves 
 at least 9.0. If you are searching for an excellent MMORPG which doesn't involve 100% shooting 
 at monsters all the time, EVE-Online is the game for you.
  
  PS You can download the current version of EVE from www. eve-online. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MM23
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  Boredom. Be prepared for it to rear it's ugly face upon you many times in the course of playing 
 this game. Time and time again purists flame me for saying this, but EVE Online is BORING. Roughly 
 90% of the time is spent training skills or mining ore in 0.0 space to afford the Megathron you 
 just lost by trying to do something fun and getting your ass handed to you by a gang of people 
 in T2 Cruisers who have been playing for 3 years straight. This game has no place for people who 
 haven't hid in their station for 15-20 months straight doing nothing but training skills. Honestly, 
 my opinion reeks of frustration, but it's true. This game is not playable unless you spend a year 
 or more... not playing it. I came into this game with a lot of expectations, and while it had some 
 fun parts here and there, it just slaps you in the face when you find out how many skills you'll 
 need to train on for months just to be mediocre. I was thrilled when I finally moved into my first 
 Cruiser... then found out I was hitting for 5-6 damage and missing 90% of the time. So I trained 
 up for months on gunnery skills! Wow, now I do 7-8 damage and miss 80% of the time! So I moved 
 to a battleship with blasters, and found out my damage output increased exponentially -- except 
 you had to be about a kilometer away or you couldn't hit anything! So I trained up on afterburner/microwarpdrive 
 skills so I could close the distance... and found out it was sucking my capacitor dry! So I trained 
 up on capacitor skills, expecting to FINALLY be able to take on some 0.0 NPC enemies... and nope, 
 they kicked the crap out of me. So I trained up on armor tanking/resistance skills, and FINALLY, 
 after about 8 months, I was able to kill something worth more than 10,000 ISK.
  
  Not worth it. I'm sorry, call me biased, but it's just not worth it. This game is amazingly fun, 
 innovative and immersive if you can deal with training skills for 15 months straight. And I still 
 got my ass handed to me in about 15 seconds by people who have been playing since release and have 
 enough skill points to populate a planet with. By the time my subscription ran out, I was having 
 fun, but it took so damn long and I was so bitter over it I just decided to quit permanently. I 
 haven't logged on since, and I don't think I ever will. I don't care to sit in a space station 
 waiting 41 days for Mining Barge V , just so I can amass the funds to buy a T2 cruiser or frigate 
 and train the skills needed to pilot those for 78 days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squirrelz
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 21, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  The Perfect Game, plain and simple.
  
  Sure it takes hours to do anything at the start. But once you have all your skills up, PvP in this 
 game is unrivalled. Hands down best PvP game out there.
  
  If you like space sims, you are obviously already playing this game. However if you haven't at 
 least tried EvE, I strongly urge you to. It's an awesome game made by people who actually play 
 the game with you. Best event coordination i've ever seen in a game. The graphics with Directx10 
 3D look incredible... CCP has really outdone themselves.
  
  Eve will still be around in 10 years, so come on out and try it... sometime.. lol
  
  Anyways,
 
  
  Play the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krass_of_nod
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 25, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Ok unlike some people who like to play games for an hour and then run here and write reports on 
 them. I actually like to write reports on games I have played somewhat more than at least 30 hours. 
 EVE is quite posisibly the most amazing MMO i have wever seen. First its free to download and second 
 the game is ridiculously huge with more options than I think anyone will ever explore in thier 
 if times. Some of those skills that someone who posted that this game sucks actually obviously 
 does not know about certain skills that change your attributes which actually in turn directly 
 effect how long certain skills take to train, at level 5 on those skils it can be nearly a month 
 of training but having a high attribute or attribute combination for the right skills can alter 
 that time substantially. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isrxl
Rating: 1.8
Date: Oct 20, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  There are some decent graphics here but after a few hours of play you won't really care. We all 
 know that in a MMOG we'll eventually have to do some serious grinding to advance but Eve takes 
 that to a whole new level.
  
  In eve you don't grind to advance skills... in eve this is done automatically through buying and 
 choosing to train skills that you can set to train automatically until they complete a level then 
 you set it for the next level and so on. This may seem good to some, but what it really means is 
 that no matter how much you play, your skill training is locked to the preset training times assigned 
 to the particular skill you're training. You can enhance your ability to learn through XPensive 
 implants and through training learning skills but the gain is not that compelling. It would make 
 a difference, however, if you stay on this job for a few years.
  
  The grind comes in the form of making isk (the games currency) . For beginners the easiest routes 
 are mining and missions mining is beyond boring its is horrible missions are better but they 
 also get old pretty fast.
  
  Beyond the grind, theres also a hefty price to pay if your ship gets destroyed. Ships are expensive 
 and you can lose them in a matter of seconds. There is a permanent chant about risk vs reward in 
 this game but its a pretty stupid argument because the risk can be high and the rewards are just 
 not there.
  
  The regions in the game are, for the most part, occupied by old corporations. If youre thinking 
 Ill try to join one of these corps to see how it is out there forget about it this guys are 
 really paranoid about who they let in and also have you guessed it high skill points requirements. 
 I cant really blame them for being paranoid though. There are really some nasty thefts, scams 
 and plenty of backstabbing going around all the time.
  
  At the end of the day this games just feels tedious and boring and worst - BUGGY and LAGGY. There 
 is no variety and no sense of exploration or accomplishment; everything looks the same everywhere. 
 The game play is painfully slow traveling routs are vast and boring. If you are so desperate for 
 a second job do yourself a favor and get a real one at least youll get paid for it (the fact 
 is I actually like my job so this game is really like a bad job) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamertagarmand
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 15, 2006 3:33 am PT
Review:  have been playing for over a year now and no-one really gives any real info about this game, i 
 look in magazines and all other places and can't really find much up to-date info on it.. if there 
 was more advertizing i think more would play and enjoy this real life game.. copy and paste this 
 link for a free 14 day trial -- &gt;&gt;  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gioto
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Before reading, if you want to contact me in game chr names are Gioto and Sylvia Tran
  
  Alot of people complain, oh my, oh my god, no joy stick no, no joystick. The games is more of a 
 point and click to go in a direction, setting an auto pilot to get to and from (unless you have 
 made instas) , orbiting in combat or sitting 150km + off of a stargate and sniping newbs. The game 
 how ever, is slow paced if you are a new player, or a industrial player. The game can be fast paced 
 with pirating, being a mercenary, or territory and political wars.
  
  He is the scoop
  - 4 races - each race as 3 bloodlines (3rd is new) and each bloodline female or male
  - Professions 
 - there are no professions, there are only mini professions - You can mine, Build ships, research 
 blue prints, haul stuff for corporations, Pirate, bounty hunt (mostly NPC, called ratting) , Mercenary, 
 Expand your empire (if you have one) , explore, Trade, and EvE's most natorious way of making money, 
 Scamming people - Mining - You get mining lasers and mine asteroids for money.. wow - Building - 
 you need blueprint and mined minerals and ores to build ships, then you can use them or sell them 
 - Research - you get missions (quest) to get research points which is basically a lottery for new 
 blue prints (not sure how it works) , and you make copies or original blue prints and sell them 
 - Haul - you can haul items for corporations in big things called frighters or you can run through 
 gate camps in the super buff industial ships - Bounty hunt - mostly npc you hunt since they have 
 bounties, its hard to find a player int he huge vast system, CCP is currently working to make it 
 some how useable, but on players you kill a player and you get his bounty, Kill missions from agents 
 you kill npc get thier bounties and then a bonus for doing the mission - Merc - hired to kill, 
 always fun - Pirate - my personal favorite, ruin peoples day for no reason, people really get pissed 
 for some reason, its not my fault you decided to get shot at by my guns, theyw ere just shooting 
 and you got in the way - Expand an empire - clan int his game are called corporation, a bunch of 
 corps can get together and form an alliance and occupy space. Usualyl when they get big they need 
 mroe space and have to take other's thus causing lots of fleet battles, ship blobing, and political 
 tension - Explore - most space has been explore and bookmarks (instas) made to that you can buy 
 or sell, CCP is planning on make exploration ships and new system and new NPC complexes to be explore 
 and to lead to other places - Trade - im still trying to figure this out, but its buy low sell 
 high. people find normal routes and make tons of money every day, its redicuolous - Scamming - 
 lots of stories came form this, most recently a guy created a bank (i wanted to do so but not scam 
 people) people gave him money (called isk in game) after lieka few months he took everyone's money. 
 I dont rmember the ingame value, but the ingame currency to real life currency (100mil isk at $20 
 on ebay) he stole about $170,000, no joke.
  another major scam cause CCP to lose about $1mil a month from people quitting. so be wary of who 
 you trust.
  
  Now i'll give small tips which will also kind of explain the game.
  
  Choosing a race, its all in teh attirbute, attirbutes make you train skills faster (will get into 
 skills soon)
  there is Perception, Will power, Memory, Charisma, and Intelegence
  depending on what you want to be, you edit or choose a race with the best attirbute for your goal
 
  
  PVP/E - Perception then Will power
  Trading - Will power then Charisma
  Mining - Memory then perception
  Anyhting Sciency (ie Researching) - Intelegence then Memory
 
  Running a Corp. - Charima then will power (you dont relly need alot of skills to run a corp)
 
  
  Skills
  Its all about specializing, and a matter of time
  Skills do not advance by killing stuff, like in wow. Skills advance through time, that is why attribute 
 are important. If i hve been playing longer than you but you hve better attribute than me, you'll 
 catch up and pass me. (of course it takes awhile but still)
  The premiss of skills this that you character studies a book you bought and when he is done with 
 a part, he gains a level. It's bad and good, Bad cause you cant leech expirience, good because 
 if you go on vacation you can train skills while you are gone and not have to worry that you arent 
 advancing, also this eliminates some sort of, i need to level and not have a life. Right now since 
 ive been playing awhile if i want to train a lvl 5 (lvl 5 is the highest) high end skill, be about 
 45 days. Normally when you start out skills are like 8-30 minutes
  As for specializing, if you focus on doign one thing, and you have only been playing a couple month 
 while i have been playing a couple years, you cant stand up to me, and if im stupid or not adequatly 
 prepared, kill me, doing what you specialized in.
  
  Controls
  i was dissapointed when i 1st got the game and couldnt fly around like in freelancer, but you get 
 use to the idea. the controls are easy to use, and the system i think is great.
  
  Ships
  some really quickly about ships, its all about the setup. Types of ships
  
  Frigate - cheap 
 fast and fun to suicide in
  Assault frig. - expensive, strong, fast, is a frigate with better attributes and resist to damage
 
  Stealth bomber - oes invisible and for a frig size ship uses battelship size weapons
  Interceptor - super fast, faster than my room mate when he is with his gf, made of paper though, 
 necessary in groups though, it can lock down ships fast and keep them from gettign away
  Destroyer - fun little screw around ship, same with their new versions, is a destroyer and a interceptor 
 combined
  Cruiser - couple mil, cheap for me, fun to suicide in, but can be tanked reall good
  Heavy assault 
 cruiser - frig to ass. frig as cruiser is to HAC recon - go invisible and can do electronic warfare 
 very good
  Battlecruiser - ship between a cruiser and a Battlship, newbs use it and get thier butts handed 
 to them, but is used properly they are dealy
  Battleships - well yea you get the gist
  dreadnought - huge deadly ship, usually corps own them
  carrier- like a dread but can carry players 
 and ships so if you lose a ship you dock there and grab a new one, less gans then a dread
  titan- biggest baddest ship with a nuke type weapon with are effect, only 1 has ben made and its 
 been made like a week or two ago after we have been allow to make it for bout 6 months maybe, same 
 people who made the 1st are making a second right now. big bad boy, its awesome
  
  Inustrial- move crap and has a big cargo load, but slow
  Freighter - ginormous cargo load, can 
 carry battlehsips and otehr ships, very slow
  
  there are alot more but i dont want to make this longer than it already is.
  
  Cant rmember 
 anyhting else other than the players define the game. Like if the developer notcie a huge trend 
 in doing somehting amongst the players, the developes will put somehting in an upcoming patch to 
 help out what the trend is. Players run markets, if you have money, buy out entire market for region 
 and up the price. New things coming out, when you destroy a ship, instead of its insinerating due 
 to your guns, wreckage now stays and ships that can mine wreckages will be able to get minerals, 
 same with corpses you can extrack attribute enchancing brain implants and possibly toher stuff 
 to make new things. All in all eve is just crazy and is just going to get crazier and crazier
 
  
  If you need to contact me in game convo or message
  
  Gioto or Sylvia Tran BRAND NEW, rmember traveling being a **** now you can warp to things at 0m, 
 meaning you dont have to read a book traveling. Now it kidna suck for gate camping because i dont 
 get the 15km of travel time to kill people 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elikal
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 19, 2006 10:55 pm PT
Review:  I can only fully agree with the official review here, though I think for the many critic it was 
 rated a bit too good. If you love a slow paced Privateer-line game, a calm space sim, you *might* 
 like it. Evereyone else I can only advise to stay away from it, or by all means make the trial 
 before buying it. I like the SWG Jump to Lightspeed and was an old fan of the Wing Commander series 
 and the like, and expected something like that. FAR from it. Space is vast in EVE, and boring. 
 Well, it is as nice as space can be, but ultimately I felt as alone as in a coffin. 90% of the 
 time I gazed in my ship from the outside while some automatted process of travel or rarely combat 
 occured. It has nothing of the direct activity of any Joystick-solo games you may think of the 
 old days. You mine, buy and sell ressources and items to and from space stations. It is as boring 
 and tedious as work, safe that WE pay for doing it.
  
  The interface is cumbersome and un-intuitive and the camera always looks in the most uninteresting 
 angle in combat. Really, I dont want to **** but it felt like a complex screensaver at most time. 
 Surely a good alternative to counting sheeps, when you suffer from a sleep disorder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makaveli111
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 2, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  I started to play this game in september 2004 and played to march of 2005 and for me to play this 
 game that long shows to me it is nice game made by company i never heard of but for a company like 
 that to do well with this game i mean damn atleast there still one space mmorg out there still 
 left. Just wish earth beyond was still running but one problem with mmorg evetually they get shut 
 down and too bad they dont atleast make 1st player game version of it so people who spend money 
 on this game dont lose out and yes a 1st player game with capability of having 40 player servers 
 or i dont know. What i am trying to say is that 1st player versions of mmorg can help new players 
 too to learn game before jumping in the mess other than that this game is very good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fattony75
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 1, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  Eve online : THe Second Genesis is a great game, and is the best Space based MMO game out there. 
 Eve's graphics are some of the best I had ever seen and that was 3 years ago, and they still remains 
 great by today's high standards. The gameplay is solid and when you get into your first space battle, 
 you really feel the rush of intense battle rush over you. The game alos does well to introduce 
 you to all the different parts of it. Which is good because there's quite a bit to the overall 
 game, and it's possible to get confused easily. The game itself is great, except for how it handles 
 skills and gaining experience. In EVE online, when you wish to upgrade a skill, you have to select 
 it, and wait. Which is unlike most games, where you would grind and gain experinece to level a 
 skill. In Eve, you click on a skill and it starts a timer, that counts down to when the skill will 
 be upgraded automatically. Now this is good, if you arn't the type of player who can play alot. 
 You just click the skill and then log off for a few hours. But for someone who can sacrific the 
 time to play and possibly grind for the experince faster, this just seems like the developers forcing 
 you to play their game longer. The timers become longer, and can last up to multiple days to wait 
 for a skill to level-up. You should also know the you can only set one skill to level-up at a time, 
 which means you'll pretty much need to play the game for several months to get to the highest level.... 
 which is kinda cheap on the developers side... since they are forcing you to wait that long. But 
 even with this kinda cheap feature, Eve online is still a great game. The skills system may force 
 you to play a few months, but chances are if you were grinding yourself, it would still take you 
 a few months anyway...
  
  Overall though, I would recommend this game (at least for a month or two) for those out there that 
 want to live the experience of space exploration with other people online. The space combat is 
 fun and beautiful to watch, and its really rewarding when you get enough money to purchase a newer 
 and better ship.
  
  -FatTony 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfTheNubeis
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  This games so open ended that thats is problem.
  ITs so deep,, has so many avenues that you can go down
  that it's overwelming.
  
  It takes 
 time for you to GET even 50% of whats out there.
  But as soon as you join a Corp, start making stuff., get
  your 1st BS and kill the 1st non NPC 
 pirate EVE opens
  up like a kalidoscope.
  
  For me after 2 years of fighting in 3 aliances.
  Chating on Teamspeak with team m8s .. fron Yanks 
 to Russians.
  Tasting Victory.... and bitter defeat.
  Ive seen Outposts being built
  .. and a whole Fleets' of Dreadnoughts Burning AND BROKEN
  in the wastes of 0.0 space.
  Right 
 now I'm building up my weath for new campains and
  adventures a NEW.
  ....... Two years and I've hardly scratched the surface.
  MAN WHAT A RIDE!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jorwind
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 7, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  After playing the free trial demo for a few days, I felt robbed of my time, at first. But then 
 I noticed myself constantly logging in to re-assign a skill to learn while I was not logged on. 
 The more time passed, the more I realized that my character was getting more and more skills, so 
 I researched what skills I should researched next.
  
  Eve-Online grew on me over time. At first, I was bored of it. I was sure I was quit. But soon enough, 
 the fun aspects of the game came to me and I began planning out my character's life in the long 
 run.
  
  If you haven't read the GS review yet, don't. They claim that mining is the only way to make money, 
 but I never mined on my character. I, instead, fought weak NPC pirates for their bounties at first. 
 It was slow money, but eventually I was able to buy the strongest type of frigate for the Caldari, 
 the Merlin, letting me fight much stronger pirates, collecting several hundred-thousands of ISK 
 (the in-game money) an hour, with each hour filled with heartpounding in-space dogfights. Unfortunately, 
 my trial time ran out, but I promptly renewed it. I've been playing for about a month now, and 
 I see little reason to stop.
  
  You either love this game, or hate it. Try out the trial, see how far your horizons are, and find 
 out which kind of person you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vmfstorm1
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jul 2, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  I borrowed this game from a friend for 2 weeks and i have to say after the first 5 days I wanted 
 to return it... alas he was on vacation. The game is confusingly slow, and the tutorial is long, 
 drawn out, and doesn't explain half of the things in the game despite this. Even though the fighting 
 was O. K. most people have been playing for a very long time, making it almost physically impossible 
 to A) Find anyone, and B) fight anyone (they all had huge freighters or battleships with tons of 
 firepower) . 
  
  If anybody reads my review, please don't disregard it in favor of the positive reviews. I can honestly 
 say that this was the biggest most drawn out waste of my time that i have ever experienced, and 
 the most horrible part was i barely got to play... most of my time was spent flying around the vast 
 emptiness of space and winding up getting killed over and over when i was supposedly "protected" 
 by space-police or something.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertt
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 14, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  I have no idea why they gave this game a fair rating, other than that it's possible they may be 
 catering to a younger, less mature, more impatient, more immediate gratification, less thinking 
 and more spoonfeeding, audience. This game requires thought, it requires patience, and it's extremely 
 rewarding to those who are willing to work for their reward. So long have I waited for a game that 
 is solid, has all the required qualities for a good game, and actually contains what I would call 
 real substance.. material that is truly entertaining to the human brain.. finally.. a game that actually 
 makes me THINK, and enjoy it immensely while I'm doing it.
  
  If you enjoy science fiction, and if you are looking for something more than superficial entertainment, 
 then you owe it to yourself to evaluate this game. It only costs $11 per month if you do the annual 
 subscription, and the expansions are provided automatically. It is definitely worth every penny 
 if you are looking for something more cerebral and real than is available anywhere else in the 
 MMOG market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t_walk1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 14, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  All in all EvE is the MMO that lets you play the game you want to play. I thought other MMO's were 
 open ended by just letting you go wherever you wanted and to see what was around you. I was wrong. 
 A truely open ended game lets you go anywhere and also do anything. EvE allows you to live a whole 
 other life. Your character can be completely passive and be a miner or a trader, with the only 
 focus being on money. Or you can be combat focused. The combat in this game is intense to say the 
 least. Whenever I get into a fight with a comparable player, my heart pounds and I am thinking 
 10 moves ahead because if you don't, you are dead. The game also allows you to be on the side of 
 the law and hunt down NPC pirates and claim bounties on the other players in the game who have 
 chosen the opposite path, to actually be a pirate. Pirates take what they want and kill what they 
 want whenever they want. The fact that players can be pirates or the opposite makes for some of 
 the best PvP I have ever experienced in any game.
  
  EvE is a game that is HUUUUUGE. The entire game is played on a single server so you have a chance 
 to run into any of the 10's of thousands of people who are playing at any given time. This brings 
 me to the one gripe that most new players have, the flight times. Traveling is carried out through 
 a number of "jumps". You fly to a gate, jump from one part of space to another, then fly to the 
 next gate and repeat the process. If you have to travel long distances, the travel times can add 
 up. I would say the average time in between gates (depending on the speed of your ship, which can 
 vary greatly) can be about 1.5 minutes. So if you have a 20 gate trip it can take half an hour. 
 This is not a problem for me, but others hate it. I say try it before you pass judgement, there 
 are ways around long flight times. 
  
  I would have to say the most difficult part of the game is learning it all. Everything comes into 
 play. Learning new skills, type of ship, layout of weapons, speed at which you travel, size of 
 your guns, type of ammo you choose, should I go with a shield booster or just upgrade my armor 
 so I can get those bigger howitzers mounted that I have been eyeing. The economy alone is more 
 advanced than anything I have seen in any other MMO. Every decision can have it's advantages and 
 drawbacks. Only the Truely 1337 player can grasp even a handful of the concepts that go into this 
 game. 
  
  In closing EvE is a game that lends itself to the personality of the player. your character can 
 move at your own pace, and can advance into any field you want them too. If you do choose to try 
 this game be prepaired to think about the decisions you make. This is not a game that you can sit 
 at and let play itself, you have to work at this one. But if you put in the time, I can guarantee 
 you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TEN10X
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 6, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Quite personally I can't believe how shallow-minded some people are. Just because some people don't 
 have the mindset required (or the social skills) to get truly involved in EVE, doesn't mean it's 
 a bad/boring game. 
  
  The game starts out with you creating your character. The avatar creation process is one-of-a-kind, 
 and the immense planning required for choosing starter skills is breathtaking. 
  For example, if you want to be a miner, you would need to dump most of your skill points into Intelligence 
 and Memory, allowing you to greatly reduce mining/manufacturing related skill training time.
  
  When you are finally thrown into the midst of the visually stunning and vibrant world of EVE, 
 you are baffled by the complexity of the game. Entire Corporations controlling the markets for 
 various items, along with ships ranging from small shuttles to gigantic Titans many kilometers 
 long. 
  
  One of the greatest things about EVE is the freedom. Sure you can't blow up innocent miners in 
 secure space with being chased down by CONCORD, the galactic police force in EVE, but you can eventually 
 fight back and win. Becoming a ruthless pirate that ransoms mining barges for millions of ISK, 
 the galctic currency, can make a nice little addition to your already brimming wallet. Some pirates, 
 are even more literate and polite than the miners they pick on.
  
  The interaction with other players is incredible, as you need to develop a real rep within the 
 community. You always have to keep at least one eye open, as danger could be lurking at every jumpgate. 
 
  
  My final words are: This is a totally and utterly immersive game, that grants many people a second 
 life. An EVE life. If you take the time to learn and have a good amount of patiance, you will enjoy 
 this game to an unimaginable extent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rugglez
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 1, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  It would be a decent game if 95% of the time played wasn't spent watching the autopilot. The sheer 
 size of the EVE universe is just too massive... you spend all your time jumping from system to system, 
 never knowing where the hell you are. And there's no thinking involved in travel, because there's 
 no way anyone could ever learn the map layout. 
  
  Also, the fact that your skill level training is determined only by time leaves you feeling like 
 you have nothing to do, or that the missions you are running are pointless.
  
  Finally, there's no strategy involved. When you're engaged in a firefight, the only that determines 
 who will come out on top is who has the bigger and better ship.
  
  The first few hours were refreshing, but then it becomes apparent that continuing will be ridiculously 
 tedious.... a major letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 26, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Eve online is one of those play if you want, play if you don't. You play a pilot depends on what 
 sort of being you are you select a ship and go on to ships recieveing money and whatever else you 
 need. You take all that stuff and use it to build up ships/skills/money. 
  
  Graphics for this game ARE AMAZING!! No doubt an online game supports rather bad online graphics 
 but this out did itself. The ships are just amazing and the weapon firings are up there as well. 
 The planets and space stations are well done.
  
  Sounds for this game are great as well. You hear your computers voice (Aura) and you also hear warp, 
 engines, etc. All arround the sound is very great.
  
  Wether or not this game has a 14 day free trial, so try it out it is worth taking 30 minutes to 
 download, but the 14.95 is not worth the money, i wouldnt buy the game extended.!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7ranc3
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 25, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is really aiming towards a specific kind of game player. I kind of boil down the MMO 
 playing crowd based on the types of games they like to play that were not MMOs.
  
  If you liked Diablo and its fast paced loot system - World of Warcraft
  If you liked Ultima IV 
 and its deep character system - Everquest 1 & 2
  If you liked Doom - Planetside
  If you liked Trade Wars (old BB game) - Eve Online
  
  You aren't going to get flashy graphics, 
 although the scenery is pretty enough.
  You aren't going to get amazing loot in the traditional sense from doing quests.
  
  What you 
 do get, is a very deep economic game system. If you ever wanted to try to corner a market, but 
 didn't have the cash to do it with, then this game might be for you.
  
  The most intriguing portion of this game is how players can build up large alliances and control 
 entire regions of space. By working together, they can become extremely wealthy (in-game of course) 
 and powerful. However if they are not careful enough, then they could lose it all. This was seen 
 some months ago, when a very powerful corp (EO's version of a guild) was stipped bare by an infiltrating 
 group that spent months undercover to bring them down. Painful for the players that were the victims, 
 but extremely thrilling for almost everyone else. This is very rare in an MMO.
  
  I would think that those who play EO, are more likely interested in things that don't have to do 
 with loot, slaying dragons, and etc. It is almost a bit like the Sims.
  
  Don't knock the game until you have tried it. I don't play anymore, but I remember my time with 
 it very fondly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haikiller12
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 18, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Great graphics large map good sound and many kind of ships. They make a real world of wars and 
 greed between many planets. I think that's a good story, a great game and a cheap production. EVE 
 is one of the biggest hits in 2006. It won the best graphic award by Gamespy. In additional, this 
 game is funny and suprise.
  EVE Online places all players in a single universe to harvest materials, fight pirates, complete 
 missions and generally explore their picturesque universe. Clearly, the reader's of MMORPG. com 
 appreciate the effort they put forth as this win makes EVE two for two so far in the awards. The 
 game, which was up for four of seven possible awards, has a chance to be the most decorated MMORPG 
 this yearIn this category, EVE managed to take just over half the vote. World of WarCraft, based 
 off its immense popularity and wonderful art-direction, placed second with 19%. EverQuest II's 
 technical excellence earned them 15%, while Lineage II and Star Wars Galaxies garnered nine and 
 four percent respectively.
  No big shock here. The big winners today are the guys in Iceland behind EVE Online. They took this 
 category despite stiff competition and record subscriber numbers from World of WarCraft. The game 
 - which has also long been our top user rated MMORPG at 8.4 out of 10 - continues to strike a cord 
 and set new concurrent users records since its launch in 2003.
  It won best graphics. It won best company. It won best PvP. How could it not win best game? I believe 
 the awards speak for themselves when it comes to this title.
  EVE took the category with 40% of the total vote. Blizzard's World of WarCraft made it interesting 
 as they picked up 31% in this two horse race. Guild Wars chimed in with 13%, City of Heroes / Villains 
 nabbed 8% and Dark Age of Camelot rounded out the field with 5%. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrickgamer
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  The first thing people notice is how much there is to learn. This is not a point/click/win mmo 
 like some other crafty war rpgs. THIS WILL TAKE TIME TO LEARN, (~2-4 hours) .
  
  That said, the game rocks. The emersiveness of it just blows you away. The fact that the designers 
 have purposefully made the line between players and npc's blurred is wonderful. While you can obviously 
 tell the difference between players and npcs by looking at them, both can have bounties on their 
 heads, both can set bounties on your head, and both interact seamlessly in one of the best economic 
 systems I've ever seen on an mmo. 
  
  Another great thing about this game is that there are goals, ambitions. Your potential is endless. 
 You have more to strive for than farming cloths or spending hours crafting. With the ability to 
 form corporations -guilds, formal aliances with other corps, and can even take over start systems 
 for your self, it's just top notch all the way. It's also very social, with all players playing 
 on one server that is host to more star systems than I care to count, (seriously, it's the biggest 
 map for a game ever) .
  
  I gave this game a 10, and I'd give it more if I could. I urge everyone to at least get the free 
 download and give it a shot for two weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allan_X
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 16, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  During one particularly heated match of Halo 2 on Xbox Live, over the voice chat I described my 
 week-long experience with EVE Online a few months before and how I found it to be incredibly boring. 
 Almost instantaneously, another player rushed to its defense.
  
  "Hey, don't diss EVE! That's my favorite game."
  
  An EVE fan playing Halo 2? Unbelievable.
 
  
  "What's wrong with it?" He continued.
  
  "Well, I like to solo." I responded.
  
  And he was like... "Oh, that's the reason. I feel sorry for you."
  
  When you first fire up 
 EVE, after going through character creation you may encounter a dazzling deluge of menus. You'll 
 get used to it, but it takes a while. You can take jobs, mine ore, deliver things across the galaxy... 
 essentially, you can take on any number of indescribable and indescribably boring tasks.
  
  Leveling is done by choosing a skill and then waiting in real-time for that skill to finish training. 
 That means that if you select a skill that you want increased, you may need to wait anything from 
 a few hours to a few weeks for it to complete. Yet another ingenious means of keeping players glued 
 to the game accruing precious subscription time.
  
  Combat and other actions in the game are achieved via the simple act of "managing" your spacecraft. 
 You can tell it where to go, and what to do, but you can't quite control it directly.
  
  Unfortunately, I found myself hopping from system to system without anything to do aside from admiring 
 the sights. It's not fun traveling between dozens of stars uneventfully for hours on end. Don't 
 kid yourself.
  
  The game looks and sounds great, but it's ridiculous that they expect you to pay a subscription 
 price to fly around doing absolutely nothing. They should be paying me to play this.
  
  What I did in the game environment was analogous to work. I don't play games to work. I play games 
 to play.
  
  Throughout all this, I had but one thing in mind... if given the opportunity to live in the world 
 of EVE Online as though it were no less real a world than our own, I would most certainly take 
 it. I wouldn't go hungry, after all. With a steady source of income through mining, I'd make enough 
 ISK to put food on the table!
  
  But it's still not enough to buy me a good ship. Maybe it's enough to buy me an entertaining game?
 
  
  I suppose the main reason why I couldn't enjoy EVE Online is because I was trying to play it like 
 a Single-Player RPG with other humans playing the part of what would normally be NPCs. I avoided 
 contact and never really chatted with anyone, choosing to mine, deliver, and blast my way through 
 things with what few NPCs did exist EVE. I've been told that it's better if you find a corporation 
 to work with. But the idea didn't quite appeal to me, for I'm a lone wolf if there ever was one.
 
  
  That doesn't change the fact that EVE simply isn't fun unless you're a full-on masochist. I can 
 respect that.
  
  Those people asking for a re-review are crazy. I think the Gamespot review was spot-on. 
  
 
  Sure, EVE's pretty, but there's nothing to actually do in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikosuavee
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 14, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  HHHHHMMMMMMMM, this game really confused me on upon initiation. I was so lost on how to function 
 the controls, what to do and even be productive. Fortunately, this game offers a very, very intuitave 
 traning system. The whole introduction may preplex alot of begining gamers. Such as myself, but 
 if you have a decent level of comprehension and intellect you should do fine. With that said, this 
 game is not for everyone. Many cant fathom the very open-endness of the game. Completely non-linear, 
 and a massive community gives this game unlimited possibilities along with awesome playibility.
 
  Graphically, this game is wonderful. I couldnt see why not also. I mean its space, open and bare. 
 You can run this game at maximum resolution on your hardware, all settings maxed, and still experience 
 flawless animation. The battle system visually is very satisfying, especially when better weapons 
 and shielding become availiable. The game clocks at a smooth frame-rate reguradless of the intense 
 action the populates the screen, so you will never see a real hinderance in the heat of battle. 
 But like was said previously, the game is just an EXTREMELY large open area that pulls off some 
 clean graphic stunts... btw the warp drive is super cool. The way this game looks really adds to 
 the whole sci-fi adventure feel also.
  Too badd the sound couldnt compliment the phenominal graphic work done in this deep space adventure. 
 I really wasnt satisfied with the auditory in the game. The games atmosphere inhabits futuristics 
 weaponery, tatical-warfare, massive explosions due to future weaponery and tactical-warfare, communication 
 beeps, etc. all in the depths of space. But due to the lack of sound quailty, you'll feel like 
 your limited to the depths of your computer chair. The sound could have really added to the realism 
 and immersion of the game, but developers apparently considered that secondary. Good thing the 
 look of the game overcast the weak sound effect that are delievered. The music did however, offer 
 little to mild relief to my ears curdling (!!!) .
  Gameplay in ALL games is fundamental. So if a game has weak grounding, most likely the integrity 
 wont uphold. Suprisingly, you wont see any toppling of integrity in eVe Online. The games core 
 just seems hardened and fit to perfection. The intro really illustrates that, providing a full-dialouge 
 training preparation, and other usefull functionalities to add many plussed to the game. The open 
 of this space exploration is vital to game success. If you decide to disreguard the opening of 
 the game, prepare to be non-plussed for the remaining 1,000,000 hrs. that you'll probably invoke 
 to this game trying to undock from the training operation. Trust me, all context put into this 
 game is there for your convienence. Take 
  it all and gobble it up, because you will regurgutate it later (lol) . So you have that solid gameplay 
 to further enhance an already well crafted game. 
  This game is not for many. The openess will ultimately bewilder the average gamer. You'll have 
 to pour much attentiveness throught the eVe experience if you want to even grander what this epic 
 has to offer. So there 
  it goes. Weak auditory, wrapped around amazing graphics, sitting on a hardened gameplay methods 
 equals to an out-of-this-world space experience......... its galatical baby!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcflurry4321
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is unbelievably fun. I can't believe that GS gave it such a bad review. I have played 
 Eve since beta, which was about 3 years ago. I haven't stopped playing at all. It is the only MMO 
 that I play, although I have played many others. I have to yet to find another MMO that even comes 
 close to Eve's level of innovation. 
  
  The aspect of Eve that I like the most is the fact that there is so much customization possible. 
 There are literally hundred's of thousand of ways to make whatever ship you happen to be driving 
 at the moment into whatever you want. There is no "perfect" setup on any ship, making this game 
 incredibly diverse yet balanced at the same time. 
  
  Besides that, there are so many different things that you can do in the Eve universe. You could 
 devote yourself entirely to fighting; your source of income the bounties of pirates that you kill. 
 You could become a pirate yourself and kill anyone who crossed your path. You could be a peaceful 
 industrialist who mines asteroids for ore, then refines the ore into precious minerals. The minerals 
 could then be sold, or you could take being an industrialist to a different by using the minerals 
 and manufacturing ships and equipment for other people to by. You could be a mission runner for 
 agents and work your way up higher and higher in their ranks, in the end getting exclusive ships 
 that aren't available to anyone else. These are only a few of the things that you can do to make 
 a living in Eve. And the real beauty of this is that you don't pick a class in the beginning; you 
 are free to do any of those activities at any time.
  
  Another great and innovative aspect of Eve is its skill system. There is no experience or levels 
 in Eve. There are hundreds of different skills that you buy on the market and then train. This 
 is the cool part though: the skills train in real time! So even if you are logged off of Eve, your 
 skills are still training. It really is a great way of handling skills.
  
  I could also talk about the market. The market in Eve is entirely player-driven. It is a real, 
 completely functioning economy. If you know a lot about economics, you could apply every single 
 principle you know to the market and you would see how real the market really is.
  
  All of these things just make Eve my absolute favorite MMO, and I am sure that you will like it 
 as well. To me, all other MMO's pale in comparison to the great game that Eve is.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdhegs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  O. K. I am going to start this off by saying that this game is not for everyone (Although I wish 
 it was because it would only improve the constant, ever-changing economy) . This game is for fams 
 of such games as Freelancer, Tachon: the Fringe, the X series among many others!
  
  Where to begin? This game has everything from STUNNING graphics, a huge, friendly, community, a 
 thriving economy and intense corporation conflicts. I began my experience as a lowly miner wanting 
 to make a name for myself carving up and selling asteroids. I finished the EXCELLENT tutorial and 
 bought myself a mining rig and took to open space to find myself getting bored .... very quickly! 
 I was recruited and joined a fairly large corporation in medium-security space and that is when 
 the game changed! OOOOOOOOOOH MY GOSH! The game became incredible! I remained a miner and began 
 running corporate mining opperations in low-security space. Surrounded by huge battleships and 
 mining barges! It was a sight to behold. I could go into the whole political feudings between our 
 corp and surrounding corps fighting over open space and asteroid belts. 
  
  This game has it all! In spades. Don't read or believe any reviewer who hasn't played 1. at least 
 a month and earned 1,000,000 SP and 2. hasn't joined a GOOD corporation! Because, until one or 
 both of these objectives have been met, you are merely scratching the surface! I have been in EVE 
 for over 3 months and still feel like a n00b! But, my corp mates are always there to lend a helping 
 hand. The community is very friendly and willing to help. Do yourself a favor and at least give 
 the trail a whirl ... you will not regret it if you are a space sim fan of any kind! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: general774
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 2, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  When you first start the game you will most likely be very excited. This excitement fades fairly 
 quickly however after the 3 hour tutorial. When you finally DO finish the tutorial (which is essential 
 in learning how to play) you will again be excited; that is until you realise there is almost nothing 
 to do in the game. You basically have 2 options at this point; mine asteroids or do quests repeatedly. 
 Ships are so expensive that it will take you several days of almost constant grinding before you 
 have the money and skills to purchase a new one. When you do FINALLY get a new ship, its likely 
 you won't enjoy it very long as their are ALOT of people more than willing to destroy it for you. 
 To illustrate this point, I have been playing EVE for 4 days now and I have lost 4 ships, 3 of 
 them in 24 hours due to other players and npc's. That is unacceptable, especially when you consider 
 all 4 ships were lost in sectors with a secuity rating between 0.5 and 1.0, the so called "safe" 
 areas, at least according to the tutorial. What kind of idiot makes a game where when you die you 
 lose days worth of work? Putting the horrible attack system aside, EVE suffers from several other 
 major problems; namely the MASSIVE amount of time you do absolutely NOTHING. You are paying over 
 $14.00 a month for a game where 50% of your time is spent watching your computer screen bored as 
 your ship struggles to make it to wherever it is you set the autopilot for. How can a company charge 
 you the same amount of money as other MMO's when you can only play it 50% of the time?
  
  Another problem in EVE is warping. You drop out of warp too soon and are forced to wait several 
 minutes as your ship inches closer to the starbase/stargate. This is bad game design, at no point 
 should a player be bored playing your game, especially for such an easily fixed mistake. 
  
  Eve has other problems too, including sparsly populated regions of space (other players are 
 uncomman in the early stages of the game and the ones you do find are likely to attack and destroy 
 you. Besides the warp dropping out to soon EVE also skimps on the actual warp itself. The warp 
 path you take often has you flying through solid objects such as planets, other ships and starbases. 
 This problem is just plain laziness, they didnt want to take the time to set warp paths that go 
 around objects rather than through objects. It is also impossible to go to warp whenever you want, 
 only at certain times can you warp to a location; a manual warp option would be nice. There are 
 many other problems with EVE that I will not comment on at the moment but basically it looks like 
 this.
  
  Pros:
  
  Space theme; rarely done and EVE tries somewhat to achieve what people have been looking for
 
  
  Good Music: EVE has great music and sound effects.
  Good FX: EVE also has some cool special effects like weapon fire and explosions.
  
  Cons:
 
  
  Not worth monthly cost: Half your time playing EVE will be spent bored watching your spacecraft 
 automatically jump from starsystem to starsystem while the other half will be spent cashing in 
 on your insurance because you died or sitting wondering what else there is to do in the game.
 
  
  The attack system: This definitely needs work, its frustrating to say the least when a new player 
 has to suffer through 3 deaths in 1 day because of a lack of game planning.
  
  Animations: while most are good, it REALLY takes away from the game experience when you witness 
 your spacecraft fly through a planet and remain intact. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo2sfcmike
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 2, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  This game is really good it'll keep you hooked for hours and hours on end when u play this everyday. 
 The graphics were nice! and the music was nice and the ships and gameplay and battles were EXCELLENT! 
 it just the fact that the money in the game known as ISK it takes REALLY LONG to save up alot of 
 it they should have put a banking loaning system in the game so you can take out loans that need 
 alot of ISK and repay it over time. but other then that EVE-ONLINE IS WAY BETTER THEN WoW cause 
 you can do something different everytime you log on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Medpilot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 27, 2006 4:29 am PT
Review:  My disappointment with eve online isn't with the making of the game, in all areas it is a MMORPG 
 with a huge amount of detail and shows much craftsmanship. However, it fails to provide much drama. 
 One could say that it is so good at simulating a life of space colonization that player often feels 
 like nothing exciting ever happens in his region of space. How fun can mining asteroids for the 
 entire life of your character actually be? 
  
  My second complaint is that space is portrayed too accurately... It's blimin' HUGE. As a newbie, 
 well over 50% of game time is spent in transit between stations. There are some ways around this, 
 but they don't fix the fundamental problem of the expanse of the universe. It would be a great 
 problem to have if there were things in the universe worth exploring, but the most you will discover 
 is a rare rock floating in space. 
  
  Sigh... with all that said, I am still addicted. This means it can't get a terrible grade from 
 me. The fact that it is MMORPG gives it so much potential and I can't bare to step away. My advice 
 is to try another space MMORPG instead. If you are going to get sucked in to an online world, might 
 as well make it a good one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fliip
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 12:30 am PT
Review:  Right, first of all i want to say for the hardware specification the graphics are awsum. I can 
 run eve on my laptop and it will look just as good as my PC, except maybe a little lag as my laptop 
 only has 512MB RAM, but if i close down all the other applications it runs fine.
  
  So i started off and chose to be Amarr. The thing i dont like about games like this is that quite 
 a bit depends on the attributes you choose. In this case its the time taken to learn new skills. 
 Well when you start playing a new game you dont really know whats going on. So i just choose the 
 coolest looking charater and decided "what the hell" for the stats accompanying the character i 
 had picked. Luckily i picked ok, but some people i know have had to start again because they chose 
 badly.
  
  The gameplay is good. It can get a little repetitive at times, but all in all RPG's are like that 
 i guess (exept the elder scrolls, but im obcessed with that game) . 
  I started off mining, and got bored of it pretty quickly, then i went to fighting. That was really 
 cool. I would stay in dangerous areas, but not too dangerous so i was vunerable to PVP. 
  It was fun and i enjoyed it alot. Then came the time when i could use the more advanced ships. 
 I got my battlecruiser and went off into some of the PVP systems, and being the noob i was my ship 
 got owned by another pirate (not knowing all about the warp stablisers and everything) . 
  
  Ok so some of the things i really dont like about the game:
  
  The main one is the skill training. 
 If you get bored of games (like me) then this really isnt the game for you. The training for different 
 skills is based on real time training. For me this is horrible. I like to work for my skills, not 
 just sit there waiting for 30 days (yes thats right, 30 days!) to train for some of the harder 
 skills. I have been playing for almost a month and so far i am no where into the training side 
 of things. I think you could play this game for 10 years and still not have them all.
  
  There are also no legal macros in this game. I found this pretty annoying, as for things like mining 
 it would be really useful, but i guess they dont want people to just sit in the game mining and 
 selling the money on ebay.
  
  I havnt PVP'd yet, except when i bumped into that pirate in my battlecruiser, so i cant really 
 coment on that, but im sure it will add a new aspect to the game that will keep me interested for 
 another month or two.
  
  The music sucks!, crappy cheap electro stuff.
  
  Things i really liked:
  
  I loved the idea of a corperation. Well i guess all MMO's have them 
 but i like the word corperation instead of guild or clan. 
  Well anyway the corperation is a really kool idea. It lets a CEO run a corperation blah blah blah, 
 i wont bore you all....
  
  Anyway to sum it all up, If you get tied into games for years then this is the game for you. If 
 you dont (like myself) then its maybe worth getting the game for a couple of months, or stick to 
 games like guild wars. But it is a very good space MMO.
  
  P. S. it lets you stop playing the game and keeps your character, unlike some games, so if i decide 
 to stop playing you can stop your subscription and start again in a few months time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ellegua
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 22, 2006 5:01 am PT
Review:  I have testing out the game on a free trial I have come upon and so far I like it. It is definitely 
 not for action junkies or for those with short-attention spans. But if you have an intense love 
 for minute details and a robust customization system in a vast universe to slowly explore, than 
 it's worth a look. 
  
  There is combat, but it's definitely of the RPG variety. There is no Freelancer, Wing Commander, 
 or X-Wing dogfights here. You click your opponent and set your weapon to fire. There are finer 
 details like setting your targeting distance, but mostly it's the sum of your equipment and skills 
 vs. his. I haven't tested PvP to see if that plays out differently.
  
  Did I mention mining? Waiting for your ship to finish mining? Waiting for your ship to jump across 
 5 star systems 1 at a time to deliver package X to recipient G before Quest-giver A gets upset 
 for taking to long or refusing her mission? This is definitely a waiting game more than a grinding 
 one. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kicken07
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  A lovely looking game, backed up by solid gameplay mechanics which effectively eliminating 'The 
 Daily Grind'.
  
  Ships are readily avalible, skills as well. Corperations and Alliances waging wars. 'Carebear' 
 miners and traders flying more secure systems and pirate raids. What more would you want from a 
 space-faring MMO?
  
  Perhaps better servers and less latency?
  
  Yea, we have that. CCP, developer of EVE, recently upgraded their servers to brand new AMD Dual-Core 
 servers. Virtually no lag.
  
  The graphics are absolutely spendid, and above what I would expect from a MMO. 
  
  Perhaps 
 the most interesting part of EVE is their unique skill training idea.
  Rather than running errands and fighting to 'level up', EVE has eliminated grinding and introduced 
 time based skills. Skill range from 10minutes to train to upwards of 2 weeks. While this may sound 
 overbearing, it isnt, really!
  
  Im not entirly good with words, but ill leave it with this:
  If you are tired of 'Classic' MMOs 
 which require play-time in order to level up, munching away your valuable time, this is a great 
 MMO alternative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rndinit9
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  In short, you control your spaceship and explore the space of Eve. You can do this solo, or with 
 friends, or with your corporation (aka guild) . There are so many things to do in Eve, I could not 
 possibly list them all. But the basic ones I suppose are: 
  
  A.) Trading (Buying items in one solar system at a low price, and selling them in another at a 
 marked up margin for profit)
  
  B.) Pirating (Keep in mind that the world of Eve can be very hostile, so yeah you can pretty much 
 kill anyone or anything at any time, and salvage the goods, if you have the right gear) But beware 
 cause you can be hunted down. Karma *grins*
  
  C.) Missions (Can be fun at first but get very repetitive, think Anarchy Online missions)
  
 
  D.) Escort (Let others hire you to escort them to and fro their location, can be lots of fun)
 
  
  Controls:
  Well if your an advance player you move your ship by pointing at a spot and clicking on it, and 
 your ship will make its way. For everything else you can use the Interface or Keyboard shortcuts. 
 If you value your life, learn the shortcuts real quick
  
  Music:
  The music that comes with Eve-Online is breath taking, however after 6 months of the same playlist 
 the music gets a bit old, but fear not you can create a mp3 playlist and play that instead using 
 the Ingame mp3 player.
  
  Unique points of interest:
  Eve has the following appz built in:
  a.) mp3 Player
  b.) a browser (though it has trouble 
 displaying fancy websites)
  c.) Eve-Mail (in-game mail system)
  d.) The best MMO interface I have ever seen to date (drag and drop, item parsing, auto reply to 
 messages, very customizable interface)
  
  Eve-Skill System:
  The skill system in eve goes very deep, but not too deep. If you look at the big picture its very 
 simple. You want to fly a big ship, you have to "learn" how.
  You buy skills on the market, and then choose to train them. All skills start at level 0 and can 
 be trained to level 5. You can only train one skill at a time, and some level 5 skills can take 
 up to 3 weeks to train depending on the stats & skills of your pilot. The amazing thing is however 
 that skills train in real time, and do not stop training even if your offline. So you can set a 
 3 day skill to train, and it will keep training regardless if your online or offline.
  
  PVP
  Some of you might fear PVP mmos, or just not like them, but you will find that real life 
 is a full PVP game too. But that doesnt mean everyone is going on a killing spree. Eve Space is 
 very vast, and you will quickly learn or get a feel for different areas of space, wether or not 
 your in danger.
  
  I have often crossed well known Pirate space and survived, and you always have the option of running 
 (well almost always, you can get jammed sometimes, and well then you best eject from your ship 
 and hope your capsule makes it home) .
  
  Bottom line use common sense and youll be just fine no matter where you go in Eve.
  
  The grind:
 
  The way Eve-Online works, there is no level grind, just you playing the game, and well you training 
 your skills so that you can use/fly/etc what ever it is you want. So you dont have to worry about 
 your friends getting ahead.
  
  Eve-Online is a game thats extreemly social, you will need friends to survive and reach places 
 you never have before. Most of all information is real POWER. The more you know about eve the better 
 your chances of enjoying the world of eve.
  
  I would classify Eve-Online as a passive game, not many things you do in this game require your 
 constant alert attention. Unless you're flying through dangerous space, are in combat, or are escorting.
 
  
  Eve can be a real joy to play, as long as you have a good book, or lots of anime to watch while 
 you play Eve-Online. This is especially true when you mine.
  
  I hope this points supplemant the Gamespot review.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VinLieger
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 24, 2006 3:48 am PT
Review:  What a game. I started playing in febuary 2004 and i have to admit was a little overwhelmed at 
 first. It does take a little while to get into it but once you do it shard to drag yourself away. 
 
  I took a break in the summer of 2004 from it for certain reasons and only recntly started playing 
 again and its even better than i remember the graphics are better, theres twice as many ships if 
 not more and so much more to do that it would take a liftime to explain.
  Anyone trying the 14 day trial who feels confused or overwhelmed i strongly suggest to stick with 
 it and to leave the beginner corp and find a decent group of people to play with.
  Thats the great thing about this game you can start out thinking you want to do one thing and then 
 hear about something else and change your idea completely and go do that. 
  For instance most people start out mining since that is really the only way to make cash at the 
 beggining but alot of people once they have a new ships decide they want to get into manufacturing 
 or pirating or bounty hunting or even scamming which is a legitimately recognised proffesion and 
 takes alot of skill.
  This game has no end game like WoW or Guild Wars or any of the other mmos out there and thats what 
 makes it so special you will never get bored of this game and its getting better and better everyday. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sastra1978
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I have never reviewed a game. But for once I really felt I needed to seeing that GameSpot did not 
 do this game justice with its review.
  
  The concept of this game is built on an open virtual world. The objective was a game that would 
 be completely playable without any quests in it. Quests added later on would just add more substance. 
 This game stands true to that ideal. I have never seen this much depth and substance in a MMOG 
 before (UO, ShadowBane come close) .
  
  Very mature community. You actually have a CS in game at pretty much most times I have been on. 
 Sitting through the tutorial is a must. Once you play the game for a while you realize the immense 
 possibilities. The economy is completely player driven. All items can be player manufactured (deep 
 crafting) . Gorgeous graphics just immerse you further into this environment.
  
  Personally I prefer a skill-based system over a class based system. You can hone your char any 
 ways you like with always a chance to fix your mistakes. Even more appealing is that your skills 
 lvl up when you are offline.
  
  I honestly feel this game continues to breath new life into the MMOG genre and this is as close 
 to a virtual world experience that you could get to unlike a more quest driven linear progression 
 in most other MMOGs.
  
  Pick this game up - you could not go wrong. My 0.02. Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waxau
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  Well, ive been playing eve since 2003 - 2 characters, one i mucked up, then had a years break, 
 then started a new one last year in january.
  
  Now all these reviews with 1.3 etc are fine - everyone has their own opinion, and i know for a 
 fact that EVE is NOT for everyone. Ive introduced friends to eve, and they've not liked it, due 
 to it being boring, slow paced etc. BUT, and heres the catch. I bet none of those that have reviewed 
 have spent any more than about 6 hours playing, and never joined a corp. It takes 6 hours full 
 playing to get in-tune with eve. And it takes 2 weeks to get right into the game, and fully be 
 involved with it. Now many will think, OMG SOD THAT! And thats fine, however if your one of those 
 people that have played a game, and thought damn... i want a challenging involving game, which i 
 can play at my own pace... then eve is for you.
  
  I first started eve in august 2003, and didnt enjoy it, and infact found it boring. I then quit 
 and played Star Wars Galaxies. That flopped eventually, and i quit in Jan 2005. Being bored at 
 home, i then joined EVE again, as a new addon patch was released, and i was intrigued. Signed up, 
 entered my details again, and heard the infamous 'Logging in' Voice of the 'EVE woman' lol. I made 
 a new character, and within 30 mins, i joined a combat AND mining corp. Took me about 3 hrs for 
 me to get back into it all, and i loved it! Hell, in 2003 i never shot anything, but in 2005 i 
 was shooting everything. I knew i loved the faster pace of combat. And ive been doing that ever 
 since. 
  
  EVE has the largest community ever. For example Star Wars Galaxies... I was on the Naritus server, 
 and everyone bought guns of a guy called 'Troll'. But that was on a server of a few thousand. EVE? 
 100,000 players! usually 20K players on, and this is great! there is always someone, and always 
 something new each time you log on. Eve even has a community run Radio Station where you can win 
 in game cash, with regular competitions, events, and many other things. EVE is not just a game, 
 its a social experiment. Theres a world in my computer, with real mates, challenges, and fun. Whether 
 its 'sad' or not, its still amazing. 
  
  EVE tends to be a game more aligned to the mature gamer than the immature. That may be why at first 
 i didnt like it in 2003 (i was 15) however im immature even now: P lol. Many players are 25 - 35, 
 and the games features are all rather advanced, including tax, market inflation, and fomulas in 
 terms of for example 'how much damage you do with a damage mod of 1.25 and damage from ammo of 
 25 Thermal damage".
  I wont go into all that:)
  
  Now im going to leave it there, as if its too long you guys wont read it, however if your reading 
 this you already have read it lol. But eve is perfect. Its slow paced, if thats what you decide 
 to do. Its fast paced if thats what you want to do. Its boring if you want it to be. But theres 
 so much to make it entertaining for YEARS!.
  
  Those that say "it took 7.5 mins on autopilot to do a mission". I dont do missions! yes they are 
 repetitive! Go do PvP. Each battle is different, and when your in a fleet of 100+ battleships, 
 all 100s of metres long, doing amazing damage, then the game gets fast.
  
  I recommend this game for all. It may not appeal to all, but it sure will grow on everyone, if 
 you do what you want to. Grab a corp, and do what you want:)
  This game has everything a person needs. and i mean everything. Theres so much room for expansion, 
 its unbelievable. And even a new player can kick ass!!!! You dont need to be a veteran to be good.
 
  
  If anyone wants a free trial, send me a mail, and ill send you one. And for those already in-game, 
 contact me in game with my characters name : Waxau
  
  This game is amazing, and dont listen to those that play for 2 hours. Listen to those that have 
 been through all the patches, the downtimes, been thru the bugs, and the mishaps. Even with the 
 few there have been, eve is still uncomparable to all other MMORPG
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ventus000
Rating: 2.2
Date: Feb 15, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  Here is an example of how MIND-NUMBINGLY SLOW this game is.
  
  The time it takes to do a single military mission to simply drop off supplies from one solar system 
 to another that is 4 jumps away will take 7.5 mins on autopilot. (with you doing nothing)
  
  You set auto pilot and hit go. and It 
  warps (40 secs) , towards gate (30 secs) , jumps 1st 
 system (20 sec) , 
  warps (40 secs) , towards gate (30 secs) , jumps 2nd system (20 sec)
  warps (40 secs) , towards gate (30 secs) , jumps 3rd system (20 sec)
  warps (40 secs) , towards gate 
 (30 secs) , jumps 4th system (20 sec)
  Then drops out of auto pilot you set it off again then it takes another (40 sec) warp to station 
 & (50 sec) to dock at station.
  
  You arrive, 2 clicks drops the cargo then you set off on that existing 7.5 minute journey back 
 to the solar system 4 nodes back where you came from. WTF!!!!
  
  I won't go into the game and how else it could be improved, the simple fact they SCREW UP this 
 bad on the SLOW game play is beyond belief. If they speed the game up 4 times its current speed 
 it would be quite playable i'm sure but at its EXTREMELY SLOW current rate of play you need to 
 have the brain speed of a 60 year old to handle it.
  
  If you buy this game, buy some big novels to go with it cause you'll spend more time reading your 
 book waiting on auto pilot than you will playing the game.
  
  Matt
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsichoDM
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 9, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  The current GameSpot review is dated 2003 and honestly so many things changed during these three 
 years that it is totally outdated. So many additions were made, a few expansions released, and 
 the community grew to be huge and extremely dedicated.
  
  I tried all sorts of MMOPRGS during my gamer career, games like UOL, Everquest, DAoC, AO, EQ2, 
 WoW, GuildWars, Neocron, Planetside and many others, but none could get even close to the adrenalin 
 that EVE gives me. Maybe UOL pvp and being the first explorer of a new region in EQ was somehow 
 similar, but EVE is the ultimate experience in terms of MMOPRGS.
  
  EVE has a slow start, and most players feel incredibly intimidated by the options one's given at 
 the beginning. As soon as one joins a corproration things get clear though. Choose an initial path 
 towards making money, and work on it. Once you get sufficient money, buy ships and items and do 
 something else, like agent missions, npcing or pvp.
  
  PVP is all EVE is about. NPCing is extremely weak in this game for the simple reason that it's 
 not an integral part of the game. It's not WoW or any other standard fantasy MMORPG where the player 
 is forced to grind through hordes of AI-driven enemies to get anywhere. Training is time based 
 and playing more doesn't make you more experienced than other players. Certainly you gain experience 
 as a player, but not as a character.
  
  As I was saying, pvp is all this game is about. The system of corporations and alliances in this 
 game is incredibly powerful and recreates the real experience of politics, propaganda, ideological 
 conflict and warfare. Fights last less than a minute and once you die, you lose your ship and all 
 the items that were on it, and the insurance policy is very dry. This is why the pvp aspect is 
 so intense: one is terribly afraid of dying because it involves so much loss (unless you're rich) 
 that it is extremely adrenalinic. One can hunt, be a mercenary, be a terrorist, be a noble fleet 
 warrior, be a lonely wolf looking for a prey, or a pirate ransoming poor fresh blood.
  
  It's a game about choice, about cooperating with other players. It's a game about an extremely 
 mature community (I know of very few players under 20) , about politics and making good good decisions. 
 It's a game about fame, success and furious combat. It's a game for the elite, but it doesn't mean 
 you have to play 10 hours a day to be competitive. There was time when I used to log of once a 
 week just to renew skill trainig, and I was still in the strongest corporation in the game. The 
 biggest alliance ever was created by a leader who wouldn't even log into the game but would work 
 on propaganda through forums. How games out there are that realistic and rely on human factor like 
 EVE does?
  
  Love it or hate it, this MMORPG is the best massive online experience today's market has to offer, 
 and it is a fact. Check out www. mmorpg. com if you don't believe me. EVE won against WoW and other 
 giants even if its population is 1/100 of theirs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 31, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  I started playing this game as I have always loved space based simulations going right back to 
 Elite on my Commodore 64.
  
  A friend told me about it and I thought, why not, lets give it a go. I started out by creating 
 a Caldari and tried to get to grips with everything that was on offer.
  
  Now, I was lucky when I first started playing, I was approached by some good players and asked 
 to join their Corporation straight away as they were on a recruitment drive. They helped me with 
 everything from money to how the game plays and what the best tactics are for any given situation.
 
  
  If I had not had this help, I think that I would not have stuck at it as long as I did to be honest. 
 There really is so much that you can do, sometimes you just don't know where to start.
  
  I opted to work towards becoming a miner and trained my character accordingly. But you can opt 
 for other ways of making money. Pirates are always good fun to play, praying on the unwary as they 
 pass through your space. Or how about builders, harvesting resources and blue prints so that you 
 can make items and ships and sell them for profit.
  
  Then there is the size of the galaxy that you can roam around, it is huge and for me one of the 
 worst bits, it takes absolutely ages to get anywhere and you have to watch the journey in case 
 you get attacked by pirates on the way.
  
  Combat is always fast and exciting and the PvP element just adds to it. This is one of the few 
 games where my heart beats faster when I am fighting.
  
  So, all in all this is not too bad a game. There are many fine points to it but they have their 
 equal share of bad points which is why I no longer play.
  
  But it is constantly evolving so maybe I will return one day in the future and give it another 
 try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowgrey
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 27, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  EVE: The Second Genesis is pretty much the MMOG that I would have created if I had the time and 
 the financial backing to do so. Like other MMOGs, you need a significant amount of time and financial 
 backing to play it, let alone make it. 
  
  That said, its a very clever game, with much of the detail and finesse (and fun) reserved for those 
 who have already invested a year or more into character development, relationship building and 
 plain-old in-game grunt work (POIGGW) . Man I love acronyms. 
  
  Gameplay
  
  Lets start with a synopsis of why youre here: humans had colonized the far reaches of the galaxy 
 before discovering a wormhole that allowed colonization in the outer reaches of the universe. Fearing 
 that the wormhole would collapse (which it did) , scientists constructed an artificial portal for 
 intergalactic travel. Cataclysmically, an unexplained phenomenon rendered the manmade portal inoperable, 
 abandoning thousands of remote settlements and forcing them to fend for themselves. After thousands 
 of years of isolation, five distinct factions emerged, each with unique evolutionary traits.
  
  This is where the game begins, with the player creating his/her character based on these five 
 factions. Its not just a simple selection, though, where you pick "aggressive merchant" and go 
 about your business. Instead, this is one of the deepest character-creation systems Ive ever seen, 
 which gives you a good indicator of just how deep the rest of the game will be.
  
  First you determine your race, which will start you off with certain strengths and weaknesses depending 
 on the traits of that faction. Then comes your ancestry, which further specifies the skills at 
 which you will excel, followed by the school you want to attend, your department, your chosen field 
 and the specialties you want your character to have. Youll want to read up on each option before 
 creating your character, because your choices will have an impact on how you interact with the 
 games persistent universe. As a result, you can expect to spend at least 20 minutes customizing 
 your traits. I spent 35 minutes myself, and thats not counting the massive graphical customization, 
 which Ill talk about below.
  
  With your character created, its time to begin your life in space. And I really do mean begin 
 your life. As you might expect from all the customization above, EVE Online offers innumerable 
 career paths and ways to spend your days. Unlike Freelancer, which offered an admirable array of 
 story-based and open-ended missions, EVE Online opens the entire universe of employment options, 
 from the most mundane to the eerily exotic. Work for a corporation, run errands for Agents, start 
 your own company, draft and sell exclusive blueprints, pirate others ships or mine asteroids for 
 a living that would make Fred Flintstone proud. If theres a job you imagine might be useful in 
 space, you can do it in EVE Online.
  
  Ironically, though, therein lies the biggest obstacle for mainstream players: EVE Online may be 
 too big. Crowd Control Productions has hands-down created the largest, most dynamic and interactive 
 version of space Ive ever seen, and not just in scale. Sure, it can take players several real-time 
 hours to traverse from one solar system to the next, and that might be too slow for some players. 
 But the kicker is the utter reality of EVEs universe, in which every player starts on the bottom 
 rung, where it can take upwards of a week to get to a point where you really start to have fun. 
 I doubt most gamers will want to mine asteroids, refine the minerals, make something useful, rinse 
 and repeat for seven days, but thats precisely what EVE Online necessitates. Like any RPG, once 
 you build up your characters skills and equipment the game gets exponentially more enjoyable and 
 engaging. But seven days to find the joy? Thats a little extreme.
  
  Fortunately, since this is basically a life simulator in space, you can speed up the process by 
 allying with computer- and player-created corporations - yes, player-created corporations. For 
 example, while several of you mine asteroids, several real-life players across the globe who happen 
 to have larger ships can transport the minerals to a spaceport for refining, which gives everyone 
 in the corporation some financial and technological benefits that would take you literally weeks 
 to realize individually. This is a fantastic example of EVEs realistic universe, but if you feel 
 like a cog in the wheel in your "real life" job, why would you want to repeat that pattern in a 
 video game?
  
  With that said, EVE clearly blurs the lines between whats real and whats virtual. Aside from 
 the number of careers and focus on real-time teamwork, the dynamic markets mimic real-life so authentically 
 that the EVE economy borders on frightening. Spaceport markets actually fluctuate based upon players 
 supply and demand. Also, training your character to learn new skills (EVEs version of "leveling 
 up") takes place in real-time, so if a skill takes 36 hours to learn, it really will take 36 hours 
 to learn. Rest assured that your character will "study" even when youre logged off, though, so 
 its best to learn time-intensive skills when youre not going to play for a couple of days. Especially 
 when you can only learn one new skill at a time.
  
  EVE Online is very menu-driven and in fact controls similarly to your standard Windows session, 
 a strict departure from the action-driven controls in Freelancer. There is no throttle or brake 
 for your ship; you double-click on a location to fly to it. There is no option to manually unload 
 items to the market; you drag them from your cargo menu to the market menu. There is no real-time 
 shoot button; you click a ship with your mouse to attack it and watch the scene play out, with 
 the victor determined by statistics. The commands even have their own windows that can be minimized, 
 closed and re-opened, which youll quickly appreciate for clearing your interface of the obstacles 
 blocking your view of the games fantastic graphics. 
  
  Graphics
  
  Regardless of whether EVE Online makes you want to actually live in space, youd better believe 
 that its graphics will make you want to at least visit for a few weeks. This game is, in a word, 
 gorgeous. From colorful nebulae to detailed ships to swirling wormholes, the graphics in EVE Online 
 rank among the best Ive seen in any PC game, online or off. But the fact that theyre this consistently 
 detailed in an MMORPG that spans millions of scale miles speaks volumes for the work that went 
 into making EVE as believable an experience as possible.
  
  The game even includes little details like asteroids that pick up the glow from your lasers as 
 you mine them for minerals. Or debris that careens by your ship in space. Or small flames that 
 emit from certain spaceports trajectory systems. The character-creation process is probably the 
 best indication of the detail-minded developers, though.
  
  Every customization option, from cheekbone height to eye color to head shape to your orientation 
 in the mugshot, is completely determined by the player. If theres a disappointment in these details, 
 its that outside of the time you spend creating your character, you wont really see your avatar 
 again, and theres no guarantee that other players will, since they can turn off the view-mugshot 
 option. I wouldnt go so far as to call the process a waste of time, since youll enjoy knowing 
 what you look like, but it wouldve been nice to showcase your characters face more often.
  
  Sound
  
  There really isnt much sound in EVE Online, but whats there is done well. The 
 soundtrack is appropriately ethereal, the warp-speed sounds are believable, and the distant bustle 
 in the spaceports helps immerse you in the market experience. The game also has a jukebox that 
 allows you to switch between music, but I honestly cant see why you would. The music is fine as 
 it is.
  
  Replayability
  
  Do you go to work every day? Probably. Consequently, youll probably replay EVE Online as often 
 as you replay your daily real-life routines. Well, presuming you have the patience to guide your 
 character from wet-behind-the-ears miner to a more enjoyable "adulthood," that is. EVE truly is 
 a life simulator, albeit in space, so if youre married, do your spouse a favor and make sure you 
 limit your playing time. I wont be responsible for your neglecting of daily chores. Like bathing.
 
  
  Overall
  
  EVE Online is the most ambitious title Ive ever "played." Technologically, its hard to beat this 
 game. With the most expansive universe this side of, well, the universe, a dynamic economy and 
 a limitless choice of careers, this "life sim" is both astounding and frightening. My only worry 
 is that it might be a little "too" real and too involved for its own good. I have a feeling that 
 EVE Online is going to be a game that only the hardest of the hardcore will give the time it needs 
 to show its promise. But for those players patient enough to let EVE unfold before them, a truly 
 awe-inspiring experience awaits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwissCamel
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 26, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  All I can say is thank God for the free trial. There is nothing inherently wrong with this game, 
 it looks great, has some good voice acting etc etc but I don't know if it's just me or not, but 
 the tutorial was the single most boring aspect of any game I think could ever have possibly been 
 imagined. The dull droning voice, the endless list of commands. Argh!
  
  It's a bit like Freelancer in space I guess, the economy is fairly good and nothing about the game 
 is terrible I just found it difficult to enjoy. It's rather complicated, needlessly in my opinion, 
 but then I guess it's aimed at people wanting a more complex gaming experience. As with lots of 
 games, difficult to put your finger on, but it's just average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rosengj
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 19, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  Yes, it is true that in the first few months after the game release in 2003 there were parts of 
 the game incomplete and buggy. Those problems were cleaned up by the second release (Second Genesis) 
 and the most recent content update, Red Moon Rising, is setting up an all-out war between the four 
 empires. 
  
  This game is set to become seriously great this summer, and with the next content change (we are 
 thinking October-November) this will without any doubt be the best game there is, or ever has been.
 
  
  Look, no one is using Everquest reviews from its first months of existence anymore, so please do 
 not judge EVE-ONLINE on its first reviews either!
  
  This game does not advertise, barely gets promoted and I have only seen one magazine article ever, 
 back in 2003. Its like a secret, this game.
  
  Now, if you need cheats and fixes to play a game, then EVE is not for you. This is a seriously 
 hard game. You do not get a battleship without many months of effort. Anyone 'buying' their way 
 is is sure to be confused and disappointed. This is a good thing! 
  
  This game is really an intelligence and memory test. The game is so undocumented that when you 
 figure out how something works (like setting up a Player-Owned Structire, a space station) the 
 last thing you want to do is share that info! That is your competitive edge!
  
  Bottom line: anyone who likes to cheat, use codes or shportcuts, will not like this game. It rewards 
 honest effort and punishes stupidity with resoundingly immediate pitfalls.
  
  Please, do not try this game if you do not have lots of patience and intelligence. If you do try 
 it and it is too hard for you, do not go whining that there is something deficient abou the game... 
 its YOU!
  
  Just do not bad mouth the game's difficulties bu telling people its bad design: its GOOD design 
 to keep the weak and feeble-minded away!
  
  If you do get in the game, look me up in-game as ARAMIS ROSICRUX. If you're real sharp and patient, 
 I might ask you to join my elite corp. If not, I will still offer advice and hints. In any event, 
 do not go solo, you need team support to play this game! Join a player-based corp as soon as you 
 can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noxxi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 17, 2006 2:41 am PT
Review:  The game has around 100.000 subscribers. 18.000-23.000 people playing the game normally. CCP has 
 bought AMD 64 bit blade servers, that will put EVE on the top 500 supercomputers in the world and 
 it will be the first game related computer on that list.
  
  I played in the beta test and I've been playing since it came out. The game has come a far way 
 from where it started. Mining was the only way to make money.
  
  Don't like to mine or manufacture? Work for agents. Scout the belts for npc pirates and kill them 
 for the bounty and the loot. Don't like that? Become a pirate, ransom industrial ships and other 
 players or just destroy them. If that's not thrilling enough join an alliance where wars are regular 
 thing and fleet battles last for hours.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwcjackal
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 12, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Iv played a good far few of these games and been let down by games by most of them that promise 
 so much but offer so little , case in point "star wars galaxies" of which im am a 2 year vet off 
 (retired) . its a good example of what not to do when developing a game that you have to pay to 
 play. So it refreshing to find a game that sticks to it roots and more importantly that pays attention 
 and listens to its players.
  
  As for the game it self is it impressive , the graphics are sharp and just pure eye candy with 
 a huge galaxy to explore that would take you a week to get from one end to the other. The game 
 play look a bit a daunting with all the skills , ships ect at first but it really dose not take 
 all that long until you are flying around like you have been doing it for years. And if you need 
 to ask a question the community are always friendly and ready to help. So try out the 14 day trail 
 that you can get on there site and you soon be hooked as many of us have add to that its one of 
 the cheapest MMORPGS out there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lardarz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 10, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  Eve Online is not a game.
  
  It is another life.
  
  This is unlike any other massively multiplayer game out there. It redefines what 'massively' means, 
 with 22000 players online, on the same server, at the same time.
  
  I have been playing this since its retail release in 2003 and have tried many other MMORPGS and 
 keep coming back.
  
  Eve does not have 'quests' or an enormous amount of NPC driven story.
  Eve is about players coming 
 together in huge alliances (200+ players) and claiming and holding regions.
  
  There is a real death penalty - with a fully fitted top end ship and skill implants you stand to 
 lose about 3 weeks worth of currency value if you get killed by another player. This makes PVP 
 intensely rewarding and gives a real adrenaline rush unlike anything I have ever experienced online. 
 You can actually cause severe damage to other players and make them think twice about confronting 
 you again. It is a game about power, both military and economical, and there is plenty to keep 
 the non-PVP oriented players happy too, despite there not really being much choice about whether 
 you engage in PVP or not if you choose to venture into non-secure space.
  
  It is about teamwork, if you like a massively single player RPG then Eve is not for you.
  
 
  Graphics have been radically overhauled recently and keep Eve at the top for visuals too, same 
 goes for the interface and engine.
  
  Above all, all the patches and new content is free.
  There have been at least 3 major content 
 updates since the original gamespot review of this, updates that the makers of Everquest or WoW 
 would have charged 30+ for.
  
  I am not a fanboi, I have been frustrated at times by Eve and tried other games but there is absolutely 
 no other game like this and I keep coming back. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: siiixon
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 10, 2006 4:56 am PT
Review:  the entire game is NOT designed for fun game play but simply ripping off gamers , still because 
 its addictive to do the same task over and over again , and because a lot of games hope they make 
 a living selling virtual money and items on eBay game still alive, its $15/mo, and interface is 
 terrible, its far to complex but not in a good way, just even the tutorial is like torture, anything 
 you want to do take hours, and that exactly what the game makers wanted; a game you sit and barely 
 accomplish anything so you keep paying the $15/mo service charge
  
  large universe ? Beautiful graphic ? Yes, but thats all it has to offer
  even that did you notice 
 that on the website the pictures are far better quality then the actual game has ?! And the moving 
 of items is not as good as it could been, I saw games with far better vector movement calculations
 
  
  for $15/mo this game sucks terribly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHasselhoff
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 4, 2006 12:59 am PT
Review:  I was an EvE Online player for about two months, and in that time achieved my long-time dream of 
 obtaining a Raven-class Battleship with Torpedo launchers dangling from the wings. Then it struck 
 me: after spending all of that time - most of it away from the computer, thanks to the 24-hour 
 training that I will describe later - there wasn't a whole lot to DO. My hopes grew when I heard 
 about Second Genesis. It's just a shame it was such a disappointment.
  
  A lot of reviewers have talked about how, to EvE's credit, the graphics and sound are up to par 
 with what is to be expected from a game you are made to pay for monthly. The problem is that, outside 
 of the pretty eye-candy and the vast expanses of desolate space you spend a good amount of your 
 time warping through, the "missions" are still as mundane as ever, and not that much has been improved 
 at all. Early skills are still a waste of time, and the audio still hosts more bugs than a rotting 
 corpse in the middle of summer. 
  
  The development staff for EvE seem to think that it is enough that an MMORPG be different from 
 all others. This is important, yes, but that doesn't mean that it can lack any real sense of environment 
 and become mind-numbingly dull, and then use "we're different" as an excuse. After a few dozen 
 missions of killing Mr. X and delivering the supplies to Station Y, or the even edgier "kill waves 
 of Enemy X to obtain Object Y" you are pretty much ready to log off and let the 24-hour training 
 (training skills whether you are online or not) take over for you. The fun stops when you find 
 a skill of actual use takes 31 days to train.
  
  EvE was obviously rushed, and the massive amounts of 0.0 (no police, PvP) space that is meant to 
 convey the untamed nature of the universe just ends up looking like so much empty space that could 
 have been filled with some interesting content for group-based mission objectives. Just like landing 
 on the moon, after doing it long enough, you just aren't interested in seeing the same stuff any 
 longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 605SV24
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 21, 2005 4:04 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games iv'e played, been playing it for almost 1,5 years now. The best thing 
 about it is that there is almost no limitations, if you want to be either a space pirate, a trader, 
 a miner or just a mission runner for the numerous agents, it's all up to you. One more thing that 
 adds depth to the game is the player-run markets, manufacture and sell your own items, ships and 
 such and try to make a bargain on minerals and blueprints to make yourself a fortune. Add stunningly 
 beautiful graphics to the whole and your'e there. Recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanmin
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 15, 2005 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I don't blame Gamespot for overlooking this game. I did too, two years ago. But I tried it again 
 3 months ago and now I beat myself up for not doing so earlier. This is the most in-depth 'game' 
 one will ever find. 
  
  Eve defies all genres, but a 'paralel unniverse' is as close a definition as I'll ever be able 
 to find. As we speak there are currently players who have formed 2000-man strong alliances, and 
 control in-game corporations complete with security details, mining operation, trading fleet and 
 contruction fields - all operated and 'played' by real life individuals.
  
  Eve has one server. That's it. All 19,000 simultaneous (yes!) players share one universe, and Eve, 
 just like real life, doesn't hold you by the hand - instead it leaves you to your own means and 
 it's up to you to make something out of it. 
  
  And God knows there is so much to do in Eve - so much in fact that there is no 'end game'. WoW 
 it isn't - last time I checked, learning all the ingame skills would easily take 3 real-life years. 
 
  
  And again, unlike WoW, it has a brilliant community of mature individuals that will help you and 
 guide you in-game. Most players I've met are 25+ years of age, so no l33t sp3ak in this game, thank 
 you very much. A definitive plus in my book.
  
  The Gamespot reviewer mistake was to look at one aspect of the game, solo mining, and stop there 
 - expecting some form of immediate reward. But there is no 'sword of pawnag3' in EVE, and not everyone 
 is a hero in a shining armour overnight. Again, just like real life. So when you get that ship 
 upgrade, or that rumor on what sells in a region, it's all the more rewarding and exciting.
  
  From the screenshots it's obvious he didn't go very far at all - just like in real life one 
 wouldn't go very far with a pix axe and a rock. If he only had tried to team up with other players, 
 he could have had a lot more fun (and a lot more in-game money!) .
  
  That's it for me. There's a free trial (no strings attached, no cc required) that I urge you to 
 have a look at. First thing you should do is open a chat window and hit 'rookie help'. You'll be 
 right at home.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeciniaLua
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2005 4:15 am PT
Review:  I downloaded the 14 day trial account when a friend sent me an invite. I played for only 2 days 
 and knew I was hooked and so I signed up for a full subscription.
  
  I'm still learning but this is a great game. It is a thinking game :) .
  
  The graphics are 
 absolutely stunning. I mean my spaceship even has little running lights on it. Space is expansive. 
 A friend had me do another test of the graphics, when docked, zoom out then move around and look 
 at the hangars, some have exhaust vents, some have signs, but there is incredible detail.
  
  The music is a good compliment to the graphics. It is soothing and calming. Special effect 
 sounds are as you might expect in sci fi. They are of very good quality, on par with work done 
 by Industrial Light and Magic I think.
  
  The tutorial is really good and teaches you a lot of basics, but there is so much more to learn. 
 I would recommend anyone trying the trial to get into the Rookie Help channel. It is a great place 
 to learn stuff. You can be in Rookie Help for your trial plus 30 days. 
  
  But you aren't left without help after that, there is a normal help channel too.
  
  Most of 
 the players are really good about answering your questions if for some reason no one else answers 
 they have mods on duty most of the time to answer questions, the mods do several channels at once 
 so might take him/her a moment to answer, but you can tell a mod because their typing will be teal 
 in color in the help channels.
  
  Another cool thing is that the big expansions are free. Yes I said free. They consider it part 
 of your subscription, so everyone gets them without paying more. The big expansions seem to come 
 about twice a year on average so far from the looks of the forums, the newest one is going live 
 as I type this, Red Moon Rising.
  
  Learning skills is a bit slower and different than most MMORPGs. You have no limit to the number 
 of skills you can learn. However you have only a certain number of starting skills. From here you 
 can buy books on the market to learn new skills. Once you use the book to learn a skill at level 
 1 you can continue to learn that skill up to its max of level 5 without additional books. Each 
 level in a skill takes time to learn. I think the estimates are about 4 to 4.5 years to learn absolutely 
 everything ( however with each expansion that gets higher) .
  
  In 3 days I've gotten enough skills to be making good money mining asteroids. I'm not saying super 
 money, but it is pretty good money. I'm mostly in the safe security zones ( I mine mostly in a 
 .9 system ) . I can fill my cargo hold in about 5 minutes. In 10 trips I can make a couple hundred 
 thousand of ISK. 
  
  I've also learned enough skills to do some level 1 combat missions reasonably well.
  
  I also 
 run a lot of courier missions. I've had to go into the low sec sectors on these ( less than .5 
 ) . But I've not gotten killed yet on those.
  
  Anyway I'm having a blast, it is an excellent complex game that I enjoy. It has stuff for those 
 that don't like combat, as well as those that do like combat. There is also a lot of PVP in the 
 0.0 to 0.4 Secure Systems. PVP in the .5 to 1.0 systems is very dangerous as the NPC arm of the 
 law ConCord will get you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rlineker
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 14, 2005 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Preamble:
  
  Having played Eve for four months now I have to say it's only getting better and better. The continuous 
 advancement based on time as opposed to skill levels really does work and gives a very immersive 
 feeling of realism and continuation. Before reviewing in detail, I will say this: I highly recommend 
 this title to any advanced MMORPG player who is tired of max'ing out on skills and power and wants 
 to test there mental powers against other players... the best PvP out there.
  
  Gameplay and General:
  
  Eve takes place in the far distant future in a universe populated 
 by Earth pioneers that got stranded as a wormhole closed. There is tons 'n tons of backstory on 
 the Eve website (www. eve-online. com) if you want deeper background details. 
  
  You play a character from one of four races and your game objecives are entirely up to you - choose 
 any profession you like and train your skills accordingly. Any character can learn any skill... 
 eventually. There is no holding you back in this game due to racial or vocational choices - flexibility 
 is embraced and given to you to explore. Common professions include: Industrialist; Trader; Miner; 
 Pirate; Mercenary. The best is to train up the skills to do one of these professions reasonably 
 well and then start generalising into other vocations. Here's the best part: It's pretty nigh on 
 impossible to max-out on all the skills in your natural lifetime - this game is HUGE. 
  
  You will always see the 'world' fom the point of view of your spaceship in third person. There 
 are no joystick skills to master here since you are hardwired to the ship via your lifepod in which 
 you permanently reside. The amount of ships available is vast and with free expansions to the game 
 every 6 months or so they always add new content. In any event, the set-up possibilities are unlimited 
 and play a very large part in combat and industrial strategy. As you learn more advanced starship 
 skills you can fly bigger and better ships - but remember to train the complimentary skills too 
 - it's all good and well having a Raven Battleship but if you can't outfit i properly you'll be 
 toast before you know it.
  
  The game economy is run by players and all the best items and ships are player built and researched. 
 It all starts with mining asteroids for the raw materials, acquiring and researching blueprints, 
 and then combining components to form finished goods. Yes folks, we're talking teamwork; in the 
 form of player corporations. I recommend you try join a large player corp as soon as possible after 
 you join the game - you can fly solo but it'll be slow going and you'll be targeted by other players... 
 but more about that in...
  
  PvP:
  
  This game is ulimately about PvP; maybe more correctly CvC (corp vs corp) . Since you're all after 
 the same resources and sovereignty in space, war is inevitable and common. This is normally the 
 part where new players start complaining but no need to worry: each of Eve's 3000+ solarsystems 
 are rated with a security rating of 0.0 to 1.0. Players may not aggress each other in 0.5-1.0 space 
 without receiving the ire of the all-powerful CONCORDE (police) who will always comprehensively 
 destroy the wrong-doers. In 0.0-0.4 space PvP is commonplace and enjoyed by most. Also, of course, 
 the best resources ar in low-sec space so at some point every player ventures out...
  
  Summary
  
  Visit the website and read the stuff there before you buy. Even better - you can 
 get a free 14 day trial right here on Gamespot :) Once again: this game is HUGE. Get in!
  
  The Boring Stuff:
  
  It costs 10/month to play. You need a windows powered PC with a fairly 
 decent graphics card (128mb+) and a good sound card is highly recommended. You can play on a 56k 
 modem without any problems but you'll die on patch days when those 200mb+ patches are deployed. 
 The servers are very stable and every single player is on the same shard - averaging about 18,000 
 players at any time as of December 2005. There are 80,000+ active subscribers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TigerLord
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 14, 2005 4:30 pm PT
Review:  EVE Online has come a long way since its first days . Exodus, Cold War, and finally, tomorow the 
 new expansion: Red Moon Rising, including 39 new ships, like the Titans, Motherships, Carriers, 
 special T2 Mining Barges and many more... EVE is in for a threat !
  
  First, forget Gamespot's review. The game has evolved so much since then, it isn't the same at 
 all. You have to consider this though before anything else: this game isn't meant for powergamers. 
 EVE is built on a skill system. Unlike other MMORPG where you have to train (grind XP by killing 
 NPC/creatures to get new skills) EVE works with a training system. Each skill is ranked from 1-5, 
 and the rank determines how long it takes to train it. For example, a rank 1 skill will take 30minutes 
 train to level 1, 1h30 to level 2, 3h30 to level 3, 1d15h to level 4, and usually 7d15h to level 
 5. You multiply each time required per level by the rank. I'm uncertain as of the basic learning 
 time (you can buy implants and train skill that will reduce learning time) , but a rank 4 skill 
 will take about 30 days to train to level 5. Yes, it's long ! However, those skills train 24/7. 
 You only have to be there when the one you're training is over, as there are no queuing system. 
 It's a great system for those who do not have time to play a lot. This means every hour your make 
 your character better ! No lost time !
  
  Of course variety isn't left aside here. Four races (each race has bonuses to particular aspects 
 in the game) , many, many ships, many professions possibilities. The profession you take (mining, combat, pirating, etc) 
 is mainly influenced by your skill learning path. The great thing is, there are NO limits to how 
 many skill you can learn, which means if you change your mind, you can go in a completely different 
 way and lose no progress at all. Veteran players are of course advantaged by this. The most popular 
 professions are those I mentionned before: pirating (quite evil, involves you gunning people down 
 for their cargo and is quite lucrative, but dangerous, and not at reach for newbies) . Mining is 
 lucrative but can be boring, and combat is incredibly fun !
  
  There are only one server for EVE, where at peak times, 19K players play at the same time (the 
 19K peak record was beaten only yesterday) . This is a lot of players in one game, but suprinsingly 
 enought, it doesn't lag that much, as CCP is always upgrading their server. EVE's community is 
 probably the best MMORPG community I have experienced. Very helpful and nice folks in general ! 
 The fun of EVE starts when you join a Corporation (there are many out there: look in recruiting 
 forum on the official boards at www. eve-online. com) and start mining in group or doing missions 
 in groups. Seeing 5 ships warp together and upon their exit of the warp bubble seeing a group of 
 25 missiles launch from the group is a very nice effect ! You feel like in Star Wars :) Corporations 
 will help you get around and probably donate a little ISK (the currency in EVE) to get you up on 
 your feet . This is truly a must to enjoy the EVE experience at its best.
  
  Graphics are of course pure eye-candy. Warp effects, explosions, space and ship texture and CGI... 
 all very, very well done. Audio I find it to be annoying (nothing special there, except the big 
 booms... VERY Satisfying :) )
  Gameplay is quite easy. Point and click and the ship will execute (this is no realtime action, 
 meaning you can't dogfight with your joystick) . The value of this game is almost infinite... you 
 can do missions all day, go after bounties all day, mine all day... there is no much you cannot 
 do !!! The potential here is really huge, albite quite repetitive sometimes... mining will get 
 boring really quickly, and missions are only worth doing alone from lvl 2, which requires a solid 
 cruiser (probably 2-3 weeks of playing, training and acquiring ISK) . 
  
  All-in-all EVE is a great game with an aweosme community, with good eye-candy and solid gameplay. 
 It won't leave you this feeling of guilt because you didn't have time to play for the entire month 
 although you paid the 14$ ... EVE trains 24/7, which is great ! Sometimes you will wish that it 
 trains faster, but seeing how the market is lacking good space sims (which is why I joined EVE 
 on the first place) , EVE is a great game for any space sim fans. With the very recent addition 
 of titans, carriers and motherships, fleet combat has reached a completely new level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sahalanthropus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2005 10:04 pm PT
Review:  I mean it about cooperative game play. The high end toys can only be unlocked and used by large 
 organizations who have the logistics in place to operate and protect them -- we're talking SPACE 
 STATIONS here. Be part of an interstellar corporation looking to grab some free space -- and grab 
 it from someone else! Or join an rp corp helping to guide the NPC doings that help bring the universe 
 to life.
  
  But to unlock the potential, be prepared to do it as part of a collective. You can be a successful 
 loner, as long as you don't care about owning a space station, or taking on the biggest and baddest 
 targets. The universe is wide open. No matter your starting character's traits, you can learn almost 
 any skill, you can pursue any profession. You can do ANYTHING, you just can't do EVERYTHING. If 
 you can figure out the difference, then you will do well with Eve.
  
  There is no grinding with Eve for skills, just for money, or NPC favors. There are those who like 
 to grind forever -- they may be mission runners looking to get a piece of the shiniest toys given 
 out by NPCs, or they may be miners with three accounts that singlehandedly build battleships every 
 week. Others may never grind -- maybe they are scouts for fleets of budding Empires, or hard core 
 pvpers who buy the ships that the miners build. Others sail through several thousand star systems 
 trading goods from one region to another, moving cargo around (great for students working on term 
 papers!) .
  
  Eve is not for everyone -- it is not mass market like Everquest or WoW, and it never will be. But 
 for those who like to build not things but organizations, for those who like more cerebral pasttimes, 
 who don't like linear game concepts, who can master the skill tree and can spot opportunities to 
 make more money and loves tweaking out their stuff just right for proper effect -- Eve is one of 
 the most perfect games out there. 
  
  If you like going around killing stuff everywhere you go, well, combat and pvp take place regularly, 
 but be prepared to do other things as well, at least in the beginning. My latest toons haven't 
 mined for a second, and I get by. But flexibility is key. As part of a larger organization, you 
 may have to strap on a few mining lasers or haul some minerals around. As a miner, you may have 
 to venture deep into hostile territory from time to time to get to the good stuff. It's possible 
 to almost never set foot in non pvp areas, and it is possible to never set foot in pvp areas, too. 
 But those who don't cross that line either way lose a big part of the game.
  
  There are a lot of reviews here, and I have to say that I have to agree with both the positive 
 and the negative reviews -- some people will find Eve an utter waste of time. Get a free trial, and 
 if two weeks doesn't hook ya, get out and appreciate the glory that is other games and the fact 
 that the lesson cost you nothing but some free time. If you are hooked, however, Eve will capture 
 your heart, and break it, and make you come crawling back for more. That is a promise.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NGRU_IRBIS
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 8, 2005 10:26 am PT
Review:  Like i say i like Gamspot move up and did one more visit to EvE , beacose you guys review at day 
 of release no more, there is totaly new game EVE Second genesis or i better say EVE : Cold War, 
 i dont remember in my memmory that there single MMORPG game that make more subrscribers after extension 
 then EVE, i would like say also there is no MMORPG game out there that have so many return customers 
 after big break from EVE pple actualy reactivating there acounts and with big pleasure stating 
 EVE all over againe.
  Yes my be at very beggining this game was about borring mining but that was history long forgotten 
 history and as of now there is thing to do for every body fighter, miner, explorer, builder, researcher 
 etc.
  Right now even newbaby's can jump in to the fight and find places ( thankks to CCP we have now 
 a lot of danger lurking around, all level danger ) where they rookies can fight pirates , collect 
 bountys, grab loot. If u dont like do this on your own will ok there hundreds of agents ( and you 
 getting more and more of them when you succesfuly comlete mission) who give you missions, missions 
 to kill, currier missions to cary some cargo across the galaxy, research missions to research Blue 
 prints, mining mission to bring needed minerals for production, manufacturing mission ta make module. 
 
  Other world EVE become so much more interesting then it was before, it beacome magness for all 
 sort of pple, of course there is danger lurking in space danger with face of player control pirates 
 but that huge part of the game it make EVE what it is today , it make life in EVE so much more 
 interesting , exiting and defently not boring. As of for graphics i think every single person who 
 see trailers ( trailers from EVE game play) and who may be make trail account and visit us in space 
 can agree EVE have best and i MEAN BEST!!!!! Graphics of this kind game outthere, phisics, effects, 
 music alll of this make EVE one of a kind game and very popular at as i see from how many players 
 playing in EVE right now, i dont think many games or any at all can proudly say our servers fill 
 with 12000-18000 players at same time olmost every day.
  I know probably no one from Gamespot will see this review but in case if any one see it, please 
 folks take your time and join EVE to see how much it changed and review this great game againe 
 6.6 rating you give EVE defenetly not rating this game deserve.
  thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabeticDude
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 6, 2005 8:59 am PT
Review:  EVE Online, a massively multiplayer star ship based role playing game (try saying that quickly!) , 
 is one of those games that you either absolutely love or absolutely hate, there is almost no 'middle 
 ground'. This is because EVE's biggest attribute also happens to be its biggest downfall. That 
 attribute is of course the fact that it requires you to think (for those that are wondering, thinking 
 is where you use your brain to perform calculations) and it requires you to do so a bloody lot. 
 Almost nothing in EVE is simple, you learn that fact from the outset when you are presented with 
 the character creation screen where you must first pick a name and gender, then pick from four 
 races (Caldari, Amarr, Minmatar and Gallente) and then lastly from two possible bloodlines per 
 race. You then select which 'skills' you would like such as spaceship command, small projectile 
 turrets, basic mining, etc. These traits or skills all govern what kind of 'bonuses' you get. For 
 example, if I select 'small projectile turrets' I would get a slight bonus to the damage that any 
 small auto cannons (a type of small turret) fitted to my ship would do. Once past the character 
 creation process you are presented with your first ship (a small frigate dependent upon race) and 
 are given a very lengthy two hour tutorial on the very BASICS of the game. You are taught how to 
 equip gear such as weaponry, engines, shield 'modules', scanners, etc. onto your ship and then 
 taken through the basics of combat, mining and exploration. This tutorial phase is optional in 
 the fact that you can skip it, but if you do skip it then chances are the first thing that you 
 say to another player is WTF does that button do?. The tutorial deliberately leaves out mentioning 
 things that are extremely important in playing the game but are complex to understand at first, 
 things such as weapon falloff ranges, tracking speed, inertia modifiers, damage types (kinetics, 
 electromagnetic, thermal, explosive, etc.) and scanning (the most complex part of the game in my 
 opinion) . Not only that but thats just a SMALL selection of the things that the tutorial misses 
 out! This game is definitely not for those whom don't have a lot of patience and time on their 
 hands.
  
  Anyways, its about time I explained exactly what EVE is all about. Basically the world of EVE is 
 a massive multiplayer galaxy populated with thousands of players (18,000 is the current record 
 for concurrent players) where almost anything is possible. You name it, you can probably do it. 
 Heres just a short list of some of the popular 'past-times'.
  
  * Combat: Fight your enemies (both AI and player controlled) alone or with a fleet of allied warships 
 at your back! Corporation wars and the fleet battles that ultimately follow are some of the most 
 visually impressive things in the amazing world of EVE (no one can deny that watching scores of 
 small and agile frigates trying to take down a group of battle ships, cruisers and dreadnoughts 
 isn't astounding) . 
  * Mining: Don't fancy fighting for your place in EVE history but do want to make a nice amount 
 of cash? Take up mining! Strip asteroids clean of their precious minerals/metals and sell the 'takings' 
 to factory owners and ship-wrights for them to use how they see fit.
  * Construction: Supply the galaxy with everything from 125mm cannons, shield hardeners and micro 
 warp drives all the way to gigantic star-bases!
  * Exploration: Take to the stars and explore the galaxy, who knows, maybe you'll find riches in 
 a distant asteroid belt or an abandoned space base. 
  * Piracy: Fancy being a devilish rogue? Take up piracy and ransom other players for permission 
 to pass through your 'turf'! 
  
  I myself enjoy doing a bit of everything depending on my mood, but my main past time is carrying 
 out seek and destroy missions for the Caldari State (one of the four major factions in the game) . 
 This ensures that I have a steady income and can concentrate on upgrading my ships components and 
 sub systems, it also means that eventually I'll be able to 'stash' away my trusty Blackbird class 
 cruiser and upgrade to a dreaded Ferox battle-cruiser (war in a metal hull basically) . It was also 
 my intention to start helping out the mining team of my Corporation (clan) but I have yet to get 
 around to it..... *yawn* mining sucks *yawn*. Anyways, you can probably see from the above list 
 that the possible play-styles in EVE are almost infinite. 
  
  Graphically EVE is not amazing in this modern gaming world, but neither is it bad looking. For 
 a game that was made in 2003 the engine is very 'pretty', all you need to do is check the Gamespot 
 screenshots to see that., just don't expect F. E. A. R style visuals. Effect wise everything is pretty 
 well done with things such as weapons fire and explosions dynamically lighting up the surrounding 
 area adding to the visual experience. The first time you witness a ship enter warp is also pretty 
 memorable thanks to the 'Stargate' style warp bubble it creates.
  
  Sound wise the game is what you would expect from a sci-fi game, with lasers making the trademark 
 *Zap* sound and cannons sounding like.... well, cannons. Your ships female sounding computer is 
 also quite a cool audio feature, although hearing Autopilot engaged for the fifteenth time in 
 five minutes gets quite annoying. One of the main gripes I have with EVE's sound is a glitch that 
 sometimes occurs where it sounds like your ship has just unloaded its missile bays even though 
 all you are doing is sitting in space with your engines off, scanning planetary belts for any hiding 
 pirates. This may however just be too do with my sound card drivers though, who knows *shrugs*. 
 
  
  Hmmm, explaining EVE in such a short review is nigh on impossible, especially for someone such 
 as I (still at school studying GCSE English! WOOT) . What else should I mention? Ahh yes, currently 
 the game is no where near as popular as other games of the MMO genre such as Everquest II or World 
 of Warcraft due to two reasons, one of which I mentioned earlier (the fact that this game requires 
 you to have a brain if you are going to play it) and the second fact that it was created by a relatively 
 unknown company; CCP Games. Currently the game has around 70,000 subscribers, which although not 
 a small number is no where near the number that a game such as WoW has, and that is such a shame 
 when you look at how good a game EVE is (and how bad a game WoW is!) . Numerous content upgrades 
 are also released every few months or so which further add to the fun of the game and make the 
 monthly subscription seem even more worthwhile. One such update that is just 'over the horizon' 
 is codenamed Kali and set to include planetary / close orbital flight, and a whole host of new 
 ship classes, weapon types, star systems and new game features. WOOT!
  
  So, if you have an interest in commanding your own starship or just enjoy playing complex MMORPGs 
 then I strongly suggest you give EVE Online a whirl, much has improved since Gamespot last reviewed 
 it in 2003 so please don't be put off by the 6.6 (fair) rating. 
  
  Also, if you play EVE and happen to like my review please feel free to wire a couple million ISK 
 my way, or you could be really nice and buy me a Ferox and a couple of 250mm rail-guns! 
  
  - Diabetic Dude of the Caldari, Chaos Knights corporation. Come visit us in the Antem system! 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4Goten
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 4, 2005 7:55 am PT
Review:  Just let me start by saying that I have been playing Eve Online for almost 2 years now and is the 
 only game I can see myself playing for another 2 years. Most of the planet is stuck on Warcraft, 
 I pitty them all. This game offers the player so many roles, directions, occupations, mods everything. 
 
  
  When you start the game you are immedtiatly hit the a storm of text and tutorials which sometimes 
 throughs players off the game early, almost did with me. Early on you will have to resort to minning 
 to gain money, but once you get going and find a good Corporation (like guilds) then you are well 
 on your way to becomming the best minner, fighter, bounty hunter, pirate... anything you want. Best 
 thing I love about Eve is the versatility about it, your ships can be kitted in so many differents 
 ways that player battles isnt about who is bigger or faster, but who is more intelligent.
  
  Graphics are crisp and polished and almost makes you feel sorry for the slacks that are looking 
 at Warcraft and other MMO games.
  Gameplay is amazing, theres so much freedom in this universe that it really is scary, the center 
 systems are policed but the further out you go you can go into non policed space which is were 
 all the fun happens. Speaking of the Eve universe it is enourmous, thousands of systems and each 
 system is massive.
  There is one single serber so you can have thousands and thousands of players all playing on the 
 same server which is something that other Online games havnt come close to doing.
  
  Overal this game has given me hours and hours of fun and frustration, but this is a must for any 
 sci fi fan or Onine gamer alike, you will not regret paying your monthly fee and you WILL get your 
 moneys worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chibi-acer
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 1, 2005 6:09 pm PT
Review:  EVE Online seems like a good idea at first, but it gets boring rather fast. Flying from place to 
 place generally takes a few minutes, during which you're pretty much flying on autopilot. If you're 
 a miner, once you finally reach your destination, you target an asteroid and click a mining button. 
 Then you watch as a laser beam lances out every couple of seconds. After a few minutes of this, 
 the asteroid will run out of resources, at which point you find another one and repeat the process 
 until your ship is full. Then you wait 5 minutes while you fly back to base to unload and make 
 some cash.
  
  After several trips like this, you buy a bigger ship, which you can then outfit with twice the 
 mining lasers. Yay.... zzzzz.
  
  Sadly, combat isn't much more exciting. You target an enemy ship, and attack, at which point you 
 automatically fly around one another while your weapons automatically discharge periodically at 
 each other. Eventually someone's shields will fail and someone explodes. Zzzz. There are different 
 kinds of weapons, and things like missiles, EMP, shield boosters and so on, but it's just not very 
 fun watching.
  
  In the end, there's just too much downtime in this game for me to find it enjoyable. It feels like 
 it mostly plays itself, with some occasional interaction required as you select the next destination, 
 target, or whatever. It's certainly pretty to watch, but not enough that I'd pay a monthly fee 
 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coronatus
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 26, 2005 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Let's start out with the graphics. They are top. The game manages to deploy awesome graphics without 
 being overly resource hungry. The sound? It's moody and fits the setting. Okay. With that said 
 let's look past the shiny sparkles.
  
  The game is trimmed to be very realistic. Imagine to be captain of a space ship in a far distant 
 future. Imagine you are a freighter captain. You dock on a station. You request docking permission. 
 You launch the auto computer which navigates your vessel into the station's docking bay. You turn 
 on all systems, then give your ship a thorough overhaul. Are its systems intact? How much energy 
 do they consume? You browse through some charts. And so on.
  
  Sounds realistic? It is. Sounds good? Only a few times. After that it gets repetitive. Sure, there 
 are people who don't mind excessive realism and just love to spend ages plotting courses, adjusting 
 ship system, requesting permissions and clearances...
  
  If you are into that excessive realism, this is your kind of game. If you are more into arcade 
 games you better look somewhere else for short-paced entertainment. You won't find it here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormvader
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 24, 2005 11:32 pm PT
Review:  when i started playing the 14 days free trial, i got lost somewhere at the tutorial bit. but i 
 quickly came back with a couple of assistance from cool guys ready to help me out from the forums. Skill 
 Training runs on an real world timer, Mining and Missions take time, Money is relatively easy to 
 come by as long as your willing to mine or run the missions (or hunt) . its quite enjoyable...... i 
 mean doing the missions and exploring the universe. i also love mining, heavy mining. not to mention 
 shooting space pirates. basically, eve is a "virtual world" with real politics, warfare, which sucks 
 you in and keeps you involved in your corp. really neat stuffs. way better than SWG and Earth and 
 Beyond....... coooooool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: banderg00ch
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 24, 2005 12:32 pm PT
Review:  people seam to be under the misconception that mining is the only way to make money in EVE, they 
 are completley misguided. Mining isnt actually that profitable when compared to running agent missions, 
 kil; ling NPC pirates or general PVP spoils.
  
  the PVP is what sets eve apart. there is a very broad mix of ships in the game now, wach can be 
 fitted with which ever modules you see fit, (as long as they do not overload the ships CPU or powergrid)
 
  
  each module is different, and she combenation of modules you use (or your SETUP) greatly affects 
 your chances of winning combat.
  
  I have killed numerous cruisers in my considrably smaller Frigate, it all lyes in specialised skil 
 training and a good setup.
  
  the game gets frustrating and tedious, but in those insances you have the fantastic IRC style chat 
 interface too fall back on. the games comuniuty is always buzzing, 23 hours a day (1 hour downtime)
 
  
  you wont get anywhere in the 2 week trial, and unless you join a corp fast and train your skills 
 intellegently, you wont get far atall.
  
  The music is like an enya new age odesy, its quite fitting to the game. the music you get whilst 
 docked is kinda cool, and the sound effects are a lil bland, but fitting.
  
  MAJOR downpoints: its jam packed with losers. who get a major power trip off of getting one over 
 you.
  
  this is a PVP game. if you dont like pvp and your inpatient, you wont like eve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabbybarry
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 21, 2005 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Im still playing EVE online on a free trial account. I will purchase the game when my free account 
 expires. I love the game play of EVE, graphics and sounds. 
  
  The thing is with EVE it is by far one of the most hardcore MMO's out there. EVE revolves heavily 
 around it's ingame economy system, you pretty much have to join up with a corporation (guild) from 
 day one to and start mining asteroid fields in your little tug boat to earn your keep and make 
 some money to buy a decent sized ship. for the first couple of weeks or so you'll be doing nothing 
 but mining. set your ship in an asteroid field, set it to mine and go watch a movie or take a walk. 
 
  
  You don't gain exp, rather you try to make enough money to buy new skills to learn. learning skills 
 can take a few hours up to even a few days. These skills will allow you to mine better, knowledge 
 yourself in different weapons, navigate jumps better and allow you to pilot better ships. 
  
  EVE Online is a very nice change of pace from World of Warcraft (in that it's just about its 
 polar opposite) and I'd definitely recommend giving it a whirl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrianne
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 16, 2005 1:18 am PT
Review:  This game is really a grab to all the MMO-RPG game fanatics. It really gave me a boost to think 
 more tactics and plan ahead of time, when it comes to the gaming scenario the space is truly nice 
 and well created, no hangups or disturbance. All you do is enjoy the game. The community is simply 
 outrageous. 
  The first time I ever saw the trailer i thought it was just a cool trailer but I was wrong being 
 curious about it i then found myself surfing and searching for the game and during my tutorial 
 I must say that I really did have a hard time familiarizing myself to it but through the course 
 of the game I must say that I was really amazed with this thing. EVE just gave me the best game 
 experience ever!
  Can't step back now because EVE is on top of my list. Simply the best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a8qlsypp
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 7, 2005 11:37 am PT
Review:  EVE is a continually-growing massive multiplayer online game (MMOG) set in a science-fiction based, 
 persistent world. Players take the role of spaceship pilots seeking fame, fortune, and adventure 
 in a huge, complex, exciting, and sometimes hostile galaxy.
  EVE is not an instant gratification game like World of Warcraft or EverQuest, as it is far more 
 vast and engaging (there is a very, very steep learning curve involved) . But, it is graphically 
 gorgeous and incredibly rich in detail. Every piece of the game is shaped by its players, its politics, 
 its economy, and its social system. Form corporations. Play the market. Trade. Wage war. Get rich. 
 It's all up to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gentlefox12
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 6, 2005 11:29 pm PT
Review:  i play a gallente race and just starting out. but so far so good. this game is not like instant 
 hack and slash all the way, like WOW or GW (and also the theme is WAY different toooo!) . EVE makes 
 you THINK, the tutorial and newbie missions are detailed, but the learning curve is not that steep 
 though. with patience, the FUN is just beginning! Once you get passed that, then its XMAS! i really 
 find the game specially the graphics all too cool. music is excellent. community is great. i wish 
 the developers can do something about the interface though. wish they can make not too obvious..... ynow 
 what i mean? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarok
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 5:22 am PT
Review:  Forget all you have seen in others MMORPGs.
  This one IS a real MMORPG !
  The world is complex, politics and economy of players within alliance rules it.
  Pirates are 
 everywhere waiting for an easy prey...
  Trader trying to make a living quick and juicy...
  In EVE you are what you want to be. You don't have to pick a class and be a "ranger". You just 
 have to learn some skills, and play to be what you want. A day a little scientist searching for 
 a better life, the next one a scumbag.
  
  And CCP give us all the tools to build a great universe, where ONLY players manage it. The community 
 is one of the most active, and open a lot of doors for roleplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brealeygp
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 25, 2005 7:06 am PT
Review:  You Start with a ugly little ship, & embark on a rather tedious tutorial that takes you through 
 every button & every combination of buttons you can think of. Aftter that your on your own, & then 
 its upto you what you do with your time.
  
  Eve seems to take non linial to the extreme. Unlike most MMORPGs where there is a clear though 
 non compulsory storyline, EVE is its own ever expanding never-ending story where only the tutorial 
 is close to compulsory (but skippable) , & if u wanted u could just fire up ur engines & set off 
 into the unknown for ever (though since its a fee paying game i wouldnt advise that) . This of course 
 to many is not an attraction. No story means no real compulsion to continue surely? Perhaps, but 
 one of the joys of there not being a story is theres no set goals, except those you set yourself... ie 
 make lots of cash (ISK as it is affectionately called in EVE) & spend/sell it as you wish. There 
 are three clear ways to make money: 1, mine asteroids; 2, to NPC & player missions; 3, bounty hunt/become 
 a pirate. The first may sound boring, & indeed it can be, but for some reason i often found myself 
 enjoying watching my ship float around a block of space waste, sucking it up to be turned into 
 production minerals. The beauty of space is that its big, its rather empty, but whats there is 
 so mystifying & awe inspiring, u may find urself floating inanely while looking at a distant nebula. 
 
  
  The ships in EVE (which apart from a picture is all your character is) come in all shapes & sizes. 
 The one u start with, as ive said, is a ugly little thing which you want to get rid of a. s. a. p. 
 & find anything better (which all but shuttles are, shuttles only purpose being to get u from A-B) . 
 However, while floating through space you'll encounter other players who own ships who u cant help 
 but admire for all their glowing beauty. And here i hit on one of the best parts of EVE, the other 
 players themselves. Being as theres only one server (trinity i believe its called) , you usually 
 dont find yourself all alone. If the space your in is empty, you can just look at the chat tabs 
 at the bottom of the screen & there will be however many people looking to recruit (into corporations, 
 the backbone of EVE space) , chat, team up & whatever else may take their & your fancy. Space may 
 be lonely, but u need never be alone (cringe) . Also, since its a player driven world PvP is a large 
 part of the game. Corps battle eachother for supremacy; pirates hold unsuspecting merchants to 
 ransom for millions; bounty-hunters blow their prey out the sky; & all this with little complaint 
 because thats what the game is all about.
  
  So although space may seem dull, u only need to fly/ask around to find something that u consider 
 exciting. Parts of space are ugly, but others are truely mesmerising. The learning curb is quite 
 steep, but theres a staircase to take u up it. And while this game is certainly not to everyones 
 taste, for those that find a place in EVE, that place will remain for ever... well, a few months 
 certainly.
  
  (excuse the spelling errors) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moojoebobjoe
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 20, 2005 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Eve online is one of those hidden gems. Most stores don't even carry it. It has been overly critisized 
 too. I admit that it has mediocre game play, most begining missions consist of carrying garbage 
 for small amounts of money, but it is fun once you get used to it. The skill system is completely 
 unique in that you don't have to use the skill to improve it, you just have to click the train 
 in it and wait a while which is great for casual gamers who won't be on every day. The graphics 
 are amazing, especially for an mmpog. The background story is also interesting and the fictitious 
 news in the game is actually pretty interesting. Last of all is the social part of the game. You 
 have a friends and ignore list as in all games. You have corporations instead of guilds, but corporations 
 allow you to advertise at stations. The people are some the best i've known online. Players give 
 eachother money, work together, and spend hours just joking around. Helping new players is not 
 a chore in this game because there is no level system. The chatting is the best part because it 
 is in a window with tabs, it shows who is on the channell, and you can easily carry on 3 different 
 conversations at once while your taking on a group of pirates. Games like world of warcraft should 
 take note of the chat roomish quality of this game. It would vastly improve them. Overall eve is 
 one of the best mmpogs out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAJY_FILTH
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 19, 2004 8:43 am PT
Review:  This game has no level grinds! No kids! The best community! It may be slow paced but it's to do 
 withyour style of game, so it doesnt deserve 6.6 when if you look closely its near perfect!
  
  
  This game give you full freedom there are no exploits cause everything is possible! If 
 you want to be a pirate and sell dodgey gds off escrow to be a goody protecting people frompirates 
 and crafting or doing missions! Theres soo much trade to this game and the best economy plus the 
 best character creation!
  
  The PVP in this game is what really shows it off :D Most of the game you cant access cause of pirates 
 lurking! Everything is player done and made so :) 
  
  Pick it up and try it ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerberus
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 6, 2004 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Eve Online sets you in space where you can do just about whatever you want to do. You can be a 
 pirate (or so they say, but I'll talk about this later) to a merchant to an industrial giant. You 
 name it, you can do it.
  
  Gameplay --- You truly can do whatever you please. The game is setup in corporations where players 
 join together to work towards whatever the goal of the company is. There is bulit-in leadership 
 in all. One of the best features is the "Skills System". You have to train your character, as in 
 all RPGs, but with Eve Online, you are not limited directly to yoru playing time as you train 24 
 hours a day. 
  
  **NOTE** A small note though on pirates. When I played, I was part of a corporation that became 
 very powerful and controlled a large section of the game and we worked basically like the Mafia. 
 From protection fees to dipping our hangs in everyone's business. The developer, CCP, for some 
 reason did like that and basically made it impossible to be pirates at any level. Something that 
 suprised us and eventually made our company dissipate and we all left the game. Funny considering 
 a lot of the commericals for EVE have pirates in the commericals...
  
  Graphics --- Great graphics with smooth interface makes for a great experience. Once you get the 
 hang of it, which takes a while, you will love this game. Watch out, it seriously does become addictive.
 
  
  Storyline --- You make your own storyline, so of course its great.
  
  Overall, this is the best MMORPG I have played to date, but new ones are on the way such as World 
 of Warcraft. We will see how EVE holds up.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arachnyd
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2004 4:48 am PT
Review:  Gamespot's review is horribly wrong, and it looks like they spent all their time mining. EVE can 
 appeal to virtually every type of MMORPG gamers. If you want to run a huge corporation and become 
 massively wealthy, you can begin by joining a mining corp to earn some initial money, before buying 
 blueprints to begin building ships and weapons to sell to other players. If fighting is your style, 
 most larger corporations have pvp cores to defend their interests. Deep space player alliances 
 have pvp only corporations that do nothing but fight for the interests of the alliance. You can 
 even become a pirate, stalking low-security space and jumping other players to ransom them or steal 
 their loot.
  
  EVE has grown immensely since the Gamespot review, and is now much more stable and enjoyable. The 
 developer continues to support EVE tremendously and has added huge amounts of content since launch. 
 On Nov. 17, 2004 the mandatory free expansion "Exodus" will be deployed, featuring a complete redesign 
 of the UI system, huge amounts of new ships/modules/NPCs, along with Player-Built space stations 
 and an intricate Alliance system to support the powerful deep-space player alliances that have 
 grown since launch.
  
  EVE Online is a game of incredible depth and immersion, and Gamespot's score is dead wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fontenot
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 23, 2004 9:58 am PT
Review:  The gamespot review is out of date! This game is a lot better now. Its a very well designed MMO. 
 The graphics are great the interface is good and the gameplay is very good compared to other MMOs. 
 There is no freaking xp or levels in this game and no stinkin jedi either! Hehe When I tried the 
 trial I went out and mined twice and did one training mission and I had quite a bit of money. After 
 the second day of "casual" playing I had around 80k credits. So if you have read this game is nothing 
 but mining its not true. While mining is the easiest way to get money its not all there is to do 
 and its not that boring either. A newb char can mine 40k+ credits in an hour if they wanted. But 
 why do that when there are pirates to kill and missions to complete. I think this game is great, 
 it does a good job of weeding out the powerlevelers and people that dont care about actually playing 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottishhaig
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 19, 2004 11:15 am PT
Review:  EVE offers something of a respite from your everyday MMORPG. While it does have tedious play, this 
 can be avoided to some extent by the course you choose. It you don't mind tedium, mining is a good 
 way to get your feet off the ground and earn money for a better ship. Once you have the cash it's 
 your decision to purchase a better ship for mining or you could opt to purchase a ship better suited 
 to fighting pirates and/or courier/cargo missions. PvP is available and if the urge strikes you 
 - attacking other players can be done ANYWHERE in space, HOWEVER space rated .5 and above is patroled 
 by Concord police and will respond to such attacks... they will also respond to attacks in space 
 0.1-0.4, but response time is less than stellar. 0.0 Space is a free-for-all and 'enter-at-your-own-risk' 
 choice. The graphics are excellent and overall EVE is a great online game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ake_Gamer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 24, 2004 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Take another look...
  
  EVE got out of the gate all wrong from everything I read. Today it's a whole nother ball of wax.
 
  
  Political intrigue driven by developer run NPCs. Weekly, sometimes daily news updates which drive 
 politics and guild actions.
  
  PvP right out of the box. You don't have to level up for weeks or months to enter the open PvP 
 fray. Just know what becoming an outlaw means. And no, the whole server won't hunt you down in 
 the hopes of getting your "Holy sword of Fire".
  
  Variety: Run missions to gain faction standing by either being a courier or taking kill missions. 
 Get involved with a guild and further their goals. Be a bounty hunter and go seek NPCs wanteds. 
 Participate in the weekly events: be it searching for the lost body parts of a famous diplomat 
 or ferrying religious artifacts from one galaxy to another. Go shop for your next ship and evaluate 
 the myriad of ways you can equip it. 
  
  Space is beautiful and the enormity of it really immerses you.
  
  Boring? The learning curve 
 is pretty solid. I've played for a month casually and thought I knew a lot until I joined a player 
 run Corp (guild/clan) and realize how much more I have to learn.
  
  If you are looking for something in the MMOG space that breaks the monotony of the current offerings 
 and have the courage to step out of the fantasy box and try a space genre, then give EVE Online: 
 the Second Genesis a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dusenbutt
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 21, 2004 12:09 pm PT
Review:  This is a MMORPG that I really, really wanted to do well. One of the most ambitious and hands down 
 the largest game world to date, EVE is also one of the biggest let downs.
  
  In the vast reaches of space waring clans... blah blah blah. Waring clans don't do jack squat. This 
 is a mining sim. Your very sleek and nice looking spaceship hovers around a floating rock and you 
 extract ore. Every once in a while you make a run to a station to process said ore....
  
  There's not muc to this game. I mean, ther could be more but it was realease in a very , very un-finished 
 state. People came to play, got bored and moved on, and now the vast reaches of the EVE in game 
 galaxy are unpopulated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrgrimm312
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 10, 2003 12:54 am PT
Review:  Reveiws are to help people see if they want to buy it or not. So Learn how to review a game without 
 bashing it. Of course some wont like it but other will.
  
  This game at first was very confusing. The manual sucks so i went online for like 45 min and did 
 nothing (Although The Sites Were Pretty Cool) . I simply went into local chat and asked for some 
 help. there were many people willing to help. They pointed out how the gameplay worked and helped 
 me set my goals.
  All i can say now is that i love this game and i try to play it everysecond i get a chance too. 
 What you mostly do AT FIRST is mine from many types of asteroids some are worth more. Make Money 
 (ISK) . Train your charicter on skills and such. after trained to certain abilities you buy new 
 ships, skills, blue prints, and parts. Choose to be a pirate or miner. Even choos to run you own 
 corp where people pay you money (ISK) . Eventually you can be the most powerfull in the universe. 
 The cons are it cost money every month. So thos of you without a credit card dont bother. Im LOVING 
 THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: centerj14
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 8, 2003 8:55 am PT
Review:  Simply put, EVE Online is at the time of this writing the worst massively multiplayer game on the 
 market.
  
  While the graphics are reasonably good and the sound, while sometimes buggy, isnt bad  really 
 thats about all this game has to offer. And frankly, these are features that just dont make a 
 game playable. The illusion of speed as you warp is pretty thrilling the first couple of times 
 you do it  but after you see it dozens of times while you move to a system a number of jumps away, 
 it rapidly loses its appeal.
  
  There are vast arrays of major problems that are preventing this game from being playable  or 
 fun. One of the game issues is the unfinished skills. Many of the skills that are available for 
 starter characters simply do nothing at all  which as a new player you may not realize until you 
 have put some time and effort into your character. Trade, Barter, and Broker Relations are several 
 of the introductory skills that just dont work. Weapon Upgrades does nothing. Some of the Frigate 
 and Cruiser bonuses that should apparently be in the game dont work. Obviously, this game was 
 released far too early. Lack of communication from the developers doesnt help the situation, as 
 there is no feel as to when the basic functionality of the game is set to be in  if ever. If you 
 decide to try this game be sure to check the boards and in-game channels about what skills actually 
 do and dont work to avoid a lot of frustration. It seems that what doesnt work is a longer list 
 than what does at this point.
  
  Basic functions in the game, like moving from system to system, are buggy to the point of being 
 unplayable. Early in the game characters getting stuck in systems until the daily server reset 
 was a major issue. Having your character getting stuck meant the game would be unplayable until 
 the next day after the server reset  making the gaming experience somewhat lacking. While recent 
 patches have supposedly helped to rectify this situation, there are still a number of folks who 
 are plagued by these problems. When a system node goes down, for example, people will still be 
 stuck until the node is fixed or possibly at the next server reset. Bugs particularly plague the 
 map interface; sometimes manually changing a prefs. ini file setting outside the game fixes the 
 problem, and sometimes it requires a full reinstallation of the game. EVE seems to be the only 
 game on the market that has a daily one-hour downtime  that tends to be longer than that when 
 a patch is involved.
  
  Likewise, another major feature of the game  the market, where you buy and sell goods  has constant 
 problems. Typically the market seems to work after a server reset, but at some point during the 
 day it mostly stops functioning. Normally you can place a buy order in a remote system and go 
 pick up the goods you ordered  but trying to do so is haphazard at best. The market seems to be 
 broken most of the time, so you typically need to go to the system in question, hunt around for 
 which station sells the goods you want, and then hope the market isnt broken for the entire region. 
 Such a basic feature being unworkable is appalling.
  
  The economy in the game is, quite frankly, a joke. Larger corporations (the player guilds in the 
 game) are mostly self sufficient, and the members get goods internally. Most of the items that 
 you can make require minerals that you simply cant get, and even if you make them, people typically 
 dont want them. So attempting to be a manufacturer is simply out. Added to that the blueprints 
 are prohibitively expensive  and naturally, the reverse engineering skill isnt in the game, so 
 its not like you can try to make your own. In addition, to make things even worse  at the time 
 of this writing, the game only has around 5-10% of the total number of players that the developers 
 claim the game is capable of handling  but there are no factory or laboratory slots available 
 to be found, as individual players and corporations have monopolized them nearly 100% - just to 
 deny competition or try to sell them to people who dont have them. This has been a glaring design 
 flaw from the very start of the game, and at this time CCP has done nothing to address it.
  
  Pirate hunting is something that you can make a bit of hunting doing  but you cannot sell 
 most of the goods (rare drops) that people want on the market, which is another major flaw. Also, 
 pirate hunting is fairly boring after you have outfitted your ship correctly. Essentially for hunting 
 NPC pirates (not players) you set your ship to stay at a range optimal for your ship weapons, click 
 to start firing your weapons, and wait. Then you collect your loot and repeat. Low risk, low reward 
  and not all that fun. Granted, you can go after bigger game  but youd probably better work 
 yourself up to a cruiser before you try it. Trade isnt profitable enough to even matter, although 
 its supposedly going to get better. There is a long list of promised features, but CCP has yet 
 to deliver. Mining is a high risk high reward or low risk low reward activity  the best systems 
 being more or less monopolized by big corporations, who sometimes dont like competition. Expect 
 to spend a couple of weeks staring at asteroids and dodging pirates trying to mine enough to make 
 money to buy a better ship  so you can mine some more. Frankly CCP probably needs to rethink this, 
 because people arent going to play money for a combination of staring at rocks in space and dodging 
 pirates. This has all the appeal of multiplayer minesweeper.
  
  All in all, Eve may not be a doomed effort if CCP decides to quit tinkering with an already broken 
 economy start producing some quality code  but the outlook is pretty bleak. Unless the problems 
 get worked out its definitely a game to avoid for now.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VISent
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 27, 2003 7:17 am PT
Review:  Stunning to look at, incredibly atmospheric with a helpful and welcoming community. That pretty 
 much sums up Eve Online. This is a game that requires patience and some degree of social grace, 
 otherwise you'll find yourself frustrated and bored.
  
  Eve is all about joining with other players to form groups and corporations that can change the 
 very fabric of the game space. I look on it at times like a massive online social experiment, and 
 in many ways that's what it is. But it's also a games, and lots of fun can be derived from it if 
 you've got the patience to explore the game fully.
  
  I'm absolutely loving it so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QBall
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 20, 2003 10:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazingly in depth. At first this game will appear to suck because the learning curve 
 is extremely steep, but if you get into the core of the game it's so much fun. I havn't been this 
 excited about an MMORPG since the Father of all MMORPGs (UO) . Another nice thing, this is a game 
 for the casual gamer and powergamer alike, there is so much variety it's amazing. If you played 
 the beta and it turned you off you should give it another shot, it's like a new game compaired 
 to then.
  
  Only real downside to this game is some annoying sounds and a steep learning curve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xljohn
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 19, 2003 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Eve Online is, in many ways, just the game I have been waiting for for over a decade, in effect 
 a graphical version of the old BBS game TradeWars 2002, or a massively-multiplayer Elite. While 
 the game has its drawbacks, most notably a large number of repetitive, time-cosuming tasks early 
 on, it is still quite addictive and fun, and has a lot of potential if the developer follows through 
 on promised new content.
  
  As for the game's technical quality, the graphics are superb, the only better space graphics I 
 have seen being in the E3 demo of Imperium Galactica 3. Sound is somewhat repetitive and standard 
 fare for this setting, but not bad by any means. In general, lag isn't an issue, even though I 
 am in the US and the servers are in Iceland. I do, however, have a cable modem, so I cannot speak 
 for the game's playability on dialup.
  
  Bugs are, as is all-too-common in new releases these days, numerous. These include some fairly 
 major ones, such as "black holes," or areas which can cause your client to crash to desktop, a 
 factor which remains even if you try to log that character back in again, requiring one to log 
 into an alternate character and petition a GM (game administrator) for help. This can render a 
 character inaccessible for hours at times, and no hint as to compensation for this loss of playing 
 time has been made.
  
  Gameplay is fairly standard fare for an MMORPG: Gain skills to perform activities which make money 
 and increase your skills further and purchase better equipment to make more money, ad infinitum. 
 However, this game deviates from the standard in at least two important ways, each of which gives 
 the game unique potential. One, while active use of some skills (such as mining and certain combat 
 skills) can increase your abilities, skill training can also be done automatically, even while 
 you are offline. Simply select the skill to be trained and it will slowly rise, at a rate based 
 on your attributes (different skills are tied to different attributes) , whether or not you are 
 online. Since level 5 (the current maximum) of a skill takes from five days to over a month, depending 
 on the skill and your attributes, to train this way, this allows your character to be improved 
 even if you go on vacation and don't have PC access for some time. The second unique feature is 
 an almost entirely player-based capitalist market system. NPC supply and demand is minimal, and 
 mainly exists to set standards by which PC's can get an idea of how much items SHOULD be worth. 
 Other than this light NPC presense, every item you buy or sell is a transaction with another player. 
 Supply and demand, on micro and macro levels, are prevailent everywhere in the game, and learning 
 how to use the market maps is mandatory for being a success in the Eve universe. Those familiar 
 with stock market trading, with all its bids and asks, will be at right at home brokering and trading 
 minerals and goods in this game.
  
  Some drawbacks to the gameplay exist, however. For one, as I mentioned in the opening paragraph, 
 gameplay for new players consists almost solely of asteroid mining, a very mundane and boring task, 
 though once you've earned a small nest egg, other activities begin to show themselves and the game 
 becomes more interesting. There are also two drawbacks related to the skill training mentioned 
 above. Only one of the three characters allowed per account can be training at a time, and there's 
 no way to "queue" skills, so that if a skill level finishes while you are offline, your character 
 isn't training at all for a period until you log in to train something new.
  
  The player driven economy is also in its infancy, currently suffering from rampant deflation, with 
 mineral prices plummeting, causing miners, which includes every new player and nearly everyone 
 else, to make even less money per hour mining than they would under "normal" economic conditions. 
 This IS an indication that the player-based economy works properly, since a huge mineral supply 
 and low demand SHOULD cause a decrease in prices, but hopefully as tech research and other features 
 are introduced, and as more people begin to branch out from mining into other pursuits such as 
 manufacturing, this phenomenon will correct itself.
  
  All in all, Eve is a great game, which is fun and interesting even in its current state, and which 
 in a few weeks, once its potential begins to be realized, promises to be easily the best MMORPG 
 to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Disdaine
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 9, 2003 9:28 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, you will either like this game or you will hate this game. To make one things 
 clear, Eve is not a combat focused game. While combat is an integral part of the game design, the 
 most in-depth feature is the games economy and corporation systems.
  
  Combat is actually well thought out, however the implementation is a bit off. Ships are too weak 
 as far as defense, and are overpowered extenesively in offense. This leads to short battles where 
 the first person who pulls the trigger is most likely the victor. I would much rather see long 
 drawn out battles, lasting perhaps 5 minutes but with lucrative rewards.
  
  On thing to note however is that combat is based on a twist of the point-and-click system. You 
 never directly control your ship, you merely give it orders and those orders are carried out based 
 on your skill. To engage in combat you right click any ship, select 'Lock Target' and click on 
 the weapon you wish to fire. The twist is the you can attack multiple targets up to the limit of 
 weapons you have available (and your targeting skill) .
  
  Skills... a system which is usually implemented poorly. Games such as Ultima Online avoided this 
 system to great success, however that aforementioned online game is now hindered by it's 7 year 
 old graphics engine ('new' 3D engine not counting) . Skills are initially bought for a price and 
 take about 12 minutes for the first level of that skill. Then you research those skills based on 
 your characters core attributes. Researching is free, but it is also very time consuming. Luckily, 
 researching is automated and will continue researching whenever you log off.
  
  Now onto the economy and corporations. The economy is primarily based on players who manufacture 
 goods. NPC factories produce some also, but only when player goods are not available. To produce 
 an item you must have a blueprint which can be purchased or found (never 'found' one yet) and then 
 it must be taken to a factory. At the factory you will be charged for the rent (a low amount if 
 you only have one factory) and then you will need to supply that factory with the minerals necessary 
 to create the finished product. Unfortunately you do not find out the amount until you've submitted 
 the item for building.
  
  Blue prints can be copied for reselling, or they can be improved upon. This is all provided that 
 you have an original blueprint of course. Copies (created by other players or NPC) cannot be researched 
 or copied.
  
  Corporations are likely to be considered a massive player. Corporations are mostly controlled by 
 the acting CEO, whom depending on shares, can be booted out of his/her position. When you create 
 a corporation you start with the role of CEO and then you can assign other player who wish to join 
 you accordingly. Later you can assign other player to complete these roles for you. Those roles 
 include recruiting, finances (aka bills) , factory and station management, and military assignments. 
 As far as voting inside the corporation is concerned, this is based on how many shares are distributed, 
 and whom has the most. Shares can be sold on the Market, or they can be distributed privately. 
 In either case, the are a security flaw, so I personally don't advise giving shares to strangers.
 
  
  On a side note, CEOs have immense power and can drain the finances of a corporation is he/she feels 
 so inclined. That isn't recommened though, as as CEO you can practically control a large group 
 of players, and almost change the game's balance as you see fit.
  
  Well... that more a description than an actual review. As far as my review is concerned, all these 
 things together make up to create a large online game of economics, pirating, and backstabbing. 
 If that's your type of game then I recommend you give this game a shot, or at least find a friend 
 who has the game and watch it in action.
  
  If you're looking for a massive online action game, I'd recommend waiting for Planetside and checking 
 out it's reviews.
  
  *One last disclaimer... I was a beta tester and I have found many testers are writing reviews about 
 support problems during the beta. May I remind everyone that a beta isn't a finished product, servers 
 go down (or are taken down) , and the 'beta public' needs not be advised. That said and done, we'll 
 see how CCP does now that the game is retail.
  
  Disdaine out. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
