-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: EverQuest
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/everquest/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  2, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.7, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 1,087 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sony Online Entertainment
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Mar 16, 1999 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
EverQuest is the best game in its class. At the same time, it is loaded with problems. 

 While its intent - to unite thousands of players simultaneously within a huge game world - is similar 
 to other online role-playing games, EverQuest delivers on its promises much more assertively than 
 the competition, though not always gracefully. Between its excellent graphics, its performance, 
 its rich fantasy setting, and its propensity to force you to cooperate with, rather than hinder, 
 your fellow players, EverQuest is the best game in its class. At the same time, it is loaded with 
 problems. Most aren't serious, though many are glaring, but just as you're liable to notice its 
 flaws, so will you be inclined to look beyond them once you see how much the game has to offer. 

 EverQuest looks so good that comparing its graphics to any other first-person RPG would be a disservice. 
 Its colorful, 3D-accelerated visuals instead rank with first-person shooters in terms of quality 
 and detail, although in all fairness, they don't rank very highly because the quality is inconsistent. 
 Certain player classes, monsters, and areas of the world look spectacular - at its best, EverQuest 
 is picturesque and realistic. Then again, other parts of the game look silly or downright bad. 
 There also isn't a lot of variety in the way of customizing your character's appearance, and nighttime 
 tends to be oppressively dark even if you have a good lantern. But you'll constantly be amazed 
 at how huge the world seems, and since the game includes practically every type of landscape you 
 can imagine, from mountain on down to dungeon, you'll soon find a setting that feels comfortable. 

 It should also be mentioned that the game's look - from the come-hither high elf on the box to the 
 overly endowed female characters within - seems aimed at a male audience, which is unfortunate 
 considering online RPGs needn't confine themselves to specific types of gamers. At least EverQuest 
 sounds all right, with a nice but forgettable fantasy soundtrack and an interesting set of sound 
 effects for all the different monsters. But all of it's repetitive, so you'll be turning down the 
 volume before long.  

 While its graphics set it apart right away, EverQuest is going to last, not because it's pretty, 
 but because it plays well. On the technical side, gameplay is smooth and mostly lag-free even over 
 a 56K modem. Lag is rarely problematic even when it happens (you'll find yourself complaining about 
 the long loading times between regions instead) , though the occasional "lag death" has been witnessed. 
 Otherwise, EverQuest offers dozens of different race and class combinations, which is perhaps the 
 most enticing feature in the game. You can play a comparatively mundane fantasy character - a dwarf 
 warrior or a human cleric, for instance - or you can choose something more exotic, like a dark 
 elf necromancer or a troll shadowknight. The race you choose will critically affect your experience 
 of the game, since most every race has a unique hometown, which you'll have to stick close to for 
 the first several weeks of play. The class you choose is just as important, and all of them play 
 differently, and most of them are fun. You'll want to try several combinations before you commit 
 to one, but you can't realistically cultivate more than one or two characters.  

 That's because EverQuest isn't for casual game players, as it demands a huge time commitment. Building 
 up your character to around the tenth level, at which point he can traverse the land without too 
 much interference from its indigenous life, demands dozens of hours of combat. And while combat 
 isn't particularly interesting - indeed, as a warrior character, you do little more than watch 
 your enemy's hit points dwindle, hoping they do so more quickly than your own - there are plenty 
 of monsters lurking around. Thus, EverQuest weaves the illusion that it's action packed. In fact, 
 gaining experience is a terrifically boring process, but fortunately your character becomes noticeably 
 stronger with every level. Even after many months of play, you'll keep learning new abilities and 
 powerful new spells, or if not, you'll be purchasing far superior equipment. Safe to say that if 
 you're looking to spend a great deal of time with a game, you'll be hard-pressed to find a worthier 
 suitor than EverQuest.  

 Then again, if you're picky about details, EverQuest may not be for you. There's no denying that 
 the game is very rough around the edges, and you'll know it from the moment you start the game 
 and must sift through its lackluster menus. The actual interface isn't much better, the manual 
 is even worse, the game is loaded with hilariously bad textual errors, and all in all, it's guaranteed 
 to frustrate you regularly. If nothing else, you should expect to get killed a lot, at which point 
 you must make the arduous journey to retrieve your belongings from your corpse. As you grow more 
 powerful, you'll die less frequently, but you'll lose experience when you do, and reclaiming your 
 pricey equipment will be much more critical. It'll also take a lot longer to heal all your hit 
 points between fights, since you'll have more of them, yet your healing rate remains constant. 

 Luckily, EverQuest offers a one-step solution to almost everything wrong with it: You need but find 
 yourself a good group of friends to make your problems go away. Fighting alongside someone makes 
 combat much more interesting. Chatting with that person passes the time while you recuperate, and 
 working together, you're much less liable to perish. EverQuest is loaded with features that promote, 
 even demand, collaboration among players. For instance, spells increase in potency from continuous 
 use, so clerics are encouraged to heal any injured players they come across. Once you get to be 
 around level seven, you'll have a much more difficult time fighting creatures on your own; healers 
 must back up the fighters, fighters must back up the magic users, and the magic users can keep 
 the healers safe from harm. It sounds crude, but the balance is more delicate than overbearing. 

 Likewise, you need not worry about other players robbing you or stabbing you in the back, because 
 they simply can't unless you play on a server designated just for that. EverQuest also includes 
 features that automatically split loot and experience among party members, and parties must be 
 composed of similarly powerful characters, so you can't just ride on a stronger player's coattails. 
 Meanwhile, most of EverQuest's trade skills, such as fishing and tailoring, represent viable alternatives 
 to fighting for money, and you'll find that money is nearly as important in EverQuest as it is 
 in the real world. The game's economy altogether feels realistic and versatile. You can buy things 
 from shopkeepers, but again, your best chance is to try to get a good deal from one of your friends. 

 It shouldn't surprise you that EverQuest promotes cooperation. Like any online RPG, at its core, 
 EverQuest is an interface for interaction between players, and in this respect it's excellent. 
 Sure, the combat may be a little boring, the manual may be horrible, the quest system half-baked, 
 and the game not without its small share of miscellaneous bugs. But all you need is to find a like-minded 
 adventurer or two, and all of a sudden EverQuest stands to become one of the most memorable gaming 
 experiences you've ever had. Exploring the land, hunting monsters, fleeing from certain death - 
 all these things are incredible fun in EverQuest so long as someone else is along for the ride. 
 Although it might have been better in almost every respect, it is, like any good online RPG, a 
 work in progress. And there's no question that it's the best game of its kind.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (30 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: skemaal
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2009 10:12 am PT
Review:  Everquest, like many was the first MMO I had played. I have come to see this game as another old-school 
 hard grind' game over the years. Although I have moved on, this is a short retrospect of the game.
 
  
  First of all, any casual players or soloist, please abstain. Although possible to level playing 
 alone, the grind in this game in rough.
  
  With that said, Everquest is built on quite the mature community with many players willing to help 
 each other in order to achieve what needs to be achieved.
  
  Although the first 20-30 levels are easy, Everquest can get hard very quickly. As expansions popped 
 over the years so has the difficulty. If one had gear from an older expansion, this person could 
 easily be slaughtered in the new zones.
  
  SOE has done a good job to keep the game updated with revised AA points, bringing up the level, 
 bonus experiences and bazaars to sell your items to other players. Crafting has never been its 
 strong point though.
  
  Quests have never been as defined as they are now with EQ2, WoW and other MMO. You had to figure 
 it out the old way by reading and asking particular questions to the npc (key words) . Still, the 
 fact that EQ is so vast is impressive. I stopped playing when my Paladin was lvl 71 with the "Buried 
 Sea" expansion. I play EQ2 now but have fond memories of epic battles with Lady Vox and Nagafen; 
 trains in KC and Mistmoore or the great expasions that were Kunark and Velious (my favorite one 
 in all) . 
  
  With all the other more modern MMOs out there, the fact that EQ still has a healthy user base is 
 amazing. Perhaps someday I will go back to it and enjoy, once again this game. With all the changes 
 I'm sure it will be like playing something new all over again.
  
  I still highly recommend this game as it still has a lot to offer, especially to a more mature 
 crowd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pretecf
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  They certainly don't make some things like they used to make them. How is it possible that we still 
 play a game more than 9 years after it was first established? How can we get excited about another 
 add-on? How can a player leave a game three years ago and decide to return? Unbelievably fair reward 
 system, challenging content, requiring the creation of an environment of helping others and it 
 still remains the first choice of relaxation for so many of us. AMAZING!
  
  Want more? Developers that listen to the community. And, this creates even more of an environment 
 of the community working together to improve the chance of enjoyment and success.
  
  A wonderful mix of challenging small group opportunities combined with large group needs. Refreshing 
 opportunities to revisit the past sites of glory have recently been made available. It is sure 
 difficult to see how things can get much better than this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aumelen818
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 1:11 am PT
Review:  I haven't played this game in over a year, but I'll have to say here that it was the most addicting 
 game I have ever played... ever.
  
  I started playing when the Kunark expansion was released, and I was instantly addicted. I ended 
 up putting like 6+ hours a DAY into this game! I'll admit, I was one of those "hard-core" players. 
 I pushed my character really hard and spent many many hours raiding.
  
  But what made this game fun? For me, and others I assume, was the social aspect of the game. EverQuest 
 required players to band together and battle as a team. Be it a five-man group battling for experience 
 and low-end loot. Or multi-group raids for high-end encounters and greater rewards.
  
  I can't say how the game is these days. I know it was dwindling down by the time I finally threw 
 in the towel. The game went through some profound changes prior to me quitting. They upgraded the 
 graphic's engine, changed many zones, changed the character models, etc.
  
  What made me quit finally? The realization that I cannot put hours a day into it anymore. It literally 
 took hours to complete a raid or do anything remotely productive. And the novelty was wearing off.
 
  
  Would I ever go back? Very unlikely. The game is just not the same as when i was playing it from 
 what I read. But I was always remember my time in the world of EverQuest. It truely was a part 
 of my life even though it was a virtual life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anofalye
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  - Strong grouping game.
  
  - Brought a few new ideas to the community, such as a tank which ditch little damage.
  
  - 
 Decent amount of customisations (classes/AAs) .
  
  - Some soloing. (not for strong soloers, but casual soloers might still find some measure of fun 
 in it)
  
  - Some tradeskills. (weaker gear, nice for alternates)
  
  - Some PvP. (Arena or specific servers)
  
  - Painful travels.
  
  - Death penalty quite 
 steep.
  
  - Lots of expansions (if you like the game, an expansion in itself is always a good news)
  
 
  - Adapt and improve to some extend.
  
  .......
  
  But raiding enforcement, you either raid or lose any form of ego.
  
  Best expansions: LDoN, 
 focus is on instancing and on grouping.
  
  Worst expansion: Velious, adds more raiding and very little else.
  
  
  All in all, my time 
 in EQ would have been quite good, if it was not for this raid-ending, again it ruins and spoil 
 any good feeling I could have kept.
  
  
  I doubt I would have gone out and try other MMOs if it wasn't for raiding. Raiding not only make 
 me try other games, it kills EQ for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokikitty
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 5:42 am PT
Review:  As I have stated before, I don't play well with others. With that out of the way, I will strive 
 to keep this review as unbiased as possible. Everquest was, and probably still is, extremely popular. 
 That is both an asset and a downfall when playing online. There will always be people around if 
 you are the social type, but the sheer number of people makes for some wicked lag. Places like 
 the Bazaar and the Plain of Knowledge are viturally impossible to move around in if one isn'r looking 
 directly at the ground.
  
  The graphics: Not really that good. Everything has a flat feeling when moving around in the Everquest 
 world. The monsters look rather silly, and the PCs and NPCs look like generic cardboard cutouts. 
 You will see many, many, carbon copies of yourself running around.
  
  The gameplay: Click on what you want to attack, hit the A button, listen to generic music while 
 the computer fights for you. You can get frisky and try to do some spellcasting from a distance, 
 but when the monster finds you, pretty much the same as before. I once heard a person who played 
 a Beast Master, that fighting for him was to sick his animal on a creature, and eat pizza while 
 the fight is going on. Not terribly exciting.
  
  The story: There is no story to speak of. Just a bunch of random quests from NPCs, and a lot of 
 people don't even bother with doing those.
  
  The experience: Once in a while, you will get lucky and find a group that is nice and even helpful 
 to kill things with. Most of the time you will get a combination of kill stealers, people accusing 
 you of stealing their camp, and newbies that cause a train that will get most people hanging out 
 in front of a zone's entrance killed. Most of these things will happen in the more popular places, 
 but the way Everquest is set up, there are only a few places that give experience and drops that 
 are worthwhile. There are many places that are deserted, as most players don't feel they are worthwhile. 
 Which is a shame really, as most builds are not able to solo, so finding groups in the less popular 
 areas is an excercise in futility.
  
  This game is recommended for people who have a lot of friends playing the game, have no problem 
 with the time it takes to form a group, or want to try it for a while to see why people play it. 
 It does cost money to play, so it is up to you if feel the game is worth the price. I didn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crickett77740
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 29, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Well there are so many expansions of Everquest where do I even begin to start? The only way I could 
 think is by posting a review about all of them.
  
  This has truly been one of my all time favorite games ever. I played it for 3 years straight basically. 
 First I thought it was cool that you had alot of different choices of what you could be when making 
 your character. My personal choice the gnome necromancer. There is also always something to do. 
 If your not in a grp gaining experience or AA points your working on quests, raiding for 15 bazillions 
 hours, working on some skills, spending countless hours in the Bazaar, working on your epic, or 
 fighting your friend in the arena. It truely is a game that never ends that you can get sucked 
 into. You might end up being in denial about it but you would become an evercracker .
  
  I really love that you can meet tons of people on this game. It was always fun playing with friends 
 going deep into places which only got you killed but you explored and had fun with it. The only 
 thing I can say I don't like about this game is that expansions are coming out all the time it 
 can get hard to keep up with others unless you are playing thoes 22 hours a day getting only 2 
 hours of sleep. To me with the new expansions all the time it takes away from thoes who played 
 from the beginning. The feeling of the old world zones that not many visit anymore like ntov. When 
 a mage would summon a pet that would look like a SG from Oasis and people would freak out thinking 
 it was a real SG. Thoes were the good days. Don't get me wrong.. the new expansions are nice, but 
 they don't need to come out with so many right away.
  
  Another thing is the price.. if you don't buy game cards every 3 months the only way in my mind 
 that you are gonna save money is if you pay for a year.. The graphics are amazing.. especially 
 in places like Plane of Growth. The waterfalls are simply beautiful. I was literally in awe the 
 1st time I was there. Alot of screen shots were taken.
  
  There really is so much more that could be said for this game, but I would recommend this game 
 to anyone who does have much of a life that is outside of the house. You can play this game casually 
 but then I would not recommend joining a guild or do raiding because you would miss alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 2, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  I was a diehard EQ fan. I played from when Planes launched up until before Prophecy of Ro released. 
 And sadly to say, the game has just gone way down hill since then. Darkhollow is the best expansion 
 by far, playing as a monster is sweet.
  Now about the game itself. There is practically no solo content at all, and since there arent many 
 new people starting it up, it is near impossible to get a group before level 46. Death in EQ is 
 the most painful for any game- you have to run back to get your body (which I can deal with) but 
 you also lose up to 10% of your experience for EACH death, which means that you can also lose a 
 level. Clerics are becoming harder to find, and even then you are expected to fork over a good 
 chuck of money just for a rez.
  EQ is steadily getting worse because all SOE cares about, is pushing out two expansions a year, 
 rather than trying to fix old things that need fixing. The old zones are practically deserted because 
 no one ever goes there. If you want to play a First-Gen MMO, then EQ is the game for you, but if 
 you want an online game that is actually fun, play something else.
  
  Gameplay 5- Gets worse as time goes on. Old bugs that have been around for years still arent fixed, 
 SoE only cares about money, so pushing out two crappy expansions a year is all they do.
  Graphics 8- Ill admit the newer content does look real nice.
  Sound 4- What sound, there isnt 
 much besides hearing pain when your character gets hit. The in-game music is so bad that I have 
 the volume turned off, and most of the zones dont even have music.
  Value 6- If you want to play it, get the Titanium pack, it has the core game plus the first 10 
 expansions for 20$, thats a lot better than paying 30$ per expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arimar666
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 15, 2007 4:32 am PT
Review:  First of all, if you play WoW and hear a bunch of people arguing and saying how much Everquest 
 sucks do not listen to them. Because, to a new player the UI is very confusing compared to WoW 
 and the graphics are not that great either. But this game, undeniably has 6x more content than 
 World of Warcraft will ever hope to have. They have more tradeskills, more land, more quests, and 
 more levels. WoW has 9 classes? Well, Everquest has 16. WoW has 8 races (soon to be 10) Everquest 
 has 16. Let's also say that Everquest has much more than 300 square ***real-life!*** miles in the 
 world of Norrath. But, like I said this game requires some getting used to. The UI is much more 
 confusing and bulky than WoW. But, after playing for awhile it is a snap and has many more features 
 than the WoW UI. What is also really cool is that you can download custom UIs from websites!
  Do not even think of buying or playing this game if all you care about is graphics and sound. This 
 game is not the most advanced in that league. But if you believe in content, buy this game.
  
  Free trial@ everquest. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haphasto
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  The first time I saw Everquest was back in 1999, and I was 13 years old. I was at my buddy Nick's 
 house. I saw him running around the Planes of Karana, and was just shocked at how open ended the 
 world was. I was very confused, but also very intrigued at what was happening in the game.
  
  Sometime in the next month I went to the mall with my dad and asked him to buy Everquest for 
 me. Reluctantly he did so. I got back to my house, installed the game on my very crappy computer. 
 It could barely even run the game. The installation finished and I was ready to enter the world 
 of Norrath. Then to my surprise I get a message from the game Please subscribe to Everquest! I 
 was really confused, I had been playing video games since the NES, and had never had to pay an 
 additional fee to play. But I wanted to play SOOO bad that I ran to my mom and asked her to pay 
 the additional $12.99 subscription fee.
  
  She wasn't very pleased, and made me mow the yard before she would pay for it, but I had no problem 
 doing that. I finished mowing the grass, ran back inside subscribed to the game and little did 
 I know, I was about to enter the most addicting thing I had ever encountered in my life.
  
  My first character was an Ogre Shadowknight. It took me like 10 minutes just to log into the game, 
 because my internet connection and computer were so horrible, but I was patient, and to me it was 
 worth the wait.
  
  I started running around the city of Oggok, completely confused, I was trying to talk to NPC's 
 thinking they were real people. I was attacking level 30 guards who would kill me in one hit. After 
 about an hour I made my way out of the city and into the dark forest known as The Feerrott . I 
 tried attacking a level 2 spider and got creamed. At this point I was very aggitated and decided 
 to try another character. If my memory serves me well my second character was a High Elf Enchanter. 
 Things were alot easier on this character, I actually made it to level 2, and learned how to memorize 
 and cast spells. I had trouble getting past level 2, because once again I ventured too far out 
 and was trying to kill monsters way higher than I was. The consequences for dieing in this game 
 were very harsh, you lost experience, and had to run back and get your corpse, if you couldn't 
 get to your corpse in time, it would decay and you would lose all of your equipment, loot, and 
 money.
  
  Even though the game was extremely challenging for me at the time, I was still so amazed by it, 
 that I couldn't put it down. Finally I ended up asking my friend Nick over to help me learn how 
 to play.
  
  The first thing we did was start a character on his server Tarew Marr which would end up being 
 my main server. I created a Half-Elf Warrior named Almightyknight. Things were becoming much more 
 clear now that I was having Nick explain stuff to me. Before I knew it I reached level 5, the highest 
 level I had ever attained! I was on my way to the dungeon of Black Burrow, where the evil gnolls 
 dwell. On my way there I was contacted by a Game Master and he forced me to change my name, because 
 it didn't fit in with their naming policies. So I changed my name to Falmiskian. He became my main 
 character for quite awhile, and I ended up getting him to level 35. At level 20 I attained my last 
 name which was Thunderbound. Falmiskian Thunderbound will forever go down in history as my very 
 first main character in any MMORPG.
  
  After awhile I was sick of the warrior class, because I didn't like tanking at all. So one day 
 I was watching my friend's father play. He had a level 50 necromancer, and had alot of knowledge 
 about the game. I became very interested in the Necromancer class and immediately went home and 
 created my next character FalmiskiOn that's right, same name, except I replaced the A with an O. 
 I was having alot more fun with the necromancer, and ended up getting all the way to level 52. 
 At the time Scars of Velious came out, I was very greedy, and wanted some end game items. I ended 
 up making the dumbest move of my Everquest career.
  
  I contacted a GM and lied to him. I told him that I had lost my corpse in Iceclad Ocean and needed 
 my items reimbursed to me. Of course if the plan went through I was going to lie about the items 
 I had, and would end up getting end game loot for free. But the GM checked all the game logs and 
 found out I was lieing. He ended up suspending my account for 10 days, and that lead to it eventually 
 getting banned permanantly. The reason was because I lied and tried to fraud a GM. I personally 
 didn't believe I should have gotten banned for it, but I had no choice in the matter. I was devistated! 
 I was in utter shock.
  
  About 3 months went by and my Everquest addiction was eatting away at me, I needed to play again! 
 So I went back to the mall and bought another copy of Everquest. I made a new account and swore 
 that I would never try anything like that again.
  
  During my 3 month break I had played alot of Diablo II, and liked alot of the names that were in 
 there. So I was going to name my new character after a Diablo II boss. My first idea was Mephisto, 
 but figured that he was too well known. So I went with my second choice 'Hephesto the armorer who 
 dwells in hell on the IV act of Diablo II. I modified the name a little bit and named him Haphasto 
 the Dark Elf Necromancer! Yes that's right, another Necromancer! I liked the class so much I was 
 willing to level another up.
  
  Haphasto ended up becoming my main character, and set the path for my name for pretty much everything... even 
 this Gamespot account if you've noticed. I'll go ahead and end the story here. I got Haphasto all 
 the way to level 71. I own all the expansions, but no longer have an active EQ account. I've seen 
 most of the high end game, with the exception of the newer expansions. YOU THOUGHT IT WAS OVER! 
 BUT NO!!!! I havn't even reviewed the game. I've only told you my story, in a simplified version. 
 I'm going to try and make it short and sweet so here we go. Going to divide it into 4 sections 
 GRAPHICS, GAMEPLAY, SOUND, REPLAYABILITY I am ONLY going to review the original Everquest here, 
 along with maybe a little bit of Kunark and Velious. Anything after Luclin though deserves it's 
 own seperate review, because the game has changed pretty dramatically since the Scars of Velious 
 expansion.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  Not really.... but I had to give it a perfect score to give this game a perfect score. The graphics 
 are really nothing amazing, even at the time it came out, it was nothing remarkable. But that's 
 because the world was so large that it would have been very hard to mix good graphics with the 
 huge world in 1999 when technology was where it was. But still that doesn't mean the game wasn't 
 attractive. There was still alot that captured the eyes, especially some of the points of interest 
 in the world, and alot of the larger monsters such as Griffons, Giants, and Dragons.
  
  The character models were a little bland, but had alot of charisma. All you could really do was 
 select your characters face, out of like 6 selections. It was still easy to identify your character 
 though, and with all of the different types and colors of armor out there, your character usually 
 ended up looking pretty unique from the rest.
  
  Every race had their own starting city and noob area. Each was unique and different in it's own 
 way, and really captured the story and meaning to every race. So even though the graphics weren't 
 very high end, they made up for it by delivering a world that depended more on imagination and 
 expansiveness than pure whistles and shiny wrapping paper.
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  This is where the game shined the most! Back in 1999-2001 there weren't very many games that fell 
 into the MMORPG category. So Everquest was pretty unique, and set the foundation for almost every 
 MMORPG that exists today.
  
  When you first logged on and created your character you could select from many races. The mighty 
 Barbarians, the evil Dark Elves, the stout and brave Dwarves, the intelligent Erudites, the inventive 
 Gnomes, the rebellious Half Elves, the curious Halflings, the proud High Elves, the power hungry 
 Humans, the massive Ogres, the repulsive Trolls, and the forest dwelling Wood Elves. Each had their 
 own city, their own beliefs, and their own story. Since the original game new races have been added 
 to the game like the Iksar, Vah Shir, Froglok, and Drakkin.
  
  Along with the 12 races you had 14 classes to pick from, each unique in their own way. Bards, clerics, 
 druids, enchanters, magicians, monks, necromancers, paladins, rangers, rogues, shadow knights, 
 shamans, warriors and wizards. And since the original more classes have been introduced, like the 
 Beast Lord, and Berserker.
  
  And from that you also could select which god you worshiped. While selecting your deity didn't 
 have much of an effect on your character, it still opened or closed many options to you. Such as 
 some cities wont allow certain people in depending on which god they worship.
  
  Now to the main goal of the game. The concept doesn't sound all that great, but basically your 
 main motive was to create a character, level him up, and explore and discover the world of Norrath.
 
  
  But there was so much more to it than that. Your character was YOU. It was your own persona, you 
 identified and adapted to your character, as others did with theirs. It was so fun going into uncharted 
 lands, and dungeons with your party and exploring and discovering all of the beauty and dangers 
 that surrounded Norrath. The excitement and adrenaline you got when a 30 foot Sand Giants was chasing 
 you down in the Oasis of Marr, or the fearfullness you had running from one city to another, afraid 
 of getting attacked by city guards that dispised your race. Or the excitement you got when hearing 
 tales of high level dungeons like Lower Guk, and The Temple of Cazic-Thule. Another awesome thing 
 that Everquest introduced was 'raiding'. You and your guild would all team togeather, sometimes 
 in the hundreds to take down these massive creatures, or gods. I remember raiding the fire dragon, 
 Lord Nagafen for my very first time. I was working side by side with 75 or so other players to 
 take down this mighty beast, and even though I was so weak at the time that his fire breath killed 
 me almost instantly, I still had a blast.
  
  Everquest was also a great way to meet friends. I met plenty of interesting people through the 
 game, and still talk to many of them to this very day. You got to know people very well when you 
 would group with them for 8 hour sessions just exploring and trying to obtain magical items.
  
  There are so many games of it's type now that Everquest is really no longer unique, and doesn't 
 offer the gameplay experience that alot of the newer MMORPGS's offer, but it still is a mighty 
 contender in the MMORPG market, and alot of people still play to this very day. They are up to 
 their 12th or 13th expansion if my memory serves me correctly. And people are still demanding more 
 and more. The game has changed so much, and the world has expanded probably 10 fold since the original 
 game. But the memories that I have in the old days are probably some of the best i'll ever have 
 gaming wise.
  
  Sound 10/10
  At the time the game came out, it was hard to get really good music into a game, but Everquest 
 managed to do it. While it wasn't a full fledged orchestra, like they have today, it was still 
 very catchy, and drew you into the environment. Almost all of the songs were in midi format, and 
 sounded like they were played off of a keyboard (which they probably were) but that didn't stop 
 it from sounding extraordinary! I still whistle and hum some of the old songs to this very day. 
 Like the original EQ theme, or the song it played when you were running through the Southern Planes 
 of Karana.
  
  Today the music has evolved quite well, and they have a great orchestra who writes, and plays very 
 good music, but the old music was still great, and I have no problem listening to it even now.
 
  
  The character sounds were nothing amazing at the time, just a few grunts, and AHH's, but they didn't 
 have much to work with. Still though I was pleased, because every creature had their own unique 
 grunts and AHH's. Even almost every race, depending on their size had their own unique sounds.
 
  
  Replayablity 10/10
  I've spent thousands of hours playing this game, therefore I should probably give the replayability 
 like a 100000/10 but I guess that's not mathmatically possible. But there is so much to do, especially 
 now a days. Exploration, crafting, leveling, raiding, grouping with friends. That is just a small 
 fractopm of what there is to do and see in Everquest. I wouldn't recommend it to anyone who has 
 never played before, because the game is so mainly focused on the high level game, that it would 
 be extremely difficult to catch your character up with current expansions. But just know, that 
 World of Warcraft, Everquest II, City of Heroes, Lineage.... what ever you do play, wouldn't even 
 be a flash in the pan without Everquest. It made MMORPGS what they are today, and will always hold 
 a strong place in my heart. It's possibly the greatest game ever made, and I still await to this 
 very day for a game to rival it. Thank you Everquest for the great memories! It deserves nothing 
 less than a 10/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 3, 2006 1:27 am PT
Review:  Everquest was the classic mmo in the olden days these days its a tired and old game thats still 
 extremely grind intensive, full of raid bots and most of the older classical zones completely barren 
 and lifeless, once upon a time, zones like freeport was filled with players and adventurers setting 
 some groups, now its not even the same freeport anymore, now its some strange weird place where 
 you can easily get lost in.
  
  Levelling up hasn't changed much at all, in fact I think its actually worse now that theres hardly 
 anyone playing, the free trial allows you to level up very fast to around 10 by doing some quests 
 and learning the game in the basic area, once you get into the real world, its a pure struggle 
 to slowly watch that experience bar very very slowly creep up. I firmly belive grind games are 
 dinosaurs and should be in the past, no reason these days to be forced to pay to play a game that 
 you have to sit for hours and hours and even then, you might not even level once, almost scandalous 
 IMHO.
  
  I don't think EQ will live much longer in my opinon, unless its made totally free to play of course, 
 but thats highly doubtful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lejen12
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 30, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  OK guys, First of all Everquest1 can be played by people with dial up which is good (i got BB) . 
 Anyway here:)
  
  Graphics- eh, they are ok. There not the best but eh it was good for its time, if your not a graphic 
 whore you will really like this game. The graphics kinda look like... eq2 on medium. Anyway not much 
 to say about graphics.
  
  Gameplay- I think the gameplay of this game is extroadanary. You can choose to solo (take a while) 
 to level or you can group. You can have friends power level your character if you choose, when 
 you are in a group the experiance doesnt SPLIT up like it does in certain games i use to play. 
 But ya this gameplay is very fun in my opinion i mean cmon you can group with others and experiance 
 gos to others. 
  
  Lag issue- Well.... This game is playable by people with dial up. Some of my friends can only get 
 dial up were they live, so this game is playable by ppl with a good connection also. If your in 
 a zone with like a million people of course it will lag. When your in a zone with like 50 people 
 not so much:) So the lag issue, not so much laggy:)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: linmukai
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Well, I find myself in a love-hate relationship with EverQuest after playing the game for over 
 five years now, often to the exclusion of most other games in my collection although I don't spend 
 that kind of time on it now. I do still enjoy playing and recently resubscribed yet again.
  
  While the game does suffer from its share of first gen MMORPG ills, it still is entertaining 
 and fun to play with more done right than wrong. Recent changes with the last expansion, The Serpent's 
 Spine, have gone a long way to cut down on downtime between encounters with monsters in the game. 
 Regeneration of health and mana is far faster now than it used to be and this makes a big difference 
 in the gameplay. There is a lot less sitting around waiting for people or yourself to regen sufficiently 
 to take something else on. This should have been implemented years ago but at least it finally 
 has been now. This has reduce the grind considerably.
  
  The graphics are a mixed bag with newer areas looking very nice although not on par with the most 
 recent new titles overall. Other areas still sport NPCs that date back to 1999 when the game launched. 
 Overall, while the game is lacking in this area, it does not look terrible by any means.
  
  The music and ambient sound are plentiful and always seem to fit the place and situation well.
 
  
  The game is relatively stable overall with little downtime except when major fixes are patched 
 in or when a new expansion launches. In all this time, SOE still is unable to properly launch an 
 expansion without days of problems ensuing immediately thereafter.
  
  Every time I leave the old Norrath claiming it is for good this time, I wind up coming back months 
 later. There's really nothing else quite like EverQuest and above all else the game play is the 
 draw for me. The enormous world and vast depth with so much lore and so much to know and see continues 
 to entertain for years and years. Maybe it is simply the familiarity with this particular virtual 
 world that makes it as appealing to me as newer games. I don't know.
  
  Although it is true that as an aging game the player population is top heavy with most players 
 being high level and lower level characters being the alts of high level players, the fact that 
 many of the classes can solo very well to high levels helps to negate the potential lack of groups 
 at lower levels. It is hardly some barren wasteland however. The hubs of the EQ universe, namely 
 the Plane of Knowledge and the Bazaar usually have many players about and general chat channels 
 and other tools help make finding other players easier than you might expect. Like any MMORPG if 
 you expect to arrive and have people invite you and provide your fun all the time then yes, you 
 might be hanging around but if you can be proactive about making your own fun, there is certainly 
 plenty of it to be had in Norrath. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stucazzo
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 25, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game and put in 55 hours in 3 weeks, and I had a full-time job! Had to quit for a 
 couple of reasons... First, A couples characters from my "clan" were getting married, I briefly 
 went to the marriage ceremonies before thinking to myself: "I'm wasting my life here! Secondly, 
 it was too addictive, had to quit. I quit and will never play another MMORPG ever again!
  
  Obviously the graphics are really outdated, but at the time, I believe were quite good. The sound 
 is ok, but had some memorable tunes. The combat engine left something to be desired. It was mostly 
 commands and shortcuts, and trying to talk to other people could be a problem. Maybe I was playing 
 it wrong, I dunno.
  
  That said, it was the most addicting game I have ever played, but definetly not the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warfust
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 16, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Everquest is a persistant world hosted on Sonys servers, and continues changing and evolving even 
 when your not logged it. Your world is shared by many other gamers (number in the thousands per 
 "server") and is one of the first of it's kind for such massivley multi-player play tied with a 
 3D graphical world.
  
  The early entry into the market was both a boon for the game and it's fledgling industry, and a 
 hinderance as the development company (Verant) had noone else to look to to avoid possible mistakes 
 or long term issues.
  
  The game has flourished, and had more subscibers than any other of it's type for many years. Though 
 it now has a smaller following, it is still going strong and releasing expansions at a regular 
 rate.
  
  Too regular actually, one of the biggest issues that I ended up having with the game was having 
 an expansion every 3-6 months. In a MMORPG game an expansion gives you item inflation as well as 
 new areas to explore. This means you need to play alot to "keep up with the Jonses". The $40 cost 
 for each expansion on top of the $16 per month subscription is fairly pricy for one game. 
  
  The original game is a great deal of fun for novice and experianced gamers alike. But expect 
 to be rapidly drawn into the expansions as you level up. Expect to solo alot, which is much more 
 difficult in this game than in many other more current games. 
  
  One of the big obsticals currently is finding a group, as most of this older games players are 
 higher level and many of the lower levels you run into are simply ginding to high levels, often 
 ignoring people not experianced in the game.
  
  It takes alot of time to progress once you are past your teens unless you have the expansions for 
 better experiance spots.
  
  I would still reccommend Everquest, as long as you know what your getting into. It's a very fun 
 game with an enormous world to explore, though it is a bit lacking on lore at times.
  
  --=== Played time: ~1000 days (yes, that is 24 hours x 1,000) across 3 accounts === --- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peeger
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 4, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  This game was probably one of the best games ever. It had everything. You could solo or group, 
 or quest small or epic. You could do so many things, it was amazing. One bad thing was grinding, 
 although they added so much content that you really didnt need to grind, you could just move from 
 one thing to another and gain plenty of experience. The real problem is EQ2! They got greedy and 
 thought they could support 2 games, but they took half the players away, and many didnt like eq2, 
 and tried WOW or others. EQ had cornered the market. Now since they lost so many players, it really 
 isnt as fun. I still play time to time but most of the people I used to know are gone, and its 
 a shame because it seems like if they would have just put the effort of EQ2 into the original, 
 they could have kept all those players they lost and added to the pool. I played this game for 
 years, and I will bet I havent seen half the game, it is HUGE! Also, when they added the PoP, the 
 game added a bit too much complexity for more casual gamers. It almost seems intimidating for even 
 veteran players since there is so much to know to get into the higher planes. Which is fine, since 
 it isnt a must, but most people who just start this game have no idea what is going on. It literally 
 will take years and plenty of off game study to even scratch the surface of this game. The costs 
 of all the expansions, which are constant, and the monthly fee, it makes this way too pricey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealityO
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  EverQuest is surely the best game I ever played and enjoyed at all time. It's full of friendly 
 player who are there to help you, socializing player to speak to, guilds with great player you 
 want to meet.
  
  Every class are different. Yes sure, some skills are the same from different caracters, but each 
 one has it's top utility and unique skills. In a group, you can't take every people looking for 
 group you see in front of you. You have to chose your classes in order to be able to fight certain 
 kind of monster. And only one of the group (out of 6) doesn't do his job, the whole group can collapse.
 
  
  The area is big. You have plenty to explore. After player for more than 2 years, there's some low-level 
 place I never visited. Learning curve is set to "4 or More Hours" because there's always something 
 to learn in this game. You learn the basic in around 1 hour, but the advance thing are learned 
 even at higher level. Each character has it's own gameplay. A good player is someone who knows 
 the ability of his character and knows how to use them.
  
  The graphics aren't on the top, but at this time, it was quite good. And even if there are still 
 old, they are always cute to see. The races have their charms even if they are squared. The sounds 
 are good. I'll always remember the famous DING when you get a level. People don't tell others they 
 get a level, but simply tell DING. This sound is piercing your mind and makes you jump.
  
  ... There's some much to tell about this game. I'll stop here. Right now with 9 expansions, there's 
 too many thing that has changed, and the new game isn't as fun as before. But those who played 
 the good old EverQuest knows what I'm talking about. Yes... It was a good era! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conan999
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 14, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Everquest is one of the funnest game out there, unless of course you don't like running around 
 being a barbarian killing everything in site! This game with all of the expansions on it can be 
 very fun and the graphics aren't very bad at all. I would tilt more toword this one than its predicessor 
 Everquest II. I would have my heart in this direction because it is much easier to do things in 
 this one than EQ II, like level up and just have fun, even though EQ II has better graphics I won't 
 port over to the new one. This game is perfect for anyone out there who wants to run around casting 
 spells or kicking cave rats just for the heck of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lynzzfarm
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 9, 2006 5:10 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for 6 months. I have made 4 characters whom all have to go through 
 the same areas to leval up.
  I am so bored with it I hardly ever play it anymore. I'm seriously 
  considering cancelling it. 
 The graphics are very nice I agree with that.
  As long as you have a super computer that is!
  Absolutley must have a high end graphics card 
 to play it.
  The expansions they are pumping out like crazy at 30 bucks a whack!
  They messed up the game bad to make the last expansion pack .
  Becuase they made all able to 
 leval to 60 they changed original game dramitcally. Instead of making main areas for high lvl players 
 they instead made us weaker and the regular things we had to kill before the revamp
  were now all impossable solo! I like to solo normal things not have to group ALWAYS just to complete 
 a quest or writ. Forces us to group...
  I myself loved the game before they ruined it.
  Now all the players are all spread out everywhere. The exspansion Desert of Flames has driven up 
 the prices of everything in game the quest rewards are ungodly amounts so all who spent the 30 
 bucks for expansion have tons more money than those who dont! It is all about raking in that money 
 now to sony Im very upset about all of it personally. Now a new exp. is due out go to lvl 70 now. 
 I bet the game will get worse. They arent getting anymore money from me I know that... a shame 
 was nice game a bit repetitive as I said but fun.
  WOW rules lol Its ALOt better tons more areas to use to lvl
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuffic
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  The main problem with this game is that it swallows up your life. It needs willpower to "just play 
 for a bit." You get into a good group where everyone knows their job and suddenly its 8 hours later 
 and time to go to work. You go on a guild raid of a major zone and you can kiss goodbye to another 
 nights sleep. You set up to camp an epic mob (wait until it spawns, keeping ownership by just being 
 there) and you could be waiting up to 72 hours, knowing that the minute you log off it will pop. 
 
  
  At the lower levels, when you start out killing rats and bats, you CAN just log on for quarter 
 of an hour. The quests are short and easy - collect 4 batwings (off dead bats) , collect 12 bone 
 chips (off dead skeletons) , go talk to Wesley the guard and give him a muffin, etc. Each quest 
 gets you a little money, a new piece of equipment or just experience. Then you get addicted to 
 the "ding" of gaining a level. New level, new spells, new abilities, more killing power. Then discover 
 groups, and how much easier it is to play with other people helping out. By level 20 you need to 
 group to do your quests. You have to travel to far away zones. You have join the queue for a popular 
 mob. You start to shout "woot" when a rare mob pops up. You go into raptures when the mob goes 
 down and you find top quality booty on its corpse. 
  
  Eventually you start on your "epic quest" and need to get the assistance of 30 to 40 people to 
 "raid" the harder mobs. You join a "guild" family for mutual assistance with raids or just friends 
 to group with regularly. You start popping into zones to just see if your next epic mob is up, 
 then you have to build a raid force before someone else beats you to it. 
  
  When you hit the "planes of power" you become dependant on your guild for raiding for flags (tasks 
 completed to unlock entry into the higher zones) . Finally after years of playing you might get 
 to raid the Plane of Time - where the loot gets truely "uber." When you get labled by your peers 
 as "time capable" the most elite in the game. 
  
  Its a game that sucks you in. A game thats hard to leave behind. If you ever really played it, 
 it will remain a part of you years after you have to give it up for the real world. 
  
  Tufeet Sixinches 65 Chanter of Innoruk
  Tunicex Toobimi 65 Cleric of Innoruk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RollNpc
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 28, 2005 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Everquest rocked, note I said ROCKED. I was a beta tester for this game and I have to say my first 
 impressions were that I was not very impressed. But, by the time I got beta 4 I was hooked. I rushed 
 out and bought my copy, pre-order of course, and loved it. I can remember to this day at level 
 23 camping the J-Boots in Neirak (sp) dungeon. My mage character was awesome so powerful, and hours, 
 upon hours, upon hours, upon.. You get the picture, of solo game play. I hate groups, always have. 
 I could take on anything after time, but also seemed to notice that my level 40 or so character 
 was starting to get weaker along with my pets. 
  SONY systematically destroyed the game. They killed all the power classes (mages, necros, and wizards) 
 and beefed the week and hybrid classes. They allowed stupid people to get away with stupid things, 
 yes you druid kiting sob. There really should have been an age requirement and a test to play this 
 game, but ultimately it is all about the $$s. I also forked out the cash for the expansions.
 
  
  Kunark was one of the first if I recall correctly: it added a few classes and a few new zone. This 
 was pretty darn good as the crowded world got a little less crowded with the introduction of these 
 new lands. A lot of people left the normal zones and went away. This expansion added a lot of new 
 goodies and textures.
  
  Velious, Luclin, Gates, and PoP all came out when I was getting out of the game. I spent a lot 
 of time in the Velious zones and really liked the stuff that came from there. The player ran auction 
 areas where nice too.
  
  I got out of the game a while back and then revisited it on player ran shards. That was nice as 
 it really allowed you to explore places and characters, along with weapons and items that the normal 
 person would never see. If you have a lot of time to kill, I mean 1000s of hours I would recommend 
 this game 100%. If you dont, just keep on going. This game requires an investment of time that 
 is beyond belief!!!!
  
  Oh, the graphics are awesome, the music and sounds are awesome the movements and animations are 
 awesome the monthly fees are not!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 5, 2005 4:16 am PT
Review:  Everquest has been around for about 6 or so years and it is easily one of my favorite games of 
 all time. It is so addictive that I actually gave up being with my friends to play this game and 
 even playing other games. With so many quests and so many things to do, it's tough to imagine a 
 game that could be more fun and addictive than Everquest and I can't think of another game that 
 really is.
  
  Everquest is a multi massive online role playing game (MMORPG) . Basically you create a character 
 and then enter an enormous world that is flowing with things to do and people to meet. Everquest 
 is one of the first MMORPG's ever made and it is easily one of the best games because of the addictivness 
 of it.
  
  When you create a character though, you have just over a dozen character classes and races to choose 
 from to make your character. Each class has it's up's and down's. For instance, the warrior class 
 is the tank of your group and takes the damage, while the cleric will have to heal the group to 
 keep them alive. The cleric's are very weak in combat and the warrior class can't really heal at 
 all. Another interesting thing is the races you get. You can choose which race you want, but depending 
 on the class you wil be limited. The gnome race can be a magician, wizard, and such because gnomes 
 are smart, but the ogre race can only be such classes like a warrior and a shadow knight since 
 well, they aren't smart. Depending on the class, certain races are way better because the stats 
 the races have is higher than others. If you want to be a warrior, being an ogre would be the smartest 
 because there the strongest. The gnome race wouldn't be because they have low strength and stamina. 
 
  
  Some races have special abilities such as the Troll that can regenerate his health, or the Dark 
 elf race that gets better night vision because they are used to the dark. It's special things like 
 this that makes Everquest such a great game.
  
  Once you get selecting your character and the name of it, you then start playing. The core game 
 is nothing but leveling up, while killing monsters with a group of up to 6 players. All of these 
 other players are real people to live all over the world, so you can play with people anywhere 
 you want. This is fantastic and really brings out the fun of this game. As you level up, each level 
 takes longer and longer to go through until finially each level is insanely hard and takes half 
 a dozen hours or more to get through it. 
  
  This is the funnest part of the game and is extremely addicting to get new spells and armor for 
 your class. As you go, you will need to get new items to keep up with your current level so you 
 won't die. The really fun part though, is buying new gear which takes money. The 4 types of money 
 are platinum, gold, silver, and copper. Platinum is the biggest and is the only one that you really 
 need to worry about. The armor that you need can be tough to get if you don't have enough money, 
 which is why you can go and pick up items to either use or sell. Some items, weapons, spells, and 
 armor can only be used by certain classes and some armor is for smaller size such as gnomes or 
 dwarves while other armor can only be used by large characters such as barbarians, orgres, or trolls. 
 It all depends on the armor, but it all works making this an outstanding way to keep you playing.
 
  
  The world of Everquest takes place in Norrath. It consists of 3 continents that have tons of zones 
 to explore. Some zones contain tougher monsters while others are lower level monsters that are 
 easy to take out. Depending on the zone, you can find a group within your level range and then 
 take on monsters. Everquest is always open and never closes although sometimes there is a patch 
 that will bring the game down. At the start of it's launch it had tons of problems, but quite a 
 few of them have been fixed. Everquest also has a very easy to navigate interface that shows everything 
 you need: spells, chat section, your health, and certain key items such as standing and sitting. 
 The chat section is very well done, especially in how every different type of talk is in different 
 text color. The red means your taking damage or shouting for help, the light green is where the 
 entire zone can hear what your saying, and the purple lets you see any tells other players might 
 be sending you.
  
  Speaking of zones, each of the 3 continents has about a dozen or more zones in them that take quite 
 a bit of loading times, but are fairly managable. Norrath is a very vibrant world and each of the 
 races has it's own city that is unique. The human city, Freeport is very normal looking while other 
 cities such as Neriak, home to the dark elves, is very dark and damp, since the dark elves are 
 used to this type of terrain and have excellent night vision. The zones are all different looking 
 and some such as Ocean of Tears is nothing but water with a few islands. Others such as High hold 
 keep is a prison full of goblins that you can camp.
  
  Camps are very interesting. It's basically spawns of enemies that you kill with a group or soloing 
 (being by yourself, which isn't very smart at higher levels) and then killing them as they come. 
 It's a lot of fun and since Everquest is so popular, be ready to find lots of enemies being camped, 
 so you might have to settle on something else. 
  
  Of course, the biggest and coolest part about Everquest is the actual quest part. You can partake 
 in many quests that are of epic proportion, or just really small ones. They help you get certain 
 items for your class only or for other classes in general. It all works and is the funnest and 
 most rewarding part of the game.
  
  Everquest is a pretty hard group, no really. Without a full group with at least a tank to take 
 damage, a healer to heal the group, and someone like an enchanter or a shaman to slow the mobs 
 (enemies) so they don't do as much damage, it's a really tough game, especially in the later levels. 
 
  
  Dying is handled pretty harshly, it will happen and takes quite a while to get your experience 
 back that you lost. As you progress, you could lose almost 5 hours worth of play just because you 
 died. You can get resurrected by a cleric or a paladin if you can find one, and this will literally 
 bring back all of the experience you lost, so it's not all bad. You usually died because the mobs 
 grouped together and overpowered you someone trained you. Training is a bad thing for sure and 
 is basically someone taking lots of mobs and then all of them following the person that pulled 
 them and if he runs past your group, you can expect the mobs to join forces with the ones your 
 fighting making your group, or just you, dead. This is a serious problem and becomes frustrating, 
 especially when your near a zone, since zoning will automatically make you safe, since enemies 
 can't go through zones, so if you camp near a zone, be ready to get trained.
  
  The game can be in either first person or third person. It really works, and the interface as I 
 said earlier, is really easy to use. The combat isn't to interesting, since you just slash your 
 sword, but nothing really happens other than the enemy will just grunt or such. The sound in the 
 game is very disappointing and you will mostly have your music on or TV on while playing. All you 
 hear is your footsteps, the casting of spells, and the really weak grunts when you slash your sword. 
 Don't expect any good music or anything.
  
  Some classes, such as hybrids are a mix of other classes. Paladins for instance, are a mix of a 
 warrior and a cleric, so they get some cleric spells while they get quite a few warrior skills. 
 Only so many classes can dual wield, and the skills that classes learn all depends on what class 
 you are, but there's no class that can do everything. 
  
  Some classes are really wanted more than others. Quite a few classes can be tanks, but only 1 or 
 2 can be healers, making them one of the more needed classes. The bad part is you can't always 
 find a healer, so you have to settle for a Paladin or such to be the main healer.
  
  Since all of the characters you group with in this game are humans, some players have to leave 
 for real life events and of course it brings lots of online dialogue. Be ready for sayings such 
 as: AFK (Away from keyboard) or LoL (Laughing out loud) . If you don't get this kind of talk, be 
 ready to be called a newbie. You can make friend and of course make enemies by adding people to 
 your friends list or your enemies list. You can almost make better friends with a guy living on 
 the other side of the world than you can with a guy living right down the street, same goes with 
 enemies, which is why this game is so unique. 
  
  The graphics in the game are pretty good looking but not great. The environments are all detailed, 
 but textures qre quite bland and character models are blocky and there are some serious glitches. 
 Still this is a great looking game because of the level of detail in every zone of the game.
  
  As you progress through the game you might get invited to a raid. Raids are basically lots 
 of groups all going together to one big mob that has a key item someone need. Guilds is another 
 cool thing and the guild works together to help eachother level up, talking, or just raiding. Guilds 
 come in many types, including: raiding, family, or just social guilds. Raiding guilds are the best 
 because they just raid for good items, but famliy guilds are friendly and can become popular. Some 
 guilds require you to have certain items to join and some guilds have to many of one class, so 
 you can't join their guild until you get certain gear/spells dpending on your class and/or level.
 
  
  Everquest is the most addictive and most fun game you will ever play. It is easily one of my favorite 
 games of all time and it seems that Gamespot agrees because it got dubbed in the Greatest games 
 of all time and even Game of the year. If you have even a scent for video games and are willing 
 to lost sleep at night for this highly addictive and evolving game, then by all means check out 
 the wonderful world of Everquest or codename: Evercrack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yukapi_Wurumi
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 28, 2005 3:56 pm PT
Review:  By today's standards, most of the graphics are pretty bad. However, there are areas where graphics 
 are much better, and it has certainly improved. If your computer is slow or you use dial-up, downloads 
 can be a big pain, though downloads arent super-common. Sound isnt that great either. Gameplay... 
 can be good or bad, depending on what you like. If you don't mind some tedium and having to figure 
 out a lot of difficult things on your own or with minimal help, you will find it more enjoyable. 
 Characters are customizable, and there are plenty of places to go. 
  
  In my opinion, by far the best thing about EverQuest is the people. Sure, you have your jerks and 
 appalling behavior, but there are also a lot of kind and helpful people, and plenty of chat if 
 you want to talk, which is where the fun of the game lies for me. You need to be somewhat social 
 to get anywhere with it, you can't be shy of every person you meet, but with time you can acquire 
 some really close friends on the game. It is not very comparable to a chat room. language keeps 
 somewhat cleaner than that, and spam is rarer. people dont ask for personal information, you can 
 be pretty certain the person isnt just in the game to scam or stalk people, and if you're suspicious, 
 they can only bug you in game. there is a language filter, and turning off general chat with that 
 will be a huge filter on what you see. 
  
  A lot depends on server, I think. Some are friendlier and homier, while others are more self- centered. 
 Time for dinner =P. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdturtle13
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 31, 2005 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Well, It's been almost 5 years now, since I started playing EverQuest, and since I have been introduced 
 to this game, it's been a love - hate relationship. I love it, and can't stop, then I hate it, 
 hate it, hate it! I put it away for a while, then one day get the urge to play again, and then 
 can't stop, then hate it... and the cycle continues. EverQuest is certainly an acquired taste, 
 and you must have several personality characteristics to enjoy this game.
  
  1. Do not look for perfection. This is an old game that has been fixed up over the years. Simple 
 things like questing, minimizing to windows, alt/tab to another window, etc... Still are real pains 
 in the rear. Although Quest NPC's give you hints to responses, questing basically requires you 
 to repeatedly guess what you need to type in the chat window to respond. A real pain!
  
  2. Be happy and content with what you have, not what you can get, or don't have. If you can't do 
 this, then you will be an EverCrack addict! The best part of this game is that it is extremely 
 rewarding, and SOE loves to dangle cool stuff in front of your face, which makes you want, want, 
 want! Look at that guy's awesome shield! Wow, look at that cool sword! I need to get to level 50, 
 TONIGHT! No time for sleep! No time for food! I want that sword! Wouldnt it be great if I can 
 actually travel to the zones in any of my 8 purchased expansion packs without dying! I need lvl 
 50 tonight! 
  
  3. Live, and enjoy living in the world. Take up fishing, crafting, or start a bunch of alternate 
 characters. Do anything to keep your mind off of leveling up. Focus on the other fun and great 
 aspects of the game, and keep leveling from being the main thing on your mind, because it happens 
 very, very slowly, and will drive you nuts unless you focus on other things. When you do finally 
 hear that sweet wonderful "DING!!" of leveling up, rejoice, party it up, accept your "Gratz man!" 
 and "congrats" and again, focus on something else.
  
  4. Although soloing can be done, most of the time, it is unrealistic and very repetitive and boring. 
 You will enjoy the game a lot more if you are always looking for a group. You may not always find 
 one, but at least always be looking. Put your LFG flag up, and go fishing, buy some spells, search 
 the Bazaar for cool items, etc Live in the world, enjoy it, and grab every group opportunity that 
 comes your way.
  
  5. If you have a life, a job, school, a wife, kids, etc and you dont have most of your time to 
 play (because this is what it requires) , pick a druid as your main character, so you can get the 
 most out of the game. Druids get SOW spell, which speeds them up a lot, and get port spells for 
 instant transport. They also have heals, and good buffs, so you can solo if you dont have a lot 
 of time to dedicate to finding, and keeping up with a group.
  
  That sums it up. Also keep in mind that this game is now very out-of-date, compared to most other 
 MMORPGs on the market, and most of them are becoming much more fun to play. Lately, I have been 
 enjoying EverQuest II, World of Warcraft, and Guild Wars, and I am finding it more and more difficult 
 to go back to EverQuest. Although I still get the urges to log in and play, I just cant get my 
 self to spend all the time putting up with looking for a group, traveling to meet up w/ the group, 
 waiting for the group to get their selves organized, and then, 3hrs later, diving into another 
 4  5 hr. commitment, or otherwise spending hours guessing what to answer an NPC for a stupid quest. 
 It was tolerable when there werent any other good MMORPG alternatives, but now, with all of the 
 better games out there, its hard to go back.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gespho
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 27, 2005 7:53 pm PT
Review:  From the day i saw my dad playing this game, i was always like what in the world is that game hes 
 playing. It didnt look the best in graphics at the time, but i soon found out that it was our computer 
 that couldnt handle every graphic. When we updated it, i like the way spells looked, the way us 
 races looked, but to bad the animals and creatures werent updated....
  The best part of this game is the community, and the guilds. There is basically a chain of guilds, 
 and to get into the best guild, you almost have to work from bottom up, unless you have connections 
 with friends and such, which makes it impossible to be the best unless you have friends, or in 
 a guild and all that. Raids are fun, but take a while to get started. Monsters that spawn only 
 once a week - a month, there are tons of "bosses", or raid mobs, that need a raid group to kill 
 them. Theres all sorts of places, dungeons, caves, underwater caves/cities/areas, forests, deserts, 
 snowy areas, all sorts of places. There are so many places its great. Places with electronic monsters, 
 all built on machines, (old machines that use steam, and broken bolts and stuff) ice giants, human 
 giants, dragons, lizards, bears, sharks, all sorts of monsters. After playing for a long time with 
 this game, it had me sucked into it, all my time was just consumed by this game. So many quests, 
 so many friends, guilds, oppurtinities for getting a great item, or a great guild, may arise sometime, 
 and which in itself creates a true story, not the one Sony has written in the little book while 
 playing, but the story about you your character. I was a very talkitive person on this game, and 
 sometimes got into stuff i really didnt want to get into, like leaving a guild, or making an enemy 
 of another guild, which can lead up to problems, and hatred, and of course a bad reputation. The 
 story given is boring, but once you play alot on this game, its not long before you develope a 
 story of your own. If you dont use everything the game has to offer, you are missing out on all 
 the fun, raids, hunting for items, selling items, buying items, making friends, guilds, and all 
 that great stuff. Travelling used to be fun, but then there were maps they putted in later, which 
 i really didnt like, because then you could get lossed, it was so easy to travel, some of you may 
 like that, but i didnt.....
  With all that said, there is really only one more subject to cover, and thats PVP. After playing 
 this game on the PVP server for a pretty long time, i soon realized that PVP was even funner than 
 the regular server. Not only do you truely have enemies, but you even have guild enemies, some 
 guilds dont like others and what not, but it gets bigger than that. EQ and Sony i think did not 
 actually intend for this to happen. People are sometimes sided, either on the PK side, or the Anti-PK 
 side lol. This is really funny because Anti-PKs also kill other people, but only the "PKers". So 
 in the end, there are basically two sides, but one (the PK side) doesnt care if your a PKer also, 
 they will kill you, even if your not an Anti-PKer. Two sides, and one of em (pk side) is broken 
 up with guilds, and friends, and sometimes even rambo people., they dont care if you are a pker 
 also, they kill anyone but there friends, as for Anti-pkers, they kill only pkers. This added to 
 the paragraph above, makes one unique game, its truely one of the best MMORPGs out there. Give 
 the game 1 day, 24 hour (total gameplay, as in the time you have played the game on a character 
 overall) , an by then you should be sucked into the world of Norrath. 
  Over time the difficulty goes up, but so does your skill, so your able to manage all the problems, 
 and bumps and overcome it. So its easy at first, and begins to get harder, but if you take advice, 
 you will start to know the ways of the game. I recommend this game to all RPG fans, and to anyone 
 who (or would) loves to get sucked into another type of world besides this one here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CodyJamesVarty
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 2, 2004 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Ok people come on now, you can not rate this game on such things as it taking over your life. That 
 is your fault if you hat happens. Ok now back on to the reason this is an absalute amaizing game, 
 I got this game right after the kunark expansion came. I was in school and seen a kid reading a 
 big book, i asked him what it was he said everquest. I have always been a huge video game guy, 
 but never heard of this. He explained how it worked, I honestly did not believe in a game that 
 you played a single role with loads and loads of real people. I got the game a week later and let 
 me tell you, it realy does bring you into a fantasy world and it will blow your mind like a can 
 of cola that has been in the freezer for 17 hours. Please go and pick this game up if you want 
 to be transpoted into a fantasy world full of realy cool stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paganstar
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 11, 2004 9:16 am PT
Review:  I played this game for almost 4 years. I was lucky enough to be brought into the game by a friend 
 who was in a very active guild. After a year or so that guild failed and was brought immediantly 
 into another very active RP guild. It is this companionship that makes the game any fun at all. 
 When this guild died I was left without many friends left on the game and started my solo career. 
 That is when I realized that the game itself is pretty boring. There is no real story to give your 
 chracter reasons for what they are doing. You go out and kill creatures for no other reason than 
 to earn enough cash to buy more powerful weapons and armor so you can go kill more power creatures 
 to get even more cash to buy even more powerful weapons and armor to.... and so on and so forth. 
 This is the basic treadmill. While expansions have added races, items, monsters, new zones, it 
 really has not added anything to the basic dynamics of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpapi69
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 21, 2004 9:05 am PT
Review:  I love this game! Those who complain that Everquest doesn't tell you how to function in their new 
 world seem to have missed the point. It IS an alternative world, one in which you are just starting 
 out with little or no previous knowledge about the road you are embarking on. EQ, in my opinion, 
 was not designed to be a single player/solo game. To learn about the world, you have to rely on 
 others and to get to the higher levels, you need to group. Thus it is a community game. And the 
 community is excellent. It is a microcosm of the real world. You'll find everything, generous people, 
 selfish people, smart people and some extremely dumb people, kind people and cruel people. On my 
 second day, someone found me and gave me some starting money, decent armor and a good weapon to 
 get started with. I also joined a guild and found about 20 other people willing to help me get 
 along. Later, I had a very high level character give me an obscene amount of platinum with the 
 promise that I would use some of it to help other players, which I have consistently. This is not 
 a game for loners. To survive and thrive in the game, you need to become immersed in the community. 
 To those who complain that you can't make any money, that's just not true. Granted, killing 1-10th 
 level mobs (EQ slang for anything you can kill) isn't going to give you much, but there are other 
 ways to get money. Tradeskills, for example, even in lower levels can be lucrative. No matter what 
 you have, someone will want it and pay for it. Something as simple as bone chips, for example, 
 very common with new players because of the low level skeletons that can be found in most "newbie" 
 hunting zones, can bring up to 20pp/per stack of 20 if sold to a Necromancer who needs them for 
 his pet spells. BUT you have to ask around and get to know other players to learn these things..... kind 
 of like real life. EQ is not an easy game to play. But the joy of discovery as you grow from a 
 "baby" player with no idea of what you're doing to a veteran who can share his/her knowledge with 
 others makes the game worthwhile. 
  As for graphics, they aren't cutting edge. Many of the NPC's use the same template. Faces and bodies 
 look very much the same. Sound is repetitive and in some areas, Paludal Caverns comes to mind, 
 can be downright irritating, but generally it's not very important, except for sound effects like 
 spells being cast or the joy of every EQ player, the distinctive "ding" when you gain a level. 
 The game provides many different ways of doing things in the world, you can be a hack and slasher, 
 a merchant in the bazaar raking in the platinum, or you can learn tradeskills and sell food, armor, 
 magic items, spells etc to other players. You can sell your services, such as a cleric offering 
 to resurrect players, or a necromancer who can summon your corpse from anywhere in a zone, for 
 a fee. Certain magic users can teleport you to most hard to reach zones for a fee. With the Lost 
 Dungeons of Norath expansion you can explore dungeons with a group and gain points to expand your 
 abilities. In short, the game offers almost endless varieties of gameplay. Those that complain 
 of boredom in the game obviously haven't explored all these options.
  I will admit that getting past the first 10 or 12 levels can be tedious, but that can be said for 
 any RPG, single player or MMORPG. But once you get up into the teens, you start grouping with other 
 players and that's when things get interesting. Boredom, you say. One minute you are fighing mundane 
 skeletons and ghouls when suddenly out of nowhere, the ghoul magus and his pet show up, and maybe 
 a mummy or festering hag for good measure and suddenly your "boring" camp becomes a battle for 
 life and a few minutes later your whole party is either dead or scattered, running for their lives. 
 Then you have the fun of recovering your corpse, usually from a dangerous area. This is hardly 
 boring. A hassle, pain in the nether regions, yes, but certainly not boring. 
  Norath is a very deep, expansive world where you can live for many months, even years, and never 
 see it all. And it keeps growing with each new expansion. In 5 months of playing, there are still 
 zones I have never even heard of, much less seen. There's always one more zone to explore, one 
 more dungeon to plunder, new mobs that you haven't encountered, new items to find. And speaking 
 of items, there are so many that learning which ones are valuable and which are not is a job in 
 itself. If you like the challenge of being dropped into a strange world, weak and helpless and 
 having to fend for yourself in order to survive, then EQ is the MMORPG for you. If you want the 
 game to spoonfeed you and show you everything you need to know, then I suggest you stick to single-player 
 RPG's. And with a little research, you can find many sites online that will give you tips and advice 
 on how to get started. Two in particular, Allakhazam's and EQ Casters Realm are invaluable. EQ 
 Atlas also, since it has maps of every zone in the game as well as descriptions of the mobs that 
 are there and tips for hunting. And there are hundreds of other players that are willing to help 
 you if you ask. Just remember one thing about EQ and any other community-based online game, a little 
 courtesy goes a long way. And the two magic words we were taught as children work wonders: please 
 and thank you. 
  In summary, Everquest isn't a perfect game. If you've found one, please tell me, I'll buy it now. 
 But it is a FUN game. It lets you do pretty much what you want when you want to do it. Graphics 
 are not cutting edge, but since they've instituted DirectX 9.0 they have improved. Like any other 
 software on the planet, it has some bugs, but with regular patches, most of them get worked out 
 eventually. With the Evolution package, which contains the original game and 3 of the expansions 
 and the Lost Dungeons of Norath expansion, you can discover a whole new world to explore and grow 
 in. I've been playing CRPG's since the first Wizardry and Ultima games, and nothing has captivated 
 me like Everquest since my pen and paper AD&D playing days in college. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tangdagou
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 23, 2003 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I Love this game! The EverQuest world is intense and full of FUN! If you truly enjoy RPGs, this 
 is the online game for you. The interaction between player characters (PC) is one of the best features 
 of this game. You can create whatever character class you wish from Warrior, Wizard, Cleric, Enchanter 
 and so many more. There are tons of races to pick from also. The spell graphics are amazing; creatures 
 are plenty; and other players are generous to help out the NEWBIE players. The World of Norrath 
 is always growing with new features since 1999, and I will be enthralled in this World for as long 
 as it exists! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhallmu
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 13, 2003 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Some people love it some people hate it, but without a doubt Everquest is one of the most addictive 
 games ever created. Why you ask, well first off it is an tremendously deep game that offers numerous 
 skills, quests, zones, and various other things to do and explore. However despite this the most 
 compelling aspect of the game is the community, things such as reputation amongst people on your 
 server have a tremendous impact, the game even has its own economy that will fluctuate over time. 
 Anyway, this is and will always be a truely revolutionary game, check it out you may just like 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amarande
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jun 2, 2003 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Sigh.
  
  Having heard how this game apparently addicts thousands, and seeing it for rock bottom in the bargain 
 bin, and having gotten a little bored of Diablo 2 and wanting to try a different online game experience, 
 I decided to give it a whirl. Unfortunately ... well, see, it's not that Everquest is really all 
 that -bad-, it's just that it really isn't that -great-.
  
  I inserted the CD with high hopes. I mean, how can you not like the lovely elf lady on the package? 
 Sure enough, the initial install is very fast and without a problem in sight, even on my XP Pro 
 machine which has had occasional install hiccups with other games that have been out for a while.
 
  
  Unfortunately, then came this little thing called a 'patch'. Or shall we say -not- a little thing. 
 The estimated download time was gruesome, about five hours - and I soon discovered that I couldn't 
 really do anything else during the wait, because having gone into IRC to chat while waiting, I 
 noticed the patcher stalled and failed. Time to start the patching over. In the end, I was able 
 to watch two feature-length movie DVDs during the wait, and could have watched a TV show or two 
 after that. Ow. I finally went to sleep and decided to check on things in the morning.
  
  Woke up, tried to start the game. First of all, there is a fairly longish wait while the game checks 
 to see if the files are up to date (Gods forbid they're not, I just waited a whole night of doing 
 nothing waiting for the patch the first time ...) . To further emphasize the length of this wait, 
 this is on a computer with an Ultra ATA/100 hard drive.
  
  Okay, so that passes. I click Play. The next thing I see is some odd warning about epileptic seizures, 
 and, more annoyingly, the fact that the game seems to have frozen. The EQ mouse pointer isn't moving 
 at all, and if I shake the mouse around, the regular mouse pointer can be seen flashing, but it 
 never quite makes that OK button I'm supposed to click. Try to alt-tab out ... Nope, can't. EverQuest 
 appears to disable this, presumably to prevent the running of third-party cheat add ons which run 
 rampant in less-strictly controlled games such as Diablo 2.
  
  So I press the RESET button on my PC, still hoping that at last this game will turn out OK. I log 
 back into XP and back onto the Internet, and try again. Okay, once again, wait for the file check. 
 Click Play. Yep, it gets stuck again.
  Lather, rinse, and repeat.
  
  Eventually, I wander onto IRC to find out if anyone else has had this problem, and ... hey, guess 
 what? The manual (which, I should mention, is quite useless) -says- that EQ is compatible with 
 XP, but what does Windows think? No way, it seems. Seems the reason I kept locking was that the 
 application had actually exited due to XP's application compatibility not wanting to run it. So, 
 -far- from being "compatible with Windows XP", as the software claims to be, it turns out I needed 
 to download and install a really fairly obscure administration tool to be able to run the game 
 at all!
  
  Well, that's all squared away, and I finally get connected. It seems fine at first. Setting up 
 an account goes quickly and smoothly, and so does entering one's billing info. That's done, so 
 I proceed to finally get ready to make a character.
  
  Character creation is really pretty nice. You get to see your avatar, which changes dynamically 
 as you change your character's race and gender, and does so very smoothly. I created a High Elf 
 female enchanter, and proceeded onward through the deity selection screens. The deities do have 
 interesting, original names, which is also nice. Well, finally it decides to verify my character, 
 who I decided to name Melisaine, a perfectly okay and nice sounding name.
  
  "Character name rejected."
  
  Why? Nope, doesn't tell you. Doesn't tell you it thinks it's 
 profane (my first guess, given that automated profanity filters tend to very often encounter serious 
 glitches where perfectly okay words are filtered out) , doesn't tell you it's in use, doesn't tell 
 you anything. At least Diablo 2 told you why a character name you wanted was invalid.
  
  So I decided I'd try the random namer that EverQuest provides you with. Three "Character name rejected" 
 later, I start to get a complex. With the reputation I've heard that EQ has for banning people 
 for reasons that the user never really understands, I started to wonder if I'd been banned before 
 I'd even gotten a chance to create a character! Finally, it accepts "Kandrae" as a name for my 
 elven woman.
  
  Next I get baptized by fire into the interface. First of all, the thing has more separate windows, 
 all important, than, say, your typical master class chess program, or your browser after you stumble 
 onto sites that subscribe to badly behaved popup ad services. Okay, close some of these windows. 
 Why does the thing think I want a Bard Songs window when I'm an Enchanter, anyway?
  
  I can't see myself! Well, -finally- I figure out I'm supposed to be in a first person environment. 
 Gee, I can't see my own avatar. That makes me feel good and fuzzy inside. Not. How is an elven 
 lady supposed to know if she looks good in that banded armor ... or, as is more likely for us new 
 players, a -torn training robe-. Never mind that to even get that skimpy clothing dole, I need 
 to find my Guildmaster. Which means I need to go and find him. Which brings me to my next subject...
 
  
  I can't move! Well, well, thanks for making the whole thing totally counterintuitive. I've never 
 seen -any- other 3D game where moving the mouse doesn't at least let you turn. But no, in EQ apparently 
 you need to use arrow keys (Geez. Who's used arrow keys to move in a 3D game since DOOM? What were 
 they thinking?) , or you need to go into Mouse Look mode.
  
  OK, so I can move. I walk to the first sign of life I see, and, well, let's try to talk to someone, 
 who I'm assuming is an NPC, since they're just standing there not doing anything, and right near 
 the entrance, so I assume it's a kind of character designed to greet a newbie like me. Let's see. 
 To talk to someone, we first consult the manual, which after a day or so of poring says that we 
 need to click and press H. Nothing happens. Not even a default greeting such as other RPGs have 
 for generic NPCs. Is this even a NPC, or a PC? I don't know, the game doesn't seem to give you 
 any way of telling the difference.
  
  So I click on the door, and leave the building ... and find that I plunge into water. Apparently, 
 the first thing you need to learn to get -anywhere- in this game is swim. -Thankfully- this is 
 fairly intuitive, working in somewhat similar fashion to other 3D games I've seen that let you 
 swim.
  
  Out of the water, and I see more characters who I can't tell if they're players or NPCs, since 
 there doesn't seem to be any differential in color that I noticed, and they don't seem to respond 
 when you click and hail them. That is, except for the ones marked 'Merchant'. These, as you might 
 expect, are NPC merchants. I click one and hail them. And wait.
  
  Oh, about a minute later, just as I'm about to leave the merchant behind, -then- a trade window 
 pops up. I hadn't noticed that much lag before, so I don't know why it's happening now, and it 
 happens badly. For those of you who have played Diablo 2, even a town full of eight 'zookeeper' 
 type Necromancers doesn't compare to the amount of lag when you try to trade with a shopkeeper 
 in EQ.
  
  Soon afterwards, I start to notice that this happens for basically any action. Moving is fast and 
 accurate, opening doors is fine, doing anything -else- is insanely laggy. I didn't even get to 
 fight any monsters, so I can't even imagine how I'd survive a fight, surely the monsters will kill 
 me during the lag time before my actions even take!
  
  In order to fight monsters, apparently I would have needed to find a 'zone' passageway out of town. 
 I found one of these, which separates two parts of town, apparently for no other purpose but to 
 make you waste time, since when I moved through the zone transition, it took about a full minute 
 or so to load the other part of ... well, now I forget what the town's name was. And apparently 
 you get this load time -every- time you go between the two parts of town.
  
  I really did want to like this game, but ... well, it just doesn't cut it. The gameplay isn't totally 
 awful, except for the lag. The graphics are quite nice, though the physical features of characters 
 tend to be somewhat sharp and angular. Sound is decent, though nothing to write Mom home about. 
 Value I'd have to say is about the worst of any game, mainly because not only is the game fairly 
 lackluster, but you have to pay monthly to continue to play it. If online play was free, I might 
 continue to try anything but the most atrocious game. But this game wanted my ongoing money investment, 
 which is why it should if anything be -better- than the normal RPGs I'd been playing. Sadly, it 
 was not, and I have to flip it the one.
  
  Well, off I go to cancel my EQ account, after which I guess that my EQ disc will sit on the CD 
 rack along with all those other game CDs that I bought and never played more than a few minutes. 
 Oh well. At least it was a bargain bin game.
  
  Sigh.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
