-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: EverQuest II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/everquest2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Impressive presentation.
 Wide assortment of character races and classes.
 Lots of quests; an initially significant amount of content to explore.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Resource hog; some poor performance even on fast machines.
 No player vs player component.
 Fairly conventional; get ready for the online RPG grind.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 17, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 8.3, 54 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 3,484 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sony Online Entertainment
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Nov 8, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
EverQuest II can be a fun and addictive online role-playing experience that has a lot to offer new 
 and experienced players alike. 

  EverQuest wasn't the first game of its kind when it was released in 1999, but it was the best, 
 and remained the best for a long time. Along with Ultima Online, it deserves credit for popularizing 
 the massively multiplayer online role-playing genre, and it's still widely played to this day. 
 As a result, the inevitable EverQuest II has some seriously big shoes to fill. And it almost does. 
 In many ways, this new game embodies almost all the numerous refinements and evolutions that the 
 genre has undergone in the past five years, so it's one of the most instantly gratifying and accessible 
 online RPGs yet. It also sports a rather impressive presentation, thanks largely to an ambitious 
 effort to make almost all the game's non-player characters communicate using full speech. Yet when 
 you get right down to it, EverQuest II really isn't that different from the numerous other games 
 of its type, and its mostly great visuals are offset by subpar technical performance. So while 
 EverQuest II isn't the massive step for the genre that its predecessor was, it can still be a fun 
 and addictive online role-playing experience that has a lot to offer new and experienced players 
 alike.  

          Hail EverQuest II!     

  It's worth noting right up front that EverQuest II launched in a solid state. It offered a wide 
 breadth of content and some obvious depth from the day of release, which really should be nothing 
 to boast about, but then again, we're talking about a genre that's historically taken a "ship it 
 now and fix it later" approach. As such, unlike a lot of other, lesser online RPGs, EverQuest II 
 clearly has a good amount of original content for you to spend many hours exploring. At least for 
 the first several dozen hours, it always gives you something to do, generally doing a good job 
 of keeping you engaged, if not addicted. The game picks its battles, though. Unlike many other 
 online RPGs, EverQuest II is purely focused on player vs. environment gameplay, so there's no player 
 vs. player combat in the game whatsoever. This is a surprising omission, especially considering 
 that the structure of the game seems like an obvious setup for some PvP action, since all players 
 are forced to swear allegiance to the forces of good or the forces of evil. For comparison's sake, 
 the original EverQuest did include player vs. player combat, as well as the ability to harmlessly 
 duel with other players (that much, at least, would have been nice here) , but EverQuest's focus 
 has always been on cooperative instead of competitive play.  

  In exchange, EverQuest II offers a fairly complex and entertaining combat system, a similarly interesting 
 system of "tradeskills," the ability to sublet and furnish your own dwelling in the gameworld (complete 
 with the pleasures of having to pay rent) , and a pretty impressive guild system that lets player 
 guilds indirectly compete for prominence. Like the original, EverQuest II's world consists of numerous 
 discrete adventure zones that, also like the original, are separated by some lengthy loading times. 
 The game does a fairly good job of letting you get your bearings in each new area, thanks to an 
 onscreen compass, a pop-up map of your surroundings, and a journal that automatically keeps track 
 of the quests you've undertaken. EverQuest II also alleviates the tedious downtimes that were a 
 notorious part of the original game, so even if you're fighting solo, it's possible to recover 
 your health and power (used for spells and special abilities) fairly quickly in between fights. 
 As a result of all this, EverQuest II is more conducive to relatively short play sessions than 
 a lot of other online RPGs, but it's still a game that will happily swallow up all your spare hours, 
 and really demands to be played for at least several hours at a time for satisfying results.  

 
  The world of EverQuest II is the very same Norrath featured in the original game, but it's a Norrath 
 that's been stricken by a cataclysmic event that caused most of the world's civilization to collapse. 
 As a result, only two main metropolises remain: Qeynos, home of the forces of good, and Freeport, 
 bastion of the forces of evil. When creating your character, you must choose your alignment -- good 
 or evil -- although some character races are limited to just one or the other. At any rate, this 
 choice determines your starting city (you can change allegiances later by undertaking a special 
 "betrayal quest") , and in turn, the locations in which you'll inevitably be spending most of your 
 first several dozen hours of play. The two main cities are superficially quite different: The polite 
 citizens of Qeynos traipse along streets lined with Victorian-style buildings, while Freeport's 
 surly population fits right in with its cruel, inhospitable architecture. However, each city is 
 equally large and equally diverse, and offers similar amenities and analogous quests. It's interesting 
 to see how things are on both sides of the fence, but don't expect the good and evil experiences 
 in EverQuest II to be drastically different from a gameplay standpoint.  

          The wide assortment of different character races and classes is one of the game's most 
 compelling features.     

  All of EverQuest's numerous character races are once again present here, including the smaller 
 ones like dwarves and gnomes; the boring old medium-size ones like humans and half-elves; and the 
 bigger, brawnier ones like barbarians and ogres. The reptilian iksar and feline kerran are also 
 present, along with a new race of bipedal rodents called the ratonga. EverQuest's frogloks are 
 still hopping around in Norrath, too, but are initially not selectable as a player race, for whatever 
 reason. Still, there's a broad, colorful selection of different possibilities here, and for each 
 different race, you can play as a male or female version and also customize your character's hairstyle 
 and facial features. The character-creation process doesn't give you too much freedom to significantly 
 differentiate your appearance from that of other characters of the same race and gender, but it's 
 still fun to mess around with. While you're limited to a maximum of four characters per account, 
 you'll inevitably want to try out a variety of different character types to find the one whose 
 style best suits you. But don't expect anything drastic here, either, even when switching from 
 a tiny halfling to a hulking troll. Like in the original EverQuest, the differences between races 
 seem mostly superficial, notwithstanding some minor race-specific abilities and ability-score distributions. 
     

  The game opens with an optional interactive tutorial that does a great job of teaching you the 
 basics, even if you're already well acquainted with such games. After this brief adventure, which 
 takes place at sea, you'll land on the Isle of Refuge, which just so happens to be a perfect place 
 for newbie players to cut their teeth on EverQuest II's combat, tradeskill, and questing elements. 
 You're free to leave the isle at any time, but you can gain some valuable items and experience 
 by sticking around and exploring for a while. Eventually, the quests here pretty much require you 
 to team up with other players to succeed, so the isle serves as a great introduction to the virtues 
 of working as a team instead of going at it solo. With that said, one of the nice things about 
 EverQuest II compared with its predecessor is that it lets most types of characters more viably 
 fight and explore solo, at least throughout the initial stages of the character's life.  

          A helpful tutorial and a mostly solid, uncluttered interface help make EverQuest II easier 
 to get into than most such games.     

  However, before you get to your adventuring, you need to pick a profession. EverQuest II actually 
 features about two dozen different character classes, but to make things easier on you, it'll initially 
 let you choose from just four: fighter, scout, mage, or priest. Unlike in EverQuest, any combination 
 of races and classes is possible, so if you want to be an ogre mage, you can. After you've made 
 your choice, you'll be able to choose one of several specialized classes at around level 10 (after 
 undergoing a series of quests) , and then one of a couple of different subclasses at level 20 (ditto) . 
 For example, a fighter can evolve into a warrior, a brawler, or a crusader, and if you become a 
 brawler, then you can later become a bruiser or a monk. Neither the game's manual nor the game 
 itself does a particularly good job of explaining what the differences are between the specialized 
 classes and subclasses, but the differences tend to be at least slightly intuitive. Nevertheless, 
 you need to choose very carefully when decision time comes: Your choice is final, and will determine 
 which sorts of responsibilities your character will have in a group, and how viable your character 
 will be if left to his or her own devices. At any rate, there's certainly a wide variety of different 
 classes, and each of the four main archetypes seems powerful, useful, and interesting in its own 
 right. 

   EverQuest II is briskly paced at first, but it slows down considerably around the time you earn 
 your specialty class. There's currently an experience-level limit of 50, and after a little more 
 than a week, some hardcore players are already about halfway there (though the second half is going 
 to be much slower going, of course) . Since there's no PvP component to aspire to, what's to be 
 expected from EverQuest II's high-level game? The answer is, if anything, probably a lot of guild-specific 
 agendas. Forming a guild in EverQuest II is a pretty simple process that requires you to come up 
 with six or more like-minded players and a reasonable sum of gold. Once you've formed or joined 
 a guild, you'll notice that the guild itself can gain experience levels, which happens as its members 
 complete the tasks requested of them in writs they can receive from the town herald. Since all 
 online RPGs implicitly encourage players to "race" through the levels, becoming stronger as quickly 
 as possible so they can be the envy of everyone else, the writ system seems like a good way to 
 bring this undeniable dynamic to a team-based level. So, even though there's no PvP, there's still 
 going to be a sense of competition between guilds, who'll need to expand their numbers and keep 
 accomplishing tasks so they can earn more status points, which they can spend on special rewards 
 that increase the guild's prestige within its city. The game also features some good tools for 
 guild management, including integration with a Web site that lets you automatically keep track 
 of what's happening with your guild. For what it's worth, EverQuest II also seems to do a good 
 job of keeping its economy stable and balanced. For example, lower-level characters simply cannot 
 take advantage of hand-me-down high-level equipment.  

          EverQuest II makes a great first impression, and it starts out a brisk pace, but it eventually 
 settles you into that old, familiar online RPG grind.     

  Combat in EverQuest II closely resembles what's been done by some earlier rivals to EverQuest, 
 such as Dark Age of Camelot and Final Fantasy XI. Fundamentally, it's still a lot like EverQuest 
 in that you target an enemy and initiate your auto-attack, which causes you and the foe to exchange 
 hits until one of you dies or flees. However, combat becomes an active experience thanks to the 
 presence of so many different spells and special abilities for each character class. Even the game's 
 warrior-type classes, which are relatively simplistic in EverQuest, have lots of unique powers. 
 So you'll whale on your foe while unleashing a torrent of debilitating attacks and defensive maneuvers. 
 Furthermore, certain types of moves initiate what are called "heroic opportunities," which are 
 basically combos of special moves. If you and your party members string together a proper sequence 
 of actions, you'll trigger some kind of beneficial effect, such a temporary boost in your attack 
 speed or power. Heroic opportunities require no real timing, but reward basic coordination within 
 groups and help make the combat slightly more involved than is typical of the genre. Fighting in 
 groups can get pretty hectic, though, as damage numbers clutter the screen and the text window, 
 making it difficult to tell what's going on from moment to moment. Nevertheless, a clear, fairly 
 uncluttered interface lets you easily keep tabs on how your allies are doing.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (144 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FrostyGoat
Rating: 0
Date: Oct 14, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        EverQuest II User Reviews for 
 PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Lady Gagas Eccentric Outfits    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elslav
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  EQ2 had a rough launch (2004) and first year, but since has release 4 expansions to make this one 
 of the largest MMOs out now with TONS of content and quests to get your character up to level 80. 
 Right now going on thru July if you have ever had an EQ2 account even a TRIAL account you can play 
 the entire game for free! 
  
  This is my 3rd time back since 2004 and I am loving the game more now than ever before, I chose 
 to start over and I have found the game very enjoyable thus far to level up my new character - 
 he is 35 now in about 6 days of casual play and extensive questing. 
  
  I was in the Age of Conan beta starting in October 07 and I find the combat in EQ2 to be much more 
 engaging and the world bigger with much more to do. Plus its free so save some bucks this summer 
 and at least play EQ2 for free while you can and test it out - you will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilson336
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  I don't know why this game does not do better than World of Warcraft. Better graphics, more classes, 
 more races, player housing, immersive cities. At face value EQ2 has WoW trumped at everything.
 
  
  However, WoW still is the hands-down champion of MMOs. Why? Marketing. Blizzard knows how to market 
 and how to sell. WoW has a dedicated core of people that love to chat, raid, and just goof around 
 online. Could you do tat in EQ2? Sure, and you would look better doing it. But the general consumer 
 is going to stay with what they have.
  
  However, if you are tired of WoW or just want something along the same line, but with more options 
 and better graphics, EQ2 is for you. You could spend a months just going through the different 
 race and class combinations to see what they are like. Player housing can be addictive, as you 
 gather trophies, books and furniture for your home.
  
  Crafting in EQ2 is fun. You specialize in your area, but it's not just click and see if you make 
 it. You have to watch for warnings are counter any faults by selecting the right crafting skill. 
 It's fairly entertaining, but it does stop you from taking a pee breaking while pumping out 20 
 potions.
  
  Collections are another nice touch. You will find random items on the ground marked with a "?". 
 These are collection items. Once a collection is complete you turn it in for a reward. There are 
 many different collections and it is an interesting distraction. Hand in hand with that is learning 
 languages of creatures. A random drop might include something you can study to learn a little about 
 the speech of that type of characters. Once you collect enough pieces you wil "understand" that 
 creature language, for instance, gnolls will no longer bark and snall at you, but will talk in 
 a growling voice. Very well done.
  
  Content gets a little slow at level 20, and that could be tweaked, but there are good epic quest 
 lines to guide to new areas, provided that you finish those quests. There are so many quests available 
 that sometimes it can be overwhelming as well. Your quest log can hold 75 quests at one time, so 
 it's easy to have several quests get lost in the shuffle. Certain areas of the world can only be 
 accessed by completing a quest, and it can get frustrating runing back and forth completing a quest 
 just to get to a new area.
  
  The largest fault I have with the EQ2 engine itself is the loading screens when entering cities. 
 You can explore in the wilderness for hours, but everytime you go to a new section of a city, it 
 must load. I guess that's the trade-off for the graphics. 
  
  The only other reason this game gets a knock is because of the player base. Most cities are fairly 
 empty, especially compared to the crowds in WoW. NPCs just aren't the same, and finding a good 
 group or guild can be hard. If EQ2 and WoW had comparable player bases, I would take EQ2 every 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biller88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Everquest II now for 4 years, on and off, and have kept coming back to it.
  I've been to WoW, LotRO, EVE Online, Vanguard, SWG, and several others, but there's just something 
 about Everquest that I keep coming back for.
  I think one of the main reasons is SOE's content additions. Of all the MMO's I've seen, content 
 is most regularly updated and added in this game. From the four expansions to the adventure packs, 
 and now to the free downloadable game data, it looks like there will still be more and more content 
 coming.
  They've also done a fairly good job balancing the classes, and for the most part, it's not about 
 a certain class being better than another, but a gamer being better than another in PvP.
  The quests are numerous, the Alternate Advancement lines give you something to strive for, and 
 the Epic Weapon quests, the big mobs, the instances, and the PvP action make EQ worth checking 
 out for sure. I can't think of any other ways to detail my recommendation other than to say I keep 
 coming back.
  As always, check out the free trial. If you're looking for something you can really sink your teeth 
 into and get a lot of value out of for the $14.95 a month, and you are a fan of quests and fantasy, 
 then this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miradwyn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 4:03 am PT
Review:  There is a huge number of quests available and a log big enough to hold them. It was nice being 
 able to turn off killing experience so I could quest without leveling.
  Mentoring (temporarily become the level of the person you are grouped with) is interesting and 
 nice if you have high level friends who would like to play with you if you are just joining.
  The large number of classes, races and trade skills to pick from is nice.
  Fellow players were 
 fairly nice and helpful, more mature for the most part than in other MMO's I have played.
  A lot more depth than other any other, but that was not always a good thing.
  There were many 
 little things that I liked and were well done that I can't particularly think of at the moment.
 
  
  Trade skills were overly complicated and too time consuming. You could log on and spend two hours 
 doing nothing except making food. Even making grey items (trivial, worth no trade experience) takes 
 constant attention and button mashing.
  Spell upgrades were confusing, not only are there something like 8 upgrades to each spell but the 
 spell also keeps changing names every few levels so you have to upgrade it again under the new 
 name.
  The number of items I was able to auction being severely limited by how large a bag I could afford 
 was irritating.
  The maps are crappy and practically require a mod to be of any use.
  The talent system was apparently tacked on across multiple expansions and feels like it was too.
 
  
  Overall I had fun and it's a pretty well done game, but too time consuming even for simple tasks 
 and complicated if you don't want to spend every free minute of your life playing. I played a ridiculous 
 number of hours for the short length of time I had an account, too much by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skarwolf
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  This game is ok but like most MMORPG's if you're a new player it isn't really friendly. Most of 
 the game is geared to people already experiencing high end content. Just starting out you'd have 
 little to nothing to offer.
  
  I liked the crafting something I don't normally get involved with. Most games I find crafting tedious, 
 and a waste of time. EQII's crafting seemed to interest me more and it provided gear and items 
 to use in the early levels when you couldn't afford anything else.
  
  PVP... if you're a new player I wouldn't even bother. Unless you plan on buying gold and getting 
 all kinds of gear. If you're a new player trying to pvp better get used to the fact that you're 
 basically cannon fodder for all the twinks. You'll die repeatedly, after that you'll die even more 
 repeatedly since high lvl characters have twinks they level lock at low lvl with uber gear and 
 spells.
  
  I admit, I bought gold to finance my EQII player and it helped alot. The warlock I had could solo 
 most content to 50th. I only had the original game and no expansions and spent most of the 1-50 
 levels soloing. What times I grouped was usually with other twinks who just wanted to get keyed 
 for later adventures.
  
  In all the game was ok to pass the time but not something I'd invest alot of time in. I actually 
 quit twice and returned a third time but after reaching 50th there was nothing to do since most 
 people don't play the original content and just expansions.
  
  As for classes. Some are geared towards soloing while others you definitely require a group. I 
 read up on the classes and having played a shaman in WOW I tried a defiler. Boy was that a mistake. 
 A defilers main purpose is to buff the group with ablative shields and buffs. They have little 
 to no offensive ability which means if you can't get a group you're pretty much screwed. So I made 
 a warlock and WOW, talk about blowing things up. It was fun for awhile but you're basically using 
 the same combination of spells from 1-50 which can and does get awful boring.
  
  As for the quests, there's a multitude almost too many to keep track of. I'd say more so then other 
 games. There was so many quests I couldn't keep track of them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mystery323x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  This game has its ups and downs but most to me are ups. I like the games graphics there pretty 
 good compared to the other mmorpgs out there and it is one of the best mmorpgs out there. 
  
  UPs: 
  
  The Population on most servers or great and have great people. Tho every server 
 has some bad apples.
  The Combat system is your basic MMO click on and use your skills but there is strategy.
  There 
 is a variety of equipment and items tho at lower lvls alot of the skins look the same.
  The guild system is nice you gain status for your guild by completing special quests (Writs , HQs 
 , ect...)
  Theres a variety of Races and Classes and now i think there is 5 different starting citys depending 
 on your race/class.
  The game does have alot of solability it just depends on what class you are.
  Crafting system 
 works great and is fun for a while.
  
  Downs: 
  
  The downs to me on all MMORPGS is the Monthly fee but its pretty worth it for this game.
  At 
 lower lvls everyone looks the same until like 50+.
  
  
  
  OVERALL this is a solid mmorpg that whould be around for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cornbredx
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Ok first off I am not bashing this game at all. I'm hoping you understand my Review Deck to mean 
 that there is good and bad points to this (as with all games) and I merely want to interject my 
 opinoin here for those that want to read it.
  
  Graphics: I have read before that this game did not start with very good graphics but I started 
 playing about 7 months ago or so and I have loved the graphics of this game. It is very true, however, 
 that this MMO is graphic intensive and while my computer isnt great (its old but I update when 
 needed) It still handles all games out there. This is up there with FEAR and Bio-Shock though. 
 I am actually unsure why this is because while great (for instance if you actually get the chance 
 and zoom in on a Kerran Toon in combat mode not only do you see the wonderfully detailed fur but 
 also can see inside his mouth- tongue, molars and all that. Its quite extraordinary how implicit 
 it appears to be) there doesnt seem to be much more to this then any other graphically enhanced 
 MMO (such as the CoX franchise which I dont generally have that much Framerate issues with other 
 then certain times such as alien invasion encounters) so it is odd to me but maybe I'm just jaded. 
 I dont know, but be aware when you play this that it is indeed a graphics hog and some areas when 
 adding in the network lag created by all the users there I just avoid altogther. Dont let this 
 scare you however, as noted the graphics are beautiful in this game and the spells animations greatly 
 reflect that. One thing I love is how much flair there is in the spells. It makes looking at them 
 over and over an enjoyable experience one which hasnt gotten old for me yet. Some of my favorite 
 spell graphics are on healers (such as my Fury) . I especially like how you get a little patch of 
 grass around your feet when your healing. Thats really cool. There's alot of eye candy in this 
 game.
  
  Maps: The maps are HUGE. This is both a blessing and a curse. To one extent it's great, lots of 
 content and you dont deal with the atrocious load times to much that detract from the fun alot 
 of times in this game. Unfortunately due to issues I'll discuss later, this isnt always true. The 
 curse here, though, is this is an MMO and a fantasy one at that. This game highly supports Guild 
 Players (with the new expansion that I'll be reviewing also it now supports solo players a little 
 bit) so getting around is a real pain and can take a long time to get somewhere when your starting 
 your day in your home which is very far from the vast majority of higher level content (which, 
 again has alot to do with the new expansion I will be discussing in another review) . 
  
  Quest System: While I wish they did something more with it, the old I need help killing rats motif 
 that is very prevalent in this game is old fashioned and widely used in to many MMOs. Alot of NPCs 
 that give quests (or dont sometimes) do talk audibly so the massive amount of time spent reading 
 can be skipped by just listening. However, ALOT of the NPCs have alot to say, they really like 
 to hear themselves speak, so even getting a quest and knowing everything about what your doing 
 can be time consuming in and of itself. On top of that more often then not you dont know what your 
 actually being asked to do in the old content until after you accept. All you know is if the quest 
 will be worth your time or not (whether its greyed- no longer giving xp to you- or still giving 
 xp) . Sometimes you dont even know what exactly your doing and a majority of the time if you dont 
 start in the newest expansion area, you will be looking up how to do the quest in Allah or the 
 Wiki database. If you can actually get a guild that likes to play or a group, however, you will 
 be blown away at how quickly you suddenly are able to do things. Sadly most players these days 
 apparently dont want to group, or they only group with specific classes in mind. Odds will be good 
 no matter what class you are that you will be waiting for a group for hours on end unless like 
 i said your in a great guild that loves to play. 
  
  Class/Leveling/Skills System: It's really the same old thing. Altho EQ2 has a massive amount of 
 classes to choose from (25 If i remember) and like WoW based on what side your on decides which 
 classes you will be choosing. I personally dont like it being like that, but MMOs have taken that 
 stance for the most part and it doesnt detract from gameplay so it's not a bad thing. I like the 
 skills system in this (known as Achievements) as it rewards questing and exploration. You supposedly 
 dont need these skills but in my experience it really does make you more powerful to have them 
 then not. This system can be extremely tedious as if you dont like to quest you will be behind 
 other players (their stats will be incrementally better then yours always) but on the flip side 
 you will be more likely to see all that there is to see. Unfortunately a game that hates short 
 time spent online each day it bes. This game requires long travel times to go anywhere, and this 
 means comepleting quests as well as exploring is a long winded and tedious experience rather then 
 an enjoyable one that you can take your time doing. So, it is a rewarding system but only if you 
 can afford to play ALOT. SoE really wants to make sure you play this game for years. This is the 
 first MMO i've played that I'm still not fully leveled in (because I like to take it slow) and 
 I'm going on (or over) half a year now. In some ways this disappoints me because I like end game 
 alot. Unfortunately I often have to play for 5 hours plus just to feel any real accomplishment 
 towards gaining anything substantial. The leveling is painfully slow, mainly due to travel time, 
 and thats the real downer to me in this game. If somehow I could go faster and accomplish things 
 in less time I wouldnt have a problem with it.
  
  Combat: I dont personally PvP but in this based on what I've read PvP is an after thought for EQ2 
 so unless your on a PvP server dont really expect alot of PvP interaction. There is arenas but 
 it seems no one plays them and while I never tried one I suspect it's because it was poorly implemented 
 and not fun. Combat in the PvE area, to me, is quite enjoyable. There are many ways you know what 
 you can fight and what you cant (there is a color system called considering which is an old hat 
 form of saying you can kick its ass, maybe not, dont bother to easy, etc etc) as well as Heroic 
 and even Epic encounters all throughout the game (even at lower levels although alot of the old 
 Raid content has been downgraded due to the amount of time this game has been around not many new 
 players comin into it) . A major amount of time you will be soloing or waiting for some group to 
 pick you up though so if you do get into this I suggest you make your main whatever you want and 
 an alt to tide you over when no groups can be found that is solo friendly. This MMO combat system 
 is simplistic in form (you pick the spell you want to cast like any other MMO) and there is tons 
 of spells to choose from. Sadly at one point you are expected to find these spells on your own, 
 which wont make ALOT of difference because A) Apprentice spells suck (which you normally get for 
 free anyway at the beginning) so you'll be buying the higher lvl versions (such as Adept and Master) 
 anyway before you get to that point. Anyway, the combat is fun and depending on your class can 
 either be very difficult to start or not, sometimes its just slow to start. Some classes are comepletely 
 dependant on hit and run tactics or group play so this is also a downer.
  
  Sounds/Music: The music in this is actually unique. Supposedly (although I honestly either dont 
 notice it on my main or just barely notice it on my alt) the music adapts to how your doing in 
 combat. Becoming more intense if your losing and more epic if your winning. I havent notice these 
 changes while fighting on my main (a conjuror) ... ever. Although on my alt (the fury) I notice
 
  it barely although not really enough to justify an inovation yet. The idea is solid and I hope 
 they flesh it out more because I'd love the idea of an evolving sound scheme for MMOs I think that 
 would change the way we use music in MMOs (most of us have it turned off, I know I'm not the only 
 one) and if it actually works would make us less bored with it. As it is the music becomes repetiitve 
 quickly (like all MMOs) and I wish I could play my own music from a UI in game. The other sounds 
 are impressive though, and when you get bashed by something, or your the one doing the bashing, 
 it will be known.
  
  Community: The cruxt of why we play MMOs. Some little kids play them to feel empowered because 
 they can be rude to adults and other kids alike and feel no real ill effects (other then being 
 hated by thousands of people instead of just the few they annoy at school) . Alot of adults play 
 them for the communities and making friends and enjoying an experience outside the real world with 
 these friends they make. Alot of people even start these games with other real life friends and 
 that makes them successful in the game. I sadly have not played an MMO since SWG that I started 
 with someone I know in real life. So doing things is always 100 times harder for me. Thankfully 
 the community is great in this game, and while there is a few that are a little bit immature it's 
 ignorable but sadly going to be pervasive on anyone who is playing alone. While most talk on this 
 game doesnt offend me alot of times people will have conversations in open world chat rooms that 
 are comepletely unnecessary and should be held in private. Such as religious views and politics 
 that are brought up merely to incite flaming rather then conversation (i know this because they 
 incessantly flame people who do not share their views before anyone has made any comments about 
 this conversation taking place) . The conversations do tend to be mature, however, and if nothing 
 else I can only say they are friendly but can often be very ignorant and disrespectful of other 
 peoples view points. Overall though, you can just turn any global chat off (like all MMOs worth 
 playing) and only speak to who you want. Just be aware what your kid is doing in this as with all 
 MMOs there are the occasional Cyber-Punks lurking around.
  
  Spam Policies: I like the way this game deals with Farmers and Spammers and as such I thought I'd 
 mention it. It has a system in place so that anything sold cannot make money (it gets hidden from 
 brokers) if you havent logged in for a week making it so when a Farmer Bot sells something then 
 gets found by DEVs and deleted they cant ruin or run the the market. While alot of players in this 
 are greedy, its a very flexible market and I have never had a problem buying or selling anything 
 I've found in the game. You just have to be honest with your prices.
  
  Overall "Game Play"/ Fun Factor: If you have alot of time on your hands, or friends that already 
 play this I suggest trying it out. With the new expansion things arent to tough to start out although 
 you will eventually run into the older quest system which will bog your gameplay down and make 
 you feel less accomplishment. If you can stick with it though, there is some amazing things to 
 see in this game. The graphics are beautiful, the sound is fun, and the combat is typical MMO. 
 Most MMO gamers, though, play more for community then anything else and in this theres alot of 
 that. 
  
  I want to note I know I havent talked about the crafting system. Reason being I am not into crafting 
 and therefore, while intuitive, I don't enjoy and think my opinoin of it would be less then satisfactory 
 to someone who enjoys crafting in MMOs. If your like me, though, and dont like crafting this game 
 wont change your mind. Hopefully I've covered everything, thanks for reading and continue to enjoy 
 your gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conrad0
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 26, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted EQ2 to work. I even felt I would play it enough to justify the $15 per month to 
 play it, on top of the steep $50 list price. I pre-ordered the game, and the first section I played 
 solo as much as I could, up to level 13.
  
  I played a Barbarian Healer, which I was told was a bad combination, but it was a great combination 
 if you play solo. A walking tank that can heal itself? You figure it out. I was walking through 
 sections that gave wizard/warrior teams troubles. The world is beautiful and GPU-melting. You simply 
 can't have enough graphics horsepower to run this game. Except for two major problems. The servers 
 were constantly overloaded. Whenever I got into towns, my ping went through the roof, and I was 
 waiting for textures to load. That is simply bu!!$hit for a game with a monthly fee.
  
  There are sections that require a team to play. I had a hell of a time finding a reliable team 
 that was actually interested in finishing quests. In fact, of my appx 50 hours of game play, I 
 NEVER found a team that lasted more than an hour. Many times players would wander away or go offline, 
 making it difficult to form any kind of strategies. The most powerful combo attacks in team play 
 require teams to work... as a team. Imagine that. Basically, you are punished for playing solo, 
 and many of the larger sections you CANNOT play as a solo. You have to have a team.
  
  Sadly, the game is made for a group of people to play long-term together and running teamspeak 
 on the side, each team member with specific roles. This is the AD&D way, but that doesn't necessarily 
 translate well to MMORPG. Perhaps it should be faster to advance through the maps/plots as a team, 
 but dedicated solo players should also be allowed!
  
  And the puttering about with inventory, ingredients, stores, shops and such is a pretty lame way 
 of doing things. I returned to my apartment to find that I had been gone so long that my rent was 
 due, and couldn't enter my apartment till I paid my rent. Well, I was broke, and the remainer of 
 the gear I could sell was... you guessed it... in my room. I became a beggar on the street, asking 
 for money to pay my rent on my hovel! Who wants to pay a montly fee for a game like this?
  
  I gave EQ2 this advice when I cancelled my subscription, and I hear they have added more solo 
 adventures. Sorry boys, too late. I dumped that ho and picked up a sweet new thing called The Elder 
 Scrolls Oblivion. After completing Oblivion in around 60 hours, I couldn't be more satisfied, I 
 just wish I could have got my money back from EQ2...
  
  -Conrad Zero
  www. conradzero. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lead_healer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, this is the best MMO on the market.
  
  PROS: Huge expansive content, impressive continually improving graphics, many race/class combos. 
 Nearly all classes can solo AND group effectively. Can acquire good gear with mostly group and 
 NOT raid content. TONS of solo content. Excellent crafting system complete with crafting quests. 
 Fast travel. Easy to find your way around with the built in maps. Will suit the hardcore raider 
 and casual gamers tastes. NOT a huge time investment. Possible to play several hours a day and 
 level up. The best PvE experiences of any MMOs. Friendly (older too) community. This is not your 
 typical WoW gamer's universe!
  
  CONS: Need a fairly decent rig to run with the graphics cranked up. PvP is fairly dumb and based 
 more on class vs class than skill. Expansions can get pricey.
  
  OVERALL: The Best MMO is here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJix
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  A must have if you are looking for a mmorpg that will take you indepth with your character. Unlike 
 most online games it is not riddled with preteen chat. And most people are kind if you need help 
 with a quest or a general question. If you have some extra time and am looking for a game that 
 will make you feel like you actually really worked for the item you have been grinding then get 
 it for sure. So try before you get into other games since this one has had sometime to iron out 
 the bad. 
  
  The only downside if makesure your commited to your character since unlike most other games when 
 you grind to higher lvl; s it takes you a fair amount of time and nothing is worse then looking 
 back on 3 months of time you regret cause you are tired of smack smack smack loot loot . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokikitty
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 3:57 am PT
Review:  I played Everquest for months, and while there were some things that I liked, overall I didn't 
 really care for it. So when I heard there was a sequel coming out, I was on board to try it out. 
 I am certainly glad I did.
  
  Almost all the things that were frustrating or just plain boring were fixed in Everquest 2. The 
 quests given by NPCs give real experience, not just a tiny sliver of your experience bar. The crafting 
 is a lot more fun in this version. I may be mean, but I found it a hoot when people got injured 
 because they weren't paying attention. It gave a certain amount of spice to the normally time consuming, 
 mind numbing process of crafting. And finally, this version makes it feasible to solo! No more 
 trying to find a group when all you want to do is play for an hour.
  
  And the graphics.... I cannot stress how much better the graphics really are. The character models 
 are well done, the scenery is much better looking, even the buildings look amazing. Alas, there 
 is a price to pay for such prettiness. If you like lag, then you'll love this game. It's a good 
 thing that there are such pretty things to look at, because, odds are, you'll be looking at them 
 for a long time. The loading times are also a problem, again because they put so much into the 
 game it takes time to load up each zone. I've heard that if you have a really high end gaming computer, 
 then these problems are minimized. Unfortunately, I can only rate what I have played.
  
  Also I must note that this game may not be as good to people who love the original. There were 
 many players that I saw giving away their high end gear to play EQ2, then seeing many of those 
 same people coming back because they just couldn't get into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodoo_goodoo
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  After i threw down the keyboard swearing myself off of wow forever, something drew me to everquest 
 and i downloaded trial of the isle, and i have to tell you that wow has nothing on this the graphics 
 are top-tier along with the attitudes of the players. and the voice acting is nothing to snuff 
 at either, and the music gives this game a heroic feel even though it is mis-placed at times, the 
 selection of races and classes makes this game feel so large and you really start to get a clue 
 of how big it is and dont forget how easy it is to solo, where the characters dont give you quest 
 they know you cant beat, the difficulty is just right and the particle effects are amazing and 
 the character models look amazing with almost everything from height to the highlights in your 
 hair being customizable, and both of the places in trial of the isle give you a noble feel if you're 
 good and a powerful feel if you're bad, if your tired of bad graphics and immature players of wow 
 its time for you to go do the quest, the everquest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrk999
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  ive played this game for over 2 years now and every time i quit cause of my friends wanting me 
 to play wow i had to go back just cause the game is so much fun i cant stop making alts i also 
 had to come back just cause the ppl in my guild are some of the best ppl u will ever find in a 
 mmo i never got any of that in wow all that happend in wow was i grinded to 70 listenend to morons 
 in the channels yelling at each other while im trying to sell things and all the morons who grp 
 with me but have no clue wat there doing but in eq2 i never had to experience immature players 
 that dont know how to play there class so im just saying that eq2 is by far a better game then 
 wow except the lack of pvp which is the only reason ppl like it better then eq2 but even with pvp 
 in wow its unbalanced and all u do is get ganked over and over again so still eq2 pawns wows face 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zelda187
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 5, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  It's very simple, no other online RPG can compare to Everquest ll IMO.
  
  I've tried World of Warcraft, I've tried City of Heroes...... they don't seem to come even close 
 to delivering the same massive package of EQ 2.
  
  There is a laundry list of of different characters and classes to choose from. The visuals are 
 the best you'll see in a game of it's genre, the gameplay is extremely solid with plenty of quests 
 to keep you coming back for more, and the sound is superb.
  
  There is a massive world to explore which grows larger by the day. The best thing about EQ 2 is 
 that you don't have to be a hardcore gamer to enjoy it's many pleasures. If you want to commit 
 simply one or two hours a day for playing time, have at it.
  
  Another one of the games attributes that I really hold close to heart, is that it's solo friendly. 
 You don't have to constantly look for a group to help you grind or complete a quest.
  
  All in all this is hands down the best online RPG on the market today. The only reason Warcraft 
 attracts more players is because it requires a less souped up computer and appeals to a younger 
 audience with it's cartoonish look.
  
  It really is a shame that this masterpiece of a game gets pushed aside in favor of Warcraft and 
 Guild Wars.
  
  9.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cozzi07
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 30, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  Everquest 2 Is one of if not the best MMORPG. The game has alot of detail the graphics are superb 
 on a high end pc but also pretty good on standard pc. It takes up around 7.5g and every MB is worth 
 it. The thing for me that stands out in this game is the online comunity, there are many helpful 
 people who are always willing to show you around the game, help, fight and to quest with you (witch 
 is the centre of this game) . The gameplay is very simple yet affective, with many classes and races 
 to play with. This is one of few games that you can play over and over again and do many things 
 diffrently. It takes a while to get used to but overall a solid MMORPG. IF your a fan of the genre 
 this is a game you have to try out.
  
  Overall 9.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karelemmy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 25, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  EQ2 is the game i have been playing the longest! Fine and still up to date graphics, which is amazing 
 for a game that released 2 years ago. Gameplay is awesome since more and more content is added 
 and modified like the community needs! ( Well the Devs try! :P) The Soundtrack of EQ has always 
 been amazing for me! And it is continuing in the EQ2 series! This is really one of the game that 
 will get you hooked beginning to the end! With a mature community, that won't hesitate to help 
 you out if you are new! A great game that is worth playing and don't be scared to pick it up at 
 the store or just try the trials ! Their great! And there isn't only one! Go for it! And try, you 
 won't loose anything, and in my opinion, you'll have great fun and a wonderful experience!
  
  ~Karel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jester_Mocus
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  First things first. Please excuse my flaws I'm sure there are a few (probably with the healer classes 
 I never payed much attention to their alignments)
  
  CREATING YOUR CHARACTER (S)
  
  Alright when you first start the game you choose your race. Your options are:
  Good: Fae, Wood 
 Elf, Kerra, Dwarf, Halfling, and Froglok.
  Neutral: Erudite, Human, Half Elf, Gnome, and High Elf.
  Evil: Ogre, Ratonga, Arasai, Dark Elf, 
 Troll, Iksar
  
  After your race choosing you get to customize your character. Its a pretty nice customization.
 
  
  After you choose you make your dude you pick your class (there are 24) Your options are:
  Good: 
 Ranger, Swashbuckler, Dirge, Paladin, Monk, Illusionist, Conjuror, Warden, and Templar
  Neutral: Berserker, Guardian, Fury, Mystic, Warlock, and Wizard.
  Evil: Assassin, Shadowknight, 
 Brigand, Troubador, Bruiser, Coercer, Necromancer, Inquisitor, and Defiler.
  
  Then when your finished with that you choose your server and name. The servers are listed from 
 Least populated to Most populated. And as for names just find one that isn't taken. They do have 
 a no number filter, only 1 capitol letter (the first WHOAH WIERD!!) . Then when you hit lvl 20 you 
 can get a last name. (They do allow the ' symbol in the middle of your name for funky names or 
 Role playing names or whatever. (or so i would think)
  
  Well then you made your character.. WOOT!! Now its time to play. Ill list the stuff in... sections...
 
  
  ---GAMEPLAY ---
  Amazing! Each of the 24 classes are unique and they all get 1-3 moves per lvl. It has an excellent 
 grouping system and one of they greatest communities (if not the best) in MMOs. Mostly everbody 
 is mature and kind about things. It makes guilds fun, usefull, and very worthwhile. You can get 
 status from city quests (writs) or heritage quests. With status (if your in a guild) you can buy 
 extra things such as megafied houses, city merchant items, and discounted items (horses n' stuff) . 
 Thousands of thousands of quests to do. Thousands of thousands of items and equipment. And as for 
 artisan you can make some extra cash by tradeskilling. Here are your tradeskilling options: Sage, 
 Alchemist, Jeweler, Woodworker, Carpenter, Provisioner, Armorer, Tailor, and Weaponsmith. They 
 are all profitable and can help your class alot. Once you hit the high (ish) lvls you can get in 
 some raids. Raids are just 2-4 groups merged together to kill an epic boss dude. It's insanely 
 fun and you can get some sick loot. There are tons of zones and with the expansions a crap load 
 more. There are all types of zones in different islands, parts of islands, ect. There are currently 
 four starting citys (another one announced in the next expansion and many more to come) two evil, 
 and two good. There are so many people playing the game at a time that there is no problem finding 
 groups at any level. Thats all I can think of writing at the moment but im sure I left out a ton 
 of stuff.
  
  ---GRAPHICS ---
  Stunning graphics, great scenery, and great variations.
  
  ---SOUND ---
  Excellent music!! You cant really type out a song or anything but yeah.. EXCELLENT 
 music!!
  
  To sum it up its my favorite game although others may think differently and it has alot to do with 
 favored style or whatever. (unless its one of those people who talk trash about a game they have 
 never played.)
  
  Oh yeah and the Cons... Uhhh... It takes a long time to download due to the constant updates fixing 
 the little bugs, adding new things, and whatever. And it takes a pretty nice computer to run. Thats 
 all I can think of.
  
  I hope this review helped you with whatever you needed to know thanks for reading! (sorry for so 
 much text) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: np1001
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  This game was just plain fun. I give it a ten simply because there is no complaints. Graphics and 
 game play were incredible. The Sound is awesome. There is so many characters. There are Ogre's, 
 Fae's, High elves, Wood elves, Half elves, Dark elves and many many more. There are so many classes 
 as well. There are Wizard's Warden's Fury's Berserker's Swash Buckler's and many many more. There 
 is so many ways to have fun also. There is Crafting which includes Carpenter's which make house 
 items, Provisioner's who make food, Armorer's and many many more. You can have houses also. If 
 you are an gamer like me, then i highly recommend this game to you. So I give it a 10.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Piquet2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 3, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Update (July 2007 - new score: 8.7) :
  After 3 expansions and a lot of game updates, SOE managed to turn this game into a classic. If 
 you (like me) was disappointed with EQ2 at launch and didn't bother to look back, now (!) is the 
 time to do so. The game runs better, feels better, has a lot more content, a lot of new features 
 (well thought out guild system, achievements, religion, dressing room and much more...
  
  I can only recommend you give it another shot, and I think you'll be pleasantly surprised.
  
 
  Original review (December 2004 - score: 6.1) :
  I have been playing this game for a month now, and so far I have had a good time. Now that my fighter 
 has progressed to level 24 and become a berserker, I'm begining to lose interest in the game though, 
 it feels more like a grind now than anything else. I'm killing endless hordes of monsters, and 
 though I try to level in different places, the game still is very repetitive. The graphics are 
 really good if you have superior machinery, but on slower machines it really looks awful. The fastest 
 Intel or AMD processor and the fastest cards from ATi and nVidia are a must. Also the game seems 
 to eat all your RAM, so I would recommend 1GB or more.
  
  I like the sound, voice overs are pretty good and sounds effects are above average. The music is 
 good too, if not a little boring (compared to WoW at least)
  
  All in all, this game brings nothing new to the genre. If you are well established in another mmorpg 
 and havig fun there, I really can't think of a good reason to leave it for EQII. The world in EQII 
 is dead and boring compared to for example DAoC and WoW, some of the dungeons are pretty cool though. 
 I have mixed emotions about EQII, I really had a great time so far, and I have had fun grouping 
 with other players, but I feel pretty sure that I will cancel my account within a month or two, 
 the game is simply too boring. I'm a bit disappointed about it and hope that the game will get 
 better with an expansion or two. One final thing I'd like to add is that the game servers will 
 have about an hour downtime every day, at 4pm CET - which is SO annoying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Typh
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 28, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  The game was my first MMORPG, The game at first was very new, and gave players at first a bad image. 
 People complained there was no PvP, now there is, and it's thriving. 4+ servers dedicated to that 
 very reason.
  
  It is overshadowed by WoW. This game does rival that game and is taking several people from WoW 
 that seek to have a better experiance.
  
  Community wise, it's great, most players are willing to help others, Higher level people can mentor 
 down to their friends to help them level up. Player-sponsered events, Roleplay, even Game master-spondered 
 events.
  
  Every once in a while the game released a Live Update, large updates that sacrifice game time for 
 more content and new twists. It never gets old with these.
  
  The expansion packs are what sort of bring it down. All of them are great, but often too expensive 
 and should be included for a cheaper price, from the monthly fee. The classes are numerous and 
 offer diversity amongst the game play, each class is different, and they all have their roles.
 
  
  The game overall should be more looked upon, not as cartoony as WoW, and not as bad for a player 
 base. The story lines constantly keep you wanting more of the game and are more then enough to 
 keep you invovled. The music's great and has teh ability to put in your own music for the game's 
 zones. The zone loading however, is a draw back, at times it takes long times and often causes 
 others to linkdead. The graphics are highly demanding, but given with a new engine in the works, 
 this will get better. Some of the sounds are recycled, Not many soudns are given to players, as 
 some races have on option of thier own race's voice as others get 2 or three.
  
  it's a definate must-have for MMO people who love to play the games. The community is great, customer 
 service is great, and the game overall, gets better and better each day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diernes
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This review will take the current state of the game into account.
  
  This game is severly underated and is criminally disregarded by gaming journalists who stupidly 
 worship games of the likes of Guildwars (not really even a MMORPG) and WOW. I dont know if they 
 get paid off by these companies to slag off EQ or give unaturally high reviews to these games due 
 to a lack of attention span or other bias but as a player of all three extensively , Everquest 
 2 in 2007 is by far the best MMORPG of this current generation, if you dont agree you simply havent 
 played it or are a victim of the current trend of extremely easy and superficial casual gamers 
 markets.
  
  Back in 2004 when it was originally released everquest 2 had its fair share of problems. A graphics 
 engine that was way ahead of its time and some poor gameplay decisions, including a lack of PVP 
 and a relatively small world to explore. In its current state these issues have been addressed 
 and with the advance in technology the game is beginning to shine graphically. Multiple expantions 
 and adventure packs later the world is immense, and contrary to what Gamespot would have you believe, 
 there is much more quest content and things to do than you will find in WOW.
  
  You have literally endless class and race combination choices and alot more variety than you will 
 find any any other MMORPG to date, You are not restrained to typical generic fantasy classes but 
 will find very unique choices such as the fearsome Shadowknight or the flamboyant Swashbuckler. 
 The very decent PVP system which is being improved on all the time and the developers are constantly 
 improving the game at a rate that makes all other MMORPG games developers look lackluster.
  
  Towards the end of the year the game will recieve another great boost with the return of the 
 Iksars original homeland, kunark.
  
  If you have decent hardware and would like a more in depth mature RPG and are sick of WOW's hold 
 you hand and cartoony nature and look for a deeper more satisfying experience with a great community, 
 movie like voice work and a rich crafting system, avoid vanguard until it is fixed and take up 
 EQ2, you wont be dissapointed. Just make sure you buy The Ruins of kunark box for all content and 
 previous expantions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noobtralizer
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 30, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  Yeah this game has great graphics, and eyecandy, along with an amazing soundtrack! The 28 different 
 classes, tons of races to choose from, and character customization everybody is different! Let 
 me list off some other ups, and all the downs i can think of that might be considered as a down..
 
  
  DOWNS
  _______________
  You get lost in freeport in a few zones..
  Some zones are just too big for the amount of players.. occasionaly...
  Not all classes can summoners 
 (if you want to summon be a summoner)
  High elves have gay haircuts
  Erudites are ugly
  Freeport people cant go in kelethin unlike good, or neutral people which can.
  Soloing can get 
 boring... (cough cough DONT SOLO cough cough)
  The game took a critical blow in player loss when vanguard came out but its as good or barely not 
 as good as before.
  
  UPS
  _______________
  Tons of moves
  Great unique character traits
  All classes and races are unique
  The Grouping system is AMAZING
 
  Raiding is great!
  The guilds in the EQ2 are really fun and benefitial
  Crafting is extemely benefitial and is just challenging enough to keep you entertained
  There 
 are alot of talking in good guilds, and the general chats which keep you extra entertained while 
 grouping or especially while soloing
  The community is very friendly and mature (as in not childish not bad language and stuff)
  All 
 the various mounts as in various horses, magic carpets, wargs, and sprit horses.
  All the different houses to choose from.
  The capes
  All the cool looking armor
  The tons 
 of random boss characters in zones such as gnolls, and undead. (TONS TONS TONS more!!)
  Illusions such as a wolf, bear, and fire genies! (used as a buff except makes you look cool.. you 
 have to ability to hide your illusion and keep the buff)
  The ability to hide your hood, or helmet
  All of the expansions
  The hundreds of zones, and 
 all the towns, and cities
  The amazing sound track
  The thousands of quests, and heritage quests.
  ____________________________
  
  This game 
 is SO good!! The more people who play the funner it will be!! You gotta play this game open mindedly 
 to 20 and you will realize how great it is! The game gets going at lvl 20 although most people 
 like it from the start! Endless hours of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc5477
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 25, 2007 1:12 am PT
Review:  EVERQUEST 2 + DoF + KoS + EOF
  
  Before I get too far into this review let me say a few things. If you are looking for a casual 
 game, Everquest 2 (hereby referred to as EQ2) is probably not a good choice for you but a better 
 choice than WoW if you like complexity and immersion. Although you can play casually up to the 
 highest levels, the best content in the game will not be available to you without a guild to raid 
 with. I am still waiting for a game that gives casuals options in terms of end game content or 
 just level appropriate high end content but EQ2 is not it. Heres a novel idea as well, how about 
 release a single player version of the game? It would surely sell very well since even the raiders 
 will pick it up to learn more about the insides of the game. It is a good game, leaps and bounds 
 better than WoW, but it still isnt casual friendly.
  
  Moving on
  
  It was that time of the year again and I had some free time. I tried WoW last year and since that 
 didnt go over well I decided to give EQ2 a second try since I heard it had been vastly improved 
 since release, which is when I originally tried it. Let me point out that at release the game was 
 horrible in the way it was bent towards raiding. Since I am an avid soloer and I prefer small guilds 
 for their casual aspects I left the game after only 2 weeks of play.
  
  For those who have not read my other reviews I am an RPG buff and MMO vet. I started with UO, moved 
 to EQ which I loved till they released Planes of Power (same moron who gave us level 60 WoW content) , 
 tried AC1 and AC2, and finally EQ2 and WoW. You will notice that I make a lot of comparisons with 
 WoW because it is the only real competitor to EQ2 in the modern mmo market at this time. I also 
 compare to WoW because I assume that most people will have tried it thus will be able to relate 
 that experience to what I am writing about below.
  
  GAME REVIEW SECTIONS
  
  - Gameplay 6/10
  - Story NA
  - Graphics 5/5
  - Sound 3/5
  - Effort/Innovation 5/5
  - 
 Presentation 1/5
  - Overall 6.7/10 (20/30)
  - Replay Value moderate
  - Monetary Value $25 + $5 / month
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GAMEPLAY (6/10)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Combat (7/10) 
 + Options (7/10) + Fluidity (5/10) = 19 out of 30 or about 6/10
  
  Fluidity: 5/10
  
  Excellent. Like other generation 2 games, EQ2 does away with the majority of downtime people hated 
 in older games. Gone are the long breaks between combat to regen health and mana. Gone are MOST 
 of the time sinks such as long spawn times and unbelievable mob camp times. Unfortunately, Sony 
 did keep some silly time sinks here and there in terms of long spawn times on certain enemies. 
 Although not the innovator of fun fast paced combat (AC2) I would say that fluidity is just as 
 good as WoW. The biggest and most glaring problem with gameplay is the fact that you are dependant 
 on others for doing anything worthwhile which means you will have a lot of downtime looking for 
 groups and a guild to help. Depending on who you are, this may simply not be possible due to who 
 you play with, what time you play, how long you can play for, etc.
  
  The casual players conundrum The game is designed (evident from quest requirements) for people 
 who group often and join big guilds. They have since adapted (due to the failure of the game at 
 launch to retain the majority of players who are casual) the game for smaller guilds and solo players 
 but the game remains very unfriendly to casual players especially at higher levels (be warned that 
 low levels are deceptive in their pretense of being friendly) . If you like to solo a lot (or if 
 you have a life outside the game) and expect to reap the same rewards for your time as someone 
 from a large guild, you can forget about it. The game has the elitist (if you can even call them 
 that) mindset where the designers believe that it is somehow harder to complete tasks in groups 
 of 30 than it is to do so alone, something that is simply not true in my many years of MMO experience. 
 It is just more of a hassle (and a overall time sink) to do something with more people but it is 
 actually easier once you have them. The only person/s who actually do more work in raids are the 
 organizers; everyone else is just a drone following directions. Anyway, hopefully some developer 
 will figure this out and make a better MMO one day.
  
  Since the game is so group dependant, and it takes so long to get a group and even longer to join 
 a guild that can do a certain raid, fluidity takes a huge hit since it makes the game essentially 
 unplayable for the majority of people (since most are casual gamers) .
  Combat: 7/10
  
  Combat varies greatly in this game depending on your characters class and the enemy you are fighting. 
 Unlike WoW, which was nothing more than a button-mashing contest with similar results against everything 
 your level, EQ2 adds a lot of variability between enemies. Not only are enemies ranked by level, 
 but some enemies can be harder than similar ones that spawn in the same area depending on their 
 specific arrow rating. So at the same spawn point, you could see 3 easy enemies who attack together, 
 2 slightly harder enemies, or 1 very strong enemy. The variability is also very noticeable. You 
 cannot deploy the same tactics against a 3 up arrow (very strong) enemy that you would with the 
 group of 3 enemies.
  
  Solo battles also vary time wise. Most even fights will end quickly, even faster than WoW encounters, 
 but harder ones can take up to 15 minutes against something extremely difficult. Your character 
 class also plays a huge roll in how fast and well you can dispose of enemies. I will also make 
 a brief comment about class here in that they also differ greatly in their ability to dispatch 
 groups. In WoW only 1 class was designed for such tasks (mage) but in EQ2 you have many options 
 to pick from including melee classes. More on classes in the options section.
  
  EQ2 does suffer from being too easy at time just like WoW. Since the risk vs. reward of killing 
 harder enemies doesn't pan out well, it is more efficient to kill easier enemies most of the time. 
 Easier enemies are almost trivial when it comes to combat which means that you will get bored if 
 you concentrate on the most efficient paths to leveling. Luckily EQ2 offers very good incentives 
 to complete even the most useless quests. EQ2 employs an alternate advancement (AA) system, which 
 can only be advanced by questing or killing difficult enemies. This gives even the most tempered 
 power gamer reason to go beyond the grinding of most games and actually do some quests and kill 
 some harder stuff.
  
  Raids in EQ2 are well designed. They are not as complex or as numerous as EQ1 (no game is even 
 close) , but they are a lot more complex than WoW raids due to the mechanics and variety of classes 
 in the game. Zerging, is still employed in some raids but in others it will be completely ineffective 
 without true organization.
  
  I have not tried a PVP server yet so I cannot comment on that but from what I have read, PVP is 
 a lot more intense that WoW due to the penalties and rewards attached to winning a fight. Some 
 say it is not as much fun due to the penalties, but other say it would be pointless without them. 
 Aside from the hearsay, I cannot comment on class balance or anything else however I can say that 
 there are so many classes that balance is probably not as big an issue as WoW which had a horrible 
 PvP implementation. However, unlike WoW there are no PvP events to join so finding someone to fight 
 is not as easy or as fast to do. In that way, I can see why its not as much fun since in WoW you 
 can simply join a PvP game and kill to your hearts content despite how unbalanced races and classes 
 are.
  
  Good but lack of PvP on regular servers and long spawn times on some enemies still make it far 
 from perfect.
  
  Options: 7/10
  
  The game starts off well with a fairly detailed character creation script. The creation process 
 was easy to navigate through for a veteran like myself however race abilities and statistics were 
 not given at creation time so you really didnt know what each race could do boiling your decision 
 down to aesthetics despite the fact that each race really does have some differences ingame.
  
  As far as esthetics go however, the game offers an excellent array of options to personalize 
 your character from facial features, to tattoos, to height, to hairstyles, various colorations, 
 and tons of races and classes. It had a satisfying number of options to choose from much more so 
 than WoW and once you learn all the races abilities and stats you can create characters with even 
 more variation.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  STORY (NA)
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  This is a mmorpg, story is not applicable.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GRAPHICS (5/5)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The game 
 plays well on medium settings on my AMD64 3000 with my outdated ATI X700 video card (ignore folks 
 who say it needs a top of the line card to play) .
  The graphics are excellent possibly even the best I had ever seen at the time of release. Everything 
 in the world is detailed and complex. The colors are somewhat dull but that is just how the game 
 is designed artistically. There is a lot of excellent scenery. The effects are fairly good as well. 
 Characters look different although there is some cloning at higher levels (not as good as Oblivion 
 on the face generation but still not bad) . Arguably, this game had the best graphics of any game 
 when it was released and can still be considered one of the best today as I write this review 4/1/07.
 
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  SOUND (3/5)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  A lot of spoken speech with decent voice actors. Background music is decent and did not annoy me 
 at all. Not bad but also nothing notably great. Little above average I would say.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  EFFORT &amp; 
 INNOVATION (5/5)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Like all 
 MMOs this game was a huge undertaking, and I would even say that it is the most detailed game 
 ever created to date. From graphics, to variety of enemies to gameplay (despite how flawed some 
 of it is) , this game excels in almost every category (save for possibly gameplay depending on your 
 preferences) . The game is continuously being worked on and expansions have already been released 
 and I assume many more will be forthcoming over time. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  PRESENTATION (1/5)
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  1st problem 
 is the undocumented fact that it is a raider Elitist type game (all MMOs should stamp this on 
 the box from here on) . Following that, the manual is actually not very good. It barely teaches 
 you the keyboard layout, simple mechanics of movement and talking to NPCs but there is very little 
 about crafting and other facets of the game and some parts of the manual are even obsolete. There 
 used to be an ingame tutorial for crafting but it was removed some time ago when crafting got the 
 huge facelift (it was indeed improved immensely but there is now no tutorial for it) . There still 
 isnt any real documentation ingame or in the manual regarding race bonuses and penalties (I don't 
 get how this can be missed) . The game doesn't have any FMVs. Spoken speech is excellent. Quests 
 flow nicely from one to the next. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  OVERALL (6/10
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  EQ2 in my 
 opinion is the best MMO available to players at this time in terms of quality of game and age demographics 
 for older players. WoW however provides a much larger user base thus allowing for more PvP and 
 guilds, but also suffers from a very childish sub 14 year old population. Not that there arent 
 a lot of adults playing WoW but the general demographics are indeed very different between the 
 two games. Both games suffer from sweat-shop farmers and neither developer seems to have made any 
 true effort to get rid of those people. Both companies claim to be doing something about it but 
 people in game very much agree that its either a lie or they are not doing a good job of it (probably 
 because they want the subscriptions any way they can get them from a business stand point) .
  
  Anyway, the game gets a 6 rating from me which is easily the highest rating I have given (or 
 would give) any MMO to date.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  REPLAY VALUE
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  MMOs have huge replay value since they generally never end. This one has a lot to do but places 
 limits on the player based on how they play and who they play with. Fact is, casual players left 
 this game for a reason, and its the same reason they leave all MMOs, they simply cant do anything 
 significant on their own which is how all MMOs have been designed to date. I will give this a 
 moderate rating, which is in between what it should be for a casual player vs. someone who plays 
 a lot and raids.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  MONETARY VALUE
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  As a casual gamer I have to say $25 for this high quality game (for the 1st 30-35 levels of play) 
 and maybe $5 a month at best. I can see myself playing this game if I wanted a complex well designed 
 RPG but since I cant do anything on my own at high level there is no reason to play at this time. 
 Maybe if they added better solo content, and opened current content to soloers, this game will 
 be worth subscribing to. $25 + $5 / month 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 21, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Everquest 2 in many ways improves upon the standards that its predecessor set in the MMO game genre. 
 And the game has vasty improved between now and when it launched. There are both a crafting level 
 and adventuring level, and you no longer have to wait until level 20 to choose what specialized 
 class you want to be, you pick that from teh beginning. However the game does have more of a group 
 centric focus to it, though there is plenty of solo content for those that choose to adventure 
 alone.
  
  Gameplay 8- Better gameplay than EQ1
  Graphics 10- At launch it had the best graphics (polygon wise) of any game.
  Sound 8- Sony finally 
 added music to zones
  Value 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sevryn45
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 21, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Much like other SOE titles this game released in a reprehensible condition, it was unplayable for 
 a year. Yes Graphix are the only thing this game has, this game is linear without much innovation; 
 not too mention that SOE released this game without having everyhting that they promised to be 
 in-game.... Yep but don't be too surprised this is SOE after all they lie and mislead the customer 
 into believing that they get what they pay for; but in truth the opposit is true.
  
  Good - Graphix
  
  The Bad.......
  - Lag Lag and more Lag
  - Linear Game play
  - Features 
 missing
  - Endless nerfing - Classes are terrible
  - Bugs Bug and more Bugs
  - Not ready for release
  - Combat system is horrible
  - Character models and animations need 
 work 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 29, 2006 2:34 am PT
Review:  With Everquest 2 I was trying to get away from the WoW standard and it's laughable graphics. I 
 found that EQ 2 is very pleasing to the eyes and it's environment flows well with the setting and 
 the EQ world. With that said EQ 2 is one of the, if not the, best looking MMORPG's out today with 
 it's only competition being the Guild Wars series. Since the original Everquest was such a large 
 hit and is the roots of all MMO's yet many expect EQ 2 to deliver and surpass EQ's greatness. I 
 many ways it does with many new features, races, lore, and certainly graphics but what EQ 2 is 
 missing is the core gameplay element that made EQ so great. The game falls victim to the ever so 
 common quests that were once fun and exciting are just repeatitive after many times of doing the 
 same Kill this, pick up this quests. Another fault thats adds to the poor gameplay experience is 
 the lacking combat system. While the player gets many skills early on and through the game the 
 combat system feels old and you don't feel you are fighting a battle as you may in WoW or other 
 EQ games. Since gameplay and combat are the main ideals in an MMORPG of EQ2's size it is a large 
 blow to the game when these areas fair to perform, making the game barely better than your average 
 MMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikolaipetrovic
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 28, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  It looks good from a technical point of view, the art direction, however, is boring. Graphics are 
 still too much to handle with the current hardware. Community is deteriorating fast from WoW dissidents 
 *sigh*. Lag is still there. Some *starting level* quests are still bugged (OK, I encountered just 
 one, but still) . Zoning is painful and if your system is not properly configured or your server 
 doesn't like you you will get kicked out of the game during zoning and you won't be able to log 
 back in for a minute or two. Overall, it's just a frustrating experience that fails to draw you 
 in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilblackgirl
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 11, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  MMOs are about the only genre of games that intrigue and keep me interested these days. In my opinion, 
 everything has been done. There's nothing new to be seen, so those that do the better job of showing 
 me something i've done before win my hard earned money. I played WoW for over a year and got burned 
 out on it. I needed a new game, but needed something that would keep me interested longer than 
 a couple of weeks. A MMO buddy of mine suggested trying EQ2 as he and he wife had joined some former 
 WoW guildies in EQ2. They were all former EQ players and despite the grind that the supposedly 
 was, Sony apparently made a good effort to make EQ2 an enjoyable play. And in that respect, they 
 succeeded.
  
  But the thing to be aware of is that EQ2 is not for the casual MMO player. Its learning curve is 
 somewhat steep, even for those that have played MMOs for a while and the crafting mini-game is 
 fun and challenging until you start reaching higher levels.
  
  Questing is like any other MMO but what i discovered is that the areas you quest in are so large 
 in size, it becomes frustrating to try to accomplish anything without filling up your quest book 
 (which holds upwards of 90+ quests which are way to many) . The crafting mini-game doesn't come 
 with much instruction on being successful, so not until almost a month into it, did i learn how 
 to really play it. The graphics are nice and similar to Elder Scrolls, but without the sparkle. 
 The game is quite a memory hog, so my box was chugging along even on lower settings.
  
  Unfortunately, the game turns into the one thing that most MMOs become after a while - a grind. 
 If you can look past this, you might enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ParagonFV
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 8, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Most people think WoW is better than EQ2 (not trying to start a game war) , but I still think EQ2 
 is worth trying. There are so many character possibilities that I have never seen anyone that looks 
 even remotely like me, with the ability to change every aspect of the face. The players are more 
 of the mature audience, and are willing to help whenever you need it. PvP is very interesting, 
 because if your character is good, you could level the entire game with it. A PvP kill gives much 
 more experience than a normal mob kill, and if you're level 14 and you kill a level 14 from the 
 other side, you will most likely level from just that. It is hard to level completely like this 
 because there are always the higher levels who feel like coming and killing you randomly, so sticking 
 to group quests is a good thing to do. There are rewards to PvP, such as titles that go before 
 your name (Hunter, Slayer, etc.) and you can also earn different titles by doing certain tasks 
 and quests. Ex. Kill 100 orcs, get the orc slayer title.
  
  If you don't feel like doing any combat, collection quests are available. You collect a certain 
 amount of items which you can see as a small blinking light on the ground, and you add them to 
 your collection, eventually turning it in to a collector.
  
  The tradeskills in this game are much more fun than any other in my opinion. You need to be paying 
 attention while youre making an item, because it can turn out as very good quality or very bad 
 quality. You have a few different skills that you'll need to use during the production of an item, 
 and when they light up you use the skill. There are tradeskill instances that you enter to do these, 
 eliminating any chance of an enemy killing you during production.
  
  There is a very wide variety of classes, 16 on the Qeynosians (Good Side) and 16 on the Freeportians 
 (Evil Side) . Some of the classes are the same on both sides, but most of them are different. For 
 example, a Ranger on the Qeynosians would be an Assassin on the Freeportians, both having different 
 skills and abilities. A new expansion was also just released, introducing a new race called the 
 Fae. The trial is based around them, but you can play on whatever race you want to.
  
  The graphics are very good, as you may know, but there might be some technical problems that can 
 be overlooked, but may get annoying if you do not have a higher end PC. Your character can have 
 his own house, usable for storage and whatever else you feel like using it for. You can even put 
 an anvil and a forge inside your house so you can do your tradeskill inside there instead of going 
 into the tradeskill instance.
  
  Give it a try, I'm sure you'll enjoy it in some way.
  
  http://everquest2. station. sony. com/promotions/playthefae/
  
  If you want to play with someone 
 who knows his way around this game, feel free to PM me and I'll come to help with anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: td2gamespot
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best MMO out there. I have tried all the others and none compare. The problem 
 is it takes a very powerful computer and half a brain to play so most of the younger generation 
 play easier games like WOW.
  
  if you are into good graphics , good combat, good crafting, and great game play the give the real 
 Adult game a try!!
  
  The reason WOW is so popular is because it has few system requirements, attracts more kids, and 
 plays on the mac as well so it has a bigger range of players.
  
  If you got what it takes and the system requirements then come on over to the BEST MMO GAME OUT 
 THERE!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 5, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  I played this game and it wasnt bad, I mean it wasnt the best but it's earned its title maybe a 
 little better than 7.8, The character creation is fun and choosing out of the 3 starting classes 
 is unique it also has cool items, monsters, and training areas the graphics are also beautiful 
 enough to satisfy the average MMORPG gamer the gameplay is fun, but the hard thing are thos professions 
 when you are creating items its so hard to remember what you need, gathering the items are easy, 
 but actually getting the item you want is the hard part, but it's good to raise those skills so 
 you can make better things for your adventure, but in the end I give it an 8.5 its really fun, 
 but take breaks too because you can get really bored if you over do it so good luck see you around 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonnybiz
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 2, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  terrible pvp, you shot an arrow at someone itll follow them through walls, its lame and foolish, 
 made
  
  i dont recommend it unless you are a huge fan of only graphics, its poor pvp but this game is definently 
 better than WoW
  
  if you thought about choosing WoW, choose this instead, its definently better but not the best
 
  
  id say its about a fun game for when you're at work for a casual gamer, not much to do but try 
 to level and poor pvp gaming, get it if you have dual graphics cards and are just into graphics 
 and not much into gameplay, offers a lot more than some of the poor quality mmorpgs on the market 
 such as world of warcraft, and ragnarok online, and eve online, so its just right i suppose
  
  once again, great graphics and detail dont forget that!
  
  need a good pc to run it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cymbol
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 21, 2006 2:11 am PT
Review:  I can only relate my experience on a PvP server with small population. It is not good. PvP aside, 
 there are simply not enough players on small servers to get a party going on days you don't want 
 to participate in gank fests.
  
  Fortunately, EQ2 is easy enough you can solo much of the time (YMMV depending on class/race) . I 
 PvPed, I crafted, I quested, and I grinded. Soon everything seemed very repetitive.
  
  1. Skills: every 14 levels or so you get a slightly upgraded version of an old skill.
  2. Items: 
 every tier of equipment is simply slightly better than the previous, there are not many items that 
 break the mold.
  3. quests: just about every quest is kill x, collect y, talk to z, get w.
  
  Soon you realize that you are using the same equipment and same skills, doing the same quests 
 and killing the same monsters. And then you realize that the game is ... for the lack of a better 
 word, too standard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davez82
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 10, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I quit back maybe 6 months ago and i never thought about coming back. My class was nerfed over 
 and over (guardian) . And constantly ignored, other races over time got nerfed, there are no distinctions 
 between the subclasses. So in the end u get 4 classes, tank, mellee, caster, healer. All those 
 subclasses are pretty much meaningless, this takes away the depth in the game and ultimately leaves 
 a fairly boring and shallow piece of work. Their forums are littered with so much complaints. The 
 armor is horrible, i been off 6 months and i doubt any great improvements have been made to the 
 armor, both stats and artwork. Level 60's look worst than level 40's, its hard to tell who is lvl 
 50 and who is level 10 by looking at their armor. Most armor art are just rehashes with different 
 colors. Item stats are horrible, even epic items that are extraordinarily difficult to get. A slew 
 of unpopulated dungeons, tedious crafting interface, and tedious resource gathering. Very very 
 shallow quests and dungeons, very shallow storylines, no sense of anything grand at all. When the 
 game first came out it was ok, but it seems like the whole entire game was nerfed a year later. 
 Take my advice, eq1 is a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playboyx225x
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 1, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Fun game with great graphics, sound, and fun factor. The game did not do anything to set it apart 
 of the great name that is Everquest. While other makers are being innovative. SOE began to copy 
 other games to satisfy gamers from other games that were coming to EQ2. I quit playing partly because 
 of this and because it was not giving me immersive effect that i wanted.
  
  Graphics are awesome if you have a top of the line computer to play it with. Even when the game 
 first came out, noone could play it with nice graphics. Even now, you can not use shadows in the 
 game without it messing up. Sony says its the consumers error because they do not have a strong 
 enough machine to handle something as simple as shadows, i guess. Sony thought too far into the 
 future, when they could have done an update with an expansion to make the graphics nicer but they 
 went a different route and paying for it with a fight for subscribers.
  
  Questing in the game is fun. The new PvP, which should have been in the game since launch, is a 
 great add on. Still, FFXI and guild wars has the storyline quests with in game cinema that makes 
 the quest immersive rather than reading text. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelisw
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 22, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  when eq 2 first came out i wasnt all that impressed, but after trying it again a few months ago 
 i have to say i like the improvements that have been made and have been having a blast. crafting 
 has been simplified a bit, and while normally i like complex games and dread any attempt to 'simplify' 
 them, in my opinion these changes are for the better. its really easy to find a guild to join and 
 get groups, and it has some great group gameplay. one of the only things i still don't like it 
 it seems to miss the 'feel' of eq1. it may just be my nostalgia talking, but in eq1 when you played 
 a dwarf you started in the dwarf city, you played an elf you started in the elf city. it felt like 
 a different game anytime you tried a new race. here there are only 2 major cities and all the races 
 are lumped together. despite that it is a good solid MMO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshidino
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 15, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Personally I didn't find Everquest 2 all that exciting. Mabye I'm too impatient, but I just couldn't 
 find the motivation to get past level 25 before I decided to switch to WoW.
  
  Everquest 2 sticks you inside a world that's been ripped apart by an event called The Shattering, 
 where basicly all the land that was once a giant island ripped apart. You can either choose the 
 side of good, which puts you in the city of Qeynos, or you can become evil and go to a place called 
 Freeport. I will say that this game offers a lot of varity. There are many differnt races to choose 
 from which include Dwarves, High Elves, Halflings, Dark Elves, Trolls (not the kind you see in 
 WoW) Barbarians, and Wood Elves. When you create your character, you get to choose out of a variety 
 class groups. Some classes vary depending if you are good or evil. The game includes the basic 
 class, warriors, paladins, warlocks, priests, ect. But, it also includes some not so common classes, 
 like Bards, and Swashbucklers.
  
  The graphics in this game are very impressive, but in some fights the game lags reeeeeeaaaaallllllyyyyy 
 bad. And believe me, I have a good graphics card.
  
  Like in WoW, the game has a proffesion type system. You start off as an artisan with no skill, 
 but gradually work your way up. Unlike WoW, however, you have to pay attention when your making 
 something. There are meters when you make an item, and you have to keep those meters up by casting 
 spells. Sometimes the meters go down for no reason, and it can get insanly frusterating. As in, 
 bang your head againest the desk it's so frusterating.
  
  Everquest 2 gives you a house that you can edit any way you desire. This was my favorite part of 
 the game. You can do just about anything with your room. I had a friend in the game who was a gnome, 
 and turned his 1 room house into a 3 floor mansion. It's amazing what you can do with a few floor 
 boards, a barrel, and a ton of money. Creating fire places was one of my hobbies in the game. Fire 
 places look great in any house. Over all this is a very good game, but I still prefer WoW (despite 
 the ultra coolness of a 3 floor mansion created by a gnome) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tig1979
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 15, 2006 4:47 am PT
Review:  OK so i have played a few mmorpg's in my time, probably about 95% of them lol So i have been around 
 the block you could say, from free ones to paying ones. The one stands out for me now EQ2 by a 
 mile, this game has everything an mmorpg should, not to mention the community and guilds are generally 
 excellent none of this childish WoW stuff we see so often nowadays. I like the quest system in 
 EQ2 also huge variety of different things to do, some solo, some grouped and some require hugeeee 
 groups, but all offer good rewards for your patience, The sound is very good, to me sound is not 
 a massive issue (unless its crap lol) Graphics still are the bets on any mmorpg you will find, 
 which can give this game a slight downer im running quite a high spec computer and i have no chance 
 of getting this on high settings, to run nice and smooth i opted for generally medium settings 
 with water and things turned up, game still looks awesome would love to own a NASA computer to 
 run this game on full ete candy lol You cannot go wrong with this game, they are forever bringing 
 out new expansions that bring things you will appreciate and want to see added, not useless packs, 
 for once i give SOE the thumbs up, lovely game lovely community keep it coming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittencrusher
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 8, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Everquest 2 has unparalleled content. With two expansion packs under its belt, a third on the way, 
 the smaller "adventure packs", and content released free through patches, I think its safe to say 
 this is the biggest MMO out there aside from the original EQ in terms of the amount of content.
 
  
  SOE has added a TON of new things in the game as time went by. Don't be fooled, WoW isn't the king 
 of MMO's. But comparing the two is a little like apples and oranges, so I'll refrain from doing 
 so.
  
  In EQ2 you have several races and classes to pick from; some aligned with Good, others with Evil. 
 They start out in the "good" city of Qeynos or the "evil" city of Freeport. However, with the 3rd 
 expansion coming they are adding a THIRD starting city and an entire new race.
  
  There are so many things to do in this game it's hard to tell you where to begin. You can quest, 
 craft, gain "Status" points, PvP, you name it.
  
  There is awesome customization of your character's appearance. WoW pales in comparison in this 
 department. The races and classes are varied and very unique and add a lot of fun to the game.
 
  
  And what can I say about the addition of the PVP to the game? It is a blast. Definitely worth checking 
 out.
  
  EQ2 should not be dismissed. I believe there is a trial available so find out for yourself whether 
 this game is for you! But I definitely love this game. If I had to pick one MMO, this one would 
 probably be it with what's available on the current market.
  
  See you in Norrath! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chozzenn
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 4, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  EQ2 is very similar to World of Warcraft, with a little more and a little less. Lvling up on PVP 
 servers is always hard due to opposing forces going around killing you, and when you die in pvp 
 you loose cash and you get a res sickness type, its very frustrating trying to lvl. So if you dont 
 want to be lvling for awhile, dont play on pvp servers. The graphics are pretty good as far as 
 the size of the game goes. The sounds fit pretty well with the enviroment and gameplay. While this 
 isn't as great as world of warcraft, its still a great game to play if WoW has you annoyed/bored. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameboy360
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 1, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  First of all the gameplay is very fun.... to me. I my opinion its for more hardcore players. There 
 is ALOT of grinding and ALOT of farming! So if your into a more action packed experiance go play 
 Wow, but if you like wasting hours and hours away killing the same things for good loo, like me, 
 you should defiantley get this.
  The graphics in this game are almost to good, only being able to run on high end machines on default 
 settings. 
  The sound is sorta blah. Its not incedibly horrible but its not really good.
  Well to me the value of this game is pretty high, but not really to the majority of mmoers who 
 are off playing Wow.
  Overall i had plenty of fun playing this game. The only thing that stopped me was the lag, but 
 if you have amonster computer go right ahead and play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lejen12
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 26, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  This game has spectactular graphics, you can get a house in it, you can do all sorts of things, 
 I mean i only know of like 1 mmorpg that you can have a house in it. Starwars. From what i am hearing 
 EQ2s houses are way cooler. Anyway, this game has many race's along with many class's. I plan on 
 being a iksar crusader Shadow knight. Anyway this game is spectactular. This game will be revolutianary 
 when more expansions come out, i highly think they will pass WoW on population once they get a 
 few more expansions, i mean its taking WoW A VERY LONG TIME to get a expansion out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ripperkiller1
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 15, 2006 5:16 am PT
Review:  I'll admit, the 1st MMO i ever played was EQ 1, and that game was great! it had everything i wanted, 
 could be played over and over again, and felt really good playing. But when i finally pulled myself 
 to buy EQ2, i was astounded, not by the game, but but the change it has made from EQ1, Everquest 
 2 is VERY, VERY different from Everquest 1, they changed so many things, most of these things took 
 away from the pleasure of the game itself, the main citys that we're very populated are now a very 
 scarce people, the quest system is horrible, requiring you to complete other quest's just about 
 every time. Everybody looks the same, there is absolutly no diversity in the game, and i just found 
 this game to be an overall disappointment from what Everquest 1 was, i would onto recommend it 
 to somebody who is desperate for a mmo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenspall
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Having played pretty much every MMO out there, Its clear to me that EQ2 is the best available, 
 Heres why
  
  Jaw Dropping Graphics - Time has passed, but EQ2 still looks absolutely beautiful, from armour 
 that glistens in the sun, to Leaves that russle as you run through them, EQ2 is simply miles ahead 
 of everything else out there.
  
  Excellent Learning Curve - The new crisp UI is simple to use, and easy to configure without the 
 use of numerous Add-ons, the game itself seemlessly takes you from one area to the next, there 
 no "Where now?" feel what-so-ever.
  
  Immersive Quests - Ever feel like your just simply picking up X amount of X for X purpose with 
 real no clue why? EQ2 dosn't have that, the quests are involving and exciting and the world changes 
 depending on your actions, its simply immersive, you feel like your making a difference to the 
 world.
  
  Excellent Character Customization - I'm a huge fan of making my character look unique, and EQ2 
 gives you that option, from changing the width of the chin, to the colour of your eyes, its an 
 incredible system, you feel unique. Also for the more Asian/Anime crowd out there, the new SOGA 
 models are incredible, and give a whole new feel to the game.
  
  PVP - "The game currently has no PvP system" Not anymore Greg, the PvP is great fun and really 
 adds another dimension to the game, making the Evil vs Good war feel that much more bitter.
  
  Huge World to Explore - The world is simple breath-taking, from Thief infested sewers, to breathtaking 
 beaches and scenery, every area has its own feel and unique design, while the world does have zone 
 points, there very brief and uncommon and don't alter the enjoyment of the game, I'd rather have 
 a truely unique world than a seemless one that all looks the same (Elwynn Forest, Dun Morogh, Hillsbrad, 
 Westfall, Stranglethorn Vale, Redridge.. I could go on)
  
  Quite simply my point is this, over the period since its release, this game has came on leaps and 
 bounds, and should be re-reviewed, so please GameSpot, stop reporting every single insignificant 
 change to WoW (patch 1.11 lmao, the bosses in Naxx were being killed in the server test realms 
 by PUG's lmfao!) and give the most immersive MMO out there a fresh review :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kanoko
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 14, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  The graphics and sound are very good but the gameplay is linear. Something i dont like especially 
 in MMORPG games. Most rpg's i play are open ended like WoW or SWG but this one seemed boring. It 
 was constant killing the same creature to buy something useful. There were some good parts in it 
 that dont reside in fighting goblins. But they were sparce and it was hard to find alot of people 
 on the servers to help with group needed quests. There were too many Quests needing other quests 
 too be done too. So in my opinion this just wasn't that fun of a game to me, no offense to lovers 
 of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heinsmit
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  A lot has changed since this game was reviewed by GameSpot. In fact, if they could re-review a 
 single game, it would have to be this. This has changed so much for the better since it was released 
 and could make past 9/10 now. One of the main complaints was no PvP. Now there are Arenas which 
 far better World of Warcraft's battlegrounds.
  
  They also had complaints about unsoloability. That has changed a lot, and either way, I prefer 
 group play. A lot of things have been introduced to balance both aspects.
  
  The interface is now far more accessible, and the game is so deep compared to World of Wacraft 
 that it rightly earns the title EverCrack 2. The guilds actually SERVE a purpose, and the guild 
 bank is absolutely genius. The whole game is genius.
  
  I recently got bored of World of Warcraft. I needed something deeper and more like a REAL MMORPG. 
 I found Everquest 2 and am delighted that I found it. A massive world, two massive cities, a massive 
 amount of quests. A real MMORPG. If you just left World of Warcraft like so many others, you MUST 
 turn to this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haikiller12
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 20, 2006 2:56 am PT
Review:  _"It is here that time begins. Yes, it is true; there have been other events of far greater significance. 
 The sky itself has rained down upon us! Temples lie in ruins. Empires have crumbled, continents 
 lost. These great events and many more, both terrible and wondrous, have taken place since last 
 we spoke and I am sure there are many more of equal import on the horizon. But, it is here that 
 time begins. It is here that hope begins. It is here that the future of Qeynos, nay, the future 
 of Norrath, will be written. I pray it is not scribed in blood." With over 4 years of Massively 
 Multiplayer game development experience to draw from, the EverQuest II team will be introducing 
 a myriad of new features never before seen in Massively Multiplayer games. EverQuest II returns 
 to the rich and culturally diverse world of Norrath. Users will be able to select from a wide variety 
 of both new and old races, as well as an exciting new class system when creating their character. 
 Significant improvements to combat, spell and quest mechanics promise to immerse players even more 
 so than the original. In addition to the new mechanics, users will be able to own real estate, 
 participate in and conduct gladiatorial and theatrical events, as well as have the ability to command 
 horses, ships and other such modes of transport. At release, players will be able to equip thousands 
 of items and encounter hundreds of unique creatures, all within a world so large that it literally 
 eclipses the original Norrath in size.
  A brand new 3D engine which takes full advantage of a wide variety of recent technological advances 
 in 3D hardware/software such as per pixel lighting, dynamic environment mapping, and a fully programmable 
 surface shader system More intuitive gameplay features appeal to both new and seasoned players 
 New branching class structure that players define as they advance through the game Vast world of 
 Norrath revisits familiar locations and introduces a variety of newly discovered areas in the Age 
 of Destiny, a time period in the future of the original EverQuest. Increased character customization 
 capabilities allow players to customize characters' faces, hair, and body types to create truly 
 unique avatars Deeper character development offering pacing options that cater to game players 
 new to the role-playing genre as well as experienced role-players Non-confrontational means of 
 character advancement that include a completely new tradesman character class Mounts and vehicles 
 that you can ride and control, including horses and boats, make traversing the massive world of 
 Norrath faster than before Norrathian real estate for players to call their own All-new trade skill/crafting 
 system Completely new and tactically rich combat, spell and skill systems A completely revised 
 and enhanced quest system Dynamic world environment shaped by player events.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdturtle13
Rating: 8
Date: May 15, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  I loved EQ1 for years, and really enjoy EQ2, and I think it is very fun, but I just can't play 
 it for more than a few days without my head feeling like it's gonna explode out my eyes. I mean, 
 When I bought this game in 2004 I had an awesome PC setup, and this game just didn't look right 
 or run smoothly, then I upgraded, and still today, just can't get it to look or run smooth. Let 
 me just say that my computer can easily take almost any PC game realeased between 2005 early 2006, 
 F. E. A. R, Quake, Doom, HL2 on high settings, and i have broadband. I am getting bored with World 
 of Warcraft and really want to get into EQ2, but it's killing me. My graphics card antialiasing 
 settings just get over-ridden by the stupid game. Everything in the game has like a million different 
 conflicting textures and patterns, all of which are edged and outlined with crappy, jaggy, and 
 flashing lines which makes me want to have a seizure. Even if i turn all of the settings to extremely 
 low quality and extremely high performance, it is sluggish, slow, and i feel like my character 
 is drunk. If I turn all of the settings to high quality, it's still overtextured and crappy, with 
 the same sluggishness. Pieces of characters and objects constantly flash as you move, while pieces 
 of them appear and dissapear as you move toward them, and some things just don't appear until right 
 in front of you. Jagged edges flash as things move, and since characters never stop their annoying 
 movements, their jaggy edges keep flickering. There's like a billion different graphics settings 
 and i spend hours to days trying to tweak them, and things still don't turn out right, and I end 
 up cancelling my account. I wish they just had a setting to make it look like EQ1 or WoW, but play 
 like EQ2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haphasto
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 9, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I remember the first Everquest. I first started playing it in November of 1999, and played it all 
 the way up till sometime in 2004. It was by far one of the most addicting games I had ever played. 
 When I was in my early years in highschool, my grades were on the decline, and my social life was 
 a disaster. I would come home from school around 3:00, and play till midnight. On the weekends 
 it was worst, I would do 20-30 hour gaming sessions on weekends at some points. Yes it really sounds 
 like I needed help. But as I moved along in years, I toned it down dramatically, and kept my addiction 
 under control.
  
  When I look back on Everquest, one of the first things that always comes to mind was how amazing 
 it was. I remember the feeling I got when I first casted a spell on myself. I swear I spent a day 
 trying to find out how to memorize and cast my spells lol. Or the feeling you got when you made 
 your very first platinum piece (or pp for the EQ players) . Since EQ I had played many MMORPGS; 
 SWG, FFXI, CoH. None gave me the feeling that Everquest gave me.
  
  When I first heard of EQII I was in disaray. All I could think about was how EQII was going to 
 ruin the original EQ. I thought for sure everyone was going to leave me alone in EQ, and switch 
 over to EQ2. It just so happens that wasn't the case. But still even after all of my paranoia, 
 I still couldn't resist picking up EQII. Infact I bought it the day it came out.
  
  When I first started playing I was amazed. I got the feeling that I had when I first played EQ. 
 That feeling of adventure, and disovery. Once again I was on the fast track to MMORPG addiction. 
 Now that i'm more mature I can control myself much better, and don't let get out of hand, but trust 
 me, I still played alot! The first character I made was a priest archtype, I then chained off into 
 a shaman, and then a mystic. But i'll get back to the class later.
  
  Now I wasn't putting in insane hours, but I was still playing alot. Aproximately 6-7 hours a day. 
 I was really picking things up quickly, and was one of the top shaman/mystics on my server. I was 
 the 3rd mystic to reach level 27 on my server. (you can tell what number you are by the EQ2players. com 
 website, it keeps track of all achievements) . So needless to say I was enjoying the game. But enough 
 of EQII story, lets get on to the review. I'll divide it up into 4 sections; gameplay, graphics, 
 sound, and replayability.
  _______________________
  
  Graphics 10/10
  Without a doubt, SOE lived up to their promise on graphics. For a MMORPG they are amazing. Uncomparable 
 even. Everything in the environment looks great. Now the character models are somewhat.... plasticy. 
 They don't look that real, they kind of look like figurines. Don't even get me started on the elves, 
 and how much they look like women.
  
  Everyone said you had to have such a high end machine to run this game, but that was very untrue. 
 My computer at the time wasn't anything special. I had a 2.0 ghz processor, 1.0 gig of ram, and 
 a Radeon 9600 128 MB. Nothing extrodinary. Of course if I ran the game on high settings, with max 
 lighting, and shadows, I lagged. But as long as I adjusted it some, it ran fine, and looked fine. 
 Of course it didn't look as good as it did on the tweaked up graphics, but it still looked better 
 than anything i'd seen.
  
  Some parts of the world seemed a little bland, especially in the Thundering Steppes, but that was 
 the only problem I ran into graphic wise.
  
  Sometimes just for kicks, i'd tweak my graphics up a little just to get some screenshots.
  
 
  But still to date, EQ2's graphics are unmatched by any MMORPG in my opinion. Which reminds me. 
 I remember when EQ2 was first coming out, they talked about how it was built for PC's in the future. 
 Which is why they had some graphic settings that no one could have set. They were saving those 
 for the future. But now that i'm looking towards the future, i'm not seeing EQ2 as a big player, 
 and start to wonder what their views are on that.
  
  Gameplay 7/10
  When I first started in late November I was blown away. There seemed like there was so much to 
 do. There were so many people playing at the time, and it seemed like there was an endless amount 
 of quests. I like how they had classes that branched off into others. But to my understanding they 
 changed that lately, and you just start off as a main class. But as I moved on in the game, I ran 
 into one of the problems i had with EQ. It turned into a huge grind, I sat in this one dungeon 
 (I forget the name, it's in the Thundering Steppes) for 5 levels, just grouping and killing the 
 same monsters over and over again to level. Also one of the problems i had, was with the community. 
 Unless it benefited them, no one wanted to help you. I was always stuck trying to do quests by 
 myself, which sucked on some, because they were impossible without a group.
  
  The zones were neat, it was fun seeing some of the old zones that you encountered in the original 
 EQ. They all lived up to the lore, and style of EQ.
  
  Item crafting was really deep, yet complicated. I remember not being able to find resources for 
 some of the lowest level recipes. But if you can get the crafting down it's neat. Just the animations 
 your character does when crafting is enjoyable to watch.
  
  Plus the game was too focused on grouping, if you didn't group you were screwed. I think they changed 
 that in the past year, and added solo content, but I can't comment on that, because I havn't experienced 
 it.
  
  I ended up going to WoW about a month after the EQII release, and realized how much I enjoyed PVP, 
 which EQII lacked. And how simple things were to pick up. Everything seemed complicated in EQII, 
 but so simplified in WoW.
  
  I lost my interest in EQII very fast. I really did enjoy it when I first started, but found myself 
 wanting more towards the end.
  
  I can't comment on what they've added since then, and i've been tempted lately to go back and try 
 it out.
  
  Sound 10/10
  I hate reviewing sound, because there is so little to say, but i'll do my best.
  This game had 
 the best sound in any mmorpg. Most noteably is the voice overs. EVERY Npc in the game had a voice 
 over. Some were voiced by top notch actors, such as one of my favorites; Christopher Lee. Who of 
 course plays Saruman in Lord of the Rings. For the most part the VO's sound fantastic too. The 
 music was superb also. I'm not sure what orchestra does the music for SOE, but they do a great 
 job. It really draws you into the environment, and makes it feel like a fantasy setting.
  
  Replayability 9/10
  There is alot to do in the game, it's just a matter of finding people to 
 help you. If you can find a group of friends to play, or get into a good guild, the game has alot 
 to offer. There are TONS of quests, alot of classes to try out, raids, item crafting. 
  
  So if you enjoy MMORPG's, then you should atleast give EQII a shot. It's enjoyable, especially 
 if you can find some people willing to help you out.
  
  I've been playing so much WoW lately, i'm kind of getting bored, and am even thinking about going 
 back to EQ2 myself.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azaiel
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 9, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  Everquest is one of the most well known and well founded game series around even now, everyone 
 knows the name and even the original Everquest still has a population size to be proud of. This 
 being said Everquest II has alot to live up to and during development alot was promised but did 
 the promises come to pass?
  
  For starters if you have played the original then you know exactly what to expect and for the most 
 part it plays exactly the same. The graphics although better than what is seen in the original 
 in my view are not that spectacular when compared with other games on the market even ones released 
 at the same time as Everquest II itself. Thankfully though when the game was first released you 
 needed some major horsepower to run the game even on the lower end settings and even then it ran 
 poorly. Now however it runs nice on higher settings but the frame rate does take a dive when in 
 combat especially when with a caster and you have fancy spell effects around you.
  
  The sound again is nothing special, it does the job well enough but really it could have been alot 
 better than what was provided for the core sound effects and music. The in depth voice acting though 
 almost redeems this aspect as that is quite an achievment, almost every NPC you meet in the world 
 speaks every comment they have to say to you and there is a wide range of accents and dialects 
 to keep things interesting, you will never hear the same voice twice in this game and that is a 
 very refreshing change to the MMORPG genre.
  
  As far as the gameplay itself goes it boils down to the usual affair, killing monsters and running 
 erands or quests for NPC's to earn XP and there are literally hundreds of optional quests to do 
 in this game, the amount of content available is quite staggering. Sadly to really get anywhere 
 you need to spend hundreds of hours working through the levels and you need to be very dedicated 
 to the game or you feel like your ice skating uphill. This aspect can make the game feel tedious 
 as you can be out hunting for hours on end and running quests and when it comes to log off for 
 the day you look at your XP bar and notice it has barely moved at all. That can feel quite disheartening 
 sometimes and in turn it can make the game feel like a chore instead of good fun like it should 
 be.
  
  If you have the time to put into this game then it is well worth it but if you are a part time 
 player and only play for a few hours every so often then it really isn't for you at all. With the 
 ongoing expansion packs being released the game is growing in size rapidly and there is a large 
 loyal player base to interact with and hundreds of guilds to join along with all the other extras 
 you would expect to find in such a game but expect if nothing else to be grinding on the same groups 
 of monsters for quite some time to get anywhere in the game world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Christof
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 8, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  Everquest 2 is a great MMORPG, and one of the best around if you ask me. Don't trust the rating, 
 because this game is a truly masterpiece, with a few shortcomings.
  I can babble on how great the game is for hours, but the the important stuff you need to know are: 
 The game is set in a fantasy world with amazing design and graphics, SOE worked extra hard to bring 
 this world to life, the water, shades, forests, and of course characters all look and feel realistic. 
 The animation is totally mindblowing, all the spells, movements, attacks look gorgeous, WoW suck 
 compared to what you see in Everquest 2. There are 16 races to choose from and you can fully customize 
 your character's appearance. Plus to that you have dozens of classes to choose from which later 
 on as you advance in the game turn into a subclasses. You can also be an artisan, and don't be 
 mistaken there is a lot of challenge to it - a lot. Overall EQ2 is a large game, with plenty of 
 places to explore and things to do (explore dungeons, complete quests - Hey, why do you think the 
 game is called: Everquest?) . Once you try it out for the first time you'll forget about WoW - forever. 
 The only shortcoming to it that it can be sometimes hard and frustrating to newcommers, but after 
 a while as you get used to the game and master it a little more you'll enjoy it in the fullest. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bourbonrovers
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 29, 2006 2:45 am PT
Review:  Everquest2 is an engaging and at times frustrating game. Many of the basics of the game are poorly 
 addressed, but there is enough pull overall to overlook these shortcomings.
  
  Questing
  To benefit the most from this game you need to group for many quests. Finding a group for your 
 particular quest can be tricky, so joining a large guild early on is useful. Press "U" to identify 
 guilds that are recruiting. Use quest and item online databases to do your research. Cherry pick 
 quests with good rewards (equipment or cash) , status points or dungeons; you don't have to do all 
 the zone quests. 
  
  Tradeskills
  Simply awful advice on learning one. I couldn't believe how terrible and difficult it was to start. 
 However, once you have caught on a bit they are generally satisfying and useful. In order to make 
 many items you will need to obtain ingredients from other specialisms. Other guild members may 
 be willing to swap and share to help progression.
  
  Character Development
  A good variety of customisable classes and races. Levelling provides between 2 and 3 new spells/abilities. 
 Most of the time they are upgrades, sometimes a new spell and occasionally an obscure spell that 
 has no real use. My only niggle is that I couldn't keep pace with upgrading spells and armour, 
 so often my gear was below par.
  
  In short, if you want to have fun, socialise, complete quests, get good gear, keep upto date spells 
 and have fun then join a guild. Soloing is possible, but not as fulfilling or lucrative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Need_A_Dime
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 11, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  Gamespot's review of this game rated it a 7.8. That is an accurate review for when this game was 
 released but is a far cry from what today's version of this game deserves.
  Since this game has been rated just about everything in its contents have changed: 
  The combat 
 engine had a complete revamp last year.
  PvP (Player vs. Player) was added in February.
  Character progression is completely different, since you now pick what class you want to be in 
 the beginning and dont have to pick 'paths' to follow to become that class.
  Every window in the UI is now better looking, cleaner and easier to read.
  Just about every aspect 
 that makes a game a game has been changed, in the best way possible.
  
  This is not to mention all the different zones that have been added as part of the two expansion 
 packs.
  
  And to the reviewers that say there is not enough ability to solo in this game, well then try the 
 zones that have a solo instance.... thought that was kind of obvious. I have an Inquisitor (priest) 
 and I can find plenty of zones to solo so yes it is possible.
  
  Dont be fooled by Gamespots review, it is reviewing Everquest from November 2004. Not Everquest 
 today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skumakum
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 8, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is really disapointing, Brilliant graphics but lack of soloability ruined it for me. 
 I also found the characters to be short and lacking in believeability. I like my RPG's with tall 
 elegent elves which dont exist. Quiet repetative aswell. Wasnt enough to keep me playing.
  This game is really disapointing, Brilliant graphics but lack of soloability ruined it for me. 
 I also found the characters to be short and lacking in believeability. I like my RPG's with tall 
 elegent elves which dont exist. Quiet repetative aswell. Wasnt enough to keep me playing.
  This game is really disapointing, Brilliant graphics but lack of soloability ruined it for me. 
 I also found the characters to be short and lacking in believeability. I like my RPG's with tall 
 elegent elves which dont exist. Quiet repetative aswell. Wasnt enough to keep me playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonorme666
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 2, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Hello, thanks for taking the time to read my review.
  
  I was very late arriving to EverQuest 2, infact it wasnt all too long ago I stumbled upon this 
 hidden gem.
  EverQuest 2 is a game I had heard of, but had never heard anyone speak of it. It was always World 
 Of Wacraft this, and GuildWars that.
  
  6 months had passed since I cancelled my WoW account before I found this game, the void between 
 that time was filled with Guildwars which I will admit I really enjoyed. I just wanted somthing 
 that wasnt instanced, somthing I could fill my days playing thats when I must have tried lots of 
 online games, from Matrix Online, Maple Story, Ragnarok and many others, I even got chance to play 
 the Dungeons & Dragons Stormreach BETA, which I was sadly disapointed with. Then one day I downloaded 
 "EverQuest II : Trial Of The Isle". It was not long before the LU19 update, so by the time I had 
 got to grips with it, I purchased the game only to find I had to re-learn the game (which was actually 
 much easy after the update) .
  
  The game itself I will compare to WoW (dispite this game coming out before) its non-instanced and 
 is very similar in gameplay only its much highly quality in graphics, gameplay, sound and story. 
 The community itself is very friendly and appears to be much more mature than the WoW players.
 
  
  The graphics at first I couldnt make my mind up, they looked great, but they also didnt. I cannot 
 quite put my finger on what I didnt like about them, but I have now grown to really like the graphics, 
 and to look at WoW with its blocky models and stretched textures, EQ2 hasnt aged abit.
  
  My first suprise was that the NPC's / Quest givers, even monsters actully had speech. With right 
 away shows that the game had alot more thought and time go into it, and really does well at making 
 you feel more involved in the situations are you.
  
  The quests themselves are much like WoW's, the same old, Kill X Number of Y and Return to Z, but 
 after playing many other MMORPGs it was a blessing to have a task to do, rather than to be stuck 
 with nothing to do, no goal. Altough there is also all your other style of quests that WoW also 
 had, only these are less strussful unlike WoWs which tended to be stressful due to the fact that 
 you either had to grind you way to a lvl below or the same as the enemy in order to kill it to 
 complete the quest, or a bug would occure and enemies would spot you through walls or from below 
 or above.
  EQ2's quests seem fair, and unlike many RPG's are actually rewarding as you tend to get items of 
 use, rather than items to fill your bags before you dump them at a merchant.
  
  The only letdown with EQII is the customer support, if you are a europoan player like myself, don't 
 expect any help from Sony Online Entertainment, as they appear to focus most of their time with 
 the U. S servers, that includes bonuses, patches and technical / customer support.
  This however can be overuled if you are a WoW player and use to the shenanigans of Blizzard .I. E 
 removing their unsubcription pages when the servers go down or suffer from major lag, thus stopping 
 players from canceling thus being charged another month for a broken service.
  
  Overall, if you want the style of WoW, only with better graphics, sound, gameplay, community and 
 more monsters, races, classes and bigger locations and with more regulary content upgrades and 
 expansions packs. EverQuest 2 is the game for you.
  
  Again, thankyou for reading.
  
  Kind Regards
  Jason A Orme AKA jasonthedwarf - Splitpaw Server 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roku33
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I think that everquest 2 is overall good but since the new expasion came out where they added pvp 
 it is great but the leaveling is very slow. It is not worth 14 dollars a month 10 maybe but i still 
 play it because it is adictive and they got some awesome players skills and guilds. before the 
 expansion i could never get a grp as a wizard or even on my assassin. But now i get grps like there 
 is no tommarow and i think that it is great. If it was free i think it would be as big as guild 
 war wich is also having an expansion but everquest 2 is very good i reccomend you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conan999
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 9, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  This game throughs you into a perverbial bucket of million crazed Everquest addicts. In this game 
 there are so many choices on what race, quest, armour, and sword you can get it is all you choice! 
 This is a brilliantly made game that is just so much fun you don't want to stop playing it, my 
 one friend greats people by saying he is a level 56 warrior barbarian, this is how much people 
 intwine their lives with this game. It might sound a bit crazy, but people actually get married 
 on Everquest without even seeing each other, but hey at least your marrying a level 70 palidin 
 with an epic sword! I even think they have a warning on the box telling the people who buy it it 
 is highly addicting, I mean it makes people spend their life savings on plat. just to get some 
 really good sword or armour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raneith123
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 24, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  This mmorpg is okay... its lacks story though and it is extremely laggy. Another annyoing thing 
 is there is zones almost everywhere but thats not my problem my problem is they take forever even 
 on a Good computer. I do not know why everybody says the graphics are amazing if they look like 
 dolls. The games quests are just like WoW, collect 5 and kill 5. I would say this game is even with 
 WoW. Both average addicting mmorpgs you can enjoy for a certain amount of time. This is only my 
 opinion and everyone else has their own opinion. PM me if you want to ask me which mmorpgs you 
 should play or any game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 28, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  The most beautiful MMOG on the market right now. World of Warcraft comes in second if you turn 
 on the SOGA models. Thats right, most of you guys are probably clueless to the fact that this game 
 is jaw dropping unless you turn on the SOGA models. If you don't, then you will play the game with 
 disfigured character models the game is being advertised with but fear not. I have proof of what 
 I speak. Click on the below link to witness the game the way it was meant to be (that is if you 
 have high end system) .
  
  http://img. photobucket. com/albums/v252/jcFIG/Everquest%202/EQ2Moonkiller6. jpg
  
  That said, 
 the game has player housing, PVP is coming with Kingdom of Sky, and if you aren't playing this 
 game then you are missing out. Its that simple folks. Give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coronatus
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  Everquest 2 pretty much can be considered the "grown up" counterpart to the all-popular World of 
 Warcraft. It's more complex, it got a more mature and sincere feeling to it, and of course it got 
 the better graphics, but that's in the eye of the beholder.
  
  The graphic engine excels at rendering heavy armor. The designers seem to be wanting to exploit 
 that, no matter what making even a simple sorceror's robe have a "heavy" and "massive" feeling 
 to it. Plus, there is little variety in what armor parts look like. Until as high as level 20 you 
 can be sure to look exactly the same as pretty much everybody else. Can be a disappointment if 
 you are into sporting a unique look, like me.
  
  Speaking of, while there are a load of option sliders to alter the appearance of your character 
 upon character creation, the impact they have on your appearance are marginal at best and only 
 visible to someone who pays close attention to the features of your face and body. Not something 
 the average player does.
  
  In addition there are two different rendering models available for the game. One released by Sony 
 in North America, one anime-styled one designed for the North Korean client, but then imported 
 into the north american client as well, by popular demand. In the options panel you can choose 
 what appearance you want to use for what races, and what gender. Because of that it's hard to look 
 the way you want to to absolutely every other player, even if you can freely configure your appearance 
 for both model sets. Sounds borked already? It is.
  
  As for gameplay, it's pretty linear because of the way the game mechanics work. Critters below 
 your level are not worth any noticable experience while critters above your level are hopelessly 
 tough and cannot be beaten without a team. One level difference in skill is enough already. Because 
 of that you are pretty much stuck with the experiences and critters the game got for your specific 
 level. Nothing tougher is possible without a team, nothing easier is worth the XP it gives. Because 
 of that the game is pretty linear in the way you can approach it.
  
  Other than that Everquest 2 is a solid, traditional MMORPG without any out of the ordinary features. 
 It has been designed by a veteran crew that already designed the highly successful prequel. If 
 you want a solid game without any special features, that doesn't have the "childish" appeal to 
 it many other games in the market released these days seem to have, and if the above flaws don't 
 appeal to you then give Everquest 2 a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 28, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of MMO's and have played most of the big ones that have been released over the 
 last 5 years. Everquest 2 was one of the most anticipated of these for me and I bought it as soon 
 as it was released and jumped straight in.
  
  At first, I loved it. The game world looks beautiful, everything has been designed and built with 
 a lot of love and care and it really is spectacular, if you have a powerful enough PC to be able 
 to run it that is.
  
  Within the first few weeks of playing I ended up forking out for a massive computer upgrade, just 
 to be able to run this game at almost 50% of what it is capable of. When they released it the developers 
 stated that it was designed for technology of the future and they were not wrong there.
  
  The first 20 or so levels in EQ2 seem to go by pretty quickly. A lot of it you can do by yourself 
 and it is quite good fun. It is all the basic stuff though, go here and kill that, go there and 
 bring that back here. Nothing new but why spoil a good thing.
  
  After that though the game starts to rely much more on grouping up for you to be able to get anywhere. 
 In my experience, most of the groups were rubbish and you died a lot. Death brings with it its 
 own problems which leads me onto the reason I cancelled my subscription.
  
  Death experience. What that means is every time you die, you gain red XP on your character. This 
 has to be worked off (in the same way that normal experience is gained) before you go back to getting 
 normal xp. In a nutshell, you lose about 50% of any xp gained to pay back this death xp.
  
  Why is it so bad? Well, when you have been in a group, you share their death xp as well and can 
 end up getting enough of it yourself that you will be paying it back for weeks.
  
  But apart from that, it is a good game. There is plenty to do and the community is excellent. Expansions 
 have arrived and there is more of those to come as well as free upgrades and extras that just download 
 when you log on.
  
  All in all, it is a good game but only if you like grouping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batboy1
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 21, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Its an ok MMORPG. The graphics are amazing and gameplay could be better but I think it's alright. 
 I miss it a little cause I havent played an MMORPG in a long time. Star wars galaxies is alot better 
 but this definately beats graphically. Use the free trials first cause I cant tell you what you 
 like. Try it yourself! Make sure that you dont buy it, get it on xfire or something, dont buy it, 
 or you might get very upset that you wasted your money on it if you dont like it. Most people went 
 to WoW first but everquest has a distinct landscape and is fun most of the time but can get old. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drizzt1669
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Its awesome i still cant believe that SoE captured my exacted thoughts on the fantasy world. Its 
 fun but costly like most MMO-RPG if your think on buying it you should first check your computer 
 stats because its take quiet some RAM and a good video and sound card though. If your computer 
 can take it get ready for a fun experience and a friendly people every where. good luck if you 
 do and if you say it dumb you should rethink it a bit and if you dont your not giving it a fair 
 chance to prove it. EQ2 has improved so much since release like an exp pack and a couple live update 
 you even got x-mas present everyday its pretty sweet so yeah give it a chance and you'll see its 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emitheemperor
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 4, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I have to admit that I wasn't an EQ fan from the get go. When I first got the first EQ, I 
 didn't like it very much. The graphics weren't that impressive to me, although the smooth transitions 
 between worlds and the easy trading and merchant system made me smile. I thought, if they ever 
 made this game with better graphics, I'd pick it up for sure. Well, unless you've been living in 
 a cave for the past two years, EQ 2 is out in stores ( and with an expansion to boot! ) and it 
 is better than EVER!
  
  The sequel to EQ 1 has so many advantages over its predecessor, I don't even know how to begin. 
 First off, in the Graphics Quality area, this game has it ALL. Whenever I log on to EQ2, I really 
 feel like I'm there. The houses, monuments, NPC's, creatures, etc. they all look very realistic... stylized 
 maybe... but still realistic within the look of the world itself. No doubt, EQ has always had its 
 own style of realism ( what game doesn't? ) and this game shows its strength and never lets up. 
 As far as Ease of Control is concerned, it takes a couple of tries to get used to what all of your 
 hotkeys are for and how to evade an attack, dodge ( which I have still not been able to do ) and 
 call for help ( if you need it ) . The only complaint I have in this category... although it is also 
 a compliment... is that you only get FOUR slots to store your inventory in. Now, you can purchase 
 bags to hold items in, which you can later equip to your person. But, still, there are only four 
 slots and you will be surprised at how quickly those slots can fill up when you're fighting baddies. 
 Now onto Server Performance.
  
  EverQuest 2 is one game that I have only experienced connectivity issues maybe once or twice since 
 I got it a year ago. These issues were mostly on my end ( My cat pushed the surge protector's power 
 button ) or their server was experiencing a normal spike in bandwidth usage. My advice is, if you're 
 playing this game for the first time, make sure to choose a server with low-medium population. 
 This way, you'll always have a smooth experience and you won't have to worry about lag. This is 
 also one of the only Online games that I've played where I can be in a Town Square meeting of more 
 than 20 Players ( real people ) and it won't lag! Okay, now onto Quests and Levelling Up.
  
  EverQuest 2 has one of the absolute BEST levelling up and Quests systems around. It is SO easy 
 to find a Quest! Just look for an NPC with an Exclamation Point or Scroll with a feather and hail 
 them. The NPC takes it from there. I am also VERY impressed and LOVE their waypoints ( in case 
 you don't know what these are, they are pre-recorded points on the global or local map where the 
 game can direct you ) . Another extremely helpful service provided to the gamer is the /find command. 
 Anytime you're looking for an NPC and you're stuck, just go up to ANY guard within the city and 
 type /find John Doe. The Guard will happily point in the direction and you'll be guided to your 
 "waypoint" by a glowing golden trail that never fades away until you find your guy/gal. Now on 
 to Features.
  
  EQ 2 has no end of Features. From skills to be learned, trades to choose from and houses that you 
 can actually live in ( virtually that is ) , this game has it all! EverQuest 2 is SO big, in fact, 
 that they often have real-world conventions where players can meet themselves! I've spoken to some 
 people in the game who have been to some of these conventions and they tell me that you actually 
 have to /hail some of the "NPC'S" that work at the conventions and you can get "Quests". I would 
 LOVE to go to one of these!
  
  Overall, I give EverQuest 2 a 9 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 8, 2005 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Everquest 2 is an immersive game. When it came out a year ago, it was quite dull, there was not 
 too much to do. Thankfully, since launch, TONS of new content has been added. That's what keeps 
 the game going for me, all the new content that is being added. It really feels like SOE is working 
 on this game every day. The game has seriously improved since launch. Unfortuanately, there are 
 still some problems. I'm hoping that the future of EQ will bring new and exciting things.
  
  Overall, it's a very nice MMO. You will find yourself lost in this game. Keep in mind though, 
 it's MUCH better if you have friends, or guild mates, to adventure with. Soloing the whole way 
 through can be very boring. The community is a major aspect of what makes an MMO, and the community 
 in this game is a nice, mature, EQ loving crowd. As long as it stays that way, EQ2 will be an awesome 
 MMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrusherOfThings
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 29, 2005 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Well, I have to admit, I was never a fan of the original Everquest. The interface was just downright 
 confusing to the beginner. I spent my original MMORPG days playing Asheron's call. Having said 
 that, comparing this game to EQ1 is like comparing apples to oranges. They are two TOTALLY different 
 games. Whether that's a good thing or bad thing depends on how much you liked the original. I didn't 
 care for EQ1 as mentioned above, but I had some fun giving EQ2 a run... but ultimately the gameplay 
 was lacking.
  
  First, the character customization leaves a lot to be desired. There is actually little to none 
 aside from name, race, and appearance when you first load the game. When you actually play the 
 game for the first time, you are given the choice of four separate career paths. Basically, the 
 professions branch out as you move along in your career. This means that in order to reach your 
 ultimate choice of career paths you must reach certain levels first.
  
  One nice thing about the game is the quest system. You have quests unique to your class and there 
 is really a lot of complexity and depth involved. Although sometimes you'll be scratching your 
 head wondering what to do next which means heading to your favorite MMORPG website to get the quest 
 info to move on.
  
  Probably the first thing you'll notice is the graphics of the game. This is a mixed bag as well. 
 Basically, I've found that people either love them or hate them. Personally, I have no problems 
 with the graphics in EQ2, but a lot of people hate the hyper-realistic "plastic" looking character 
 models. The animations are sort of stiff as well, but this is a minor issue. 
  
  The game interface is fairly simple to figure out. Not as easy to learn as World of Warcraft, but 
 it is still fairly easy to grasp. This wasn't really an issue for me, as I've played just about 
 every MMORPG that has come out on the market, and so I'm used to your average interface layout. 
 When you think about it, most MMORPG's nowadays have fairly similar interfaces.
  
  The sounds were fairly good. There are a lot of voice overs which is rather neat, but they can 
 get monotonous as you travel the city and whatnot and hear the same gibberish over and over each 
 time you visit an area. It would have been nice if they included random voice overs for the NPC's 
 to keep things more interesting.
  
  Speaking of cities, there are basically two factions in the game; Qeynos (the "good guys") and 
 Freeport (the "bad guys") . Which city and game area you end up in depends on what race and alignment 
 you pick when you create your character. Some races can be either good or evil, while others can 
 only be aligned to evil or good.
  
  And really the two different cities is actually kind of a good thing, because if you ever get bored 
 you can always roll up a character of the opposite faction. The two cities and beginner areas are 
 completely different. Also, I forgot to mention that your career also depends on your alignment. 
 Each profession basically has a good or evil equivalent, but they are still different nonetheless. 
 If you'd like to play as a race that is only aligned with one city as a different alignment, there 
 is a betrayal quest you can compete that will switch your alignment, but I have heard this quest 
 is so hard to complete it's not worth the effort. But that's just hearsay, I haven't actually investigated 
 that quest due to lack of interest. 
  
  As for the game itself, be prepared to kill monsters, and kill plenty of them. This is where I 
 think World of Warcraft wins the fight. In WoW, you mainly level up off of your quests. In EQ2, 
 you still have your old school whack-a-monster gameplay. Now, some people may prefer that style, 
 but to me it is just getting boring nowadays. I had enough repetitive monster killing in my Asheron's 
 Call days. I'm ready for something different. Another annoyance about the monsters is it wouldn't 
 be so bad if you started out killing cool things, but you'll find yourself killing things like 
 beetles, snakes, etc., before you move up to the more impressive mobs.
  
  Well now we come down to the bottom line; EQ2 vs. WoW. This is sort of a tough decision because 
 each game has its pluses and its flaws. But ultimately, World of Warcraft wins the day because 
 it took your basic MMORPG formula and added their own flare. EQ2 doesn't really offer anything 
 new to the genre. My recommendation for EQ2 is to wait for something better. I don't regret my 
 time spent with the game, but there are so many good games on the market now and coming soon on 
 the horizon, you'll find plenty to keep you occupied until something new comes along, like D&D 
 Online. Even if you don't like World of Warcraft, I still recommend passing on this one. It just 
 gets old too quick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowgrey
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2005 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Everquest 2 is a beautifully rendered massively multiplayer online game set in detailed fantasy 
 world, very much like dungeons & dragons in terms of themes and archtypes. There are two main paths 
 for any individual's character development, one focused on fighting various oppositely aligned 
 monsters and denizens, the other primarily focused on the crafting and manufacturing of useful 
 artifacts. Each path is set into a rather narrowly defined 'discipline' which restricts the character 
 to interacting with the environment and other characters in specific ways. For example, Wizards 
 use magic rather exclusively, and suffer substantial penalties with regard to defensive armor and/or 
 hand-to-hand combat and physical weapon use. Again, all very D&D-ish.
  
  Experience and character development occur through a level-based system of advancement, whereby 
 the first levels (1-10) go by fairly quickly, and the higher levels (10+) take progressively more 
 time and in-game experience to progress through. At high-levels, 25+, the progress can take considerable 
 time indeed. Currently most in-game experiences max-out at level 50. With add-on packs this rises 
 to 60+.
  
  Overall the game is quite sophisticated, with much emphasis on guild participation and group gameplay. 
 Individual gaming and lone questing is virtually impossible at the higher levels (20+) . Some fairly 
 good work done to create atmosphere with voice overs and NPC dialog, but story-based questing is 
 more or less an afterthought. The 'active' fighting parts of the game very much reward group activity 
 while discouraging going it alone. Don't even think about going after heroic monsters even if they 
 are many levels below you in skill. 
  
  Conversely, the crafting and outfitting aspect of the game is a very 'loner' kind of experience, 
 with no grouping or cooperative aspects at all.
  To become a skilled craftsperson, expect to spend long hours in front of a forge, desk or loom 
 toiling away with nary a sidelong glance at the craftsperson working next to you. I don't know 
 about you, but the concept of a virtual sweatshop is kinda wierd and scary at the same time. I 
 wonder where Sony got this idea from? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dtrdwngs
Rating: 5.9
Date: Oct 27, 2005 12:36 am PT
Review:  Great game. If you have read anything about MMOs, you have probably read all about this game already 
 so I will spare the details and just say that it is a great game overall. My only real complaint 
 is the grind after level 25. I understand they want to keep you playing but I am not going to spend 
 2-3 days of hard playing just to reach the next level and be forced to accept a spell that I won't 
 even end up using ever. That kills it for me. It ceases to be fun and the reward is not worth the 
 effort. XP debt is a bit excessive. When you compare that to WoW, the choice is easy. WoW doesn't 
 dole out a harsh Xp reduction forcing you to spend another 3-4 hours earning back. Also, when you 
 shard is in a bad area and you die several times trying to recollect it, you are better off turning 
 off the game for a couple days until the xp debt is gone. But then again, you can't play for those 
 2 days. Herein lies another compaint. This game practically forces you to group instead of solo. 
 I play at all times of the day and can't meet the same people each day. I have a career and have 
 to be at work at odd hours. For me, soloing is the way to go but you are hard pressed to earn any 
 significant xp by yourself. I gave up and moved over to WoW. EQ2 has superior graphics and NPC 
 voices (where WoW has practically none.) It comes down to personal choice and playing style. I 
 felt too confined in EQ2 but is is a deeper game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gespho
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 14, 2005 8:47 pm PT
Review:  EQ2 is in some ways - a down grade, in varieties - of just about everything.
  Not as much gear, weapons, zones, guilds, nor community, though its getting bigger, they started 
 off with to many servers. EQ1 however started off with few servers, and gradually enlarged. They 
 spreaded the amount of fans they had, and players, into many servers. If you dont mind having 1 
 or 2 guilds owning a server, then you may be ok, though if u like a challenge in making guilds, 
 you could like this. 
  
  Where EQ2 did the best - graphics - The graphics are as awesome as your computer is, which for 
 most people should be pretty good. It just looks awesome when you play, almost everything does, 
 just depends on how well your computer is, the worse graphics are just about as bad as EQ1 graphics, 
 so thats not bad at all. The best, well my computer cant handle the best, and i still think the 
 graphics look nice.
  
  Quests, Quests, Quests - there are so many quests, some rewarding, some not, some fun, some not, 
 you dont have to do any the whole time you play, but Quests are a good way to learn zones, monsters, 
 get new items, gear, its much better then Grinding. 
  
  Those of you who love to grind in exp, be aware they are trying to make it so u cant "grind". There 
 is this thing called Vitality, when leveling, if you have 100% Vitality, you earn double exp from 
 monsters you kill. However the more monsters you kill, your vitality begins to go down, you may 
 think that it goes down fast, it doesnt, and you think u cant get exp when your Vitality is 0%, 
 you can, you get just about as much exp at 0% as you would in regular EverQuest 1, for whatever 
 level you are. This for non EQ1 players - seems like "this 0% Vit. is killing me!!" - they havnt 
 played EQ1. 
  
  Sadly... no more trains :* (
  
  No more "ZONING... PLEASE WAIT" now its a loading screen
  
  At the moment, there are no huge 
 raid zones like Vex Thal, Umbral Planes, Plane of Time (a or b) , they are small zones with 1 monster, 
 with around 2 items that drop. So - right now im missing the fat lewts, cause there is a lack of 
 items in the database for EQ2 - this is why there are no huge raid zones with many monsters - sad 
 on Sonys part, but atleast they no longer have to mess with the graphics and the way zones look.
 
  
  Think about it, no one wants to buy an RPG cause they say, OMG - look at those stats on the necklace! 
 i gotta get that game! its "omg, those graphics are nice, that place looks awesome" stuff that 
 pleases the viewers eyes, so i think they took care of the people who are just coming into the 
 game, but for the people in the game, now they are just barely on that issue.
  
  Also - attuning items is now something new, it basically makes the item no drop so u can use it, 
 and after ur done using it, u cant give it to no one, or sell it to no one, but NPC merchants, 
 so before attuning an item, think about it.
  
  Over all, i would say this, if you are bored of EQ1, come on over to EQ2!
  If your looking for 
 a pvp game, come over to EQ2, they are soon coming out with a pvp server!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slannmage
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 11, 2005 6:54 am PT
Review:  I played during phase 1 closed beta through family and friends beta :)
  Back then the game was sooo fun from level 1 - 15 and then after that you soon realised it was 
 a grind, but that was fine there was always people to group with!
  
  When the game was released the numbers decresed slowly then took a massive hit when WOW came out! 
 Ever after that the game has been empty struggling to find a group to finish quests!
  
  The combat system is great and so is the tradeskill but it does not fit PVP.
  
  The zoning 
 kills the game IMO and they need boats for travel like in beta and not bells : ( 
  
  The new expansion was ok but lots of the NPC's dont even have voice overs and the PVP is pure crap! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Sesshomaru
Rating: 6.3
Date: Sep 11, 2005 12:26 am PT
Review:  Like i said it was not what I expected. I played for 5 months and got bored. I heard of people 
 playing Everquest 1 and loving it. The guild system i thought did not work, since u had to be a 
 level 5 guild to get a guild tag. Most importantly NO PLAYER VERSES PLAYER! This is were I gave 
 up on the game. I had fun for the few months I played and I had a 30 member guild, but overall 
 it was not worth the $50 and $15 a month. About the no ship navigating, SOE promised that you could 
 own a ship, and sail the seas of Norrath, but this never happened. They said that eventually they 
 would add it in, but the time i played i never saw it. Overall, it was fun for a short while, but 
 got boring pretty quickly, and it was not all it was cracked up to be. However, the graphics and 
 sound were amazing, the best i've ever seen or heard that is on the market today, but that is does 
 not make up for the no player versus player and all the things that were wrong with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderfan2025
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 10, 2005 10:31 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit, this game took me a little bit of time to get into. It is a bit confusing first, and 
 figuring it all out can be a hassel. However, once you get past the basics and understand how the 
 game works, it is a tremendous amount of fun. It takes skill and it takes time to be good at the 
 game. If fantasy doesn't interest you, then just igrnore that aspect. Play the game for what it 
 has to offer, and not the setting it is in. This one is definitly a game worth trying if you have 
 some patience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 99problems
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 26, 2005 5:50 am PT
Review:  2005 has been a year for me to hop in and out of mmo's . i cancelled my World of Warcraft account 
 back in may and have had a few chances to try out other games in the proccess . so far this year 
 i've played at least 5 mmorpgs , and i can say that Everquest 2 has been the one i've found and 
 so far am loving . so much that i've payed my first monthly bill . all the other games were never 
 fortunate enough to get 15 dollars from my pocket . 
  
  
  
  having played the "Trial of The Isle" a while back when they released that demo , i already knew 
 EQ2 was a decent game . its once you leave the isle and get into the real game world is when everything 
 opens up to you . its both incredibly exciting , and for some people , confusing , at the same 
 time .
  
  
  
  i don't like to go into details on the gameplay cuz you have the actual Gamespot review to look 
 att for that . i'm just going to pick and choose points of interest that i think are important 
 to let out . first off being that this is pretty much the most beautiful mmorpg out there . then 
 again depending on your system will determine how "beautiful" the game actually is . just so ya 
 know on my graphics card i can run it alright at 1280x1024 at high performance settings . now those 
 settings aren't nearly as good as anything over balanced , but its still good none the less . 
 
  
  
  second point being that , dispite being an easy game to learn with a nicely streamlined interface 
 , its hard to understand everything at first . the game does alot to try and get new players to 
 understand how to go about their character's lives in game , but somehow it just seems to take 
 alot longer to sink in . for one , even though you can tell when an npc has a quest by their voice-over 
 , not all quest-giving npcs say anything . this can mislead people into thinking "well theres no 
 quests for me to do" . believe me theres tons of quests you can do in this game , just alot of 
 them are harder to find . also figuring out where you should go most of the time is a hassle . 
 i really didn't know there were several zones within my starting city that i coudl quest in and 
 grind xp . 
  
  
  third being , after you leave your city to start your real adventuring , you end up spending alot 
 of time , like say 10 levels or more , in just one zone . alot of times fighting similar looking 
 mobs along the way . i lost count how many levels i spent fighting badgers in antonica . though 
 this has been known to plague Everquest since the first one , after a while you do move on to bigger 
 and better things . so don't expect to really fight those bigger and better mobs by yourself , 
 because soloing takes alot longer than fighting with a group of people . so if you enjoy group 
 play , then have fun!
  
  
  prolly my last big point would be the fact that you really have to spend alot of time playing this 
 game if you want to get anywhere . i'd say at least 3 hours a day . theres not the same level of 
 accomplishment that you can find in an hour's playtime like you would in WoW . but eq2's players 
 and community really do suck you into playing for longer periods of time , and you'd be surprised 
 what can be done in a few hours of playtime . 
  
  
  really when i look back at it , i never really looked at everquest 2 to be as good as it turned 
 out to be for me . i'm really glad its turned out this way for the fact that i'm still playing 
 and enjoying the hell out of this game . the only thing that dissapoints me is how harsh gamers 
 that don't play or haven't played eq2 , look and talk about this game . it seems like everyone 
 i talk to or play with in any other online pc game , as soon as i mention that i play eq2 , a bunch 
 of people will respond to that in second telling me "eq2 sucks!" or "WoW is so much better." . 
 i really don't care what other peoples opinions are , cuz they're entitled to them . but really 
 , could ya just not get so offensive on the subject? i say if you're in the market for an MMO , 
 you're two safest bets are World of Warcraft and Everquest 2 . If you don't like what you find 
 in the demo version of eq2 , then go with WoW . but i'm here to say that i believe that those with 
 more experience with MMORPG's should alot to like here , even after you're initial 30 days of free 
 play .
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squigglly
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 22, 2005 12:30 am PT
Review:  I used to play swg until i found this game. this game is awsome. the graphics are amazing, and 
 the combat rocks. swg sucks compared to this. The worlda re designed awsome too. this game is worth 
 the money. And there is very low lagg in highly populated areas. I love this game! The only complant 
 i have is the chat system it gets annoying, but the rest of the game is fun fun fun! Go out and 
 buy it! This games awsome! Just make sure your pc can run it :) You need 512mb ram, good internet, 
 about 1. gighertz and u need good video card. i would recommend a 128 mb ati or nvidia 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theone2005
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 20, 2005 9:17 am PT
Review:  played World of Warcraft for several months but got bored with every character after the 30th level 
 or so. In WOW, your characters stop changing in interesting ways after the 30th level. They simply 
 get stronger versions of the same abilities you had at level 10. WOW's crafting skills are easy 
 to learn, perhaps a bit too easy since everyone around your level can make the exact same stuff 
 you can. At least WOW has a great "Auction House" that lets you sell your excess stuff easily; 
 sort of like Ebay. There's no denying WOW is fun for a couple of months. 
  
  So then I tried Everquest 2. Is it any different than WOW? In some ways, very much so. The graphics 
 are VERY impressive assuming your system can handle it. The world is filled with all of the latest 
 pixel-shading effects. The combat graphics are certainly a whole lot more interesting to see than 
 those in World of Warcraft. In EQ2, there's light sourcing and shadowing everywhere. Armor reflects 
 like armor and leather bitmaps look like leather. It is a very good-looking game. All of these 
 effects can be turned off or reduced to push up the frame-rate.
  
  EQ2 is noticeably harder than WOW when it comes to both character building and crafting. On the 
 other hand, you have many many more choices about how you can develop your charcaters. There are 
 sub-classes and a wide-range of special abilities. Crafting in EQ2 is MUCH harder. You will need 
 to invest quitre a bit of time before you can make valuable objects.
  
  After you get past Everquest's great looks, you begin to see some problems. The loading times between 
 zones in the city areas are a big drag. You get almost all of your quests in the cities and many 
 quests require you to run back and forth between city zones (within one city) . I doubt many players 
 are going to enjoy this repetitive loading and re-loading. It doesn't help that the quest-giving 
 characters look just like all of the other characters. You have to talk to each and every one.
 
  
  It is important to point out that WOW can handle lag much better than Everquest 2 can. In the populated 
 city areas, EQ2 can become noticeably laggy even when there aren't many things going on. You can 
 reduce graphics resolution but that wont reduce these network lag issues.
  
  EQ2 has a few big draws though: it attracts more serious and "older" game players. There's far 
 fewer 13 year olds because EQ2 doesn't offer immediate gratification and quick rewards that WOW 
 does. This means fewer game-spoiling antics, fewer pointless insults, and other annoyances when 
 you are logged on. That's a plus. 
  
  EQ2 is at its best when you are questing outside of the cities. The world looks far better than 
 World of Warcraft and Everquest 2's lag and loading issues are far less present outdoors. I give 
 EQ2 a reserved reccommendation: its really for the dedicated MMPORG player with a great PC; for 
 them its worth a try. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MTGWARGOD
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 14, 2005 7:19 am PT
Review:  hi, i have been playing this game for oh, 4 months now, and its quite good, assuming you have had 
 mmoprg expirience, if not, try looking elseware, and then come back to this game after you have 
 had expirience.
  
  Unlike WoW, Everquest 2 simply gives a very bad first impression to those who are new to this sort 
 of genre, heres what would happen you if you are trying MMORPG for the first time: 
  
  Everything is thrown at you very fast (even the dialog on the beginning island seems as though 
 they are rushing you) . You will be asking questions on "how this works", and as soon as you get 
 that question answered, another question will arise.
  
  You are rewarded very slowly, again, Veteran MMORPG players know exactly what to expect, so they 
 are ok, new players on the other hand, are asking questions and making very little progress, Crafting 
 is much much harder, the new MMORPG player gets bored and will eventually quit the game after about 
 3 weeks, or when their 1 month trial expires.
  
  NOW for the good part
  
  The game is incredibally rich and detailed. The games graphics and enviornment detail is very nice 
 as long as you have the computer to support it (what else could they have done?) you can almost 
 tell the developers made this game for veteran MMOPRG players, because all their expectations for 
 a great MMORPG have been fufilled or surpassed. And the Music in everquest II is AWESOME, man, 
 the music could not have been done better for this kind of game.
  
  Almost all games are designed or end up being for a particular audience, and EverQuest II is no 
 exception, so these ratings are for MMORPG players.
  
  P. S. If you are NOT a MMORPG player, PLEASE come back to this game after playing and getting bored 
 of World of Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyThRenegade
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 15, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  At first I did not enjoy this game when it first came out, quit and came back a few months later 
 and love this game now. The pvp makes this game a whole lot funner. There is a large variety when 
 it comes to end game material and with expansions coming out every couple of months you never will 
 never run out of things to do.
  Not it's not a movie! The graphics are impressive and best I have ever seen on any game. You will 
 be amazed with what you see.
  The gameplay is nicely controled and you can always adjust the keys to the way you like. It is 
 very easy to learn and it is all explained to you. The camera works very well in the game and allows 
 you to change your view from first to third person. Overall the gameplay is very nice and simple.
 
  Make sure to get the trial and hope to see some new people join up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrincessLeia
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 11, 2005 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Alrighty then...
  
  This is the worst MMO I've played. Granted, I haven't played many, but let's put it into perspective... Star 
 Wars Galaxies, while it isn't all that great, owns the living heck out of Everquest 2. Why? EQ2 
 is very repetitive... and it is dull.
  
  How repetitive? Well, I was a dark elf who tried to go to Qeynos. I spent about 6+ hours just killing 
 the 500 gnolls (yes, 500) you are required to kill to betray... and then I had to do other lame 
 "deliver this message" missions. Sure, that's just one facet... but the WHOLE GAME is like that. 
 You want PvP? Ha, there is none. You want huge battles against great enemies? There are very few...
 
  
  And when you go up against big baddies, you need a HUGE party/clan... and you don't get any experience 
 in a large group. There is NO POINT, unless you are just completing a quest.
  
  Also, the classes are VERY unbalanced. Summoners/necros have nothing... they are the cream of the 
 crap. So are a lot of the other professions... pretty much only fighters and clerics are worth anything. 
 The only redeeming value of classes is the guild/shop workers. Making weapons/armor=cool.
  
  NPCs are VERY dull... and are usually a waste of time. So are the FREEPORT cities.... omg so 
 bland it makes you want to go seppuku.
  
  Well that's about it. For 15 bucks/month... you could get a good game instead of this sub-par crapfest. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truth5150
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 7, 2005 9:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is hands down best on the market !! Gameplay is phenomenal. This is the only game where 
 the quests and storyline are interesting enough to actuallly read (listen in quite a few cases) 
 through them. The voiceovers add so much character to the game it really feels more like a roleplaying 
 environment. I have found myself laughing and having a better time in EQ2 than any game t date. 
 Graphics are simply awesome with nothing else out there coming even close. Objects like armor every 
 little bump and intricate design is 3D in EQ2 not like WoW or DAoC where the design may be intricate 
 but the patterns on the armor are flat. EQ2 simply does it all better. Only game I have played 
 that evens comes close to immersing you in the environment like this is Half-Life. More quests 
 than any other game and events where your actions in solving them are actually seen by all on the 
 server should you succeed in solving it. The only game where crafting is an actual event where 
 you actively counter flaws in the product. The more you play this game and figure out how to do 
 things the better it gets. It is very different from other mmorgs in some respects similar in others 
 and it can take playing to level 20-25 to truly understand the richness of the game. There is plenty 
 of solo content as well as group. I solo most the time myself gotten myself to level 26 on multiple 
 toons and gotten the guild a few levels.
  
  Even guilds are better. Other MMORGS guilds are just a group you run with where not much you do 
 really has an affect on the guild at all. But in EQ2 you can personally level your guild just like 
 you can your character and your actions have a direct visible affect. It's great actually being 
 able to help the guild and see the results.
  
  This game is so good I have cancelled my WoW and DAoC accounts. I've read the few negative posts 
 on here and from reading them it is obvious the people themselves were the problem not the game. 
 Folks giving the game a bad review because they weren't smart enough to figure out how to run/configure 
 their own computer due to either other software they have or their lack of understanding of their 
 hardware limitations. Other complaints are coming from folks who obviously just didn't play enough 
 to get it having these WoW/fastfood attitudes where they expect everything immediate (but games 
 like WoW are too easy and get too shallow too fast) . As for the SOE exchange complaints lol thats 
 a joke, those people are being naive. So SOE is going to control and put some honesty into what 
 the other mmorgs have going uncontrolled on ebay everyday, big deal! Items and gold and characters 
 for WoW and DAoC have been sold on ebay since inception people break the TOS agreements and do 
 it anyway so SOE has done the only thing they could to try and help control it. It's not on every 
 server it will only be on a select few being especially created for that and is not allowed elsewhere 
 ingame. So if you are a person that wants to do that there is a spot for you for those of us that 
 don't want to be on a server enabled for that for fear of it blowing up our economy we stay on 
 our normal servers where it isn't allowed and all are happy.
  
  New content is being added every week and this game just keeps getting better and better !!! Buy 
 it play it till at least level 20-25 and you wont regret it. Might even save cash cancelling those 
 other accounts :P
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: phatbrain101
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 10, 2005 4:43 pm PT
Review:  The game was a nice 3 month experience, but it still takes up too much time and resources. I hit 
 lvl 50 and the game requires more time, ppl and healers then from the early game. There is no such 
 things as solo at the high lvls like the game promised -none, zilch. The graphics are the best 
 by far of any mmorpg, the quests early game are decent - the downfall of his game for me was time 
 consumption. I only have 2 to 3 hours to play at a time now and you cannot get anything *major* 
 done in that timespan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LewisVo2000
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 3, 2005 1:13 am PT
Review:  ~~~~Gameplay~~~~
  Good fight scenes, great character abilities but doesn't 
  seem to get the perfect MMORPG anymore than it use to be
  ~~~Graphics~~~
  Very astounding as 
 game graphics advances, you keep zooming in
  and see about everything from the world and to the stitchings of a player's shirt,
  you can just 
 stop and see the beautiful envoriments and character details, although not
  all the computers in the world can play this on full graphics and with a very good frame rate
 
  ~~~Sound~~~
  The sound for Everquest II is not that bad either, (Character Voice Overs are a big plus) although 
 most of the times it sounds
  choppy at most battle scenes and there is to running
  ~~~Value~~~
  Ok, the vaule, sounds pretty reasonable although if you want to make your account 
 more
  detailed, more characters etc., so thats more cash out of your pocket
  ~~~Tilt~~~
  Pretty standard for MMORPGs we have today, but you don't have to hear from
  Game Critics, Gamers 
 etc. to hear if its bad or good just try it yourself 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcjacal
Rating: 2.2
Date: Jan 31, 2005 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Game is just too much hard work to be fun.
  1. Having lots and continuous trouble configuring firewall so I don't have to disable it every 
 time.
  2. Chat dialoge is slow and cumbersome. Unless you plan on spending hours at a time playing, it's 
 just easier to not bother joining a group. If all I want is solo play, there are many other games 
 that won't give me such a poor frame rate on my high end PC.
  3. About 20% of the time, I am locked out of the server. Whats the sense of spending $30 for the 
 game and $15/month if it's a coin toss whether I'll be able to play or not.
  4. Manual only explains a tiny fraction of what you need to know. I have never been able to access 
 any of their webs page from the game. So basically its a trial and error sort of learning curve.
 
  5. After trying again and again... Forget it. There is much better elsewhere.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: canuck99
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 15, 2005 5:19 am PT
Review:  I've played RPG's for over 20 years and this is the only one I've ever been hooked on. I play almost 
 everyday and I have a 1/2 dozen unopened games on my bookshelf so something about this game has 
 me enthralled.
  
  Leveling in the crafting system is almost as fun as playing the rest of the game and I often find 
 myself just trying to create new and exicting items. Most RPG's I just ignore the crafting and 
 get down to the business of leveling.
  
  Given that the game is only a few months old and Sony will expand it for several years, I would 
 expect great things for this game in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: espins1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2005 3:30 am PT
Review:  The most perfect game in the world. I would give this game a 45,000,000 out of 10! Loik totaly 
 awsome duder! jsut got the game a few weeks and I love the graphics but it skips alot. This game 
 is awsome I would recommend this game for everyone! There are alot of people that play it so you 
 might want a faster computer than your little Apple that you have sitting in your corner. With 
 a great video card you could have the added bonus of flora, and acne on the NPC faces. I would 
 buy this game for all my friends if I had the money just so I could spend more time with them. 
 Poifect game!!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  (Not for use if a large family is around)
  
  
  (May cause acne, hives, malnutrition, selective hearing, loss of eyesight, loss of social life) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAJY_FILTH
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 12, 2005 6:39 pm PT
Review:  When i sit down and really think about it, the game provided, on a nightly basis, frustrations 
 which were built into the experience and never rectified. Nightmarish corpse-runs into hostile 
 territory, which often resulted in another death, and a tooth-grinding loss of experience points. 
 Endless hours of beastie bashing, as experience gain really the heart of the game took soo bloody 
 long. And serious performanc issues, as SOE, with all their cash and experience, still couldn't 
 seem to handle a server full of subscribers. If there had been an alternative at this time, i would've 
 taken it. Some things have change. Some evidently havn't. First and foremost, playing EQII involves 
 spending time in some of the most laggiest areas I've encountered. When the server's rammed, the 
 average pc's performance is sooo bad that you'll feel like quiting out anf playing something else. 
 And even when the enviroment is around you is quiet, the game consumes a hugelevel of system resources. 
 Don't get me wrong, with all the visual options turned up, EQII looks very shiny indeed, but it 
 chugged on our 3200xp+ 1 ghz ram, radeon 9800 rig, even with the options nothced down to fuzzy 
 vision. Nevertheless it still feels like the old Everquest. And while that may be construed as 
 a good thing, in some ways it isn't. For example, you'll spend the first ten levels of your character's 
 life whacking rats, Literally, and centipedes. This is meant to be a fantasy game, for God's sake. 
 Who fantasises about killing slugs? Alan Ti*schmarsh? Finally the whole thing just feels abit souless. 
 After seeing the lively, inventive roleplaying of World of Warcraft in action, you can't help but 
 noticethe lack of innovation in EQII. The whole thing smells of over-production, and is unyielding 
 in its adherence to the cultural hooks of fantasy like a crib-sheet for a production line D&D adventure. 
 There's no doubt Everquest 2 is a good game, But why play a good game when there's brilliant ones 
 available as an alternative? For there are two online fantasy worlds looming in this month's PC 
 GAMER. And i know which one i'll be paying montthly to enter (World of Warcraft)
  
  It's   Vast   Chuggy   A bit of a let down 
  It's not   Revelatory   what we'd hoped   Vastly 
 different from Everquest 
  
  74% 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcolaric
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 7, 2005 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I played EQ1, DAOC, and Final Fantasy - this was the easiest to learn thanks to the tutorial. 
 
  
  Seems like a lot of people have had issues with configuration - graphic settings and such - but 
 once that is taken care of the game runs quite smoothly. I enjoy the content - quests are fun - 
 take the time to actually listen to the npc (thanks to voice overs) . Grouping is not a problem 
 - the community seems friendly and as a healer I never have a problem finding a group. I am currently 
 a level 23 mystic on the Unrest server- so I can't really say how the upper levels are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosyndrom
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 27, 2004 9:58 am PT
Review:  Well, to tell you the truth, I never really liked EverQuest, I tried it out when the second expansion 
 was released, and I thought the concept was great, but I had little direction into what to do, 
 and whats fun in the EQ world. So here comes EverQuest 2, it has the probably the best graphics 
 to date in any game, and cool voice acting that is actually pretty good, although the voice acting 
 is quite repeatative. I watched the videos and the game looked great, I also bought World of Warcraft 
 before I bought EverQuest 2, so I had high expectations. I installed the game (which was a ridiculous 
 the game has like 10 CD's, fair enough there is a DVD version, yet I have no DVD player) so far 
 so good, my first disappointment was the character creation. It was pretty good, but there are 
 bone adjustments you can do on the face, no matter how much I changed it, I ended up looking very 
 much like the same guy. So, if your a male human, you better get some pretty uniqe hair, because 
 your face will look almost the same as the guy next to you.
  
  Alright, the character creation wasnt that bad, considering that there are many races, and hair 
 colors. When I actually entered the game I was amazed, the graphics were beautiful, I had the graphics 
 running on the second highest profile there was ( There are about 7?) The ocean looked great, and 
 the guy actually had a voice! When you start the game you start on a ship, which is just a tutorial. 
 Through the whole tutorial I was pretty amazed, then I got to beginner island. It was still pretty 
 cool, but the graphics now were very much more choppy because there was alot more on screen, so 
 I turned them down a notch. The quest there are like go kill 5 of these, or kill those a retrieve 
 five of these. There is another where you need to kill an orc leader, but you need to group up 
 to kill it because its impossible to solo at the level your at. So at this time the game isn't 
 looking to bad. But this is just the beginning. Soon you become strong enough and you can leave 
 the island which is pretty exciteing at first till you actually get to the city. When you get to 
 the city it tells you how to get into your house and get settled, after that your left hanging 
 to find your own quest (and you dont really know who has a quest for you) and its pretty hard to 
 acomplish them with out actually trying to learn your self. Also at the city the graphics got really 
 choppy, because how dense it was. Another huge turn off was the amount of other players there are... 
 I hardly ever see anyone, and it feels very much like a single player game, and if thats the case 
 then it doesnt do a very good job..\
  
  You see this game has alot of depth, which is repsectable, but the game doesn't do a great job 
 of using it, its makes it difficult. Which is very easily donein games like World of Warcraft. 
 There are strong points about this game sure, but if great graphics are all you have, then thats 
 not a stable game. 
  
  
  
  [Gameplay]
  
  The HUD is kind of annoying, there are two black boarders, one on the top of the screen the other 
 on the bottom. To make it more annoying there is sort of like a "Start" button (If you have windows 
 look on the bottom left of your screen right about... now) . You click the button and it list more 
 buttons in which you will find inventory, quest log, skills, yatta yatta yatta. Controlling your 
 character is very much like you would in WoW, but it just feels slower. The fighting is also slower, 
 and quite boring. On top of that you have very little inventory space, its so annoying, go ahead 
 say its realistic, but how releastic is RPG fighting? How releastic is a beaver with a scorpian 
 stinger? Right, now you get my point.
  
  [Graphics]
  
  The graphics are beautiful, some very nice effects, bump mapping, bloom all the goods. Yes, they 
 are very nice, but not everyone has the greatest computer, and not everyone will be willing to 
 dish out a couple of grand to get there. So you come to the point to turning down the graphics, 
 and now there not so pretty and quite ugly in fact. Really hate it or love it.
  
  [Sound]
  
  Sound is pretty good, you have voice acting and different sounds when you step on 
 different terrain, although there hardly noticeable. 
  
  [Value]
  
  There is a whole lot of time to be spent in this game, which is pretty good. Although in this case 
 it feels like it will be hard to squeeze out the depth.
  
  
  
  Its a pretty good game if you know what to expect, but if your new to genre I really don't recommend 
 this game. Im not new to the genre and I dont like it very much. I see the potential, I just cant 
 adapt to it. Newbies goto World of Warcarft immieditaly. Past EQ players, goto World of Warcraft 
 immiediataly (just kidding) this game will suit you nicely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davisnmn
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2004 8:37 am PT
Review:  EQ2 gets really mixed reviews, so it can be a little hard to tell if this is a good, great, or 
 awful game. 
  
  Ive been playing now for one month and 12 days. I play at least 3 hours a day during the four 
 days in a week that I work and about 6 hours a day on my days off. 
  
  Id like to offer an opinion that I believe anyone reading a review of any MMORG should strongly 
 consider. 
  
  Avoid reviews written in the first two weeks after a games release. Many of these reviews are going 
 to say that the game feels incomplete. They are 100% right, it is incomplete. Youre not in it!
 
  
  These games are designed with the understanding that it will play host to a community of players. 
 At release a MMORGs is an empty fish bowl. Its size is appropriate for the number of expected fish 
 and provides them with lots of room to swim, its filled with water, and the ornaments are all 
 set up so that the fish will have things to explore. But, no fish! 
  
  Those of us who have a fish tank can tell you that the best part about the tank is simply watching 
 the fish swim around and seeing how they interact with each other and their environment. 
  
  By playing EQ2 from day one, you see the tank being set up, you watch as all the little animated 
 ornaments are placed carefully in the rocks, and most importantly you keep a close eye on the tank 
 as it is filled so that that you can look for any leaks that might pop up. 
  
  A little water is spilled, the air hose you thought would be long enough isnt, and when you finally 
 hook up the new hose you find that it doesnt provide enough airflow to power all those ornaments 
 you set down. 
  
  After some time the water is just about the right temp, you have the air hooked up correctly, and 
 you slowly begin to add the fish. Now step back and look at your tank as it is teaming with life 
 and the individual personalities of the different fish.
  
  For the first time you now get to see the tank as it was intended to be, not on the shelf at the 
 pet store, but full of life and teaming with action! Im giving this game an 8.1 with room to grow. 
 Enjoy the game, add to it if you can, and Ill see yall in the tank!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trabus82
Rating: 4.9
Date: Dec 19, 2004 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok now I have been playing Star Wars Galaxies since launch. So I guess more then a year. SWG actually 
 kept me playing it. I remember the days when I would go to work and be thinking about nothing but 
 SWG and how much i wanted to play it. Being that SWG was my entrance into the MMORPG world I found 
 it quite enjoyable to an extent, but it eventually got boring and unfullfilling. I waited it out 
 for the JTL expansion and still found the game unfullfilling. So I saw that Everquest 2 had come 
 out I snatched it up right away and jumped into what i thought would be another game that would 
 keep me totally engrossed. Granted the graphics and sound blew me away (Especially on my Radeon 
 x800 XT) . However that is about all this game has going for it. I started playing the game and 
 within a matter of hours I was starting to get bored of the game. The lack of content just kills 
 me. And where the hell is that damned NPC I'm supposed to be looking for. And wait I need to level 
 yet even these creatures that are supposidly the same level as me are taking me out. To me this 
 game is nothing but a neverending grind to level. At least in SWG there were other things to do 
 other then level. The fact that the game is zoned based gets to me also especially since these 
 zones are so small. Well in other words Everquest 2 is nothing but a Piece of crap wrapped in pretty 
 wrapping paper. Can't wait for WoW to come in the mail but for now I'll just play some more SWG. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: druid178
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 19, 2004 5:11 pm PT
Review:  This game has so much potential, but it has cons as well.
  
  Pros:
  Great NPC voiceovers
  Phenomianal, detailed eye candy
  Great sounds
  A very good social experience
 
  Has generally good gameplay
  Bonuses for people who spend more money (like the jBoot or pet dragon)
  
  Cons:
  Good vs. 
 Evil yet no Pvp
  Forcing of quests
  It is much harder to solo
  A bug where your character gets deleted temporarily
  
  Also the requirements to play the game 
 are awfully high. It is good because Sony is thinking of the future, but is bad because people 
 are buying new video cards and upgrading their ram and it still causes lag in peak times.
  
  I might only have a lvl 13, but Im finding trhe same problems that a myriad of people are.
 
  
  I most likely will not be playing EQ2 anymore because I have friends who play WOW, but if WOW becomes 
 bad I will play this again. I wish this game the best of luck.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vengentz
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 18, 2004 1:17 am PT
Review:  Like any sequel from a major company Everquest 2 tries not to venture too far from the frist one 
 if at all. It's a good game but it seems like they could have taken more chances. At the time of 
 my writing (12/17/04) everybody is raveing how good World of Warcraft is and its better blah blah 
 blah, a game should be based on it's own merrits.
  
  It's a solid game and still fun but it could have been so much more. The lacking of PvP hurts the 
 game in my opinion and it seems like that was the origal plan was, considering the fact that there 
 is both a "good" city and an "evil" city. All that there is to do is quest, not much room for exploration 
 or anything of the like.
  
  Death is handled in a better matter then before. Though death in a group hurts the game more then 
 it should. When you die you get XP debt, this just means your xp growth is stunded till you pay 
 off the debt. Cool, at least you don't loose xp and maybe even a lvl. Also when in a group if somebody 
 dies all members share in that debt. This was ment so nobody gets left behind in a fight and enforces 
 a group to play as a group. From my playing the game, most people will leave a group if a few had 
 fallen in an encounter. Some even if one falls. So sometimes you spend more time then you should 
 looking for another group after a mishap.
  
  What I would have loved to see with the quest missions is that they took a page from City of Heroes. 
 Missions that when stared are modified for the character who stared the quest and locks out all 
 others outside of the current group. The game has a few situations like this but it dosen't seem 
 to be used enough. This would have been a boon for those who enjoy to play solo, think about it, 
 you get a quest to save whomever in a castle full of guards, you'll have to go in and deal with 
 all the castle has to offer alone and not just hope that a previous group just came through and 
 slamed everybody in there so you can have a cake walk. This would have been really fun for those 
 in the Rogue classes too.
  
  I could go on forever saying that I think should be in the game... so I won't. As I've said the 
 game feels very cookie cutter so there is not much to say. If you like MMO's and enjoy everying 
 you've seen so far from other games of the genre, check out EQ2. If you're not a fan of MMO's this 
 game isn't going to win you over at all, check out World of Warcraft or even City of Heroes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skippyj9
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 14, 2004 12:31 am PT
Review:  The long awaited Everquest 2 is here and it is almost as good as we thought it would be.
  Everquest 2 has very good graphics. If you meet mininum requirements they are almost the best that 
 I have ever seen in a video game. If you can afford to spend at least $270 on upgrades the graphics 
 will be the best you have ever seen. The water effects are amazing and are very nice to just look 
 at. And the detail in the armor is just amazing.
  The sound here is a great improvement from Everquest 1 but that isn't saying much. Sure every now 
 and then you will have the good voices on the NPCs but half of them are very annoying and everyone 
 in the cities are complaining about something. Although it is pretty neat when you are walking 
 through tunnels because your sounds will somewhat echoe. The sounds are pretty much above average.
 
  The gameplay is very fun. Even your tradeskills are fun. Tradeskillls are your building and crafting 
 skills to make things like weapons, armor, jewelry, and scrolls. If you mess something up you will 
 be hurt very badly. Questing is made much more interesting with the voice overs. In past MMORPGs 
 all you would do is go kill something for some odd reason and bring back the pelt of a wolf. But 
 now there is actually a clausible reason for doing each quest. A neat addition is the slayer status. 
 This rewards you for killing a certain amount of monsters. For instance, if you kill 500 Gnolls 
 you will be named SoandSo, Hunter of Gnolls. Now there are a lot of good things for gameplay but 
 there aree some downfalls. There is a system where monsters will sometimes come in groups. This 
 gets rid of the skill of splitting up aggresive monsters from their friends. In the first Everquest 
 you would lose experience when you die. Now you have experience debt. This makes it so that for 
 a while you do not gain any experience points. But what is bad about this is when you are in a 
 group. When one person dies, everyone in the group gains experience debt. This discouarages grouping 
 when they almost force you to group in the first place.
  Even though this is a great game, the value is not so good. You pay $14.99 a month after spending 
 $49.99 on the game and then you will probably have to pay around or more than $100 on upgrades 
 for your computer not to mention the cost for a High Speed internet service. This can pay off though 
 if you play it constantly, I mean you would have to play 12 hours a day in order to get your money's 
 worth.
  
  Overall Everquest is a great game but just way too expensive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evailing-Light
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2004 3:40 am PT
Review:  Well, after playing the game for a long while, I'm writing my review for it. While the music can 
 get annoying after a while, and the battling system repetitive as well, EQ2 is highly adivctive 
 and a great MMORPG to have fun with. You can even have friends on. Whats not to love? While in 
 EQ1, there was no "storyline," and hardly anything to do, fighting being the only thing, and the 
 few quests in the game all involve fighting. After that, people life myself complained. And so 
 SOE made this game around the faults of EQ1, and added in some goodies. Overall, I think this game 
 is very solid, and even if you don't like it, you have to give the creators props for making this 
 game the way it is, mainly in graphics :P. Also, even if your computer can't run the graphics in 
 high res, this game it still worth the money. I reccomend getting it ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawsvale
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 7, 2004 1:32 pm PT
Review:  All the problems I had with EQ1 have been fixed in EQ2. There is som much content to this game 
 I don't know where to start.
  
  First there is the leveling. Yes it can be boring but with the new graphics there are many new 
 fighting moves which makes the battles fun to watch and all the spells have new graphics associated 
 with them too. There is more information being displayed with each mob, telling you what their 
 level is, if they are grouped, and if they are playing harder then their level.
  
  When you get tired of leveling you can do many quests which have stories associated with them and 
 in the end help you gain expierence. There is no end to the quests you can do, thus the name "Everquest". 
 I have found that there are many variety of quests, not all of them are just killing quests.
  
  The tradeskills in this game is by far the best. you need to gather, harvest, mine, and trap 
 for components to make a multiple of items. You even have a leveling system for your crafting skills. 
 Not only that but you must be paying attention when crafting or you can get hurt and even die.
 
  
  I also like the storyline in the game and there is alot of potential to expand on it. Every NPC 
 you talk to has a unique story of what has happened and what might be happening. there is alot 
 of room for expansions which you know there will be and there is alot of room for some in game 
 stories to happen while you are playing.
  
  I had trouble staying interested with EQ1, but with EQ2 I can't seem to stop playing it. There 
 is so much to explore, and there is so much to do, it is hard to get tired of it. For someone to 
 give this game a bad review only shows me that they didn't play it very much or didn't play it 
 at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paganstar
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2004 12:14 am PT
Review:  I have played literally almost every MMO played out there and I can say that EQII is the best of 
 the best. Yes they do borrow good ideas from past (and some present) MMOs but it is how they combine 
 them into a cohesive game that really makes it so wonderful.
  
  Is there camping and grinding yes there is... All MMORPGs have this and there is no getting away 
 from it right now. It is the fact that for once EVERY time you go out there you have a reason to 
 do so. There are litterally hundreds of quests that give a reason for you and your character to 
 go out and kill the mobs (I have finished over 200 seperate quests so far) . Other games give you 
 a high level storyline (as does this) but they don't bother to tell you why you are out killing 
 snakes, wolves, rats, or other mobs (goblins, gnolls, etc) and they get boring quickly.
  
  The graphics are incredible. period the end. No real lag or fps issues and even at a balanced or 
 high performance setting it looks great. Sound and music are again outstanding.
  
  One thing this is not a game for youngsters who have short attention spans (WoW is better suited 
 for yall) It does have more depth and quite a bit of reading to do as you get quests from speaking 
 npc or the many books you can find around the world. Reading of these quests journals are required 
 as they can give vital clues as to what to do next or where to go. 
  
  The small details in the game also make it head and shoulders above the rest. If a mob is normally 
 aggro but is so far below you it cons grey it is not stupid and attacks anyways... in fact the 
 more intelligent ones will actually cringe in fear of you and your might.
  
  the launch went off with out a hitch and was the smoothest that I have ever seen on a game (unlike 
 some others I can think of) . 
  
  The crowd who is playing this game (at least on the server I am on) is much more mature than many 
 I have seen and that is another great point for this game.
  
  The guild system actually brings guilds into being an active part of the game, not just an after 
 thought and a private chat area. There are quests, items, houses, Raids, etc that are all only 
 for guilds and only gotten through working as a guild for your city. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vertigofm_basic
Rating: 5.6
Date: Dec 4, 2004 5:29 am PT
Review:  When I first installed Everquest 2 I was quite thrilled, when I started playing it I was quite 
 thrilled... But after a while I really started to notice that the world was very dead. There was 
 hardly any emotion, any story, nothing to drive me forward. For those of you that have played Lineage 
 2, in my opinion, had a much more inspired and compelling world... But sadly Everquests 2 world 
 was desolate, the quests ridiculously boring and stupid- what would make you care about delivering 
 items from shop owners to people you don't know? The most 'important' quest I undertook was killing 
 deer or something, there was no backbone of history or story to drive you forward... Not too mention 
 the community was utterly pretentious, boring, and really wouldn't talk much...
  
  Now that I went over the gameplay,
  
  Graphics: Bumpmapping was ok I guess, but there was no 
 real substence to the graphics. It had a clay like look and was pretty uninspired... Despite some 
 visual quality, the overall boring look of the world and unrealistic character models made it seem 
 a bit off...
  
  Sound: Merely ok, repetitive and a bit annoying at times. Nothing compelling or inspired, but nothing 
 completely horrible...
  
  Value: This game does have value in the sense that if you can get through the gameplay, the world, 
 and the horrible grind.... You might be playing for a while- probably not that long though
  
  My tilt: I will say that for the first 20 hours or so you will have an ok time, maybe enjoy 
 it at times. But soon after you will realize that you are not having fun- merely trying to level 
 up. After so many levels you start to feel as if you are doing work to simply level up so you can 
 do harder work.
  
  Bottom Line: Much better MMORPG's out there. If you like a solide RPG check out WoW (My personal 
 reccomendation) , but if you are hooked on that classic fantasy world that is slightly more mature 
 in style- and if you consider heavy grind fun you might also want to give Lineage 2 a try...
  
  -Frank 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guapsrocks
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 3, 2004 2:15 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting way to much from this game going in. Verant made huge staff changes at the end 
 of EQ1 to the dev team.
  
  I had friends that lost their job at Verant after the end of development on EQ1. The reason was 
 because they didnt have enough "artist" backgrounds as some of the members of the new team which 
 was coming in. 
  
  With all the hype I figured I would get in the beta and check it out. 
  I wasnt to impressed 
 with the fact that you start out in a newbie zone starting out each character. 
  Crafting was much like any other game. Most if the items you make were worthless to the player 
 community. Im still looking for that perfect player based economy system!
  
  The voice overs were nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kfogleman
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 2, 2004 1:24 am PT
Review:  I had high hopes for EQ2 it looked great and I thought some things were really cool. I am very 
 disappointed with the game, nothing new here at all. The gameplay is weak though, quests are still 
 get that or go there. Combat is fun but gets stale after a while. The graphics are great and sound 
 good as well. This game I got two and a half weeks out of and had some good times. 
  
  The Good 
  In a great friendly guild and love be in-game with them. However all that can't make 
 me want to play a game which is really fun only 10-25% of the time. Community was good too me people 
 helped me that might different from someone else though. Combat was solid lots of skills but for 
 me a warrior most feel the same. 
  
  The Bad
  Combat Wheel is a little weak, in an pick-up group it doesn't work well. I can pull one of sometimes 
 for a little damage. If I was in same group every day and we got it down it would be good. I tried 
 using a macro to tell people I can casting HO and give a few seconds for me to get it and use skill 
 to start it. A lot of people don't get how to use them. I'd like it if a skill that doesn't work 
 when you cast it and someone uses a wrong skill right after it is casted doesn't stop it. I think 
 it would be better if 50% of the time it happens. Questing looks nice on outside but gets old after 
 a week or two. Using NPC look up for quests really annoys me a lot of the time it doesn't work. 
 Ask one guard and he doesn't know and ask one next to him and he knows. One time asked guard right 
 next to npc to see what would happen. Asked where npc was next to the guard he didn't know. Groups 
 are sometimes hard to get and if easy turns out badly a lot. Now at level 21 sometimes take me 
 30-60 mins to find one then maybe 30-60 more getting warmed up and get xp rolling. Can get some 
 good xp with a good group. Bad ones there are a lot of them, I spent one hour getting group the 
 other day. Some idiot went wrong way and got lost he came back with a train. We all died boom 20% 
 xp debt and then group disbanded. Lame I want fun right away or at least be able to solo as good 
 as grouping. Solo at my level takes double or triple the time as a good group. 
  
  Value
  So it lasted me two and a half weeks and wasn't horrible. The graphics and sound only go so far 
 with boring gameplay. Grouping can be harsh with shared group debt. Everything gets old and I don't 
 feel immersed.
  
  Last Comments
  Nothing new to this game at all, same as EQ except better graphics and sound. Yes things are better 
 combat, quest, and everything. Guess what most MMOs have improved so that doesn't matter. All flash, 
 no substance sums it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjslayer99
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 30, 2004 11:34 am PT
Review:  Since the release of the first Everquest, I was a true fan of the Everquest series. The multiplayer 
 was quite addictive and really revolutionised the graphics at the time.
  
  But this "sequel" really is bad. The only attractiveness is the graphics and its pretty much the 
 old hack and slash gameplay. 
  
  Graphics are just immersive (if there was good gameplay, that is) . 
  
  Sound is very simple.
 
  
  The real question: Is it worth paying a monthly fee and is it fun?
  Answer: Definately not. The quests are VERY irellevant (played a lot of quests at my friends place) . 
 Repetitive hack and slash gameplay will result in quitting this game (thats just my opinion)
  
  To sum it all up, this game is for the hardcore gamer only and I really recommend getting World 
 of warcraft as its more FUN and IMERSSIVE than EQ 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Napoleon
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 30, 2004 4:55 am PT
Review:  I had really high hopes for EQ2, and for the most part i have been satisfied with what i have seen 
 but there are a few problems which keep it from achieving greatness.
  
  PROS: it is fun. there is a real sense of vastness, and the world is really well put together, 
 not to mention the beautifull graphics. The voice acting for nearly ever npc really adds to the 
 immersion and is a nice touch, but the rest of the games sound is merely good. Groups are very 
 easy to find and there is a ton of variety in the things you can hunt. Plus there are so many little 
 places to discover with new treasure around every corener, making adventuring a real blast. Crafting 
 is fun, the best i have seen in any MMO to date. Questing is probably this games greatest achievment. 
 there is such a variety and there are so many, you can just jump on and run some quests regardless 
 of the time you have. And there is LOOT, finally an MMO with loot again. Soe struck a perfect balance 
 with crafted items and loot items. Despite some of the bad reviews this game has gotten from other 
 people on this site (who prolly never even played it, or had no idea what an mmo is all about) 
 it really is fun. I dont plan to stay more than 2 months, but for the time being i am having a 
 great time. I bought Halo2 and EQ2 on the same day when they both came out, and i havnt even touched 
 halo2.
  
  CONS: In the end there is really nothing new. If you have played other online rpgs you will feel 
 very familiar with EQ2. it has the same issues that all mmos seem to have and has really only cleaned 
 up in a few areas. Also the economy is a little weak and the fact that you have to sit afk in your 
 ingame housing in order to sell stuff is frustrating. And unless you have good connections crafting 
 can become a money sinkhole since each finalized item requires many peices which must be bought 
 from other kinds of crafters. so you must invest a ton of money to make something, then if something 
 were to go wrong everything would be lost and you would be broke, and unable to do anything. I 
 wont really complain about bugs becuase all mmos have them and for the most part there arent any 
 too bad in EQ2. To finish with i will just say that this is not the genre definer i was hoping 
 for, it is pretty standard, and although it is fun i dont think it will hold me captive for too 
 long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedershk
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 29, 2004 11:31 am PT
Review:  Let me start this off so you get where I'm coming from. I played EQ. Twice. Once for almost a month 
 before I finally threw it out the door in disgust, the second time about two years later after 
 playing through almost every MMORPG known to man coming out in the meantime (Anarchy Online, DAoC, 
 Asheron's Call 1 & 2, Earth & Beyond, EVE, SWG...) . That time it didn't even last for two full 
 days.
  
  I *HATED* EQ for being so fanatically harsh to the beginner. There was simply no way to get into 
 the game without devoting a week of 12-hour days. The interface was clunky and hard to grasp, the 
 graphics were horrible even in 2001 (3 years after it came out) , the massive amount of "we-want-your-money" 
 expansion packs were almost exclusively tailored to those fortunate enough to have sat through 
 enough 6-hour raids to have reached level 45 or higher.
  
  The MMORPG genre is daunting to even many hardcore gamers in its complexity, to say nothing of 
 players less experienced with games in general. I've been looking high and low for an MMORPG that 
 is friendly to the beginner, yet captivating and engaging enough for the veteran.
  
  I've found that MMORPG in EQ II. From the well-thought out introduction to the exceptionally well-designed 
 crafting system, on to the  combat system. There's something 
 in here to cater to many tastes. 
  
  Perhaps the biggest thrill for me at the moment (I've managed to pull myself to about level 15, 
 and "crafting level" 8) , is without a doubt the challenge of becoming a master craftsman. The game 
 is very inviting in the sense that you don't choose your type of character (known as Archetype) 
 until you've familiarized yourself with the game's basic controls. At level 10, you get to specialize 
 further in your chosen profession (from Mage to Sorcerer, Enchanter or Summoner, for example) by 
 running through a little bunch of quests for your profession's "Master" in whatever city you ended 
 up in. Along the way you are given little choices such as whether to focus on developing your strength, 
 intelligence, most hated enemy type, etc. etc. You are constantly shaping and forming your character 
 little bits and pieces all the time, without having to face a massive number of skill stats all 
 the time. This ensures that you are never overwhelmed by your choices, they are cleverly hidden 
 and masked as little choices along the way.
  
  Crafting is also done this way. You specialize in your chosen "crafting line" (Scribe, Craftsman, 
 Outfitter etc) as you progress up the skill tree. Crafting is almost like a little combat session, 
 with effects and countereffects used like spells or special attacks on your hotkey bar (of which 
 there are a maximum of 10) .
  
  All in all, from the beginner to the hardcore MMORPG veteran, EQ2 is a game I can thoroughly recommend. 
 People who say there is "nothing to do" can't really even have scratched the surfac. The sheer 
 number of quests and routes to follow in this game is staggering. The content is presented to you 
 in such a way that the cities feel alive and vibrant, with NPCs speaking to you (with REAL, English 
 voiceovers) - all the way down to the most insignificant bartenders and merchants.
  
  Play this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eswise
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2004 10:01 pm PT
Review:  I have been holding off on writing a review of Everquest II until I reached what I felt to be a 
 good experienced level in both tradeskills and adventurer levels. I have reached lvl 20 in adventurer 
 and lvl 15 in tradeskill so I feel I've gotten a good taste of what the game is about.
  
  TRADESKILLS
  -------------------
  Tradeskills are much improved over the last version of Everquest. 
 In the previous version you would either succeed in crafting something or outright fail, losing 
 the components in the process. This system has been scrapped (thankfully) into one where you can 
 craft 4 tiers of an item - Crude, Shaped, Basic, Pristine. Obviously the higher you get the better 
 the item will be. For example when tailoring a backpack, a crude one only has 4 slots, the shaped 
 one has 5 slots, the basic one has 6 slots and 5% weight reduction, the pristine one has 6 slots 
 and 10% weight reduction.
  
  All the basic components for crafting are harvested from the game world. There are several different 
 skills for harvesting (gathering, foresting, trapping, mining) and the only gripe I had was that 
 you have to have a certain level of harvesting skill to harvest from different areas in the game. 
 I made the mistake of not harvesting at all in early levels and was forced to go back to newbie 
 zones to build my harvest skill up enough that I could harvest in the higher level zones I had 
 access to later.
  
  Crafting can be frustrating, as even when you get to a higher level of crafting and are making 
 lower level items you can still not get the pristine crafted items every time. I for one felt that 
 at lvl 9 crafting that I should be able to whip out pristine lvl 3 items at will. This is not the 
 case. Perhaps that will occur later but it was frustrating to fail at getting the best low level 
 basic components. The basic components are used to create higher level items and if you don't have 
 good components you can't make a good item.
  
  All in all, it is very rewarding feeling when you craft a great item. In addition the crafted items 
 tend to be better than those found adventuring, and you can sell components back to vendors and 
 actually make money off crafting, so there is a lot of incentive to do it. At higher levels you 
 specialize at certain types of crafting. This is a neat idea, but I find it frustrating because 
 in my lvl 10+ recipes there are components that I am not capable of making, which makes me dependent 
 on the community or the guild to provide said items for me. I would prefer to be self-sufficient 
 but I'm expecting it to get easier once more people take up crafting in their spare time. In addition 
 collecting resources is a good way to kill some time when you don't have enough time to get into 
 an adventurer group or are distracted by real life stuff.
  
  
  ADVENTURING- NEWBIES
  ----------------------------------
  Everquest II provides a very nice tutorial that takes place 
 on a ship where you are rescued as a refugee. The tutorial guides you through the basics of communication, 
 equipment, combat, questing, and shops. As an everquest veteran it didn't benefit me personally 
 all that much, but it was very well done and is great for a MMORPG newbie.
  
  After the tutorial you are taken to an isle of refuge which has numerous quests and introductions 
 to your class and combat. I found this to be a nice, leisurely island to explore with combat that 
 was not too difficult. There is also a crafting tutorial/quest that you can do to get you started 
 in the world of crafting.
  
  All in all I have to rate the newbie experience to be a perfect 10. SOE obviously took a lot of 
 time and effort to make sure that new players would learn the basics of the game without a lot 
 of fuss.
  
  
  ADVENTURING- LOW LEVELS
  ---------------------------------------
  Your home city will provide many quests to gain citizenship and get you status within your chosen 
 profession (warrior, mage, priest, scout) . All classes start with the same general set of powers 
 and allow you to become more specialized as you reach higher levels. This is nice because once 
 you decide on a basic archetype you can learn what parts of the archetype you enjoy most and follow 
 a path that contains skills for those types.
  
  At low levels the best way to gain cash and equipment is by doing quests. I will say this in big 
 bold letters:
  
  IF YOU DON'T LIKE QUESTING, EVERQUEST II IS NOT FOR YOU!
  
  The quests are very well done. Very rarely with quests have I gotten lost, or not understood what 
 needed to be done. The experience, coins, and items gained are pretty well balanced with the level 
 of the quest and I have found them to be useful for my character. You only have to do a few quests 
 to advance the game, but you would be a fool to avoid quests as you would be passing up a lot of 
 rewards and experience.
  
  
  MISCELLANEOUS COMMENTS
  ---------------------------------------
  + Any type of healer class is good enough for most groups 
 up to lvl 20. This is much improved over EQ1 where you HAD to have a cleric.
  
  + Combat is much more interactive than previously. SOE has included chain combo powers that your 
 group can trigger and perform to gain better damage/special effects.
  
  + Death penalties are less harsh. You now keep your equipment when respawned, but have to find 
 your body to reclaim your "soul shard". You also receive a portion of experience debt which will 
 make you level up slower until you cover it. You can't lose levels from dying anymore.
  
  + Customer service has been very good so far. Patches have been brief and I have not experienced 
 hardly any lag or drops.
  
  + Instanced zones. If zones get too overcrowded, another instance is spawned. This is nice in dungeons 
 since every group that wants to fight gets a chance to fight. No zone is ever so overcrowded with 
 instances that you can't find a place to fight.
  
  - No PVP in this build. If you like PVP then you need to look elsewhere.
  
  +/- If you don't 
 like questing, avoid this game. If you enjoy questing, come on board!
  
  - MMORPGs may be boring for you. Combat is combat is combat. It just gets harder as you advance 
 levels. Like all other MMORPG games if you can learn the ropes and get in a group that follows 
 the rules of engagement, you'll do well. Some may find this boring/easy.
  
  - Can't solo very well. Never understood this complaint much, but I'll post it. You're online, 
 paying to be with other people, you should group. *shrug* If you really want to solo though, you'll 
 find it difficult. There are monsters rated as solo and group, but as you level up the solo monsters 
 became hard for me as a priest class, maybe other classes have it better but I doubt it.
  
  
  CONCLUSION
  ------------------
  All in all, I think Sony has done very well with this game. 
 It does need some tweaks, but I feel confident that Sony is going to take care of the few trouble 
 spots I've seen. I am enjoying playing this game and would recommend it to MMORPG newbies and I 
 think Everquest veterans will be pleasantly surprised at the changes made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oloryn
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 28, 2004 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I've played many MMORPG's and have had a blast with them all, so I want to tell you that this review 
 is as a MMORPG fan and a gamer in general... not a fanboy. 
  
  First off, EQ2 is a Player vs. Environment (PvE) game, not a Player vs. Player (PvP) game (as of 
 this review) , so for all of you out there who are into PvP, which I admit can be quite fun, this 
 game is not for you, so its not necessary to bash this game... just keep playing yours.
  
  Keeping that in mind, EQ2 offers so much to do that makes other games of this genre fun and unique 
 as well. If you like crafting a'la Star Wars Galaxies, well this game has an extremely extensive 
 and relavent artisan skill system that is more involved, more fun, and more rewarding than SWG. 
 If you like instanced missions and zones that make you feel a little more involved and directly 
 responsible for what goes on in the world (as in City of Heroes) , this game has that too. The way 
 that your character evolves and shapes depending on what tastes you personally acquire throughout 
 your journeys is very rewarding, and the game does a great job of making you feel like you aren't 
 wasting your time. I hate grinding xp just as much as the next guy (or girl) , and though EQ2 isn't 
 without its little grind here or there, it covers it up really well with an enormous assortment 
 of quests. Granted, these quests are often just go-here and do-that type of quests, but its exactly 
 the same in almost every other MMORPG out there, so if you have qualms about this setup, then it 
 wouldn't matter what MMORPG you play (though the cinematic mini-cutscenes and interesting story 
 in FFXI were a very nice touch that helped to alleviate this problem.) 
  
  In EQ2 however, you get rewarded for just about everything. If you finish a quest, you get xp, 
 and more than you would in most other MMORPGs, and often times you get some improved gear as well. 
 I always hated running around forever in lower level noobie gear for so long until you finally 
 get high enough to rake in the money to turn things around in your favor, but in EQ2, they do a 
 good job of conveying a sense of accomplishment with minor upgrades here and there as rewards, 
 so you always feel like you haven't really wasted your time. You'll find yourself picking up as 
 many quests as you can... and then you'll find that you have too many and eventually vow to stop 
 talking to anyone anymore, heheh. Don't feel like questing? You can always do the normal thing 
 by going out by yourself or in a group and killing away, and battle feels more fun than in most 
 other MMORPG's, as you get a huge assortment of skills and attacks with which to pummel your enemies 
 (think City of Heroes but in a fantasy setting... though CoH variations and combinations of moves 
 and abilities is a little more extensive) . If you time it right and know what you are doing, you 
 can pull off a combination of moves that triggers a special attack or ability (think FFXI skillchain, 
 but maybe a little more frequent.) If for nothing else, even simply exploring nets you xp as you 
 discover new locations throughout the world (like in SWG and CoH) . Ultimately, leveling really 
 doesn't feel as much of a chore (though it still can be one at times) as in other MMORPG's. There 
 is much more to the game than this of course, but as far as gameplay goes, EQ2 delivers just as 
 much as the next game. But when gameplay is similar to much of what is out there, I need something 
 more...
  
  Much should be said about the presentation of Everquest 2. If your computer can handle it, and 
 to be honest, the requirements are pretty hefty, then EQ2 will be the best looking MMORPG out there... period. 
 I love what every other MMORPG out there has to offer graphically, trust me, but it is nothing 
 compared to EQ2. Find yourself a high res pic of this game, then imagine it in wonderfully flowing 
 3D, and you have a taste of what this game has to offer graphically. It is simply stunning to behold. 
 While your eyes are feasting on the visuals, your ears will dine on a wonderfully crafted musical 
 score that is very good at conveying the different moods of the world and what goes on in it. The 
 orchestration is excellent, and you'll find yourself humming the themes for a while, and whats 
 better, you probably won't mind humming them... well, for a while anyway... they do eventually loop. 
 Music has always helped with the mood of these games, and with the exception of FFXI, and in some 
 cases SWG, no other MMORPG has done a very good job at using music to make the experience more 
 enjoyable (CoH fanboys can say all they want... but come on, you know that the game lacks a bit 
 in this department) . Add to all of this the addition of NPC's that actually talk (and the vocal 
 work isn't really all too bad either... with the exception of some stranger and questionable elves, 
 heheh) and you have a complete package that pushes the enjoyment of this game that much further. 
 
  
  In conclusion, I don't mean to bash any other games out there while praising this gem, as I fully 
 enjoyed the others for what they did with the genre, but as an honest gamer, I'm having more fun 
 with this one than I did with the others (though if you've never ninja-hacked your way into an 
 enemy base during an intense battle on Planetside... then you don't really know what intense fun 
 is, heheh) . If you're content with the MMORPG that you are playing, then I hope that you have a 
 blast with that one, but if you are at all interested in Everquest 2 and think you know what you 
 are getting into, then it would probably be worth it to give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashalon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 28, 2004 11:26 am PT
Review:  I've played Everquest 1 and let me tell you, now that EQ 2 is out, EQ 1 is a thing of the past 
 for me. It has nice quests and a great class system. Some quests take a very long time to complete 
 but they add a great amount of depth to the gameplay experience. Of course Sony released it before 
 it was completely fine tuned but that's pretty much the MMO standard these days. Still needs a 
 bit of work but updates should fix it in no time. So far I haven't really seen any balance issues 
 but some say there are. The graphics are amazing and definitely test your systems capabilities. 
 The recommended 1 Gig of RAM is a must as that's all I run on my system with only a Radeon 9800 
 Pro GPU, though I have experienced no lag at all even with a high populated area. The graphics 
 have definitely blasted EQ 1's graphics out of the water even with the new Omens of War graphics 
 system. The environments are wonderful and rich, full of sounds and great textures. The mobs are 
 full of detail as well and are a great step foward. The only problem I have experienced so far 
 is the loading times. When will they go seamless? Who knows. The absent PvP could be a problem 
 for some people as well but the rumor is they will implement it eventually. Perhaps when enough 
 players have experienced most of what there is to experience in the game, and let me tell you, 
 there is loads to experience. If you are in to hack-and-slash gaming, this game may not be for 
 you as it involves much time to level up. This is the type of game that will keep you busy possibly 
 indefinitely. Loads of quests, mobs to kill, items to find, and environments to explore. The community 
 of players so far seems to be good. This is not a Diablo 2 environment where everyone is selfish 
 and looking to stab you in the back and trash talk. This is a good environment where you can roleplay 
 anything you want and people will go along with you. From a simple artisan and merchant to a powerful 
 mage or heroic warrior you can experience anything you want. This is not your father's Everquest, 
 this is a new era of EQ. I can't put this game down and if you enjoy this type of gaming I doubt 
 you will be able to either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grizpin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2004 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Graphically, EQ2 stands above the mmog's. I have a top end graphic card so I can enjoy alot of 
 the detail the game has to offer. I'm fortunate enough to be able to. For alot of people it probably 
 looked ok, but not enough to make thier jaw drop. This fact alone may have taken a share of the 
 market away from Sony. Yes, you can solo with the right class but who plays an mmorpg to play solo? 
 That's what Elder Scroll games are for. If you are playing this game you need to find a guild to 
 share the experience with. It's as simple as that. The experiences and rewards you share together 
 far outweigh the grind of soloing. If you're soloing then you will not enjoy the experience as 
 much as people who are sharing it. For these two areas Sony loses points.
  
  Those two shortcomings aside this game is great. It is packed to the rim with ambiance, style and 
 content. For each level I have played, I have found several items to upgrade for my toon. Alot 
 of times I have to decide between two very good items. Every zone, and there are alot of them, 
 has something to come back to even when you are 10+ levels past its base content. Boss mobs roam 
 the zones and some zones hold enterances to higher level content areas. The starting zones feel 
 a bit small at first but I believe they were designed to walk new characters along by the hand 
 until they are let loose into the huge areas such as the Commonlands near Freeport. That zone is 
 enormous with content ranging from 10 to 20. I stood at the enterance to Nektolus Forest and was 
 in awe at the beauty of the foilage. Beauty can be deceiving though. I didn't go in any further 
 when the first creature I saw was a fish that was 10 levels higher than me. I am eagerly anticipating 
 what lies ahead in my journey across Norrath.
  
  The audio is incredible. I'll admit the music can loop too often (it is good music) but I didn't 
 rate on music since I lower that for background sound anyway. The enviornmental effects are by 
 far the best I've heard in any mmog to date. From the chirp of birds during the day to the buzz 
 of crickets at night this game will immerse you more than any other before it. Every NPC, including 
 the animals, has audio. A farmer passes by with a herd of cows and you hear cow bells clanging. 
 A wild hound passes behind you and you hear him gruffley breathing and a minute later he is howling 
 from 50 feet behind you. These aren't pasted in audio effects. They come from the NPC's themselves 
 and it fills the game world with life.
  
  Overall, if you're a fan of a group (guild) experience and have the hardware to run the best possible 
 visuals, then you will love the game. If you are more interested in a solo game experience and 
 are running mid range hardware, then you will not find enjoyment here. Sony may have made a mistake 
 by taking some of the elements out of its original formula. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dubxx
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2004 2:13 pm PT
Review:  EQ2 is no doubt just as addicting if not more than EQ1. Anyone putting this game down is just kidding 
 themselves and just trying to get others to convert to either WoW or boring FFXI. The only thing 
 that that could possibly be said bad about this game is that it requires a screaming machine to 
 really run it with some justice. This game being this good upon release is miles above what I expected. 
 You will not be disappointed!!! One thing I would highly recommend is not to play this game with 
 less than 1gig of RAM. Doing so would not be doing yourself justice at all. Hands down the most 
 well thought out MMORPG out to date!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savant
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2004 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Look, here is the thing. Sometimes new format doesn't meen better. I used to love EQ1 when it first 
 came out, till i played up to about lvl 50 and got tierd/bored of it. Then I HATED EQ. The reason 
 I hated it , was because the downsides out-weighed the up sides.
  This game has taken what I did like about everquest and made it fun, by filtering out all the dumb 
 crap I hated about MOST mmorpgs. 
  
  Also note - someone on here said "Are there any other things to do in this game besides quest?" 
 - Well.... THE GAME IS CALLED EVER "QUEST"! and it would be relitivly hard to make the kind of 
 game you want (rpg) in a mmorpg style there is just to many people and dont tell me FFXI did it 
 because (even though i played that game to 45/22) it basicly was a combined chunk of what everquest 
 and camelot was. Thoughs EQ1 downsides where still there (huge exp loss/possible lvl loss - taking 
 15mins just to ride a boat ect) . 
  
  The only complaint is that you have to have a fantasic computer to run this game. There will be 
 ALOT of people that cant even play it how its suppose to be played. 
  
  So anyone that has a problem with this game - you had better hate ALL mmorpgs because yea, they 
 didn't change a whole lot as far as structure goes... They just took all the bad things out of 
 MMORPGS and Made it just fun for the player. 
  
  This is what I have been looking for ---- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neosonic04
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 24, 2004 1:55 am PT
Review:  EverQuest II was my first venture into MMORPG's. Up until this point I have been a die hard Neverwinter 
 Nights persistent world online gamer. I assumed by MMORPG, they meant that EQ2 was going to be 
 a role playing game. There's no role playing at all, even on the dedicated RP servers. It's one 
 big powerleveling fest and there's no variation at all in the game. Spells are generic, good luck 
 getting heroic opportunities to pan out, and it's ultra-repetitive.
  
  I was expecting role players, exciting quest and adventure opportunities, and get this... a storyline! 
 Boy was I wrong. I've already covered the lack of role playing, which I think is 99% of the immerision 
 into any fantasy world. Quests? HA! Well, there's 2 quests in EQ2, yes that's right, 2. Deliver 
 this to some NPC that you have to find either by searching endlessly or asking other people (in 
 an out of character fashion) . That's really fun. Quest 2? Go kill X amount of Y creatures, and 
 report back to me. OK, yes there are other quests to, like for instance the hallmark quest where 
 you get your subclass. Those consist of, go talk to NPC X, you're not even burdened with delivering 
 something for those! 
  
  So, OK, maybe I'll suck it up, do the never ending repetitive quests because there's some other 
 element to the game that makes it worth playing. Like an all-encompassing storyline perhaps. Yes 
 there is a storyline, but does it actually involve the characters at all? Nope... you guessed right. 
 PC's don't affect the world at all, there's no plots or storylines that PC's actually get involved 
 in. Most of your time on EQ2 will be spent running around looking for something, or in transit 
 to one of the boring quests. So for all you that like that sort of thing, have at it. For those 
 of us who demand a role playing experience and something more than powerleveling a character for 
 no reason at all, steer clear of EQ2. World of Warcraft came out today, haven't picked it up yet, 
 but it HAS to be better than EQ2. 
  
  Ian 
  
  EDIT: WoW came out... all I have to say is, cancel your EQ2 account immediately, and go play WoW 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noerdk
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 24, 2004 1:36 am PT
Review:  For once a mmorpg successfully removes a lot of the grinding-elements by making xp-gain a lot more 
 varieted. By far the best mmorpg on the market to date setting a standard for the new generation 
 mmos.
  
  If you have the machine able to run the game in one of the higher settings the scenary of the game 
 is fabolous.
  
  SoE also managed to take crafting to the next level. This game consists of the most complex and 
 biggest crafting system any game of the mmo-genre has seen.
  
  If anything bad should be said about it, it would probably be the difficulty. While it is pretty 
 high it also makes the game last longer for the experienced players since it gives a long-lasting 
 challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtomBomb
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2004 7:16 pm PT
Review:  THis is the 9th MMORPG I have played, and by far the best. Many fall short after a few days due 
 to reptition, I was bored to tears in FFXI, and Star Wars was a buggy nightmare, and no substance. 
 THis game is great, i have never found it easire to group, a wonderful community to play with. 
 Ease of use in interface and design. Enjoyable classes and zones as well as superb graphics. This 
 game is a wonder to behold, and outshines any MMOs I have played prior to this. A must buy! I have 
 never leveled this quickly and that's due to me not being able to put the game away. HELPP!!! 8)
 
  
  Might I add that in all of the MMO I have played, the quest system is no different form any of 
 those, yet otheres have regealed those games only to down play this one. I have seen much prejudice 
 with Sony and Everquest, and find it disappointing for others who are unable to look beyond that 
 hatred to see a wonderfully created game. THis is a different crew who created this game from other 
 Sony titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellyb2000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 22, 2004 11:56 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the most beautiful MMORG/RPG ever. The game is also very deep, with so much to do. 
 I've heard quite a few people knock the game because it is quest driven, which most RPGs are. There 
 is plenty of room for expansion and scripting story driven quests and making this game deeper/more 
 immersive, shouldn't be a problem. I'm sure that the main priority of the designers was to get 
 the worlds base system running well, get the community growing and continuosly improve on it. The 
 system is solid and although the requirements are a bit steep, my p4 1.8 works fine. This game 
 has swallowed up quite a bit of my time already and I've just begun. This is not a game of instant 
 gratification such as WoW and the EQ people need to give this game time to evolve and grow its 
 community. The player vs player would have been nice and who knows, might come at some point. This 
 was the only reason I didn't give it a 10. In 25 years of playing games, I haven't put in this 
 much time since the first Halo (the only other game that could keep my interest for more than a 
 few days) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViperPiper
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 22, 2004 4:22 am PT
Review:  For those MMO Veterans out there like me our expectations for the releases of MMO's are fairly 
 low considering the muckups launches in the past. This game on a scale of 1-10 in stability is 
 a sound 8. The game isnt perfect, but as a whole, it is the best MMO I have ever played.
  
  The Graphics are stunning, especially for an MMO. I dont see how anyone could say otherwise and 
 am rather taken aback by gamespots rating of the graphics. Its a game like SWG has scalable graphics 
 so once Intel and NVidia/Radion crank out some hardware I can only guess how stunning this game 
 will be, but as is its definately no slouch.
  
  The sound is stunning. I'm kind of a sound nut. To me sound makes a good game great and a great 
 game even better and the latter is the case with EQ2. I've heard many remark at the sounds and 
 music. Both are equally fabulous. The NPC's that chat with you only increase the sense of emmersion 
 for this game.
  
  Default controls are easy and you can quickly get the hang of them.
  
  Combat is fun and rather fast paced. Leveling is also fast paced in the begining. 
  
  Crafting 
 still has a few tweeks needed but overall is very deep and requires your attention rather than 
 a left click and drag fest.
  
  There have been some minor lag and stability issues. For as new as the game is release went very 
 smooth for this kind of game.
  
  Overall a great game I would HIGHLY recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgray80515
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 21, 2004 8:55 pm PT
Review:  After spending 2+ years playing DAOC, through almost all of its iterations, one begins to expect 
 more from a game. DAOC is by no means the perfect game, but it does allow for a feeling of realism, 
 rather success and failure that is not found in EQ2. Fortunately if you are looking for a game 
 to graduate to from DAOC, WoW is around the corner, and the beta was quite enjoyable. Let's put 
 it this way, if you like EQ you will like EQ2. If you wish DAOC was more FFXI-like, you will like 
 EQ2. If you do like amazing graphics though, you may be disappointed. L2 reigns supreme there, 
 the game just sucks.
  
  Ok so here it is-
  Buy EQ2 if you like:
  EQ
  FFXI
  Want a more carebear DAOC
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrgrimm312
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 21, 2004 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Ok what i want out of a reveiw. Reveiws are for people that are looking to purchase or get soe 
 low down information on the game. I am so sick of hearing people just rip on games they seem not 
 to have played. They have no valid information and no good / GOOD NNegative output. Ok heres the 
 thing about a couple of people reveiws. I seen one reveiw that gave it like a 2.0 just because 
 bad graphics. This is false it has awesome graphics if it has beefed up system. Then i just most 
 recently read one that said "IS THERE ANYTHING ELSE TO DO BESIDES QUEST" ok that is just saying 
 that you never played EQ2 or never even player an MMO. Quest are part of just about every single 
 MMO. They prgress the game. I seen that he had a FFXI symbol/avatar under his name. What do you 
 do in that??? Do quest and party with people right. What do you do in lineage 2. Level Quest Party 
 and PvP. What do you do in SWG Kill creatures get skills Quest for the jedi PvP. IN EQ2 theres 
 PvP at a higher level that most of you negative reveiwers arent probably to yet. 
  
  I know thisisnt a reveiw really. But just to get the word out to the not so bright people that 
 leave such slanted veiws of that game. Give a list Good points/Bad Points. Not just say 3.0 It 
 Sucked. Because the fellow gamespot. com subscribers or guest even depend on you if they are gonna 
 purchase the game or not. Thats all Thanks. 
  
  EQ2 is a lovely game. If you liked EQ or even other MMO's its worth giving this a try. 
  What 
 i love about this game is that it doesnt take forever to level making the game more action packed 
 and you get skills. Unlike a lot of MMO's out now you an be stuck on the same level for 2 weeks.
 
  
  On the negative side EQ2 has problems with its NPC's. I spent over 2 hourse looking for 3 seperate 
 NPC's. They do have a built in NPC finder but you have to be near them and theres 100's of names 
 to look through. 
  
  Oh ya for 40$ you cant really beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiethMY6
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 21, 2004 1:17 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying I have only been playing the game for about a week, which, if you are a 
 fan of the genera, you know is not enough time to fully explore this type of game. My comments 
 here are my initial reaction to the game so I will focus on my experience with the initial learning 
 curve, game play, and hardware requirements.
  
  First off, the combination of voiceovers and stunning graphics makes this one of the best experiences 
 I have had to date with an MMORPG. I tend to like to solo until I'm comfortable with the game mechanics 
 and I was able to do that right through the first 10 levels without a problem. The learning curve 
 was almost invisible to me as the initial tutorial is nicely complimented with an entertaining 
 storyline. I would say that I found the game very easy to pick up but I should also point out that 
 I have also played nearly every product on the market. Still, I think even a novice should feel 
 relatively comfortable with how SOE designed initial introduction phase of the game.
  
  The next area I think will interest you is the games combat engine. It's pretty much the same click 
 on a target and hit the attack button system most MMORPGs use. Although they have tried to layer 
 a few new concepts like the "Heroic Opportunities" system, really not much exciting to talk about 
 here.
  
  The crafters out there will be happy with the mind numbingly large number of resources to gather 
 and items to make in this game, but as a more casual player, it is just to overwhelming to make 
 me think I'll ever get into it. Only time will tell.
  
  As for the graphics, yes they are stunning and I really enjoy looking around the game but I'm not 
 sure about the design of the clothing. You think they would have spent more time on that as the 
 look of your character is really important to me and I have yet to find clothing that I think looks 
 good. That said, I can only equip the lowest form of clothing so that could be an intentional quality 
 to the low end equipment.
  
  The biggest negative about this game has to be the heavy system requirements. The game is truly 
 a beast. If you have a current generation graphics card, at LEAST 1gig of ram and the 9 gigs of 
 hard drive then you will get a decent experience, otherwise, forget it. The most important thing, 
 I found, is the memory. Any less than 1 gig of ram and the game will use your hard drive to make 
 up the difference which makes running around in the towns practically impossible.
  
  All in all I would say that this game is great if you like the genera and have a wicked system. 
 The voiceovers alone make this a game worth checking out. If you don't have a solid system, I would 
 recommend waiting for Worlds of Warcraft which is an awesome game (I was in the beta) and will 
 run on lower end machines smoothly.
  
  Addition: After playing World of Warcraft and EQ2 for a while, I have changed my opinion a bit. 
 If you are trying to decide between WoW and EQ2, I recommend WoW. It's truly the first masterpiece 
 of this genera. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ychi
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 20, 2004 10:01 pm PT
Review:  EverQuest is back but is it new and improved?
  
  EverQuest 2, I am glad to see it back but there are some misgivings
  
  MMOs constantly grow 
 and change so below I made a somewhat summarized list of points to be aware of with EQ2.
  
  Only 4 characters per account!?! Yes you read it right SOE strikes hard where it hurts, of course 
 if you pay the extra $$ they will happily give you more space. And no its not measured per server 
 its * per * account. Ouch again. So unless you delete some characters or purchase another account 
 there is little experimentation for races and classes. 
  
  Characters can share their banks  items for the same account, this is a nice plus.
  
  There 
 is racial variety but the characters feel like different heads pasted on top of the same body scaled 
 up or down. Also the models feel a bit too mannequin like or blocky.
  
  Character creation is nicely developed for facial creation. Not as robust as Starwars Galaxies 
 but still well done vs other MMOs out there.
  
  Costs of living for a character are ever present as well. This drives characters to either adventure 
 or craft and * hopefully * be able to sell their wares. Some examples: your apartment has a daily 
 cost  you pay roughly once a week but really its a daily expense. Also equipment wear and tear, 
 food and water costs as well. Yes you dont need food and water but your down time is greatly reduced 
 if you have it. The upside is if you want a better place to live you can move but it of course 
 costs much more.
  
  Player crafting you are forced to go adventure up to level 6 so you can get your citizenship then 
 you can go back to crafting again. Originally SOE promised you can go completely with crafting 
 without the need for adventuring if you so choose  they reneged on this at the last moment before 
 release to retail. This generated some player frustration for crafters. 
  
  You must be logged in the sell your crafting items  so adventure or crafting you can not set up 
 an NPC vendor or leave your items at the auction house while you go do something else. This forces 
 players to purchase an additional account if they want to do more than one thing.
  
  Considering all the other MMOs out there, SOE has taken a heavy handed Pay us more and we will 
 give you more.. approach. This is out of line with the rest of the industry of 15 bucks per month 
 * and 8 characters per server. Unfortunately it looks like there was a strong influence from Final 
 Fantasy XI format.
  
  
  Combat is locked  this is good as it prevents kill stealing but no one can assist another unless 
 that player issues the help command  which unlocks the combat and opens up for experience sharing 
 and looting. The system works but other MMOs have done a better job of combat locking but still 
 allow players to assist without the above drawbacks.
  
  The combo system is a very nice touch as it draws players into the game and be more attentive to 
 what is happening. Also this adds a great group dynamic. It does have a minor bug  at times it 
 will ask for a combo action for an ability the character does not possess yet  whoops. Overall 
 I do like the combo system a lot more than I expected.
  
  Thieves rejoice! Not only does the thief class offer additional combo actions during combat for 
 a group but also they are now quite valuable  removing traps from chests is a very nice bonus. 
 I have seen several non-thief players killed when they opened a chest at half health and bang! 
 They are dead and on a corpse run : )
  
  The voice acting adds a great touch to the game and steps the rest of the industry forward. The 
 downside is what if the actor no longer wants to do the voice work or if they are no longer available? 
 So suddenly the voice you normally associate with has changed. Its not a major issue but a minor 
 quibble overall.
  
  Lets not forget the user interface. At first it feels unwieldy until its customized to your liking. 
 The options available are remarkable and really make EQ2 shine as you can customize just about 
 any element.
  
  Graphically EQ2 looks good but should offer more for the system hardware demands. There are plenty 
 of games out there with greater graphic detail than EQ2 on the same PC platform. So some fine tuning 
 is definitely needed. The answer to this of course is, 1 - 2 years from now pc hardware will be 
 cheaper and faster but still 
  
  Additional note: I do not think that PvP is the answer to makeing EQ2 better. There are plenty 
 of other MMO's out there - EQ1 being an example that you have have a plenty of fun with PvE servers.
 
  
  Summary: EQ2 feels a lot like an adventure simulation  this can be a good thing as the game draws 
 you into its world. Also racial differences need to be more visually striking so you feel like 
 you are playing a different character. Lastly, EQ2 is good if not solid but for some reason that 
 I cant quite put my finger on, it lacks a fun factor or has a certain staleness feel to it. As 
 EQ2 matures, hopefully with player input/interaction it will become the next classic MMO. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mantra6
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 19, 2004 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I actually like it I like it a lot. We battled orcs yesterday and I had as much fun as in the 
 original.
  
  The graphic updates look great. The characters are still a little fruity in my opinion, but much 
 higher resolution with facial animations and a lot of voiceovers, rather than just text. (I like 
 very realistic characters, but these are still a little cartoony in their general shape) . The water 
 and environment looks incredible however, partly because of my video card which uses directx shaders, 
 etc.
  
  The character creation is much more involved, and results in more unique looking characters, but 
 still could have gone further in my opinion.
  
  The whole thing still feels like EverQuest, the movement, the battles, etc.
  
  They have improved 
 virtually all the bad things about the original EQ. For example, many dungeons are instanced. In 
 other words, each group (or raid party, up to 4 groups grouped together) has their own version 
 of the dungeon.
  
  The quest system is far better, with a complete journal, decent experience rewards, etc.
  
 
  They have divorced the crafting tree from the character tree. For instance, I am level 6 in Scout, 
 but 3 in Artisan. They have gatherable materials all over, logs to chop, stone to mine, etc. Much 
 more user friendly crafting.
  
  The grouping system is enhanced, and works pretty well, plus the new raid system (multi-group parties) .
 
  
  The character classes have been redefined in many cases. You start as one of four general classes, 
 and then at level ten choose a subclass, then choose a specialty after that. So all Scout types 
 start as scouts, then at level 10 you choose to be a Rogue, Ranger, etc. (4 in each) , then choose 
 to be a swashbuckler or something else. Basically, evil or good. Druids are under one of the casting 
 classes, and have been changed to be basically healers and buffers -- I wasn't crazy about that, 
 but the variety is still really good regardless.
  
  There are only two starting locations Freeport (evil) or Qeynos (good) . Race decides if you can 
 start in one or both. Eventually, you can change your alignment, but it is a difficult quest of 
 some sort. Your race still has bonuses to various attributes, and then each specialization adds 
 to those.
  
  I found it very easy to get into. Star Wars Galaxies is far more complex, too much so I think.
 
  
  The banking system allows you to exchange items between up to four of your characters of the same 
 alignment! No more mule! However, items are now limitied by your level, many you have to choose 
 to customize (so that after you choose to wear them, you can no longer sell them or trade them) , 
 and many are No Trade, etc. This makes power leveling much harder. 
  
  The death system is much better. Death results in an experience debt (not loss per say) , a ghost 
 in the world (lowers your stats for a couple of days) , and damage to your items, and temporary 
 sickness. This means you pay to have your items repaired, can choose to fetch your ghost in order 
 to lower your exp debt and increase stats, and can choose to respawn or be resurrected. Still compelling 
 to get your body back, but not so much that you loose items, etc. A really nice balance I think. 
 You don't want to die, but it doesn't ruin the afternoon.
  
  The game is a little sanitized over the original, less rough, ready and dangerous, but really slick. 
 The experience they have in MMORPG's really shows. Everything is elegant and works like you would 
 expect.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Artbars1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2004 1:03 am PT
Review:  Well its EQ2 yes you may be thinking EQ ALL OVER AGAIN. Well thats what i thought and thats why 
 i was avoiding this game. Until I kept hearing from some people of how good they thought it was. 
 I was also just getting tired of WoW it was becoming boring and just not fun. Sure it had PvP but 
 thats not the biggest factor in a game if you ask me. Also the graphics in WoW arent what youd 
 call... good. Anyway EQ2 you start on a ship after you create your character. This is the tutorial 
 which will make it eaiser for newer and even veterans to play EQ2. After that youll be dropped on 
 a small island where the residents need your help to fight off enemies. Wether your killing creatures 
 or stealing from them or saving people its all very fun. Also the voice acting in the game is top 
 notch it sounds great and real. The graphics look good in screenshots and in game. Much better 
 in game. I didnt like the graphics until i played the game and found they work well and make the 
 game better. The combat one of the biggest parts of the game. Is fast fun and easy to get used 
 to. Youll be learning more skills as time goes on and youll need them as battles can get tough. 
 Its nice to know how tough the creature is and to see if you can take it just from targeting it. 
 The quest are pretty fun and deep. Some are actually doing some funny things. As one woman thought 
 she was a queen and needed me to kill some monsters for her. Or the thugs who needed me to kill 
 some vagrants since his client didnt pay him. Well youll have to see the rest for yourself. Have 
 fun with the game i know i will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragkun
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 18, 2004 9:00 pm PT
Review:  I must say, after playing SWG, I was very sceptical about playing EQ2. In fact I focused all my 
 energy into WoW because I thought it would be the next big thing. I was then invited into the EQ2 
 Beta. I thought I would try it out, like I did with SWG and find the game playable. Instead I found 
 a game comparable to WoW with the beginning play, and the graphics simply blowing WoW out of the 
 water. I was stunned. I played only a week of the beta to make sure I left the game content untouched 
 for Live. I am constantly amazed at the detail of some of the quests. I am a casual gamer and I 
 totally feel this game has rewards for those players who do not power game.
  
  If you have the money, and are not a power gamer, EQ2, in my opinion, is worth trying out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raventhorn
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2004 6:50 pm PT
Review:  With the arrival of Everquest 2, a new marriage has started in MMORPGs. In the early days of massive 
 online games, you had to devote an intense amount of time in the game and sometimes out of the 
 game to be useful and pertinent in the world. Games such as Asheron's Call and Everquest, demanded 
 that you play a considerable amount of time or your credibility was lost and your stature in the 
 game diminished. As a result, it consumed people and left them feeling that they HAVE to play tonight 
 or be forgotten. It did not matter how much your level was or what you did in the game, it was 
 your ego that drove you. These games were interesting to play but did not have much depth beyond 
 the quest for an alter ego that mattered. The quests seemed small and were often ruined in the 
 sense of being epic and important because you had to wait in line often for other online people 
 to finish it. It became a game about role playing instead of offering the ability to truly leave 
 your real life and join a life of adventure. So you were left with a game about ego and not about 
 quests or adventure as a the real purpose of the game.
  
  With single player games, such as Elder Scrolls 3 (Morrowind) , you had a great amount of content. 
 Adventuring was THE thing to do and you had a great time solving the quests and going on grand 
 quests. There was amazing story lines and you felt you were being sucked into the real purpose 
 of the game. One problem, nobody was there to help you on these and in the case of Morrowind specifically, 
 it felt lonely and in need of real humans to join you. If Morrowind had the ability like Dungeon 
 Lords will, to bring in friends, it would have been the ultimate RPG.
  
  So now you have Everquest 2 and with it the ability to play a game as either a prestige and ego 
 based game with the ability to play on grand quests and adventure that build apon your legend. 
 A marriage of the two worlds. The quests are interesting and have life similar to Morrowind so 
 they do not get boring. If you have played it and not found the right quests, you have not played 
 the game.
  
  Not only have they married the two worlds, but they have also provided new ways to prevent the 
 other big problem with online playing, grief players and kill stealers. No more can someone come 
 in and TAKE your kill in the middle of battle. Sure they can camp with you but it becomes a game 
 of skill to see who can lock up the battle first. I would rather that then worry about someone 
 camping it and stealing it while I am struggling to live.
  
  The game has amazing graphics that typically you only find in single player games. Unfortunately 
 unless you configure it correctly, it will be difficult to play at times because it is taxing on 
 the machine. But all in all with the right hardware, this game smokes even single player games 
 in RPG.
  
  Lastly, the mechanics of the game are refreshing and new. No longer do you just attack a monster 
 or wait for your mage to get wasted cause he is interrupted and cannot cast magic. Mages, archers, 
 and warriors can all be important parts of the game and can contribute to any battle unlike other 
 games where they have too many restrictions.
  
  I could talk on and on about the great abilities of the game and a couple of shortcomings but I 
 have to get back in the game. Oh yea, my experience in making this review? I have played and/or 
 beta tested, Asheron's Call 1 & 2, City of Heroes, Lineage 1 & 2, Everquest, and Dark Age of Camelot 
 to name a few. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irathon
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 18, 2004 4:51 pm PT
Review:  The MMORPG landscape has not changed much in the past years , and Everquest 2 offers more of the 
 same , it combines however some of the best idea's in the MMORPG landscape.
  
  First off , reviewers here that rate the game 3.8 or lower are taking a stand against the entire 
 genre , now if you don't like MMORPG's you should not play this , you could also rate UT 2004 with 
 a 3.8 simply because you do not like running arround with a gun shooting people.
  
  So if you are reading this and didn't like MMORPG's in the past this game won't be for you as it 
 does not change the fundamentals of the genre. You still have to invest a lot of time , there are 
 parts that are repetive , its not 100% of the time fun , but its the way of the world and either 
 you like investing time in it and going trough a grind sometimes to be able to expierence all the 
 fun moments the genre can offer ,or you should look for something with more instant gratification.
 
  
  That being said , for those who are intrested EQ2 does away with many annoyances of past games 
 , and adds a layer of immersion not seen before. So what *does* it bring to the table is things 
 like : zone instancing , encouter locking , graphical immersion , NPC voices , possible soloing 
 with good intencives for grouping , extensive crafting system.
  
  Gameplay
  -------------
  
  The game goes of to an exellent start , showing you in a tutorial all the 
 game mechanics , in less than 30 minutes you pickup all you need to know. Next you land upon the 
 isle of Refuge where you gain your first levels , and participate in several quests , you explore 
 solo in the beginning but you eventually get to the point where you need to kill an orc boss , 
 its impossible to do this alone so you gather up some people in the area , there are always some 
 arround wanting to help. Now in a game like the original everquest this monster would be camped 
 by many people and it will be impossible to get trough , with instancing however you just approach 
 the lair of the orc and right click to enter the cave , now the game creates your own private adventuring 
 zone for you and your group members with the boss right there. Instancing is useful for these events 
 but also later in the game the starter zones arround the cities of Qeynos and Freeport are often 
 instanced to allow everyone access to the resources and monsters found there. Larger zones like 
 Antonica of the Commonlands are so large that there is hardly a need for instacing but its possible. 
 
  
  When hunting monsters alone or in a group , encouters are locked to prevent kill stealing this 
 means others can not attack your monster or heal you , you can however give up the expierence and 
 rewards and use the "Call for help" button to unlock the encounter and allow others to help you.
 
  
  Monsters come in group and solo flavors , some monsters (or groups of monsters) that are otherwise 
 suited for your level , are stronger or grouped and they can only be engaged by a group. To encourage 
 grouping you receive additional expierence if you tackle one of these group encounters.
  
  Quests are abundant , many NPC offer quests , for example you walk into the blacksmith's to buy 
 a new blade and he tells you (the NPC's have voices) that he is looking for someone to exterminate 
 some rats , you can then hail him to recieve the quest and he will offer a reward of your choice 
 . This means that he offers a bracer to you but you can pick your armor type so the reward suits 
 your character.
  
  The crafting system is expansive and almost any item can be crafted , it has also been said that 
 master crafter items will rival the best dropped by monsters in the game.
  
  These might all be small things , but the above are just a few examples of all the small (or large) 
 annoyances often found in MMORPG's in the past that have been ironed out in Everquest 2. A sum 
 of all these things makes its an enjoyable play indeed , and its easier to invest a little more 
 time to get that next level so you can finally make that special sword , or tackle that dungeon 
 or dragon.
  
  Graphics
  ------------
  What you see on the screenshots and movies is true , the graphics here are just the very best , 
 rivaling many modern single player games in terms of quality (like Doom 3 and Half Life 2) .
  
  Sound
  ---------
  NPC voices are done right and suit their characters , well acted and 
 with Christopher Lee as the eviloverlord Lucan you can't go wrong. Ambient sounds are present everywhere 
 and add a nice touch to the game , especially if you are someone who likes to turn off the otherwise 
 enjoable music of the game.
  
  Value
  -------
  50$ for the box and 14.95$ is a hefty price to pay , its however worth it if you like the game 
 and not all that much if you put it into perspective.
  
  
  All in all , this reviewer is pleased with the game , it isn't as good as many tought it would 
 be , nor is it all the hype it claims to be. But its certainly not the abomination from hell many 
 people claim (often fans from other games , or people who had too high hopes , I can't blaim the 
 last catergory) .
  
  I give Everquest 2 , a solid 8.3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Holeattack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2004 2:33 pm PT
Review:  From the outset you get drawn in by the npc voices and slowly introduced to the huge journey ahead. 
 The tutorial and refugee island weren't perfect cause you could miss the tradeskill things which 
 was a pain once you left. Aside from that the rewards and progression to leaving the island were 
 great. A nice way to start.
  
  Citizenship needs to be gained once you enter your home village and this isn't a too difficult 
 task. Once gained the city opens up and it's time to get stuck into the quests to get some coin 
 and gear. What amazed me about this was the zone layout and travel options were spot on and can't 
 be faulted. If you jumped from village to village grabbing as many quests as you could, you would 
 be drawn into this mad rush about town learning zones and clearing fog off maps (another super 
 idea) . You also had a choice of half a dozen newbie zones surrounding the villages which again 
 were easy to get to and navigate. Just the right sized zones and not overcrowded thanks to instancing.
 
  
  At Level 10 you do your first class quest. Not too painful but not too simple either. After you 
 get this done you can venture out into the first major zone of adventure which is quite a huge 
 zone with plenty of level range and lots for folks to do. It's about now you start to realise just 
 how well tuned the combat and spell system is. You also see more of the mechanics of group vs solo 
 mobs and the con system. without going into too much detail you are able to take on a group encounter 
 or solo encounter and you can clearly see how many mobs will be involved in the encounter and the 
 con. If things still go wrong you can use power to sprint off in most cases until mobs stop chasing 
 you and forget you. While it sounds forgiving it's a god send. No trains, no complaints about a 
 mob jumping you from nowhere. You have the choice to fight or run which makes great sense to me.
 
  
  The spell and skill system is solid. It requires that you advance spells with scrolls which can 
 be purchased tradeskilled or dropped and become better with each level. The spell is also coloured 
 to help indicate how relative it is to your level. So orange will fizzle and blue is starting to 
 be outgrown and needs upgrading. Really well though out and adds another interesting thing to work 
 on as you adventure.
  
  Tradeskills are absolutely amazing. I could have never in my wildest dreams imagines a system so 
 good. You should just buy the game to see it lol. I'd score it 11 out of 10 with no problem, that's 
 how good it is.
  
  Alot of equipment upgrading is made achievable through questing. On top of that some named mobs 
 drop some crazy good gear. What works nicely is the quested gear is quite solid for what you need 
 to do and allows some groth. So if you do a quest tuned for say L10 that gear will last you another 
 5 levels and still be good.
  
  I could ramble on and on about this game but I'll wrap it up by simply saying that I never in my 
 wildest dreams imagined this game being so good. It eats WoW for breakfast. Unless of course you 
 want to play with teens who don't like any depth to a game and feel good cause they can munch through 
 content in a month.
  
  EQ2 is not for the feint hearted. This game will give you years of enjoyment. To the people who 
 want to rubbish soe because of eq1 I hear you but for the love of gaming give this a shot. You 
 won't be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gavhad
Rating: 3.8
Date: Nov 18, 2004 7:57 am PT
Review:  Once again, apparently these developers and programmers have no idea what an RPG is. Yes, I did 
 say RPG. Because before you can begin to build an extensive MMORPG, you need to have an idea of 
 how to build an RPG. IT seems as though this is nothing of what a true RPG would look like.
  
  I can tell you this much: if a single player RPG (SPRPG) hit the stores and EVER looked like 
 this, I guarantee you Gamespot would not even consider this game mediocre. If you have ever played 
 a SPRPG then you have an idea of how extensive the story, characters, and background of the game 
 is. You can expect something massive, involving, and have many of the actions you take directly 
 effect the outcome of the game.
  
  Instead of getting SPRPG quality, you are left with nothing but a very inexcusable tale of run 
 here, do that, and then come back to get a reward. I am so disgusted with this game that I almost 
 did not even feel like trying to describe the distastefulness that this miscellany of hogwash, 
 rubbish, and filth left in my mind and on my fingers.
  
  Please do not get me wrong, this game is unadulterated, infinite eye candy. Superb and lavish in 
 almost every way possible. For quite some time, I was playing this game to only walk around the 
 unrepressed environments and take a glance at all the sumptuous textures. Words can faintly describe 
 how majestic this game looks.
  
  However, they should have just spent as much resolution as they did with the graphics and put that 
 much effort into the gameplay to retain and capture players into staying in the game. Instead, 
 I found this game too much like all other MMORPGs. I will not name names, but if you have played 
 any that were out before this one, then you have pretty much already played this game.
  
  If you were an aficionado of the original, and do not have a problem with more of the indistinguishable, 
 irrelevant, and quite unexciting, then this game may need to be in your game library once the price 
 plummets way under the disgraceful $50 cost. Continuing, if you have played any other MMOPRPG, 
 and have already found yourself wanting a SPRPG, wait for something a little more coherent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MMORPG_Fan
Rating: 6.4
Date: Nov 18, 2004 3:59 am PT
Review:  SOE states:
  
  "The fact is that our desired method of interaction in EQ2 is grouping. We are providing multiple 
 outlets for those who want to solo, but we are purposely setting limits. This isn't designed to 
 punish people, but to guide them toward the more rewarding (on many levels) option of grouping 
 "
  
  
  The problem is, that in reality, EQII is NOT group friendly. By way of design, grouping can negatively 
 affect too many people. There is no community in grouping, just the opposite. Everyone is AFRAID 
 to group with people they do not know. This has resulted in cliques that function in their own 
 little world, so instead of EQII being a social game as SOE developers claim they intended it to 
 be, it has become one of the most anti-social MMORPGs I have played. 
  
  It boggles the mind that SOE set out to create the mother of all MMORPGs, (and I wholeheartedly 
 believed EQII would be just that) and ended up with what was handed to us at retail. I expected 
 a well rounded game. With the absence of PVP, and little or no balancing issues because of that 
 decision, I didn't see how SOE could fail. Everquest II is a beautiful game on the outside, but 
 flawed at its core. SOE has failed to make EQII the social/community based game they intended it 
 to be (many had touted EQII as the next gen UO) . Instead, we have a game where players distrust 
 players they do not know, where grouping outside a given circle of friends is akin to xp debt suicide, 
 and where soloing due to lack of grouping opportunities is a design afterthought, thus alienating 
 a huge potential customer base. 
  
  I still have hope for this game. I will give SOE a chance and see if they listen to the community. 
 EQII has the potential to be more than just a leet grouping game. But I don't see a way to do this 
 without some major overhauls, especially in the grouping/xp debt design. DS touted the record breaking 
 success of EQII account numbers at launch. I remember the same PR when Galaxies went live. The 
 question is, will SOE work to keep those customers? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaelon
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 17, 2004 4:07 am PT
Review:  (Originally ranted by my girlfriend.)
  
  I am not impressed.
  
  For the first couple of days of EverQuest II, I was a lot like many of my fellow lemmings; enjoying 
 the pretty graphics, impressed with the voice-overs, and pretty overwhelmed by the sheer number 
 of quests. I think SOE put a lot of hard work into EverQuest and it shows in the look and feel 
 of the end product. 
  
  Regrettably, for the past few nights, my friends and I, who have burst into our 20s, have pretty 
 much had our fill of EverQuest II, and won't be renewing when the trial period comes to an end. 
 Here are the reasons why we feel that EverQuest II has failed. (Please note, the five of us came 
 from a hardcore raiding guild on EverQuest, though in recent memory, we've classified ourselves 
 as "casual" players, in the sense that we only play a few hours a night, a few nights each week, 
 tops.)
  
  1. Degradation and Humiliation: "Let's Hunt Rats!"
  The massive two-page ad in this month's Computer Gaming World magazine from Blizzard pokes fun 
 at this obvious failure on SOE's part to change the tone of gaming, when it blared in bold letters: 
 "STOP KILLING RATS. PLAY WORLD OF WARCRAFT." Though I am no fan of WoW (and have my issues with 
 the game for obvious reasons) , Blizzard hits this problem right on the head: it's basically EverQuest 
 1 all over again, where you start out fighting rats (beginning with baby rat, moving to sister 
 rat, and then momma rat, and then big fat rat, etc.) and eventually are honored to progress to 
 decaying rats of an undead variety. This isn't the epic sort of adventure that I was looking for, 
 and definitely not the type of experience that SOE promised. Many of us, especially those of us 
 exposed to beta, had been hoping that mob distributions would have been enhanced for the first 
 half of the game. Alas, it has not.
  
  2. Fizzle, fizzle, fizzle.
  Whether it's fizzling, interrupting, missing, or otherwise failing, the mentality is the same: 
 SOE has kept, and by some measures, strengthened EQ1's standards of artificial failure designed 
 to hold players back, forcing them to progress more slowly. The fizzle rate is absolutely atrocious, 
 and though its impact on power is not significant, the amount of time that a fizzle takes away 
 from combat, on the other hand, is, and has resulted in many deaths. The fizzle rates basically 
 do not change considerably; as you level, gain new spells, and try to use them, expect to fizzle 
 considerably for several level stages after that. 
  
  3. Combat Dejavu
  EQ2's combat system promised a faster, more streamlined, energetic approach to gaming. The only 
 major difference here is a major animation change, and a dramatic reduction in downtime. There 
 is nothing truly innovative about EQ2's combat, and indeed games like City of Heroes, which incorporate 
 instataneous actions, post factum recharging, and side-kicking/reverse side-kicking, however, offered 
 some lessons that Sony would have been wise to have taken to heart. Regrettably, SOE did not, and 
 it shows in EverQuest II. Combat is atrocious, repetative, non-immersive, and ultimately, unengaging 
 and boring. New powers do add a certain temporary "wow" factor to how you approach combat, but 
 they do not in any meaningful way change the way in which you approach and engage encounters, which 
 for the most part, are extremely simplistic.
  
  4. Flimsy Storylines
  Missions in City of Heroes are interesting, and Quests in World of Warcraft are engaging; Quests 
 in EverQuest 2 are neither. Many of them consist of either "collect x number of items which drop 
 off of y mobs", or "play errand/messenger girl". Dungeons are instanced largely on a basis of population, 
 and though there are individual instanced dungeons and encounter rooms, they are poorly constructed 
 and pose few meaningful challenges. Instead, the same artificial challenges that SOE has used in 
 EverQuest 1 appear as the solid unifying trademark, however, unlike EQ1, there is no timesink and 
 no investment-reward to be gained from undergoing SOE's sadistic torture of a dungeon. Ultimately, 
 there is no real unifying storyline that either makes sense or speaks to a greater lore behind 
 the game world. Much of the surface reasoning for so many antagonistic races living within the 
 same reason seems to fly in the face of EQ tradition, dismissing a lot of the creative and rich 
 lore that the EQ1 team had worked hard to place within the game. Now, all you have left is a shell 
 of the original vision, populated by inplausible storylines and poorly constructed tales in which 
 the player sits as a spectator, rather than as an actor. With no epic storylines to speak of, there 
 is no differentiation in EverQuest 2, and no storylines that promote character differentiation 
 in any meaningful way.
  
  5. UI Backwardness
  Some people are praising the User Interface; they are either liars or have absolutely poor aesthetic 
 taste. Regardless of the case of how the UI looks and feels, its major failures comes from a lack 
 of functionality. Though windows function more or less as they do in EverQuest 1, mapping has been 
 dumbed down to the point where there is no in-game mapping tool to speak of, and so only maps provided 
 by SOE are available for your use. Dungeons and combat environments cannot be mapped or tracked 
 in any solid way. This is a lot more frustrating than it was in EverQuest 1, given the depth and 
 complexity of each dungeon environment. It also makes it exceedingly difficult to guide players 
 to your location and coordinate efforts on a large map that might be unfamiliar.
  
  6. Diminishing Returns on Fun
  The major killer for EQ2, in our view, is that fun seems to come 
 early, but not often. First encounters are exciting because you see new models, you enjoy new environments, 
 and you experience a new challenge. But after you've experienced it once, you never really get 
 to experience much variation in it. You quickly learn the weaknesses of the rather unintelligent 
 and simplistic AI; monsters move predictably, rarely flee, and can be tricked to do some stupid 
 things. Worst of all, there is a massive and inherent class imbalance between casters and non-casters; 
 though in early levels, the power of mages is pretty impressive, in latter levels, especially in 
 the 20s and 30s, it seems to be largely about melee and healing. Wizards are more of a liability 
 than the asset that they were in EQ1; furthermore, hybrids and final-stage professions share more 
 in common than sets them apart. Though a good idea for class progression in Star Wars Galaxies, 
 the tree-based class progression in EQ2 creates a lot of paper-doll characters that are in most 
 respects identical to one another. There is little that one player can really do to create a truly 
 unique character, considering how commonly even the rarest items are available. The absence of 
 both a competitive end-game, as well as a limit on the competitive end-items creates a void in 
 encouraing characters to somehow become unique. City of Heroes solves this through power selections, 
 power modifications, costume designs, and visual enhancements. EverQuest 2 pretends that it doesn't 
 exist, and ultimately, no one wants to play a game where you are just like everyone else.
  
  Game over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeroRathe
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2004 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Okay, first, let me start with my system specs. Reason being, I see quite a few people wondering 
 how this game will run on their system, or thinking you need a top end system to play. I'm running 
 an Athlon 2200+ ( 1.8 GHz) 1 gig of RAM, and a Radeon 9700 pro video card, Cable Internet. Not 
 a top end system at all, but I can run it, and get very high quality performance. I run the game 
 at high settings, and I can only imagine if I had a top end system. Only thing I can suggest, is 
 that you make sure you have the latest drivers.
  
  I'll preface the rest of this by addressing one other issue. The inevitable comparision with WoW. 
 Personally, I think it's going to be a matter of preference of what people will like to play. I 
 spent time in WoW beta, and did enjoy it. I found it to be entertaining, and a quality game, however 
 some parts of it, I just did not care for, no matter how well done, and I did with EQ 2.
  
  EQ 2 universe is immersive. Having NPC's voiced, and giving quests add's plenty to a sense of actually 
 being there. Yes, some NPC's needed in quests are harder to find, but personally, I'd rather have 
 to work for something, rather than just having it handed to me on a plate. With the help of a scout, 
 and get to know one, they can track NPC's, and PC's, and usually dont have all that hard a time 
 finding the NPC you need.
  
  Zoning instead of seamless world is interesting. I've always enjoyed seamless worlds, like SWG, 
 but I've always found that there are vast areas that just dont have any people playing there. Something 
 I noticed in WoW, was that in getting to lvl 24, there were just places nobody was at. The idea 
 to instance areas in EQ 2 has had some folks in an uproar, for positive or for negative. I was 
 unsure at first, but I've found it to be a VERY positive part of game play. There are plenty of 
 people in main areas, and it's easy to find groups, it just ensures that there are not 10 groups 
 waiting for 1 spawn. Now, there might be 4 instances, so you have 2-3 groups waiting for spawns. 
 Thus, more time playing, chatting, and less time fighting/arguing with people for a turn on a spawn. 
 This makes sense....
  
  I've had no more than what I'd call usual problems while tagging an enemy during combat than I'd 
 expect. However, the Heroic Opportunity is something that more than makes up for any problem with 
 combat. In groups its a key component of destryoing something that might be tougher than the group. 
 It's the great equalizer, and it requires that you pay attention to the wheel, and what it calls 
 for next. I really like this feature.
  
  I really hate thinking about writing a review of a game this close to release, especially a MMORPG, 
 because so much can change. Also, my time in beta, is just that, beta time, not time playing a 
 finished product. I'm doing it anyhow, because I dont think some of the reviewers gave EQ2 a fair 
 shake, as they seemed to prefer WoW. After all, just because you dont like EQ 2, doesnt mean it's 
 a bad game, it means it you prefer a different type of game.
  
  To try to sum up. I think EQ 2 and WoW will appeal to different audiences. EQ 2 offers a different 
 level of immersion. It has a more "classic" fantasy look to it. WoW has the cartoony look. I dont 
 care for it, but it is sharp lookin. PvP, well, EQ 2 may have it some day, but that day isnt in 
 the near future, they balanced their classes with the idea of PvE, and to add PvP, would require 
 a major league overhaul. 
  
  Me, I played UO for about 4 years right after release, and I loved my time there. Since I stopped 
 playing, I've never really found a MMORPG that held my attention the same way. Right now, EQ 2 
 has promise to do just that for me. I really had to struggle to play WoW beta, and by the time 
 I got to level 24, I knew I was just wasting my time with it, because it was no comparassion. EQ 
 2 was going to be the game for me, WoW might be a good game, but was not the game for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Velox
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 16, 2004 4:44 am PT
Review:  EQ2 is that cute blonde siting alone at the bar. Looks real pretty, but after spending 10 minutes 
 with her., you realize there is nothing behing the good looks.
  
  Right now it lags , almost as bad as AO was at launch. And there are other similarities to that 
 game , plus DAoC and others. It seesm to be a game designed by committee.
  The committee said ..."We want best graphics, lots of content, lots of quests et al "... so they 
 scanned what was out there, and synthesized the 'good' bits of other games but they forgot one 
 thing..... actual gameplay. 
  
  You dont need to think much in this game. Its dumbed down. its offensive to have the name Everquest 
 on the box and calling it an RPG is a stretch too. Its an action -adventure without the story. 
 
  
  The combat is great sounding, but little thought is needed for such things a s Heroic Opportunities.. 
 Combat plays like a console/arcade twitch game. Without a real threat fo death, its banal.
  Its also a zoned game, and due to its detail, totally UN immersive. As soon as you enter a new 
 zone, expect to wait a while.......
  
  For me , game development is NOT a science, not a technological flagbearer, it is an ART! Somethimg 
 happens when all the parts are placed together that in many ways was unintentional ( Gestalht) , 
 and you get a masterpiece of a game. its almost impossibll to predict but worth trying..... But 
 wandering through an 'art gallery ' of existing games, and creating a color by numbers amalgam 
 wont do it. 
  
  I do think EQ1 got better. I do think they SOE will listen. But they need to add depth to character 
 progression. I am sure over the next 10 expansions ;) , they will add in more spells/abilities., 
 more diversity, fix lag issues all that stuff. 
  Right now , it is new and fun to check out places. But I am already lvl 12 and dont see anything 
 to go for. In EQ there was always something real cool that you felt you Needed strategically or 
 tactically to move forward. Crafting is childliek also. They need to add some 'soul' to this game, 
 or itr will go down as SWG with lots of dialog and not much else.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: musaffa
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 15, 2004 8:19 pm PT
Review:  This is a solid game. Sony took it's time and did it right. I see a lot of people complaining about 
 some of the features that were changed or removed in comparison to EQ1 and I don't understand that. 
 This game is not EQ1. Sure, the noob quests are easy, but how could you expect anything else? The 
 game does take some time to get comfortable with as the learning curve is a little high for some 
 of the deeper aspects of the game (i. e.; Trade skills) . Although you do not have to dump an enormous 
 amount of time into playing to have fun, the longer you play the better it gets.
  I also want to make a note that this game is not WoW or SWG. Way too many fan boys out there are 
 trying to compare them, and its impossible to do so. Very different games made for very different 
 types of people. This sequel is a lot less solo hack-n-slash and more on longevity, depth, and 
 socializing. Ive played them all and each are great games in their own right.
  The sound effects and music are superb, and the graphics are unrivaled by any game that has been 
 released to date. This engine will drop even the most powerful boxes to their knees. Not to say 
 you cant play it on slightly older machines, but they definitely won't do justice to the amazing 
 beauty this game has to offer. Anyone giving the graphics less than 10 should probably upgrade 
 their computer.
  So far EQ2 has impressed me. The high end content remains to be seen, but if the lower levels are 
 any indication on what to expect, I am definitely in for the long haul. So if you start playing 
 take your time and give the game a chance. Dont play for a few short hours and run back here giving 
 bad reviews without have a deeper experience. You will not be disappointed.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: molovian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2004 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Combat feels more dynamic. Quest system got me moving around and exploring as well as took me to 
 areas that were good for leveling so I didn't notice the leveling, got some good items and met 
 some cool people. Items are cool so far and crafting is far less tedious and adds alot of nice 
 features. Have to say the good and evil side both are pegged really well as far as atmosphere. 
 Overall takes the good elements of EQ1 and really improves on them alot. Sure, you could grind 
 away, but the game offers other things to do while you are making level. Overall, eq2 feels alot 
 more like a very good single player RPG, with the added bonus of bring able to play massivly. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddy
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2004 9:49 am PT
Review:  Another dissapointment in the MMORPG world. When will the developers understand that we want the 
 interface and menu system simple enough to enjoy the game? Why create a game which no PC can run 
 at above average graphic settings and force the players to upgrade comptuers for the next 10 years?
 
  
  Sony Online Entertainment failed yet another time since Star Wars Galaxies. The gameplay is your 
 typical MMORPG, nothing special. You would expect some enhancments since we're moving forward in 
 the gaming industry.
  
  Why develop a video game with intense graphics so that the community cannot run on their average 
 computer at homes? Are they forcing us to upgrade our computers? Or is the target only for the 
 DIE HARD ever quest fans who are so easily taken by the immerse graphics of ever quest 2? Develop 
 a video game that will last 10 years? I dont think so folks. You can be hit by a car tomorrow and 
 die. This means you didn't enjoy the 10 years that Sony promised. We don't have the money or the 
 time to invest in a new computer like Alien Ware so we can "play ever quest 2". Please, the animation 
 itself are so horrible, you would think a group of kids put this game together. The battle seen 
 is not close to cartoon let alone be life like. Sony, you picked the wrong developers.
  
  What motivates you and causes you to hell out loud "I'm the great warior"? Well, the sound of the 
 game of course. I would run the world of warcraft soundtrack in the background play eq2. 
  
  Ever Quest 2 is very complexed. You have to explore the world and mark down on a piece of paper 
 to make sure you remember where all NPC's are. I find this quite annoying. The players in game 
 are not helpfull, everyone knows EverQuest 2 players are the rudest gamers in the MMORPG world. 
 They think they know it all because they've played the original ever quest for many years. So you 
 get no help there. What about the NPC's? Hmmm ... should we ask them for help? Oh that's right, 
 they don't work properly. You can sit there sometimes and type the NPC's name to find and they 
 still won't know where they're at even if they were standing in front of their faces. The lag in 
 game is horrible. When you deal with a high end graphical video game like ever quest and throw 
 oh say, 100,000 people in game do you think you'd get lag? Well, it's an insult to my computer 
 that Ever Quest 2 doesnt run as smooth with average settings.
  
  Processor: Pentium 4 2.6ghz
  Video Card: Assylum GeForce FX 5200 256MB AGP
  Memory: 1GB
  
 Monitor: Sony Trinitron
  Desktop: 1280x1024 100htz refresh rate
  
  Bottom line is, I don't like this game. I play it because I have no choice. There isn't any good 
 games out there to actually call my favorite. I'm a die hard Star Wars Galaxy fan and I played 
 that until .... well I stil play it. Done with the Sci-Fi so what about the fantasy? I would say 
 Final Fantasy XI has a better edge then EQ2, but that's just my opinion. You don't want to put 
 housing in game so we can use as storage and charge us two arms and two legs for horses? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 15, 2004 7:37 am PT
Review:  I was brought into the EverQuest world by my brother and at first i thought that i wouldn't like 
 it because it takes so long to level up and i would have to put in so much time to it. After a 
 while i started liking it and began playing it more and more because the world literally consumes 
 you. So when i heard that they were making a second one i was pumped. The hype around it was so 
 high that i read every news article and update that was ever published (yes i know, i sound crazed) . 
 Now the whole nickname for it "EverCrack" is so richly deserved because it is in EVERY sense addicting. 
 Once EQ II was released the first store that got it i was there to buy it. 
  The game itself has really been revamped and really improved over the years. Even though they require 
 you to have pretty much a godly computer to run this game it is well deserved because the graphical 
 hurdles this game incorporates with online play is staggering to say the least. Though with every 
 new concept and idea comes bad ideas and issues with other gamers and other EQ fanatics who liked 
 it the old way.
  The gameplay in the game is pretty much the exact replicate of the first one, all the keys are 
 pretty much self-explanatory and very simple. SOE really keeps the game easy to use even though 
 there are plenty of buttons to push and actions to do and other little tid bits to keep track of. 
 If you are a first time player of EQ then i suggest you do the tutorial and take notes because 
 there is no way you will ever learn all the buttons and all the bars and action keys in one swing. 
 
  The graphics in this game pretty much depend on your graphics card and how it holds up to the online 
 bashing of everyone else you're playing with. Since i'm playing with a high end card (GeForce 6800) 
 i'm EXTREMELY happy with the graphical detail of the game. EQ II has pretty much destroyed, graphically, 
 the first EQ by a long shot because the detail and the smoothness of everything in EQ II is just 
 astonishing. In EQ II you can literally tell what kind of armor they are wearing because you can 
 see every detail of it right down to the links off of a chainmail suit. They really did well with 
 the bump mapping because the environment and the people really stand out you really dont have anymore 
 of the old angular graphics anymore.
  The sound in this game is really awesome and since i'm playing off of a 5.1 speaker surround sound 
 i can hear a lot more ambient noises then most others. The sound is simply awesome from the walking 
 on sand to the clashing of the swords the sound makes this game come alive effortlessly almost.
 
  So in essence if anybody loves the Roleplaying genre and want to take it to another scale then 
 they should do well in buying this game and playing it because it really revolutionizes the whole 
 genre. Also, since its all online its a lot more fun because the people who play this game dont 
 mess around and act like morons, they actually really play rather then some people who spend there 
 whole time acting stupid and killing the enjoyment of online gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masaville
Rating: 5.4
Date: Nov 15, 2004 6:35 am PT
Review:  I hate to be the bearer of bad news, but EQ2 is Star Wars Galaxies all over again.
  
  There's no question SOE has invested a significant amount of time in developing one of the most 
 cutting edge MMO worlds to date with next generation technology. The EQ2 game world is impressive. 
 However, behind this cutting edge technology is little substance and you'll quickly find the world 
 is one-dimensional. What's left? Nothing to do but grind, grind, and grind.
  
  After playing for 30+ hours I find myself left standing, scratching my head, wondering what to 
 do next to satisfy myself in the game world. I forsee countless hours of grinding, interruped by 
 one-dimensional quests, to acquire experience and items. What I don't see is any indication of 
 rewarding gameplay.
  
  A dazzling frontend with very little substance. Welcome to another polished chatroom.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haaens
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 2, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  The game had me hooked for 2+ years, so it is a great game. Like all MMO's though, eventually youi 
 start to wear out on it. I am the leader of a high level and very large guild, and the guild system 
 adds that little bit of extra dimension to keep you hooked. In fact I probably have played a year 
 past what I would have had it not been for my guild and great guildmates. All that aside, it is 
 a great game, and all three expansions have been great as well. The 3 adventure packs have rocked 
 too. Check it out if your looking for a break from the norm. Ie. WoW. However, with Vanguard dropping, 
 that changes things once again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddalet
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 12, 2004 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that I was turned off by the SOE tag. I wasn't even planning on playing this, until 
 the WoW open beta came out.
  
  There are still some slight kinks to work out, but overall server stability has been great, combat 
 is easy, getting around is easy, crafting is easy and above all a great loot/crafting combination 
 system.
  
  I don't see why you shouldn't give EQ2 a chance, unless you are turned off by the genre. I've played 
 many MMORPGs, and I'll go out on a limb and say this is one of the best as is. No question that 
 it has had one of the most exemplary first weeks or so in MMORPG history.
  
  So far, So good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiggywiz
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 21, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. I have taken the approach now of simply leveling two mains. That may not be 
 an option for some sufferers as I know people that have alts even on OTHER servers, which is an 
 extreme not even I have sunk to. It is too much like leading a double life when I try that and 
 I cannot keep my online friends straight. I figure if I have one character I play when I am not 
 duoing with my wife, then I have the freedom to go as far ahead and get as much XP as I want and 
 I learn the content for the other set of characters so I know how those quests are done. I even 
 craft now on my secondary character and have condensed that. The other key thing one person can 
 try is to make, at least in WoW or EQ2, a good and evil character and experience the game on both 
 sides since it can be so much more different. This keeps you occupied and your alt numbers down 
 to a respectable level, and at the same time you are advancing characters that will allow you to 
 switch sides and pick at the end of their level cap which one you want to raid with. This is especially 
 true in WoW where it seemed that the Horde had the majority of the mature player base (if any WoW 
 player aspect could be called that) and if you leveled both alliance and horde at the same time 
 you could easily be set up to raid on both sides. If I could hell I would have 5  6 level 70s 
 in EQ2 and not because of boredom with the game like some people do already, but because I want 
 to experience every type of play style and class performance. Boredom can be a huge factor, as 
 the rep grind in WoW will show. Many people simply never even raider in that game or stepped foot 
 in a BC Heroic because it was too much like a job, and simply rerolled. I know that for me, part 
 of the challenge in ANY alt (even my little EQ2 Halfling ranger) is learning the class so that 
 you know what the hell other people are talking about, and seeing how much you can twink him out 
 and how fast he levels. To me that is one of the greatest challenges in these games and I really 
 love the alt leveling experience. EQ2 makes it even more enjoyable with all the micro starting 
 areas like Baubbleshire, Longshadow Alley and the like. When you add all those places up, you have 
 about 10+ different places with all sorts of quests and lore to catch up on. Now you tell me, how 
 is ANY player going to resist the temptation to roll multiple characters and experience all that?
 
  
  Yet some people do. I still see people that rerolled evil Fae the day Neriak came out playing the 
 same character over and over, while Im sitting here hitting 20 on two characters one in GFAY and 
 one in Neriak. Now I have abandoned GFAY and gone 1-30 on two evil Neriak characters without ever 
 seeing the new Crushbone, and this kinda bums me out. So I have decided to probably just take my 
 level 30 over there and explore it anyway not caring if I get XP or not. Besides I have a Rallos 
 Zek Deity quest I need to do in there anyway. So I have to say I am stumped. I do not know how 
 to solve this problem, but I blame Sony for making a damn fine and enjoyable game with such a multitude 
 of options. Besides in the end, is it REALLY a problem, or just the fact that I find it hella fun 
 to play the game that way? I know I will get to 70 soon, at least before Rise of Kunark, so maybe 
 I just shouldnt sweat it and for once enjoy the ride. I felt so much stress to level in WoW that 
 it really killed the fun for me, because the game became a long series of yellow exclamation points 
 and maximizing XP that I never even once read the quests. EQ2 with its cool voice overs and fantastic 
 lore has me reading all the things the NPCs say (even the books I find) because for once I want 
 to know what is going on and what has happened in Norrath. It is the very depth of the game itself 
 that is fueling my alt-itis and really it takes a good damn game to bring that out in people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bandcampgirl
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 12, 2004 2:28 pm PT
Review:  So far, as a casual player, I can log into nice graphics and lots of interesting stuff for a couple 
 hours at a time and not feel the leveling drive. There seems to be the right mix of simplicity 
 and complication to make the game easy to follow, but still interesting enough to want to continue 
 advancing. As with most mmorpgs, there have been a few launch bugs and a few server outages, but 
 The Sony Team has done a great job in PR. It is nice to play a game created by a company who is 
 willing to assume responsibility for "kinks" rather than just lay the blame onto the players machinery 
 and connections. In reality, this is the smoothest I "grand opening" I have experienced in mmorpgs 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keledron
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2004 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Many massive multiplayer games have come along since 1995, when the market was first being tested 
 with games like "The Realm" by Sierra On-Line. When Ultima Online hit the market, it took most 
 of the online world by storm. Sony soon took over when Everquest 1 was created.
  
  Like it or not, EQ1 is a mainstay, and probably one of the best of its kind, still boasting a huge 
 list of subscribers. What does this all add up to? The dev team there did something right, at least 
 in the initial release.
  
  Enter Everquest 2 years later. EQ2 raises the bar in every respect for all online games to date 
 and to come.
  
  The graphics are in short, breathtaking. Especially if you have a beefy system, it easily beats 
 out all of its competitors (including WoW) hands down. This is the game you want to upgrade your 
 system for. You can play it with an average system, but to REALLY see it shine, you need the gear.
 
  
  Sound is also fantastic! A great soundtrack for one with all the music in the game, and the ambient 
 sound further aids to immerse you in the game, rather than distract you. Perhaps the most important 
 factor here though, is the voice acting. Nearly every NPC in the game has a voice, and it simply 
 gives MMOs that element that has been lacking forever. It makes it feel like a single player game, 
 with an awesome story to tell to boot.
  
  Gameplay is the best of any MMO to date (and yes I'm in the WoW beta) . The quests in EQ2 are great, 
 fun, incredibly addictive, and further add to your game by being rewarding. Whether your questing 
 for your first class archetype, or just a bit of coin, you're going to have fun. They're well thought 
 out.
  
  Combat can be summed up in a few words: Best ever, fast paced, thrilling, and exciting.
  
  
 Crafting... believe it or not, is the same as combat for the first time! You have to use strategy 
 and different crafting arts to counter things that can go wrong during a crafting ordeal. Definitely 
 addicting (and i hated tradeskills in all previous MMOs) , EQ2 gives it enough to make it just as 
 exciting as adventuring.
  
  With so many fun things to do, see, explore, and the great community to boot, EQ2 will more than 
 likely outdo and outlast its predecessor for many years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thec1arity
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 11, 2004 10:36 am PT
Review:  As a former Star Wars Galaxies, Anarchy Online, Asherons Call, Asherons Call 2, Shadowbane, Everquest, 
 Dark Age of Camelot, City of Heroes, Lineage 2, Eve Online, Horizons, Final Fantasy XI, and World 
 of Warcraft player, I felt like all of them fell short in one BIG area. They just were not immersive. 
 They failed to draw me into the world and keep me hooked.
  
  I LOVE this game. I was in the beta for a couple weeks and ended up with a level 10+ character 
 as a mage (sorcerer) , scout, fighter (warrior) , and priest (cleric) . The graphics are amazing, 
 the sound is very immersive, the gameplay is intuitive, and best of all... I can see myself playing 
 this game for a long time and not just qutting after a couple months. For those of you who are 
 holding off from buying this game because of launch problems I can tell you right now, the launch 
 has gone incredibly smooth when compared to SWG and Lineage 2. I feel like I should caution hardcore 
 dungeons and dragons players. If you are the type that likes to spend hours building a character 
 and perfecting him/her, this game is not for you. Almost everything about the leveling and skills 
 in this game are automatic. It's something I love, but a lot of D&D fans might find it too linear 
 and simplistic. The downtime and hardcore camping of the original Everquest seems to have been 
 dramatically cutdown as this game is much more fast paced. Also, Everquest 2 is almost completely 
 quest based. Sure, you can go out and farm for xp if you want, but you are awarded a lot of good 
 items/armor/weapons by doing quests, not to mention you get decent experience as well. 
  
  So why buy Everquest 2 over World of Warcraft? It's simple... Expansions, expansions, expansions. 
 Sony has received a lot of flak in the past for releasing expansions that seemed to do little to 
 entice a new subscriber or contained an amount of content other games offered for free, but I can 
 tell you this. After playing both World of Warcraft and Everquest 2 for over 100 hours, Everquest 
 2 has much more room for expansion and growth. Tack on the fact that Everquest already has a set 
 community, and a good one at that, I'd say you can't go wrong with Everquest 2. For all those who 
 didn't like the first Everquest, have no fear. Everquest 2 is little like the first one. Bottom 
 line is this is the best of the best of MMORPGs. The only reason I ended up taking .4 off the score 
 is because I don't think anything is perfect, though Everquest 2 comes darn close. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raeldor
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 11, 2004 6:40 am PT
Review:  I was waiting for EQ2 with baited breath, and was lucky enough to get on the beta. I must say firstly 
 that the graphics and speech of EQ2 are great, and add to the immersion factor immensely, but unfortunately 
 the mechanics and interface of the game are clumsy and lead me to frustration and boredom.
  
  For a game that is primarily quest based, I must say that 90% of the quests are simply go to 
 X, kill Y, bring back Z. If questing is going to be the main stay of the game since there is no 
 PvP, then at least give us multi-stage story-driven quests that make us care about the characters 
 involved and give us at least the FEELING that we are affecting the world events just a little. 
 Without a sense of being pulled into the story these quests are just DULL, and there are a LOT 
 of them!
  
  Apart from this NPC's are almost impossible to find. The areas seem far too expansive (too much 
 open space) , and the 'Find NPC' and 'Light Glow Trail' features are both bugged which leads to 
 running around huge areas trying to find the NPC your quest relates to which is VERY frustrating. 
 I play a game to have fun, not to be frustrated... would it really be that hard to show the NPC 
 target of a quest on the map or put an icon above them?
  
  The targetting system is VERY clumsy and in group situations can lead to chaos and confusion. It 
 is not unusual for your character to stand looking gormless after killing one mob while another 
 mob hammers your team-mate right next to you while try franticly to target and engage it.
  
  On a positive note for combat, the Heroic Opportunity Wheel is a great idea which promotes 
 team play much in the same way as FFXI's Skill Chains.
  
  If they can iron out some of the interface and targetting problems this game may start to become 
 fun. But as we have seen in the past with SWG, this is very unlikely to happen.
  
  Having paid my $50 for retail release, I am already finding myself ditching EQ2 after just 2 days 
 and going back to the WoW beta which I have been in for a while now. To me, that speaks volumes. 
 WoW has a great interface and is pure fun.
  
  In my opinion... save your money and wait untli the 23rd when WoW is released!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fionn
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 10, 2004 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Everquest 2 blows away the competition. Many reviewers will give this game a negative review just 
 based on it being SOE or they are WoW fanboys. Fear not. I have played both betas and EQ2 easily 
 surpasses all expectations. The game runs well on medium systems, I do recommend having 1 gig of 
 ram though. The game can get choppy unless you use extreame performance settings which really makes 
 the game not look as good as it should.
  
  Questing and Loot are great. Enemies are consistantly different every zone you go to. Qeynos and 
 Freeport have their own styles and culture. You can tell in the first 5 minutes how Qeynos is different 
 from Freeport even in dialoge. The combat is done extreamly well. You have a lot of abilities and 
 spells at your dispossal so you never feel like all you do it point and attack. 
  
  The combat wheel is done well, but is not as easy to use like FFXI's renki. The spells all look 
 different and the enviroments are all unique.
  
  The only thing EQ2 is suffering from is server overload. SOE might have not anticipated that many 
 people in the first 2 days.. right now many of the servers are heavily loaded and causing lag throughout 
 the city zones. I recommend finding a server with less population to any new players. 
  
  Anyways, easily the best MMORPG to date and WoW holds very little in comparison. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaniah
Rating: 6.4
Date: Nov 10, 2004 9:13 pm PT
Review:  EQ2 is a very complex game. It's hard to describe it in a small review. I'll break it down to simplified 
 terms. It's a very complex game, difficult, and with plenaty of challenges. The instancing is a 
 problem, taking away the "persistent universe" feeling evident in all other MMOs. The overpopulation 
 in the small zones (even instanced) might get worked out.
  
  There's things to like, a very expansive world. Rich in detail. Breaking down the characters into 
 four base classes is good because it makes grouping easier. But, you'll still need all four! And, 
 the branching off of each class isn't very unique at this point.
  
  The graphics look good on high end PCs, but run terrible on anything but. Those low quality settings 
 look pretty bare, and run the game terribly.
  
  I think this game needs a few months. Are you hardcore into MMOs? Did you like EQ? This might do 
 the trick, but buyer beware. Things still need some polish, and fundimental game mechanics are 
 very similar to EQ. Death is harsh. Gameplay gets tough. Leveling is slow. It's sometimes difficult 
 to find/complete a quest. Good luck finding where you need to go (find NPC/enemy) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waggs
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2004 1:26 pm PT
Review:  The original everquest, known as EQlive is the most profitable MMO in history. By maintaining a 
 constant user base of 400,000 subscribers for a number of years, it remained the benchmark by which 
 other MMORPGS were judged. Everquest 2 takes what many loved about EQlive, namely the world's stories, 
 lore and history, treasure-hunting feel, great music, and gives it a casual-player friendly gameplay 
 overhall.
  
  The result is a game that is fun to play for 5 hours a week, 50 hours a week. Some features, such 
 as automatic corpse recovery after 3 real life days reward those who don't plan on playing everyday 
 and want to log out after they die. EQlive on the other hand, forced you to stay in game after 
 you died to recover your corpse, however many hours it took.
  
  Voices add a LOT to this game. Their intention is for every non-player character to have voice-acted 
 dialog. A few hours into the game, you will run itno your first NPC still missing voice-over, but 
 such NPCs are few and far between. It makes the story and quests much more interesting when they 
 are voice acted. And really, just easier to get through when you don't have to read.
  
  EQ2 is more quest driven than the first. As quests give loot (treasure) , xp, and often money. There 
 are lots of quests to do. many of them include killing things which gives you additional xp and 
 loot. 
  
  EQ2 has a much larger team behind it than star wars galaxies did. When there is an issue, there 
 are multiple programmers at their disposal they can get working on it fast.
  
  Combat itself is just plain fun. There are lots of satisfying BOOM and BAM type sounds for when 
 you hit stuff. It just gives you a satisfying crunch to whack and nuke your enemies.
  
  
  But what are the limitations?
  There is and will not be player-versus-player in any form. 
 
  
  The game is for mid-range systems and better. Think of a 2.0 ghz system with 512 megs of ram and 
 a 150 dollar graphics card as the minimum to play this game enjoyably.
  
  crafting, although more fun than any crafting in any MMO I've played, is unfinished. All the voice 
 over for crafting missions is missing, and during beta, me and other testers were unable to test 
 the highest levels of crafting. There were just aspects of crafting that were missing up until 
 the end of beta.
  
  Areas that are non-instanced and very crowded, such as the cities right now, are often laggy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitemt
Rating: 7.4
Date: Oct 29, 2005 8:10 pm PT
Review:  game gets old after a while i would play WOW if i was you. If you have the time game can be great 
 it does have amazing graphics. Long quests ect are the downside and alot you can not do with out 
 an amazing guild. If you are a 30+ hour a week player you will love it. played this game for a 
 year made it to lv 52 before leaving the game. Just to give you an idea. If you love everquest 
 you cant go wrong or if WOW is not your thing. This is where you want to be if you have not tryed 
 WOW go there first. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
