-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: EverQuest: Lost Dungeons of Norrath
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/everquestlostdungeonsofnorrath/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 14, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 8.1, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 177 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sony Online Entertainment
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Sep 8, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Lost Dungeons is clearly suited for dedicated EverQuest players, but it offers little or nothing 
 to bring new or past players into the fold. 

  Despite the presence of a growing number of competitors, 1999's EverQuest continues to be a powerhouse 
 among massively multiplayer online role-playing games. In some ways, the game's age is certainly 
 a limitation, as some of EverQuest's once-remarkable graphics look dated by today's standards, 
 and some aspects of its gameplay can seem antiquated. Yet, EverQuest's age is also to the game's 
 credit, in many ways. No other such game offers anywhere near as much content to explore as this 
 one does, which is probably why EverQuest retains many dedicated players after all these years. 
 The latest retail expansion pack for EverQuest, Lost Dungeons of Norrath, adds to the core tried-and-true 
 gameplay a dynamic element similar to what can be found in some other online RPGs. Furthermore, 
 the addition of "augmentations," items that may be used to enhance a character's precious gear 
 to make it even better, adds a desirable new type of loot to look out for. Nevertheless, though 
 Lost Dungeons is clearly suited for dedicated EverQuest players, it offers little or nothing to 
 bring new players into the fold or to lure back those who might have given up on EverQuest some 
 time ago. As such, it might have made more sense if this expansion were only available for purchase 
 online, like its predecessor, The Legacy of Ykesha.  

          Lost Dungeons introduces relatively bite-sized missions to EverQuest, which ensures that 
 player groups can always find somewhere to go and something to do.     

  Most notably, Lost Dungeons introduces the concept of zone instancing to EverQuest, by means of 
 the expansion's new "adventure" system. Similar to the randomly generated missions of games like 
 Anarchy Online and Star Wars Galaxies, adventures in Lost Dungeons are missions exclusively assigned 
 to the player groups who accept them. Player groups who accept an adventure have less than two 
 hours to complete it. While adventures start at specific points that have been added to some of 
 EverQuest's more popular zones (a waypoint on your compass is added to point you in their direction) , 
 once you cross these thresholds, you and your party will enter an instance of a dungeon that no 
 other players can get into. That means no more camping spawn points and no more crowding around 
 with a bunch of strangers, though some of the places at which adventures are assigned, the Wayfarers' 
 Camps, draw large numbers of players.  

  The dungeons themselves are not randomly generated, though there are dozens of them, featuring 
 five new graphical themes. By and large, they're the fairly straightforward dungeon crawls that 
 you'd probably expect. Though your objectives may differ from one adventure to the next -- you may 
 need to slay a particular creature, find something, or rescue someone -- they obviously boil down 
 to your party having to cut a swath through room after room of bad guys. Mobs in these lost dungeons 
 don't actually respawn, and since you have a time limit, you're compelled to press forward rather 
 than sit around -- this can inherently make some of these romps a bit more entertaining than a typical 
 afternoon in Norrath, though, after a while, you can imagine how the dungeon crawling can start 
 to feel quite repetitive in and of itself.  

  What you'll end up fighting in the lost dungeons depends on the experience level of your party 
 members (players between levels 20 and 65 may accept adventures) , which in theory ensures that 
 a suitable challenge is guaranteed. You also have the option of going on a "hard" adventure rather 
 than just a regular one, if you believe you can take on a greater-than-usual challenge. Adventures, 
 hard or not, are plenty rewarding in terms of experience and loot -- too much so in the opinion of 
 some hardcore fans who worked harder to get their characters to elite status. Adventures are also 
 designed to put most all the character classes to good use -- rogues, for instance, will be in demand 
 for their lock-picking and trap-detection skills, since Lost Dungeons introduces treasure chests 
 and other items that may be locked or trapped. By bringing the adventure to you, rather than making 
 you go out and look for it, Lost Dungeons changes one of the fundamental dynamics of EverQuest. 
 Then again, increasingly so over the past couple of years, EverQuest has allowed you to cut to 
 the chase and get right down to killing mobs. For better or worse, the early days of traveling 
 across and exploring the world of Norrath are pretty much long gone; so are the days of being impressed 
 at the sight of a high-level character.  

  The fact that these dungeons aren't randomized is one of the differences between EverQuest's implementation 
 of a mission generator and how other, similar games have done it already. Another difference is 
 that EverQuest's missions are available only to groups of four or more players. EverQuest has never 
 been a game to really endorse solo play, though some of the character classes have always been 
 viable on their own. Those who prefer soloing simply will not be able to accept any of the lost 
 dungeon adventures unless they find a group, though.  

  Finding a group is arguably somewhat easier these days than it used to be in EverQuest. On the 
 one hand, relatively new interface features have been added, which allow you to locate any other 
 players in a predefined range of experience levels who are also looking for groups; or, you may 
 search for groups looking for players. These player searches won't necessarily produce the results 
 that a relatively inexperienced player would hope for, though. Most EverQuest servers are filled 
 with characters who've reached or nearly reached their characters' level limit of 65, and they 
 won't so much as talk to newbie players and are filtering their chat windows to accept messages 
 only from their groups or from their guilds. So, as mentioned, Lost Dungeons really isn't ideal 
 for someone who isn't heavily vested in EverQuest already; most everyone who is has already purchased 
 this product.  

  These high-level players are also finding and using the new augmentations featured in Lost Dungeons. 
 These are essentially the same as the gems, runes, and jewels found in Blizzard's Diablo II -- magically 
 imbued trinkets that lend their properties to whichever item you attach them to. Augmentations 
 are intended for high-level players to further differentiate their equipment from other high-level 
 characters and to create another incentive to keep on playing, since once you've passed level 65, 
 you're no longer leveling up in any conventional way. Augmentations are varied and can be quite 
 powerful. Since high-level encounters in Lost Dungeons can be so difficult even for dozens of level-65 
 characters, the benefits afforded by these augmentations don't seem like an unfair advantage.  
 

  Organized groups of high-level players may also participate in special raids in Lost Dungeons, 
 which become available for each dungeon theme once you have completed a couple of adventures in 
 that theme. These raids, designed for 18 to 36 players, take several hours and are obviously even 
 more difficult than the standard adventures can be. They offer what EverQuest's designers believe 
 to be the most challenging content featured in the game, to date.  

          Lost Dungeons should keep high-level players busy, but it's not recommendable as a starting 
 point to EverQuest.     

  EverQuest has aged pretty well, graphically, for a 1999 game. Granted, that's because a lot of 
 the graphics were redone a couple of years ago with the Shadows of Luclin expansion pack. These 
 visuals continue to hold up well -- in fact, some of Lost Dungeons' new character models, environments, 
 and spell effects look at least as good as, if not better than, anything added to the game thus 
 far. However, the game still bogs down when many characters are in the vicinity, even on a system 
 well in excess of the recommended specs, which can make the game's fast-paced, high-level encounters 
 difficult to manage. Meanwhile, EverQuest's audio is nothing special, and never has been. A few 
 minutes' worth of symphonic music pieces is hardly sufficient given the kind of time this game 
 requires.  

  Available for $29, Lost Dungeons of Norrath could theoretically provide many dozens or even hundreds 
 of hours of gameplay to the dedicated EverQuest player. Indeed, it's very common to see players 
 looking for adventure parties shouting "LFA" on the game's chat channels, since these dungeons 
 effectively package a good-sized EverQuest experience into a more-manageable chunk than the notorious 
 eight-hour-or-longer marathon sessions the game is known for. So, the main feature introduced in 
 this expansion certainly seems to be popular among the game's audience, if only because most EverQuest 
 players, like most people, will always take the path of least resistance. Yet, these relatively 
 brief romps don't succeed in making EverQuest more recommendable than it already has been for those 
 who haven't played online RPGs lately or ever before. Despite some improvements to the interface 
 and to the in-game help system over the years, EverQuest continues to be a very time-consuming 
 and intimidating game to get into, or get back into, though as history has shown, it has the uncanny 
 ability to keep players glued not just for months, but years.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Anofalye
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  - Instancing.
  
  - Grouping contents and awesome rewards (they cut the last tier) .
  
  - Broken raiding (so kinda as a no raiding at all) .
  
  
  The dungeons where not only fun 
 and challenging, but they have awesome rewards that equal raid-gear... both in drop and merchant-purchase 
 (they cut some) .
  
  It was a HUGE step in the right direction. However, the devs backtrack after it and come back, 
 which will lead EQ to a slow but unavoidable decline. If you don't progress, you regress.
  
  
  It was the good time, it brough back a few friends to EQ and we have a great time... until 
 GoD. After GoD we switch MMOs and never come back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warfust
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 2, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  This expansion provided some fun new content for casual players of almost all levels and a new 
 place to EXP for the raiders. It also had a ranking system based on the number of missions attempted 
 and compelted.
  
  There was some nice gear for those that were not raid geared, and it provided both the new augment 
 system as well as some of the best augments available. There were a few better augments dropped 
 in the "raid" areas of the expansion, but the raids were considered too difficult and not worth 
 the effort for the items gained. As a result most raiding guilds ignored them save for bragging 
 rights. (As a memeber of a smaller family guild we were the first on the server to try one... we 
 made it to the second room after 3 hours) .
  
  The missions had different objectives, and all had time limits. While there were many different 
 maps for each area, once you had done enough missions it became very repetative. There are two 
 difficulty levels, with the easy ones being great for newer players and the hard setting being 
 much better for getting points towards the expansion items.
  
  It was nice to go back to the Original Everquest zones for the entrances to the missions, but that 
 also ment there was little else to do while attempting to for up a group. 
  
  While this expansion offered some new gear and augments, it took alot of time to get them and made 
 the quest for gear as repetative as camping a mob or farming an area.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: peeger
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 4, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  EQ has many expansions, and several of them I barely use and some I are a huge waste. This one 
 though, adds dungeons for groups to go into where it is there own enviroment, meaning the rest 
 of the eq world is not allowed in at that time. Very nice so you dont have people messing up your 
 missions. They also have very nice loot, and give special experience and allows to purchase unique 
 armors and gear that you can only purchase if you play the dungeons. Also, the experience in the 
 dungeons is some of the best in the game so its a great place to level your characters. Unlike 
 the other expansions that just add to the normal game, this adds a whole new way to play. It really 
 makes a nice way for players to learn how to hone their skills for large raids. It really forces 
 players to work together in the group, and has a great pace that is fun and exciting. My favorite 
 expansion to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 28, 2005 3:02 am PT
Review:  Everquest has been around for years and over these years many expansions have come out. While not 
 all of them are as remarkable as say Ruins of Kunark, they all have added a bit of flavor to the 
 Everquest formula. The last 2 expansions, Planes of power and Legacy of Ykesha have been complete 
 disapointments, but luckily Lost dungeons of norrath is a nice rebound. For starters, it offers 
 quests that players can go on if they only have a few hours or so to spare, that gives them rewards 
 and experience at the same time. This is something that no expansio has done yet and Everquest 
 is a very time demanding game, often making you play for 5 or more hours just to get the desired 
 experience, quest, or anything done. 
  
  Everquest lost dungeons of norrath is a great expansion for many reasons, but a really good reason 
 is the fact that it takes place in the original 3 continents of Everquest. The "old school EQ" 
 as some experienced players call it. This is great, because the original 3 continents are the best 
 there is in the Everquest world and as Everquest has branched out into many different continents 
 and expansions, it's nice to see one coming back to the original 3 where it all started. To get 
 to these dungeons, you have to go up to these group of NPC's (Non player characters) and basically 
 start up one of these small quests, you need at least 4 people in your party and you have only 
 30 minutes to get to the location, once you get there though, you have approximately 2 hours to 
 get through your LDON or (lost dungeons of norrath) quest before you automatically get warped out 
 of the dungeon. If you can complete it in enough time, you will get even more bonus points which 
 can be used to purchase new gear, spells, or weapons for your character.
  
  Another addition to this expansion is the ability to put augments into your armor and weapons. 
 Some armor/weapons will have these slots where you can put augments into them. Depending on the 
 piece of gear, it will give certain bonus stats to it, but can't be taken out and also makes the 
 item a no drop, meaning it can't be dropped on the ground, sold, or traded with another player. 
 The bad part of this is of course, you can't sell that piece of gear now, but if the augment can 
 fit into that piece of gear, it will become a lot better. Depending on the augment, some will give 
 you stats such as: +50 hit points or +10 strength. The more points you have, the better the augment. 
 For weapons, it's a bit different and you would have augments such as: +2 poison damage or +3 to 
 disease damage. So, the augments are a fine addition, although if you want to take out the augment, 
 you can't get it back, although if you take it out, then the item will become droppable again, 
 meaning you can sell or trade the item. 
  
  Everquest's graphics are definitely aging and this expansion shows. Although there is a notable 
 increase in the graphical clarity, it's still pretty bland and your environments are pretty uninteresting, 
 although just like every other Everquest expansion, graphics isn't the reason your going to play 
 this game.
  
  Everquest lost dungeons of norrath's camps where you can pick these quests up to go on an LDON 
 is found all over the original 3 continents, but only in those continents. There's 5 in all and 
 can be found in various places. Each of the camps you go has there own distinctive dungeon. For 
 isntance, the camp found in South Ro, is the swamp camp, so the dungeon there will be a swamp. 
 In East Commonlands, another zone, the camp there will be in a desert, so the Dungeon will look 
 like a desert. It's nice touches and each of the different Lost dungeons of norrath camps have 
 there own type of monsters. The swamp dungeon has lots of lizards and such while the desert dungeon 
 has lots of sand monsters.
  
  The sound in the game is even worse. No music really plays and the sound of a sword hitting your 
 foe or the spell being cast is extremely boring ot listen to. Just like every other expansion, 
 get ready to have your MP3 player or CD player ready, or turn your TV on.
  
  Everquest lost dungeons of norrath, unlike previous Everquest expansions, is perfect if you only 
 have a few hours to spare, plus you can rack up these Lost dungeons of norrath points and get some 
 huge items while also getting experience points. You can really tell that Sony made sure that all 
 Everquest players were covered in this expansion, not just the most hardcore and dedicated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarshipCoyote
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 20, 2003 10:46 am PT
Review:  LDoN is the newest installment of the ever growing Everquest family of expansions. I have been 
 playing the game for a while now, long enough to have one character nearly 58th level, nothing 
 compared to the diehards of the 65th level with over 200 AA points but hey I have my baron hood 
 so I have at least 6 AA points to my name. Even so I am a gamer of some experience on Everquest 
 and LDoN is one of the best expansions since Planes of Power. Some people complain that the levels 
 needed are to close, but this is only a minor set back. I can tell you from experience the dungeons 
 are graphically superb as far as EQ is concerned. The levels of difficulty are right this side 
 of impossible, if your group can do its job and has the dps (damage per second) it needs to defeat 
 your monster foes. Then you will be successful. I believe overall it gives a different type of 
 adventure that is normally found in EQ. I say its a welcome addition to EQ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boaster
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 16, 2003 9:56 am PT
Review:  LDON had me very excited. I've always loved Dungeon Crawls and this seemed like a great idea. In 
 general, LDON is very fun, when you actually play, but there are some things that are problematic. 
 Since other reviewers have pointed out the good things, I'll just say I agree with them rather 
 than pointing them out again.
  
  The not so good things:
  
  Groups must consist of players a lot closer in level than is required in regular Everquest. This 
 means getting into a group takes a lot longer than it should unless you are on of the "holy trinity" 
 (Warrior, Cleric, Enchanter) . Over time, when the novelty wears off and there are fewer people 
 looking for LDON groups, getting a group together will take even longer.
  
  There are 3 types of traps that can be disarmed by 3 different classes. Trying to detect a trap 
 will detonate it if you are not of the proper class to identify the type of traps, and can still 
 detonate it even if you are. This means there is a 2 in 3 chance of setting off any trap just by 
 trying to detect it. Also, the 90 minute time limit to get through the dungeon pretty much precludes 
 spending a lot of time trying to open crates and boxes.
  
  The time limit seems a bit unrealistic for higher level groups unless all members of those groups 
 have buffs and/or armor and weapons above their level. Dungeons can be completed with only minutes 
 to spare if everyone in the group has kei or aego, but using normal buffs means more downtime and 
 makes it almost impossible to finish.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zanetanos
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2003 8:08 pm PT
Review:  In my opnion this is one of the best if not the best expansion for EQ to date. It is extremely 
 large and it adds a whole new layer of gameplay to EQ. 
  
  For those of you who have played EQ and remember camping... forget that with LDoN, the days of 
 camping are over... At least in the LDoN zones. A new layer of each zone is created for each group 
 so that people can play at the same time so there is no need to camp. Also these dungeon crawls 
 are tailored to your group's level and extremely exciting. This adds so much to this game! Yes, 
 Ruins of Kunark, Shadows of Luclin, and Planes of Power were big but they all didn't really add 
 new gameplay options. This expansion does.
  
  If you want to get into EQ there is no better time then now. The EQ: Evolution box set is only 
 $30 and then you just have to buy LDoN which is another $30 or so which isn't bad and you have 
 all of the EQ content. Happy adventuring in the new zones of LDoN! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
