-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: EverQuest: The Ruins of Kunark
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/everquesttheruinsofkunark/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.9, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 373 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sony Online Entertainment
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Mar 31, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
As you explore the new continent of Kunark, it'll become increasingly clear to you that the expansion's 
 value is as immense as that of the original game. 

 Few games maintain such an avid fan following as Verant's online role-playing game EverQuest. That's 
 partly because Verant created an impressive game to begin with and also because Verant has consistently 
 appealed to its many dedicated subscribers, both by adding new gameplay features and also by adding 
 entire new regions to the game's already enormous world. As such, it's understandable why some 
 of EverQuest's more skeptical players felt as if the new expansion, The Ruins of Kunark, was a 
 ploy to milk its customers for more money for the same sort of additions they'd already been getting 
 as part of the package. But as you explore the new continent of Kunark, it'll become increasingly 
 clear to you that the expansion's value is as immense as that of the original game.  

 In addition to the huge continent, the expansion also introduces an interesting playable race and 
 scores of new monsters to fight and items to find. Furthermore, many of the new graphics in The 
 Ruins of Kunark looks noticeably better than in the original EverQuest, which isn't surprising 
 given that the expansion was published more than a year after EverQuest's early-1999 release. Kunark's 
 many indigenous life-forms look outstanding by EverQuest's own high standards, or by any others: 
 From conventional creatures like rhinos and scorpions, to stranger beings like the draconian Sarnak 
 and the ravenous nibblers, the sheer variety of Kunark's dozens of new monsters is certainly the 
 best thing about them.  

 Unfortunately, the improved graphics do have consequences: You're likely to experience a significantly 
 lower frame rate in Kunark's more densely populated zones than anywhere else in Norrath. Although 
 the expansion has higher system requirements than the rest of EverQuest does, and although the 
 frame rate can be improved by reducing the clipping plane so that you won't see as far into the 
 horizon, you'll still find that some parts of Kunark run slower than you'd like. Nevertheless, 
 the general improvement in the expansion's visual quality makes the frame-rate sacrifice worthwhile, 
 just as the new regions in Kunark help make the great-looking game look even better. Unfortunately, 
 there's little new sound in the game and no new music.   

 The expansion's new playable race, the Iksar, also look good. Newcomers to EverQuest may like the 
 Iksar because they look so unusual: They're snarling, hunched lizardmen with long, whipping tails. 
 The Iksar are inherently easier to start out with than most EverQuest races, not only because they 
 naturally regenerate their hit points faster than other races except trolls, but also because they're 
 inherently able to see in the dark, to run and swim quickly, and to forage food and drink. In addition, 
 the four zones outlying the Iksar's huge home city Cabilis are filled with many different types 
 of monsters to fight. These zones themselves are huge, varied, densely populated, and interconnected. 
 They look good and they're fun and dangerous to explore.  

 The Iksar will also appeal to veteran EverQuest players: Though they're an ancient and evil race, 
 and are hated in all other Norrathian cities, the Iksar's advantages and the well-designed zones 
 outside Cabilis let experienced players quickly advance through the first ten or 15 levels of the 
 game. That way they won't find themselves frustrated having to level up slowly to the point at 
 which they feel comfortable exploring the territory. And Kunark introduces a great many interesting 
 and powerful artifacts into the world of EverQuest - Verant claims the total number of new objects 
 is in the thousands - and many of these can only be wielded by the Iksar. In turn, the Iksar can't 
 actually wear a lot of Norrath's existing equipment, doubtless because of their unusual physique 
 - or to reduce twinking, in which high-level characters pass their powerful gear down to low-level 
 characters. Consequently, Iksar characters actually have to start from the ground up, which makes 
 them challenging but also refreshing to play. But the biggest incentive for experienced EverQuest 
 players to upgrade to The Ruins of Kunark is that the game raises the preexisting character level 
 cap from 50 up to 60. Getting a character to level 50 typically requires an investment of many 
 hundreds of hours spanning many months. And now, The Ruins of Kunark expansion is finally giving 
 those players a reason to keep going, and for a long time at that. That's because every playable 
 character class gets powerful new skills or spells over the course of the next ten levels after 
 50, while the new continent will offer challenges and rewards for high-level players looking to 
 reach even higher levels. Though a lot of the expansion's new content is designed for EverQuest's 
 most committed followers, there's also more than enough for new players to explore and discover. 
 Verant's designed the continent of Kunark as a standalone area in which Iksar players can stay 
 and fight from level one all the way up through 60.  

 Those experienced with EverQuest will appreciate many other aspects of Kunark that are much improved 
 over the original game. For instance, the city of Cabilis is much more detailed than most any other 
 city in Norrath. Most every single nonplayer character from guards to shopkeepers will speak with 
 and respond to you, and many of them will encourage you to accomplish quests for experience and 
 reward. The original high-level EverQuest zones have experienced a problem in which the most dedicated 
 players would camp out for hours waiting for particular creatures to spawn so that they could defeat 
 them and claim their valuable loot. Kunark's high-level zones help alleviate this problem by randomizing 
 which creatures drop particular items. You'll always face an equivalent challenge for the item, 
 and you'll still be able to find it in a particular location, but now there's a more active emphasis 
 on exploration and spontaneity than on sitting still waiting for the right monster to spawn when 
 you're looking for gear.  

 The new features contained in The Ruins of Kunark make it worthwhile for anyone who's dedicated 
 to playing EverQuest. It also marginally improves the game for players who wanted to see a solution 
 to some of its problems, and it refurbishes EverQuest for new players who haven't had a chance 
 to try it yet. Verant's addition of new servers should help keep the game from getting too crowded 
 when the new players join up and existing players renew their efforts, while the huge new landmass 
 contained in Kunark should help keep the specific zones from being jammed in the long run. Meanwhile, 
 because Verant has constantly added to and improved on EverQuest over the last year, it's clear 
 that its staff will continue to support the game and also to keep its vocal player community as 
 happy as possible.  

 Yet it's true that Kunark has flaws - the lack of sound effects, the slower frame rate, and even 
 the new print manual are all rather disappointing. Also, Verant originally ran into problems shipping 
 Kunark to its preorder customers, which was initially available for existing customers to purchase 
 online for a nominal fee. But the shipping problems at least have since been resolved, even as 
 the full game including the expansion has become available for retail purchase so that new players 
 who missed it the first time can now give the game a second chance. And they're well advised to 
 do so, as existing EverQuest players are strongly encouraged to upgrade, because thanks to The 
 Ruins of Kunark, it's evident that EverQuest is better than ever and once again the best online 
 role-playing game available.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RollNpc
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 28, 2005 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Everquest rocked, note I said ROCKED. I was a beta tester for this game and I have to say my first 
 impressions were that I was not very impressed. But, by the time I got beta 4 I was hooked. I rushed 
 out and bought my copy, pre-order of course, and loved it. I can remember to this day at level 
 23 camping the J-Boots in Neirak (sp) dungeon. My mage character was awesome so powerful, and hours, 
 upon hours, upon hours, upon.. You get the picture, of solo game play. I hate groups, always have. 
 I could take on anything after time, but also seemed to notice that my level 40 or so character 
 was starting to get weaker along with my pets. 
  SONY systematically destroyed the game. They killed all the power classes (mages, necros, and wizards) 
 and beefed the week and hybrid classes. They allowed stupid people to get away with stupid things, 
 yes you druid kiting sob. There really should have been an age requirement and a test to play this 
 game, but ultimately it is all about the $$s. I also forked out the cash for the expansions.
 
  
  Kunark was one of the first if I recall correctly: it added a few classes and a few new zone. This 
 was pretty darn good as the crowded world got a little less crowded with the introduction of these 
 new lands. A lot of people left the normal zones and went away. This expansion added a lot of new 
 goodies and textures.
  
  Velious, Luclin, Gates, and PoP all came out when I was getting out of the game. I spent a lot 
 of time in the Velious zones and really liked the stuff that came from there. The player ran auction 
 areas where nice too.
  
  I got out of the game a while back and then revisited it on player ran shards. That was nice as 
 it really allowed you to explore places and characters, along with weapons and items that the normal 
 person would never see. If you have a lot of time to kill, I mean 1000s of hours I would recommend 
 this game 100%. If you dont, just keep on going. This game requires an investment of time that 
 is beyond belief!!!!
  
  Oh, the graphics are awesome, the music and sounds are awesome the movements and animations are 
 awesome the monthly fees are not!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 5, 2005 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Everquest was truly one of the greatest games ever made and so they decided to make a follow up 
 to that outstanding game. Everquest the ruins of kunark is the first expansion for the game and 
 really expands the game in so many directions.
  
  For starters, the highest level you could get in Everquest was 55, now you can level up to 60. 
 More than that, you can now organize your guilds more freely and they added a whole new continent 
 to explore in. This content is called Kunark and in order to get there, you either have to be teleported 
 in by a druid or a wizrard, or take a boat through Timorous deep, one of the new zones and one 
 of the few zones in Kunark pretty much covered by water. 
  
  Everquest ruins of kunark has lots of new areas to explore and places to group. If your into doing 
 quests, they have a brand new quest system called epics, which is basically long quests for every 
 class that gives them a very high ended item that usually fits in there primary slot. These items 
 (or weapons for most classes) gives the class just what they need and is class only, so don't think 
 about trading or buying these, because there no drop, which means you have to go out and find it 
 yourself. These epics are also very tough to get and require finding key items in both the new 
 island of Kunark and the original 3 continents. 
  
  Sound wise this game is about as mediocre as it gets. Seriously, the sound in the game is just 
 as bad as the original Everquest. No voice acting, weak boring grunts and sword slashes and generic 
 music that plays makes this an expansion that will still keep the TV or music on while playing 
 this.
  
  Another big upgrade is the graphics. While the original Everquest had horrible character models 
 that were both drab and blocky and environments that needed some serious upgrades, Kunark features 
 all new character models that are much cleaner and the same great surroundings that fits every 
 zone. Everquest is basically the same with this new upgrade, but some tweaks here and there make 
 this an expansion to look at. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
