-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: EverQuest: The Shadows of Luclin
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/everquesttheshadowsofluclin/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 20, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.6, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 258 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sony Online Entertainment
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Dec 2, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Shadows of Luclin is easily the biggest, most significant EverQuest expansion yet, and considering 
 the massive size of the other expansions, that's no small feat. 

 EverQuest was originally released in 1999, nearly three years ago. It wasn't the first game of its 
 kind by any means, though it was the first to feature a fully 3D graphics engine. Its impressive 
 graphics drew many players to the game, who found in it a huge, detailed fantasy world and a surprisingly 
 complex combat system. In short, many of those who started playing EverQuest years ago are still 
 playing it now. A lot of these players have already purchased The Shadows of Luclin, EverQuest's 
 third retail expansion pack. The launch of the expansion's new content early this December didn't 
 go as smoothly as possible, much to these players' chagrin. Luclin also has some of the most demanding 
 system requirements of any PC game ever released. That's because it's a very ambitious expansion 
 to Verant's persistently popular online role-playing game. Not only does The Shadows of Luclin 
 give EverQuest a graphical overhaul, but it offers even more new content than either of the previous 
 EverQuest expansions -- including dozens of new adventure zones, a new playable race, a new character 
 class, new skills for high-level players, and more.           Luclin features an all-new character 
 race and an all-new class...    

  The Shadows of Luclin installs off of three CDs. The expansion requires a minimum of 256MB of RAM, 
 but 512MB is required for optimal performance. Regardless of whether you install the expansion, 
 EverQuest now requires Microsoft's DirectX 8.1 API, which isn't supported under the Windows 95 
 operating system. To this end, the publishers of EverQuest are actually offering Windows 95 users 
 a refund -- these users, should they choose to stick with their operating system, will no longer 
 be able to play EverQuest at all. The Shadows of Luclin also retails for $30 -- that's $10 more than 
 the previous two expansions cost EverQuest players. And of course, to keep playing the game, you 
 still have to keep paying the approximate $10 monthly fee. EverQuest has always required a serious 
 investment of both money and time -- and The Shadows of Luclin is no exception. Yet because of all 
 that it offers, this expansion manages to be very worthwhile. If your system cannot currently handle 
 it, or handle it well, Luclin's new features might just compel you to upgrade.   

  Structurally, The Shadows of Luclin is more like EverQuest's first expansion, The Ruins of Kunark, 
 than like the second, The Scars of Velious. Velious was specifically catered to experienced players 
 and consisted primarily of new adventure zones designed for high-level characters. On the other 
 hand, Kunark offered a wide range of zones, suitable both for beginners and experienced players 
 alike. Kunark also introduced an interesting, new lizardman race to EverQuest's already-impressive 
 assortment of more than a dozen player races. In that vein, The Shadows of Luclin introduces yet 
 another character race, a powerful feline species called the vah shir, which can be bards, rogues, 
 shamans, warriors, or beast lords -- the latter of which is a brand-new character class.   

  Verant has stated many times in the past that EverQuest had been balanced to support the game's 
 original 14 different character classes, and no more. Indeed, between all of these, there was no 
 shortage of variety. The dangerous environments of EverQuest have always demanded that you adventure 
 in groups, and Verant has spent years tinkering each class so that it offers important, distinct 
 contributions to any war party. So the addition of an all-new class is actually a big deal. The 
 beast lord is an interesting hybrid fighter/magic-user that gains the natural ability to summon 
 animal guardians to help it fight, as well as the power to cast spells specifically designed to 
 boost this animal companion's fighting abilities. The beast lord itself is also no pushover in 
 hand-to-hand combat and eventually acquires a variety of useful miscellaneous spells, such as healing 
 and the ubiquitous Spirit of Wolf. The beast lord's versatile abilities make it a good choice for 
 players who prefer not to group with others all the time or even for those who've never played 
 EverQuest before. A number of EverQuest's races -- barbarians, trolls, ogres, iksar, and now the 
 vah shir -- can be created as beast lords.           ... as well as plenty of tough, new foes to fight. 
    

  If you've devoted hundreds of hours to building up a high-level character (or maybe more than one) , 
 then perhaps you're not willing to retire it and start a beast lord just yet. Fortunately, Luclin 
 has something for you, too. Though Shadows of Luclin doesn't extend EverQuest's experience level 
 cap past 60, it does allow for characters of 51st level or above to earn powerful, new abilities 
 in place of experience levels. You can actually set the percentage of the experience points you 
 gain that you want to go into this alternate advancement pool. As you defeat high-level enemies, 
 you'll eventually gain special advancement points that let you do such things as permanently boost 
 your stats or your innate abilities, fundamentally improve your combat or magic skills, and much, 
 much more. There are a variety of general skills, class-specific skills, and archetypal skills 
 (for fighter classes or mage classes) for you to choose from. Some of the new high-level skills 
 seem extremely useful -- for instance, warriors can gain the ability to attack, or just taunt, every 
 creature within a radius of effect. Many such skills have prerequisite skills you must learn first. 
 At any rate, the opportunity for you to continue improving and specializing your high-level characters 
 should keep you occupied with your preexisting characters for months.   

  You don't need to reach level 51 before you can customize your character in Luclin. You can customize 
 him or her superficially thanks to the new character graphics. Previously, EverQuest let you choose 
 from a handful of different male or female faces for each race. Now, depending on the race, you 
 can change the hair style and color, optionally add facial hair, and change eye color, all independently 
 of the actual face you choose. The new character models themselves are noticeably much more detailed 
 than the original EverQuest models, especially their faces, with their clearly defined eyes, noses, 
 and mouths.    

 Some of the new models aren't necessarily a definitive improvement over their predecessors -- for 
 instance, you might prefer the stocky, distinctive ogres and trolls of the original EverQuest to 
 Luclin's more upright, more humanoid revisions. Most races look undeniably better now, though, 
 as do some of the other newly enhanced character models, such as those for magicians' summoned 
 elementals. Being able to get right up close, face-to-face, with another player character and see 
 the whites of his or her eyes is quite remarkable. Also, while different types of armor in the 
 original EverQuest merely changed the corresponding texture (or texture color) on the character, 
 in Luclin, different types of armor are fully 3D modeled. It's great to see characters looking 
 lean in lighter suits of armor or big and imposing in heavier types of protection.           Norrath 
 shines brightly over the fortress town of Katta Castellum.    

  The new character graphics aren't the only visual enhancement featured in Shadows of Luclin. The 
 expansion also provides enhanced, sharper textures and improved lighting effects for all of EverQuest's 
 countless environments. As a result, most preexisting EverQuest zones end up looking cleaner and 
 more colorful than before. However, don't expect to be wowed by EverQuest's scenery. The simple 
 geometry found in most zones still remains intact, so if not for the enhanced character art, EverQuest 
 wouldn't look much different after Luclin. Actually, the sight of the highly detailed characters 
 standing amid the sometimes plain-looking environments can be jarring -- all the more so because, 
 depending on how much RAM you have, the game will actually encourage you to pick and choose which 
 enhanced character models you want displayed. With 256MB of RAM, it's suggested you toggle on only 
 half of the new models. Even if you comply, you'll still find that the game's loading times will 
 seem considerably slower than before you installed Luclin. Fortunately, having the recommended 
 amount of RAM improves this considerably, although you still might find the game pausing briefly 
 at times when a wide variety of player races are onscreen simultaneously -- this could be detrimental 
 during large raids. At any rate, seeing a new character standing next to an old one can be rather 
 bizarre, though you'll be thankful for the ability to custom-toggle the new graphics to suit either 
 your system or your tastes.   

  While the new graphics and the new race and class may be the most obvious enhancements in Luclin, 
 it's the addition of all the new zones that will likely provide the most longevity. All told, Luclin 
 introduces about 30 new zones to the already-enormous world of EverQuest. In fact, if there were 
 any question before, then by now it should be plainly apparent that EverQuest's world is by far 
 the largest found in any game. Luclin's new zones are exciting, interesting, and fraught with new 
 types of danger. Luclin itself is actually the moon of EverQuest's world of Norrath, so expect 
 to see some decidedly unusual sights in these new lands, many of which are cast in the pale glow 
 of Norrath shining down from the sky. Luclin's huge outdoor areas are colorful and diverse. Some 
 are craggy, harsh lands speckled with organized enemy encampments. Other areas are filled with 
 forests of giant mushrooms. The serenely beautiful twilight sea provides even more contrast to 
 Luclin's settings, and civilized territories -- including Shar Vahl, the Egyptian-style vah shir 
 home city, and Katta Castellum, a human settlement filled with gothic cathedrals -- are particularly 
 impressive.   

  Needless to say, some of the challenges in these new zones are tremendous and should satisfy even 
 the most seasoned EverQuest players. Many of Luclin's new zones also let you embark on involving 
 new quests, which sometimes require complex interactions with nonplayer characters. You might have 
 to follow them to different places or fight alongside them in battle, rather than simply talk to 
 them and give them things. Luclin's other vaunted feature is the addition of horses that you can 
 purchase and ride around. These range from very expensive to extremely expensive and essentially 
 just let you move slightly faster than you normally could, besides just being a status symbol. 
 The manual promises an enhanced interface, but this hasn't been implemented yet, except in the 
 improved patching utility that launches the program. There are some new sound effects in The Shadows 
 of Luclin, though the game could have benefited from an audio overhaul on the scale of what was 
 done with the graphics.           Luclin should keep new and old players occupied for a long time. 
    

  Perhaps that's asking for too much -- but when you get a lot, it's easy to want more. Fortunately, 
 if it's more you want, then EverQuest is your game. Luclin has a huge amount of new content itself, 
 but it's not the only thing that's happened to EverQuest since the release of Velious last year -- new 
 zones, new treasures, and other enhancements still continue to be added to EverQuest with regularity. 
 By now, there are approximately 40 different game servers running, including a role-playing-preferred 
 server that offers an unusual twist on some of EverQuest's basic rules, various player-vs.-player-focused 
 servers, and a server localized for European players. EverQuest's gameplay has been carefully refined 
 over the years. The game still fundamentally encourages you to form groups and hunker down and 
 fight monsters for hours on end. But the way many of its zones balance risk and reward, the way 
 that various character classes complement each other in battle, and the sheer variety found in 
 the gameworld are all things that EverQuest does uniquely well. It's not hard to see why so many 
 players still devote so much of their time and energy to the game.   

  The Shadows of Luclin is easily the biggest, most significant EverQuest expansion yet, and considering 
 the massive size of the other expansions, that's no small feat. You could criticize it for its 
 turbulent and perhaps premature launch, but that's already water under the bridge. You could also 
 knock it for its steep system requirements, but in due time, that will be water under the bridge 
 as well. The fact is this expansion ensures the livelihood of a majority of EverQuest players for 
 yet another long stretch of time; that is, it ensures EverQuest will remain very competitive with 
 any other games in its category for the foreseeable future -- for at least another year. And though 
 it will be a costly investment for players who aren't already playing EverQuest, Luclin is even 
 impressive enough that it will likely bring a lot of new players to the game, most of whom will 
 be genuinely surprised at how great EverQuest still is after all this time.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RollNpc
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 28, 2005 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Everquest rocked, note I said ROCKED. I was a beta tester for this game and I have to say my first 
 impressions were that I was not very impressed. But, by the time I got beta 4 I was hooked. I rushed 
 out and bought my copy, pre-order of course, and loved it. I can remember to this day at level 
 23 camping the J-Boots in Neirak (sp) dungeon. My mage character was awesome so powerful, and hours, 
 upon hours, upon hours, upon.. You get the picture, of solo game play. I hate groups, always have. 
 I could take on anything after time, but also seemed to notice that my level 40 or so character 
 was starting to get weaker along with my pets. 
  SONY systematically destroyed the game. They killed all the power classes (mages, necros, and wizards) 
 and beefed the week and hybrid classes. They allowed stupid people to get away with stupid things, 
 yes you druid kiting sob. There really should have been an age requirement and a test to play this 
 game, but ultimately it is all about the $$s. I also forked out the cash for the expansions.
 
  
  Kunark was one of the first if I recall correctly: it added a few classes and a few new zone. This 
 was pretty darn good as the crowded world got a little less crowded with the introduction of these 
 new lands. A lot of people left the normal zones and went away. This expansion added a lot of new 
 goodies and textures.
  
  Velious, Luclin, Gates, and PoP all came out when I was getting out of the game. I spent a lot 
 of time in the Velious zones and really liked the stuff that came from there. The player ran auction 
 areas where nice too.
  
  I got out of the game a while back and then revisited it on player ran shards. That was nice as 
 it really allowed you to explore places and characters, along with weapons and items that the normal 
 person would never see. If you have a lot of time to kill, I mean 1000s of hours I would recommend 
 this game 100%. If you dont, just keep on going. This game requires an investment of time that 
 is beyond belief!!!!
  
  Oh, the graphics are awesome, the music and sounds are awesome the movements and animations are 
 awesome the monthly fees are not!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 5, 2005 8:39 pm PT
Review:  This being Everquest's 3rd expansion, many people might think that Everquest has lost it's luster, 
 but that's not true. The new expansion might have really pushed the game to being quite a bit easier, 
 but it's still a very hard game.
  
  Everquest the shadows of luclin is basically a new continent that is on a moon. Although you never 
 really feel like your on a moon, this is an expansion for all levels and classes. It features tons 
 of new content.
  
  The biggest new addition is the Vah shir, which is basically a cat person. Although it sounds wacky, 
 they make excellent shamans and are probably the best beastlords, which is the new class. The beastlord 
 is basically a hybrid that mixes the shaman skills with the warrior. They are great because they 
 can slow mobs down and have some huge damage points with their pets.
  
  Another big addition is the bazaar. This zone is nothing but trading. On every server of the game, 
 there was always one zone that people went to, to sell or buy goods, but now they can all come 
 to the bazaar and do that. It's truly is a great zone, because you can set up shop and people can 
 buy items from you while your sleeping. It's a very competitive zone because you have this chart 
 that shows what people are selling and buying and it's very tough to get a good price, especially 
 since you want to have the lowest price so it gets sold. Some people might get desperate for money 
 and pay extra for something, but for the most part, you can find what you want at a reasonable 
 price, although occasionally some people will try and scam you by selling something at a really 
 high price. 
  
  Luclin, unlike the previous expansion, Scars of velious, feels more like an expansion because you 
 now have a continent that is available for all classes and races and you don't have to worry about 
 being just level 30+ like you did with the Scars of velious.
  
  This new expansion supports pretty much everyone, you can now travel around faster to with a zone 
 called The nexus. This is basically a zone that can teleport you in and out of spires that you 
 used in the last expansion. They all lead here to The nexus and you can then take them to another 
 part of Norrath. This is a great addition, especially since traveling can be pretty tough.
  
  The graphics of the game is no slouch either. They have updated the graphics and the result 
 looks pretty fantastic. Character models are much cleaner and so isn't the environments, some things 
 still look pretty bland, but hey, it looks a lot better than with the Scars of velious.
  
  Since Luclin supports all races and classes, you now have new zones to raid for both higher level 
 classes and smaller classes. These new zones work really well and adds on even better gear than 
 what Scars of velious or Ruins of kunark had to offer. It makes the game somewhat easier, but it's 
 still a pretty tough game.
  
  Sound in the game is still bad, I'm starting to sound like a broken record, but just listen to 
 your music or watch TV. Still, this expansion is downright fantastic and really shows that this 
 game is going in the right direction. If you haven't gotten hooked with Everquest yet, then by 
 all means purchase all of the expansions, even this one since it supports all levels! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tupid_06
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 12, 2005 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Everquest was a game that I was introduced to by a friend. The game is very addicting (I've played 
 for a year, quit for a year, played for a year, and now I've quit for 2 years) . This expansion 
 really improved the graphics of the game. A new race called the Va Shir was introduced... along 
 with one of the best classes in the game... the Beastlord. If you own Everquest this is a must have 
 expansion. The only problems with getting the expension are increased lag in particular zones. 
 This can get VERY annoying. Overall... I still think this is the best expansion to date for the 
 Everquest series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paganstar
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 20, 2004 8:15 am PT
Review:  This was the first expansion that made any real attempt at making EQ1 any better. It improved the 
 graphic models of the characters a great deal as well as some improvement to sound and the engine 
 as a whole. The Bazaar was a good idea to try and aeleviate some of the choke points where people 
 sit and traded but in the end it was just way to laggy. Overall the game was still just a treadmill 
 and not too much fun for me to play unless I was in a large guild then it was just paying $13.95 
 a month for a chat room. no thanks. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
