-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: EverQuest: The Planes of Power
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/everquesttheplanesofpower/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  8, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 8.3, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 212 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sony Online Entertainment
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Oct 28, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
EverQuest: The Planes of Power serves as a reasonably good starting point for the game's continuous 
 influx of new players but is mostly geared toward EverQuest's dedicated, hard-core following.

 When EverQuest first appeared on store shelves in early 1999, it quickly garnered a lot of attention 
 for being the first graphically impressive, fully 3D online role-playing game. The game's ambitious 
 design and huge scope also earned it considerable acclaim, including GameSpot's Game of the Year 
 award for that year. Now the game is up to its fourth official expansion pack in EverQuest: The 
 Planes of Power, which will serve as a reasonably good starting point for the game's continuous 
 influx of new players but is mostly geared toward EverQuest's dedicated, hard-core following. At 
 any rate, the release of The Planes of Power is a chance to take another close look at EverQuest 
 and consider how it's come along since last year's expansion, The Shadows of Luclin. In short, 
 The Planes of Power demonstrates once again that EverQuest is aging gracefully, despite the presence 
 of competition from newer, similar games and despite the threat of numerous, more technically advanced 
 online RPGs on the horizon.           Serious EverQuest players will find numerous new challenges 
 in The Planes of Power.    

  Fundamentally, EverQuest is still a highly time-consuming game in which players spend most of their 
 time fighting monsters, preferably with groups of other players. Exploring the game's massive world 
 of Norrath, increasing in power, finding new and better equipment, and interacting with all the 
 thousands of other people playing the game are the reasons why EverQuest is so famously -- or perhaps 
 infamously -- addictive. The game's numerous character classes are designed to complement each other 
 in battle and have undergone so many balance tweaks and adjustments over the years that they're 
 certainly all viable and interesting in their own right by now. And the game's tactical combat, 
 especially at high levels, has some real depth to it, which is part of why so many people have 
 stuck with EverQuest for so long. However, in many ways the game has changed a lot in the past 
 couple of years. Simply put, EverQuest has lightened up a little -- over time, the designers have 
 tried to make the entire experience more user-friendly and less punishing, and to some extent, 
 they've succeeded. Recognizing that the game is most intriguing for high-level players, the designers 
 have effectively changed the game so that getting up into high-level territory is now easier than 
 it used to be.   

  The retail version of The Planes of Power includes not just the new expansion, but also the core 
 version of EverQuest, so that this new release is all you need to start playing EverQuest if you've 
 never bought another product in the series. The game's box actually does a fairly thorough job 
 of rattling off the expansion's most important points. Most notably, there are 20 new zones to 
 explore in The Planes of Power, the majority of which are intended for groups of high-level players. 
 One of these zones, the plane of knowledge, not only serves as a gateway into the other new zones, 
 but is also a central hub for the entire world of Norrath, allowing all players to readily teleport 
 between Norrath's major cities and some other key areas. The idea of all players being able to 
 quickly and easily travel between all of EverQuest's main regions used to be unthinkable, since 
 physically traveling across the countryside was actually part of the game's appeal. But as the 
 size of Norrath has increased, the developers have aptly recognized that players' time with the 
 game can be spent in much better ways than in transit from one point to another. Hence, to facilitate 
 travel and the meeting of minds, there's the plane of knowledge.           The plane of knowledge 
 lets all EverQuest players easily teleport across all of Norrath's key locations.    

  Most of the other zones are actually part of a central quest that challenges players to tackle 
 the new areas one after another; clearly a change of pace for a game that's always been extremely 
 open-ended and never really story-driven. At any rate, these zones, plus the ones added in each 
 of the game's previous three expansions, plus all the ones from the original EverQuest, plus all 
 the ones that have been provided as free downloads over the years, make for what has to be the 
 single biggest gameworld ever. The fact that all the new areas in The Planes of Power are bizarre 
 locations like the plane of war and the plane of justice -- places where Norrath's gods dwell -- just 
 goes to prove that the designers have long since exploited most every conventional idea for use 
 in the game and are now just trying to imagine entirely new things. Though most of the new zones 
 are highly dangerous, even these are friendlier in some respects than how EverQuest used to be, 
 in that they have designated areas where the corpses of fallen player characters reappear, out 
 of harm's way.     

 Besides all the new zones, The Planes of Power of course introduces a lot of new stuff to go into 
 them. The game's player level cap has risen from 60 to 65, and the alternate advancement system 
 introduced in last year's expansion has been fleshed out with even more high-level skills that 
 suitably allow EverQuest's elite to customize and differentiate their characters. Also, dozens 
 of new types of monsters, weapons, armor pieces, spells, and trade skill items have been introduced 
 in this expansion, and hard-core EverQuest players are no doubt busy searching for all these things 
 and systematically cataloging them in the vast encyclopedic online resource databases about the 
 game. Either that or they're fighting their way through all the new planes, alongside dozens of 
 their fellow guild members.           More high-level skills and an increased level cap should 
 keep hard-core players busy for many more months.    

  Some of the other features introduced not strictly as part of The Planes of Power but in preparation 
 for the release of this new product are a new "raid" system as well as a much more polished user 
 interface. Large-scale player raids have been a part of EverQuest for years, but only now does 
 the game include actual mechanics to facilitate these massive-scale brawls. Normally, up to six 
 players can band together in EverQuest, but many of the game's tougher encounters -- in fact, many 
 of its most recently added areas -- require many more players than that in order to put so much as 
 a dent in the opposition. The raid system now lets far more than just six players band together 
 and earn group experience while conducting huge battles, though experience points are still earned 
 fastest by six-player groups.   

  As for the game's interface, The Planes of Power uses fairly intuitive semitransparent windows 
 much like what you're using on your operating system right now. This new interface certainly looks 
 better, and it's laid out more neatly and is fully customizable, but it can still take a while 
 for a new player (or even a returning one) to get used to it. Even so, between this new interface 
 and the graphical overhaul introduced in last year's Shadows of Luclin expansion, it's impressive 
 to see how EverQuest has managed to keep with the times. It's not the most technically outstanding 
 game anymore, but it's held up much, much better than most games from 1999.           A new interface 
 and numerous other changes have helped keep EverQuest from getting stale.    

  Though the graphics in The Planes of Power are more or less in line with the recent content upgrades 
 that the game has received, one notable improvement in this expansion is its new musical score. 
 There are now some impressively produced orchestral (and orchestral-sounding) tunes that replace 
 EverQuest's opening theme and combat themes, as well as new music for the game's numerous new zones. 
 Longtime EverQuest players have probably long since stopped listening to the game's audio, but 
 The Planes of Power gives good reason to turn the volume back up.   

  Some things about EverQuest have never changed. The game is still undergoing significant, frequent 
 balance tweaks to all its countless features -- something that tends to frustrate a portion of the 
 game's player base while exciting the rest. The game still demands a significant investment of 
 time, money, and effort on the part of all of its dedicated players. And, perhaps above all, EverQuest 
 can still be very rewarding. The original game's designers probably never could have foreseen not 
 just the remarkable success that EverQuest has enjoyed these past three years, but also the way 
 in which the game has grown and kept up with the times. EverQuest's players, meanwhile, truly have 
 helped shape the game's unique world, as evidenced by most all the ways in which the game has evolved, 
 most recently in The Planes of Power.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Apocolypse666
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 29, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  It's Good, Took a major part of Wizards/Druids Transporting Away: (, and Now Being Evil is alot Easier 
 to Play With Plane Of Knowledge:) , But I Like This Expansion Very Much:) I remember in the beginning 
 when Everquest first came out and i started to play How Hard it was being evil with very few Safe 
 havens (City Wise) , Now with Plane of Knowledge You can get almost anything without working on the 
 Faction for Hours On end:) . I have Been Playing for years Now, and This Expansion has alot to offer 
 and the Planes are extremely fun to hunt on. With the Transporting Ablities of the Books That this 
 expansion enabled I think for new Players learning the game and Hunting is alot Easier than what 
 it was back in the old days, but Easier Doesn't mean more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RollNpc
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 28, 2005 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Everquest rocked, note I said ROCKED. I was a beta tester for this game and I have to say my first 
 impressions were that I was not very impressed. But, by the time I got beta 4 I was hooked. I rushed 
 out and bought my copy, pre-order of course, and loved it. I can remember to this day at level 
 23 camping the J-Boots in Neirak (sp) dungeon. My mage character was awesome so powerful, and hours, 
 upon hours, upon hours, upon.. You get the picture, of solo game play. I hate groups, always have. 
 I could take on anything after time, but also seemed to notice that my level 40 or so character 
 was starting to get weaker along with my pets. 
  SONY systematically destroyed the game. They killed all the power classes (mages, necros, and wizards) 
 and beefed the week and hybrid classes. They allowed stupid people to get away with stupid things, 
 yes you druid kiting sob. There really should have been an age requirement and a test to play this 
 game, but ultimately it is all about the $$s. I also forked out the cash for the expansions.
 
  
  Kunark was one of the first if I recall correctly: it added a few classes and a few new zone. This 
 was pretty darn good as the crowded world got a little less crowded with the introduction of these 
 new lands. A lot of people left the normal zones and went away. This expansion added a lot of new 
 goodies and textures.
  
  Velious, Luclin, Gates, and PoP all came out when I was getting out of the game. I spent a lot 
 of time in the Velious zones and really liked the stuff that came from there. The player ran auction 
 areas where nice too.
  
  I got out of the game a while back and then revisited it on player ran shards. That was nice as 
 it really allowed you to explore places and characters, along with weapons and items that the normal 
 person would never see. If you have a lot of time to kill, I mean 1000s of hours I would recommend 
 this game 100%. If you dont, just keep on going. This game requires an investment of time that 
 is beyond belief!!!!
  
  Oh, the graphics are awesome, the music and sounds are awesome the movements and animations are 
 awesome the monthly fees are not!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2005 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Everquest planes of power is the 4th expansion for Everquest and actually, this is the first time 
 when it seems the designers and developers have finially lost it. Planes of power takes place on 
 this huge island where the gods dwell in there zones. Each plane has a specific purpose, such as 
 the Plane of Disease, where there's disease infested monsters and lots of pollution. Although it 
 seems pretty bizarre that there would be zones like this, it's true and really, in the end it works.
 
  
  Planes of power works a bit differently than previous Everquest entries. You now have a somewhat 
 cheap zone called Plane of Knowledge that takes you to every single city based zone you need to 
 go. This makes the game pretty easy to run around in and you don't have to find a druid or a wizard 
 to gate you around. This zone also serves as a place where you can go to the library of the city 
 and buy pretty much every spell you need for your class up to about level 50. Some spells though 
 you have to really work for to find and you can't find it in the library, but still you can find 
 pretty much what you need without having to go snooping around for it. You can also upgrade your 
 skill points for every single class in this zone, so basically there's no reason to go back to 
 your hometown like in previous versions.
  
  Lets talk about the Planes themselves though, which is surprisingly difficult to unlock, but there 
 are about a dozen planes and all and in order to even reach Plane of tranquility, the zone that 
 is connected to each of these planes, you need to be level 46. Basically though right when you 
 enter, you immediately unlock the first tier of planes, which is the easiest ones, but trust me 
 they have quite a few challenges. As you progress, you have to kill certain gods to unlock later 
 tiers and in doing this, you can then keep fighting harder and harder monsters until your fighting 
 level 70 monsters. Each plane has a specific purpose, such as one that is covered by nothing but 
 water, codenamed: Plane of water. It's very difficutly to figure out what you've unlocked and what 
 you haven't, but some NPC's (non player characters) will help you in Plane of knowledge. Even then 
 it's pretty tough to figure out what's going on.
  
  You can also go up to level 65 now, so you can get those last 5 levels if you want. Lastly, you 
 can level up your AA points, which stands for Alternate advancement, once you get level 51, you 
 can start doing these which gives you special powers such as runnig faster, getting better stats, 
 or just having lots and lots of special abilities. Depending on your class they work like this: 
 General is for every single class and is mainly used for getting better stats, Archtype is for 
 that type of class, such as the healing type, druids, shamans, and clerics, all get abilities like 
 faster heals, and then the specific class, which is just for your class. The cleric for instance, 
 can get a resurrection spell that does 100% where you don't lose any experience when you die. You 
 also have an add on with Planes of power, that gives you more stuff to have. So even after you 
 get level 65, you are far from finishing this game.
  
  Planes of power gear is so high up that it is downright pointless to even want to go to any other 
 continent. Once you get level 46, just hop onto Plane of Tranquility and just forget about every 
 other zone, except maybe going to the bazaar to sell or buy items.
  
  The graphics in the game have been updated and once again, they have cleaned up the bland looking 
 environments and character models even more. The sound is still nothing to look at though and it's 
 very disappointing that they don't do something about this.
  
  Overall, I can't say that Planes of power is the perfect step for Everquest. Granted, it's for 
 the hardcore players only, but being able to go into the Planes that the gods are in is just bizarre 
 and I think the developers have finially strayed to far from Everquest's old school roots that 
 made it such a fun and enjoyable game to start out with.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33tBudDha
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 30, 2005 7:50 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  
  Value: Planes of Power introduced to Everquest the greatest raid experience on the market. Never 
 before has there been such a vast number of raid level encounters all linking together demanding 
 the most out of the uber guilds of Everquest. Planes of Power introduced the first real test of 
 a guilds ability to seperate themselves from the rest of the players. Offering a heirarchy of zones 
 to defeate and gods to kill Planes of Power provided hundreds of hours of game fun. The other expansions 
 in EQ and the rest of the MMORPG community at the time didn't have a definitive "end" that the 
 Planes of Power expansion offerred. Once gamers defeated the highest level of this expansion, The 
 Plane of Time, they considered Everquest to have been beaten. SOE could have handled the implimentation 
 of PoP better but they did an adequate job none-the-less.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in PoP changed in that the mobs and bosses demanded more in tactics and 
 less in stats. Now it was a race to get the most hit points and mana as well as finding ways to 
 defeate the gods you worship instead of farming resist gear to fight the AoE's in NToV and so on. 
 Raids became as common as xp groups. Class roles became more defined.
  
  Guild oriented: The Planes of Power expansion was clearly aimed at pleasing and rewarding guilds. 
 This seperated the power gaming guilds from the mom and pop guilds. For power gamers this expansion 
 could not have been much better.
  
  The bad: 
  
  Guild oriented: The Planes of Power expansion was clearly aimed at pleasing and rewarding guilds. 
 Players unguilded had zero chance to experience the bulk of what this expansion offerred. This 
 is a bad thing for gamers who were part-timers or had no affiliation with a guild. This also seperated 
 the power gaming guilds from the mom and pop guilds. For individual gamer this expansion was not 
 to hot. This is both a good and a bad aspect to PoP.
  
  The ugly:
  
  Unfinished zones: SOE released the PoP and it wasn't exactly finished. SOE didn't expect guilds 
 to be able to fly through PoP at the speed some of them did and it caused some issues later on.
 
  
  Bugged boss encounters: Like every expansion SOE has released the encounters with many bosses were 
 loaded with bugs and pathings issues. They were eventually fixed but getting your raid that spent 
 the past 3 hours working towards a boss encounter wiped out because the boss fell under the ground 
 and can't be hit is a bit frustraiting.
  
  Conslusion:
  
  The Planes of Power took MMORPG's to the next level by focusing on guilds over individual players. 
 PoP seperated the power gaming guilds from the rest of the bunch and clearly defined who was the 
 best of the best. To sport a tag like Triton, Afterlife, Fires of Heaven and so on meant you were 
 among the elite of EQ. This didn't really occur in any MMORPG until this point. PoP is a must play 
 for any MMORPG gamer. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
