-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: EverQuest II: Echoes of Faydwer
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/everquest2expansion/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A vast new continent offers tons of new quests to solve and creatures to slay.
 new belief system adds powerful new spells and abilities.
 newly added Fae race is attractive and fun to play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Fae cannot yet betray to Freeport, so youre stuck playing as good or neutral.
 graphics engine is as sluggish as ever.
 PVP arenas are mostly unchanged.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 29, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.4, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 316 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sony Online Entertainment
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Nov 13, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Echoes of Faydwer is EverQuest II's most appealing expansion yet, thanks to a new continent, a new 
 race, and a wealth of new content to round them out. 

  Massively multiplayer online expansions often forego appealing to new players, focusing instead 
 on adding content aimed at appeasing high-level veterans. This is part of what makes Echoes of 
 Faydwer EverQuest II's most engaging addition to date. The new expansion is loaded with new content, 
 which is mostly aimed at welcoming new players and giving experts a fresh look at the same old 
 Norrath. There's a new race, a new continent, a new belief system, and a goodly amount of lore 
 to sort through as well. However, experienced players will likely feel a little slighted by some 
 of the additions. There is no increase to level cap, and the higher stat caps and increased raid 
 difficulty don't compensate for it. But for new players and those looking to create a new character, 
 Echoes of Faydwer is a fine addition to the EverQuest universe.  

          Didn't we see this one on Battlebots?     

  It's also brimming with lore, much of which 
 fills gaps between the original EverQuest and EverQuest II. The butterfly-winged Fae have rebuilt 
 the city of Kelethin on the lost continent of Faydark, just as clockwork creatures infiltrate the 
 underground city of Ak'Anon. EverQuest lore has always been rich, if a bit haphazard; thus, the 
 new bits of backstory and tradition are a good fit. The Fae are charming and enjoyable to play 
 as, and casting powerful, destructive spells as such dainty porcelain creatures is always fun. 
 You cannot choose an evil class when creating a Fae and must start in the race's home city of Kelethin. 
 However, other good or neutral characters can opt to start in Kelethin. As of now, the Fae cannot 
 betray to Freeport, but players itching to join the forces of evil should note that Sony Online 
 Entertainment plans to add the ability in a future update.  

  The treetop city of Kelethin is a delight to behold, thanks to clever architecture and a captivating 
 visual design. But it's not all about enchanted forests and twinkles of fairy dust. As you venture 
 further into Faydark, you'll encounter giant mechanical beasts, steaming geysers, looming windmills, 
 and decaying stretches of wilderness. You could easily reach level 70 without ever straying from 
 the continent, which should give you an idea of how much there really is to see. There are a lot 
 of quests, each one granted by a non-player character with a flourish and a goodly amount of voice-over. 
 It's a lot to keep you busy, and you should expect a solid time both soloing and grouping at lower 
 levels and against standard monsters.  

  In fact, the expansion is all about stuff -- lots of stuff. There's nothing evolutionary about any 
 of the new content, but there's just so much of it that explorer types are bound to stay happy, 
 while higher-level players should enjoy the new heroic and raid instances. Boat transport, pretty 
 new horses, higher-level armor, and other goodies await, all without really altering the gameplay 
 in any significant way. Yet the new stuff is undoubtedly compelling, whether it's exploring the 
 new deity quests, trying out the new cloaks, or pursuing the pumpkin-headed horseman.  

  All of the holdover elements from EverQuest II and its expansions are accounted for: arcane augmentations, 
 achievements, and player-versus-player arenas. It's disappointing that no new arenas or arena champions 
 seem to have been supplied. If you preferred that method of PVP content, you won't find any fresh 
 settings. However, two tradeskills have been added: tinkering and transmuting. Tinkerers put together 
 some quite interesting gadgets in line with the clockwork theme of the new continent. The items 
 have a variety of offensive and defensive uses, with great names like "troll snot flinger" and 
 "izitedibilforpepl probe." If you choose transmuting as your secondary tradeskill, you can turn 
 items into their raw elements. In turn, these elements become adornments, which are used to enhance 
 weapons and armor.  

  In the original EverQuest, you were allowed to align with a deity. Echoes of Faydwer brings back 
 this concept with a belief system that is complete with blessings and miracles. You'll first choose 
 a deity, and once you finish the related quests, you'll earn abilities granted based on your tier. 
 In the case of our Tunare-aligned Fae, that meant healing skills and summons, among other choices. 
 However, you are limited to one blessing and one miracle at any given time. Casting a miracle is 
 a dramatic event, not just because of its powerful effect but also because of the theatrics of 
 particles and colors that accompany it. It's also an interesting story development, since the gods 
 departed the land between EverQuest and the sequel. Are the faith-centric abilities an omen of 
 upcoming divine intervention? It's a fascinating possibility and more fuel for Norrath's ever-deepening 
 lore.  

  However, Echoes of Faydwer has its share of issues. Higher-level players will find that raids and 
 dungeons are more taxing than before. For example, with the new instances come better drops. Blessings 
 and miracles also add another new element that needed to be accounted for -- all without increasing 
 level cap. This means you need to further tweak your characters and groupings. Players who worked 
 hard for their current loot will be disappointed to find it no longer does the job, particularly 
 when they revisit instances they've adventured through previously. Of course, bugs are a familiar 
 issue in MMO games, and Faydwer is no exception. Our Fae conjuror got stuck in a Djinn bottle without 
 the possibility of escape at one point. Because of another glitch, our wood elf could not complete 
 Kelethin citizenship, even after meeting all the requirements.  

          Acorns aren't just for squirrels -- they're for transport.     

  It's also disappointing 
 that two years later, the EverQuest II engine is still sluggish. Turning on shadows brings even 
 the best machines to their knees. Yet even with the performance issues, the game still looks quite 
 good. The visuals are showing signs of age, with some flat textures and jagged edges. Character 
 models and animations still remain top-notch, and the new areas are beautifully rendered. The sound 
 design is mostly unchanged, and Norrath is filled with noise from every possible angle. Sometimes 
 it's filled with too much noise. As much as there is to like about the Fae, the cutesy-poo voice-overs 
 are grating to the point of self-parody. But it's hard to fault the sonic barrage too much because 
 it does a creditable job of making the world breathe.  

  Echoes of Faydwer doesn't just pack in all of the new content, though: It includes the Kingdom 
 of Sky and Desert of Flames expansions as well. It goes without saying that if you haven't played 
 EverQuest II, it's a great value. And if you already play? Well, the expansion has a load of new 
 quests and characters, from gliding fairies to ticking motorized monstrosities. Echoes of Faydwer 
 is EverQuest II's most likable expansion, thanks to its friendly new race and expansive continent, 
 which makes it worth a look by both newcomers and veterans.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gamhuin
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  I'm an old EverQuest veteran and played the game avidly up until about the time of the Plane of 
 Power expansion. I started playing EverQuest II the day it hit the shelves and I've been playing 
 on and off ever since. I've had mixed feelings about the game since launch, but overall enjoyed 
 the game, which kept me coming back after I got tired of playing others. The expansions thus far 
 have improved the game considerably, but none shine as brightly as Echoes of Faydwer. Bringing 
 another part of the old world of EverQuest back was a good move, and better yet was the well balanced 
 blend of old nostalgia mixed with new exciting twists. Everywhere I go in Faydwer brings back memories 
 of the old days, but in a new light. Many of the zones, quests, characters and items are directly 
 out of or related to the old EverQuest world. When I traveled to Kelethin and heard the familiar 
 music underlying the soundtrack I was brought back. And when I saw the great wizard spires of Greater 
 Faydark, keeping to the old style design from EverQuest I nearly cried it brought back so many 
 fond memories (yes, I was a wizard) . They have done a superb job with this new &amp; old blend 
 and I look forward to seeing what they have in store for us in the next expansion, Rise of Kunark.
 
  This expansions also added many new things in addition to the usual zone, quest, item, collections 
 and other usual additions of an expansion. We have the new fae race and a new major city, Kelethin 
 as well as the optional addition that followed later of the evil fae race and another major city, 
 Neriak (yay for another familiar place brought back) . There was an additional achievement point 
 tree specific to class and more achievement points to spend. Echoes of Faydwer offers adventure 
 for all levels, from 1 to 70. They also added two new trade skills that you can take in addition 
 to your existing skills, transmuting and tinkering. I have really enjoyed this expansion and it 
 has done a great job of re-invigorating me in playing the game. Thank you to the EverQuest II team 
 for the great work and I look forward to my return to Kunark after many years and wherever else 
 you take me from there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkhand7
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  This game can be summed up in one word. Perfect.
  I have played many mmorpgs in the past. Of every one that I played, I always felt that they fell 
 a bit short. There was always something missing, no matter what content they kept adding. It just 
 never felt right. That was until I picked up a copy of EQ 2. Being severely jaded with the whole 
 mmo scene, I said why not.
  I took a chance, and it payed off, big time. All though, with every new game install, it took what 
 felt like forever to update. With such a huge game (can we say approx. 10 GB?) , it felt like there 
 was going to be something to this game. I was right.
  Right from the start up, I was impressed. With a HUGE race selection, even bigger profession selection, 
 and greatly detailed character models, I was instantly hooked. I was a little skeptical abot EverQuest 
 games in the past (something about a game that never ends) , but now I am proud to be a EverCrack 
 addict.
  So much stunning details, from the scenery, to texture mapping. Vibrant colors.
  Great missions. Weapons and armor galore. Replayability (oh god, the replayability) . This game 
 has it all.
  For all those nay-sayers, pick up a copy and try for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sher30kayla
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 9, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Then came this expansion!! I love it! And it's not so much the race and new area that I like, it's 
 all the little stuff they changed that made this game much more enjoyable for me. I do miss some 
 of the little quests, but the crafting is much easier and no more Citizenship quest! And you are 
 who you wanted to be from the beginning! I like this game much more than WoW because of the little 
 extras in content. Even the stupid collections you find is fun :D I recommend this game to anyone 
 wanting something you can play for a long, long time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lyric1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 16, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I'll leave the extremely detailed descriptions to other reviewers, who've already taken the time 
 to write really good &amp; long descriptions of EQII's Echoes of Faydwer.
  I've been a big Fan/Player of EQ &amp; now the EQ2 line of MMORPGs, for some time now.
  But for 
 me, it's Echoes that really seems to have pulled all the other expansions together, into a very 
 playable, highly enjoyable &amp; immersive online experience.
  
  For a lot of other Folks coming to EQ2 from WoW, this has been just what they were looking for: 
 something that could match the beautiful graphics &amp; playability they found so appealing in 
 WoW --- without the extremely juvenile player base, that continues to ruin WoW for them.
  
  For the rest of us, who've known &amp; loved the EQ &amp; EQ2 worlds --- EoF is the icing on the 
 cake.
  I'm loving the whole immersion factor of playing as a Fae. It's an intense &amp; beautiful place 
 to explore. Try having to float your small self under the vines &amp; over the sticks... sticks 
 that seem like giant logs to Us small Fae.
  The music is scored beautifully, &amp; really adds to the overall experience.
  
  There's so 
 much more to explore; &amp; the great thing about the entire EQ2 Universe is the commitment of 
 the Game Devs to make sure that all of EQ2 is a living &amp; breathing environment --- constantly 
 evolving for the better.
  For those of Us who've enjoyed EQ2 for a while now ---it just keeps getting better &amp; better.
 
  
  For new Players, there's so much to learn about &amp; explore. You won't be easily bored; &amp; 
 hooking up with a New Player-Friendly Guild will surely make your whole EQ2 experience that much 
 more Fun.
  That being said -- Yes, the Solo Player will also find plenty of content to keep You happy &amp; 
 involved, as well.
  
  EQ2's Echoes of Faydwer is a beautiful, ever-evolving accomplishment from a Team of dedicated &amp; 
 gifted Devs; &amp; it's still so much fun for the rest of Us.... &amp; afterall is said &amp; done, 
 isn't that supposed to be the reason we all love &amp; play mmorpgs to begin with? We're always 
 on the lookout for what's readily available, on a very grand scale, in EQ2's Echoes of Faydwer --- 
 the F-U-N Factor.
  
  To Novice &amp; Veteran Players alike: HAVE FUN in EoF! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: listlurker
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 31, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  The Echoes of Faydwer EverQuest II expansion is the best expansion yet -- the one that makes EverQuest 
 II one of the most fun fantasy MMO games out there.
  
  Suddenly, Norrath is a huge game world, with lots to see, and many, many quests, plus things to 
 do at every level. This is not World of WarCraft, where the world is actually relatively small, 
 and much of the time you can feel as if your character is on rails , forced to follow a specific 
 quest-chain to progress and to see the world.
  
  In EQ2, you can pick up more quests than you could possibly complete in a short span, and it's 
 your choice which ones you pursue, and which you delete.
  
  If you want to have a Tolkien moment and just start randomly hiking through parts unknown, you 
 can do that -- just beware of the evils lurking in unknown places :-)
  
  As others have said, the EQ2 devs have finally banished the worst game bugs which kept many, including 
 myself, from playing this game regularly before now. Not only that, but the devs have also streamlined 
 gameplay at various points, so that you now spend more time actually playing, and less time navigating 
 the game-system.
  
  On the downside, EQ2 still requires a lot of system power to look as good as it does. This is not 
 a game to play with significantly older computer hardware, and old drivers installed. I'm currently 
 running EQ2 with a Sapphire-brand Radeon X800 GTO2 video card and 1 GB RAM (for those who are interested, 
 the RAM seemed to make more difference to gameplay than the vidcard) and while it plays well, I 
 can tell it would play better if I had even more RAM and a newer video card. Keep your video drivers 
 up to date!
  
  EQ2 can sometimes be hard to play solo, if you're the attack first, think later type, because enemies 
 sometimes appear in groups, and/or will come to one another's assistance if they notice the battle. 
 You've got to play tough, and to play smart, to play EQ2 solo. Also, don't be afraid to ask for 
 help. This isn't World of WarCraft; players are generally friendly for the most part. Guilds are 
 plentiful, for those of you who'd rather adventure with friends.
  
  Lastly, you should find a good fansite for EQ2 when you start playing (allakhazam (dot) com is 
 a good example) to give you guidance when you get stuck. Certain EQ2 quests can be very open-ended 
 ( Find person X ) and the world is large. Sites like Allakhazam can help you if you're confused 
 or frustrated.
  
  As long as you keep these things in mind, Everquest II can be a grand high-fantasy gaming experience. 
 Since Echoes of Faydwer is an all-in-one pack containing EverQuest II and all its expansions including 
 Faydwer (the best one) , it's a great place to begin exploring and experiencing the world of Norrath. 
 It also comes with a free month of playing time for new accounts.
  
  With Echoes of Faydwer, I now think Everquest II is the most enjoyable fantasy MMO out there. Why 
 not come see what you think? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Endeavors000
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  I must say, reading about this expansion, however long ago, I put my reserves on hold for a sake 
 SOE had put there heart, mind and soul into this game. Then again thinking back to the first expansions 
 EVER in Everquest, Velious and Kunark, I thought they might blow it and create content and experience 
 for high level toons. Well, it's time to tip my hat, although they did release 2 expansions that 
 did cater to the more experienced player they nailed it with this expansion. The lush familiarity 
 of Faydwer will knock your Journeymen Boots right off your feet. Although not everything they said 
 is open as of now, prominently the zone I've been looking forward to the most, The Estate of Unrest. 
 Although there is rumor it will be up on the next live update. I think that deserves a WOOT! . 
 While I haven't had too much time playing the NEW class in the New starting area, I must say I 
 think it's a tremendous pick, and bold at that, to pick fairy's for the playable. Being a fairy 
 makes much more sense to me then being a Cat, the Vash'an, or a Frog, the Frogglok. Great animation 
 went into the Fay also. Now while I think this is a great game I'm not going to look away from 
 it's down side. First. While I said it was great content for all levels I still think it caters 
 the the higher level. While no game has been able to perfect this method of expanding I think SOE 
 does a fair job at that. Second. Another expansion with waiting. When Kingdom of sky was released 
 the only way to get there was to wait for the portal. Not zone in when you want but wait. In EoF, 
 you must wait for, this should bring memories, a boat. I couldn't stand the waiting aspect of this 
 is Everquest 1 and still can't. Big downfall of SoE's part.
  
  So overall my outlook for this game is great. Very big and very exciting for the experienced player 
 and new. Familiarity is the key to this game and being a huge fan of the game from way back when 
 this is a smash hit for non WOW er's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellswrath99
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  The idea of an EQ2 expansion has been received with trepidation since Desert of Flames came out 
 and turned everything upside down. Echoes of Faydwer, however, shows just how great an expansion 
 can be.
  
  To start off with, the level cap was not raised. While a whole new set of Alternate Achievement 
 (AA) points was put into place (giving the capped people something to work on) , the lack of having 
 to grind out another 10 levels was a welcome change for the majority of the community. Instead 
 of grinding, many are out exploring new zones for fun, doing one of the 5 new Heritage Quests (HQ's) , 
 or starting up a Fae character and just having a good time.
  
  The Fae are unbelievably fun to play. They are stocked with perks that make even the oldest players 
 want to roll a new Fae toon. From gliding to increased jump to graphical appeal, this race is worth 
 looking into.
  
  Those who like questing received a huge number of truly entertaining quests to embark on, from 
 attempting new HQs to controlling a pet clockwork via remote in order to dismantle some other clockwork 
 mobs (one of my favorites in Steamfont Mountains) . The NPC voice interaction is extensive and well 
 done and so many quests were full of originality. I was truly amazed.
  
  They also addressed many of the deep seated concerns that have been present since DoF revamped 
 many of the classes. Not only did the expansion fix many of these issues, but they are actively 
 fixing most of the issues that are left, rather than ignoring them or slowly adjusting. The change 
 is refreshing to long time players. Not to mention that the expansion came relatively free of bugs. 
 Especially for such an ambitious addition to the game world.
  
  The new zones are truly beautiful. Each has it's own appeal, but all of them show a great deal 
 of thought placed into every detail.
  
  Lastly, they added the ability to choose a deity, allowing one more method to customize your character.
 
  
  Overall I couldn't be happier with this expansion. It's great to watch server population rise as 
 word gets out about EoF! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarac2003
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 7, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  The new expansion has expanded Norrath. Characters can now wear cloaks with their guild symbols, 
 which can make a warrior really a warrior. There is also a whole new race to play called the Fae, 
 which are kinda big fairies. They may sound dull but they have the ability of safe fall, so jump 
 off a 500 foot cliff. The robots from EQ1, have returned to us, making them pets for us. The new 
 lands are great, but the graphics still hasn't approved, although they have the best graphics out 
 of any MMO. They also added a new system, when you get a full set of armor you get special items. 
 If you are EQ2 fan , don't forget to pick this expansion up, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugo116
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 7, 2006 12:51 am PT
Review:  I've been playing MMO's / MUD's for well on 15 years now. I've seen games come and go, seen the 
 hits and the misses..
  
  But NEVER have I seen a game recover so much respect in one shot as I have WITH EQ II and EoF. 
 To be sure, some of the mechanics and gameplay adjustments have come about because of the big frozen 
 brother, but that shouldn't detract from the fact that SOE has a winner here.
  
  To keep it short, solo play is extremely fun. Content filled, interesting, and easily accessed. 
 The tougher challenges are there for those who want to have at them (Heritage, instances etc.) 
 but you ALWAYS have something to do. Be it soloing, crafting (another solid system) or running 
 with groups / raids. This isn't even touching on the guild level / writ system (Which is unmatched 
 by ANY MMO to date)
  
  As many have said before, any MMO fan would be doing themselves a disservice by not giving this 
 a shot. Sure, we all have our thoughts about the producers, but set game politics aside and play 
 games because they are enjoyable.
  
  To SOE, I hope this is the beginning of a new trend for your products, and I think I speak for 
 many when I say that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: os008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This was a very good move by SOE, they did this expansion the right way, wish they did so since 
 release.
  
  First, zoning is reduced a LOT, which is the first thing i would give SOE a thumbs up for, it was 
 known that EQ2 had a stupid and annoying zoning system.
  
  The Quests r better now, with a continious story line, and nice flow to them.
  
  I didn't get 
 the bad feeling the original part gave me when i was low level, i felt i was struggling and bored 
 a bit, now i don't even feel the transition from being a n00b to the harder areas.
  
  Combat gives a good XP boost, Quests give a very nice AA boost too, the new AA trees r very nice, 
 i think levelling is at a good pace, but i haven't tried grouping and doing Heroics yet, the difficulty 
 is just about right for soloing.
  
  Very nice scenery and beautiful design, felt the difference between the original and this one.
 
  
  The size of the map is a big plus for this expansion, and not so much lag though a lot of the time 
 there're 100+ users in the main zone.
  
  Overall, much much better than what SOE has done so far.
  
  One thing that annoys me, and makes 
 me feel that SOE is cheap :P, the character slots, come on, only 6?! any MMO out there, EVEN EQ1, 
 gives 10+ PER server, hope they fix it soon.
  
  I played 1000+ hours on the original and 24+ on this one (Pre-ordered but started 2 days ago) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkyPanther
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 28, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Due to bad game mechanics, like group debt, no class uniqueness, and no racial cities.
  
  After EOF came out I thought Id give EQ2 another try (in the mean while I was playing WOW) , and 
 I must say a lot of wrongs (in my eyes) have been righted. No more group debt, the new starting 
 city for the fae is really great ( its actually not in theme with one color tone, which is what 
 Qeynos and Freeport seem to have in common)
  There is no more Archtype class stupidity, you start as the class you want to play.. etc... and 
 they added the two best dungeons from old school EQ... Unrest, and Mistmoore. All in all, if you 
 hated EQ2, give it another try and either start a Fae, or a Wood Elf in Greater Fay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhajduk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  As far as value goes this is easily the most cost-effective expansion pack released by its producer 
 (Sony Online Entertainment) to date. The retail version includes not only all three expansion packs 
 released for Everquest 2, but also a mini-helicopter as a pet for your home.
  
  In Echoes of Faydwer you can expect the same high standard as both of the other expansion packs 
 thusfar ('desert of flames' and 'kingdom of sky') . In fact you can expect more. This expansion 
 pack not only adds a new land to visit with your wizened warlock or pious paladin but also a new 
 race, the fae, along with several other features.
  
  The fae are in themselves practically an entire new game. If you choose to create a Fae you will 
 start in the new home city of 'Kethelin' (which as fans of the Norrath games will know is a treetop 
 city typically inhabited by the elves) . The Fae are a winged race but they do not fly so much as 
 hover slightly off the ground. However this does not mean that their wings' animation are any less 
 advanced, contrarily they are beautifully crafted, creating a mesmerising realistic flow as can 
 be expected of such delicate butterfly-esque extensions. As a Fae you will go through an entirely 
 new training course which is in no way based upon either of the other factions' very similar courses.
 
  
  However it is not just Fae that can access the new zones. Your existing characters need not feel 
 left out as they too can travel to the treetop city of Kethelin and battle all new foes such as 
 the Bugbear and access a wide variety of new zones. There is literally something for everyone!
 
  
  So in short this game is very worth the money as it will not only present you with an opportunity 
 to acquire all of the expansion packs for one very reasonable price, but will also offer you a 
 brand new tree of quests to your ongoing adventure. The quest continues! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdturtle13
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 17, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  It's been soooo long since I killed an aqua-goblin in butcherblock, or camped the chessboard. Faydwer 
 is back! Not only does this expansion bring back Greater and Lesser Faydark, Butcherblock, Steamfont, 
 Klick'Anon, Mistmoor, etc... but includes all expansions to date, so it also brings back the Desert 
 of Ro, Oasis of Marr, etc... This game is finally beginning to feel more like EverQuest again. 
 I must warn that I had many problems with lag in this game with a 2.0 GHz Athlon XP and 256MB/256Graphics 
 with 1gig of RAM, until I upgraded to a AthlonX2 dual core 4600 processor, and I still get some 
 lag. The game is much more enjoyable and better looking with a very powerful setup. My only complaint 
 is that some of the new zones have an absolutely horrible design and are painful to try and find 
 your way from point A to point B. Somebody went completely overboard when designing obstacles in 
 these zones, and obviously has no understanding of the word accessible . I have been enjoying this 
 game constantly since World of Warcraft has gone completely downhill with technical issues and 
 lack of content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 15, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  Echoes of Faydwer is by far the biggest EQ2 expansion yet, and seriously improves the game, and 
 especially improves upon the previous expansions, Desert of Flames and Kingdom of Sky.
  
  There is so much new content added here. There are plenty of new zones for players 1-70, 50 new 
 AA points, a new diety worshiping system, 2 new seconday tradeskills, and more. At first I thought 
 EQ2 was a little plain and boring, but this game has improved so much, that it is now a superb 
 MMO. The graphics and music really stand out. The graphics in the new zones are just beautiful. 
 There is so much more detail then there was before. So many nooks and crannys, and places to explore. 
 There are so many secret areas in this expansion, and places to uncover, which is quite an improvement 
 for the game.
  
  The music is simply some of the best music I have ever heard in an MMO. This is another example 
 of how the game has improved. It's magical, enchanting, and memorable, 3 things any good RPG should 
 have.
  
  The only problem with this expansion, is that it makes the old world before the expansion, look 
 rather plain. The improvement from the old world, to this expansion, is blatenly obvious when you 
 see it, and play it. It's almost like 2 separate games.
  
  If you started playing EQ2 a while back, and didn't like it, you are not alone. This is a whole 
 new game now, however. There are so many things to do, and the game world is so beautiful, that 
 there has never been a better time to play this game again, or for the first time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shaun62
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this expansion to go live awhile. This expansion has it all. New starting 
 city, new race, more quests. If you are a fan of MMO's then you need to buy this game. I got to 
 be part of the beta testing for this expansion and loved it. What I really thought was a nice touch 
 was the music. It really draws you in to the game. The graphics are superb, as usual. They have 
 also added a lot of new low level content and items to the game. Go out and buy this game, I hope 
 to see you all in the game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
