-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: EverQuest: Gates of Discord
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/eqgatesofdiscord/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 22, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 7.5, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 132 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sony Online Entertainment
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Feb 9, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While hardcore players have naturally purchased this expansion already, its value to more-casual 
 (let alone new) EverQuest players is very limited. 

  Since Sony Online's venerable online role-playing game EverQuest launched five years ago, it's 
 been updated countless times, most notably by what's now a grand total of seven different expansion 
 packs (six of them retail products and one only available for paid download) . Most recently, these 
 add-ons have been hitting at the rather rapid-fire pace of one every six months. The latest is 
 Gates of Discord, which features 20 new adventure zones, the new berserker character class, dozens 
 of new alternative advancement skills for high-level characters, and more. This expansion, like 
 most EverQuest content additions of the past several years, is geared squarely toward very experienced 
 players (who report that the new zones in Gates are some of the most challenging yet and reveal 
 that the encounters therein are some of the most demanding, in terms of careful teamwork among 
 well-balanced player groups) . And while hardcore players have naturally purchased this expansion 
 already, its value to more-casual (let alone new) EverQuest players is very limited.  

          Gates of Discord is the seventh EverQuest expansion pack, and it features some of the most 
 dangerous new adventure zones yet.     

  The appeal to new players lies solely in the fact that Gates of Discord features the first new 
 EverQuest character class since the late 2001 Shadows of Luclin expansion added the beastlord. 
 However, the new berserker really isn't that enticing. Many EverQuest players argue that even Luclin's 
 beastlord has yet to fit in snuggly with the more-than-a-dozen original character classes, and 
 the addition of yet another class hasn't really energized the game either. The new berserkers aren't 
 full-on tanks, like warriors, mostly because they're limited to chain armor, but they start out 
 with pretty good melee combat skills and the ability to summon throwing axes. They'll ostensibly 
 fill a supporting combat role, kind of like EverQuest's rangers. Still, considering that the world 
 of EverQuest has been designed primarily so that warriors (who soak up damage) , clerics (who heal 
 said damage) , and enchanters (whose crowd-control magic keeps things manageable) can always be 
 in high demand among player groups, the berserker class doesn't really distinguish itself. Besides, 
 players who opt to play as a berserker will be shut out of Gates of Discord's other content for 
 a long, long time until they reach a sufficiently high level. Also, the fact that you can play 
 as a barbarian berserker seems a little redundant, doesn't it?  

  For what it's worth, the designers of EverQuest have made some efforts in these past couple of 
 years to make the game more accessible to new players than it used to be. However, if anything, 
 they've gone a little overboard. The new EverQuest player, upon entering the game for the first 
 time after creating his or her character, is bombarded with multiple, simultaneous help pop-up 
 windows, as though he or she just triggered a self-destruct sequence. These are certainly informative 
 but aren't user-friendly either -- and the game's interface is still cluttered with nonintuitive 
 little icons. The game engine itself, which was overhauled in the Shadows of Luclin expansion pack, 
 still runs sluggishly, even on high-end systems. This is especially true of areas where many players 
 congregate, such as in the Luclin bazaar or in some of the new wayfarer camps that were introduced 
 in the previous expansion, Lost Dungeons of Norrath. EverQuest is holding steady with more than 
 400,000 subscribers, but given that there's a lot of churn as players come and go, it's unfortunate 
 that the game is still catering to those who already know how to play it. And Gates of Discord 
 is no exception.  

  The EverQuest elite will discover that, among Gates of Discord's 20 new zones comprising the newly 
 discovered continent of Taelosia, 10 are standard, and 10 are "instanced" zones like those of Lost 
 Dungeons of Norrath; such zones are not randomly generated but guarantee groups of players a fresh 
 challenge whenever they get into one of these. The structure of the expansion's zones is pretty 
 hardcore. You arrive on Taelosia in a port city in a zone called the Abysmal Sea, which is a safe 
 haven and a hub for plying various trade skills. From here, you can venture toward a wayfarers 
 camp to get to the instanced zones, or you can plunge into Taelosia through numerous, dangerous 
 zones.  

          If you're a hardcore EQ addict, then you already have Gates of Discord. If you're not, 
 then you don't need it.     

  Gates of Discord also introduces a new tribute system, which is a thinly veiled means by which 
 the designers can slow the inflation of EverQuest's economy, by inviting players to part with their 
 old items at their characters' home cities in exchange for some temporary bonuses to their characters' 
 stats or abilities. Since the tribute system is a hypothetical solution to an in-game issue that 
 affects players regardless of whether they have the Gates of Discord expansion, it's a little odd 
 that it's being touted as part of this add-on. There's also a new leadership experience system, 
 by means of which leaders of groups or raids can direct a percentage of their experience points 
 to go into a special pool that grants these leaders some useful, new abilities. Some of these new 
 leadership abilities are certainly valuable to the most experienced guild members of EverQuest, 
 and they create yet another reward system so that they can continue fighting for experience points 
 and not just more loot.  

  The expansion also features a reported 20 new character models for the various new foes of Taelosia, 
 new alternate advancement skills to allow high-level characters to further differentiate themselves 
 in battle with little perks, and new weapons, items, trade skill recipes, and spells. With the 
 purchase of this $30 expansion, you also get an in-game item -- a special staff -- and the retail package 
 includes a neat, little trinket representing this staff. But this is hardly necessary, and neither 
 is the presence of Gates of Discord on store shelves. Hardcore EverQuest players would probably 
 find it more convenient to download an expansion pack such as this. And everyone else who isn't 
 already deeply enthralled by Sony Online's addictive game need not bother.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Warfust
Rating: 5.1
Date: May 2, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  For many, this expasion was what pushed them to try a new game. It was originally designed and 
 tested for a level70 cap, but that never occured and SOE made no changes to reflect that before 
 release.
  
  The zones, while large and fairly well designed in structure, where very difficult to travel in. 
 Random see invisable mobs and long runs made having a class that could invis with you a must, slowing 
 group creation and forming.
  
  The mob difficuly was high, with well rounded resists being a must. The expansion ended up catering 
 to only the most well geared and to classes that could kite kills so that they could avoid a large 
 portion of the procced spells.
  
  It was also a major deviation from the original Everquest theme, with alien like NPC models and 
 an unclear storyline. The high fantasy feeling almost dissapeared as we fought mobs fro another 
 dimension that did more damage to lower geared players with spell procs than melee damage.
  
  Progression was partly group based and partly raid based. In the end it offered little to the 
 casual player until the level cap was raised the following expansion.
  
  This is a good buy for the hard core raider, if only to keep with the guild and get the new AA 
 points. Otherwise this was one of the most frustrating and broken content filled expasions to date. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peeger
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 4, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I am not sure what they were thinking at this point. I think they were starting to run out of new 
 ideas, and taking any good ones and trying to save them for EQ2, but this expansion really didnt 
 add anything much to the overall gameplay. Mostly useless garbage. The few good ideas, well they 
 really dont add up to a paid expansion. Like adding some high level skills is nice, but not real 
 $$$ nice! This should have been a free bee. The added zones, well I still dont know what they are 
 for, and I went there to see what was going on, I was the only one in the zone so I am guessing 
 nobody knows what to do there, lol. This may have been the beginning of the decline of EQ, which 
 was one of the best games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RollNpc
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 28, 2005 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Everquest rocked, note I said ROCKED. I was a beta tester for this game and I have to say my first 
 impressions were that I was not very impressed. But, by the time I got beta 4 I was hooked. I rushed 
 out and bought my copy, pre-order of course, and loved it. I can remember to this day at level 
 23 camping the J-Boots in Neirak (sp) dungeon. My mage character was awesome so powerful, and hours, 
 upon hours, upon hours, upon.. You get the picture, of solo game play. I hate groups, always have. 
 I could take on anything after time, but also seemed to notice that my level 40 or so character 
 was starting to get weaker along with my pets. 
  SONY systematically destroyed the game. They killed all the power classes (mages, necros, and wizards) 
 and beefed the week and hybrid classes. They allowed stupid people to get away with stupid things, 
 yes you druid kiting sob. There really should have been an age requirement and a test to play this 
 game, but ultimately it is all about the $$s. I also forked out the cash for the expansions.
 
  
  Kunark was one of the first if I recall correctly: it added a few classes and a few new zone. This 
 was pretty darn good as the crowded world got a little less crowded with the introduction of these 
 new lands. A lot of people left the normal zones and went away. This expansion added a lot of new 
 goodies and textures.
  
  Velious, Luclin, Gates, and PoP all came out when I was getting out of the game. I spent a lot 
 of time in the Velious zones and really liked the stuff that came from there. The player ran auction 
 areas where nice too.
  
  I got out of the game a while back and then revisited it on player ran shards. That was nice as 
 it really allowed you to explore places and characters, along with weapons and items that the normal 
 person would never see. If you have a lot of time to kill, I mean 1000s of hours I would recommend 
 this game 100%. If you dont, just keep on going. This game requires an investment of time that 
 is beyond belief!!!!
  
  Oh, the graphics are awesome, the music and sounds are awesome the movements and animations are 
 awesome the monthly fees are not!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 28, 2005 3:40 am PT
Review:  Everquest is now seeing it's 7th expansion and with the fantastic Lost dungeons of norrath, Gates 
 of discord has a lot to be desired. For starters, it's a lot like Planes of power, mainly because 
 it only will appeal to those of the higher class or willing to go on a daring adventure and the 
 biggest problem is that Everquest has now become so big that it's tough to enjoy anything with 
 an expansion coming out every half a year. 
  
  Gates of discord is kind of an add on with Planes of power. For those who have gotten pretty much 
 everything there is to get out of those zones, you can now move to Gates of discord and get even 
 better items and gear. This is great for hardcore players who devote a lot of time and effort to 
 Everquest, but for those who don't play that much or can't afford to play that much, this is not 
 the expansion for them as it won't help them out in any way. 
  
  Gates of discord does offer a new class, the Berserker. Unlike the fantastic Beastlord found in 
 Luclin, the Berserker doesn't do anything new. There a somewhat hybrid in, there a mix between 
 2 classes, but the Berserker is somewhat useless. It has to wear chain armor, which is O. K. type 
 of armor, but really not all that powerful, they can't tank and take damage like the warrior can, 
 but they can't deal out a lot of damage like the Rogue or Monk class. They really are a useless 
 class, although they do have one distinictive ability and that's the ability to go berserk, something 
 warriors can only do when there health is low, these guys can do it every now and then. It's still 
 doesn't make them all that great, but it's something that diferintiates itself from other classes.
 
  
  Gates of discord is a whole new continent unlike Lost dungeons of norrath which was just add on 
 wayferer camps to go on small quests. The continent is called Taelosia which consists of 10 zones 
 and 10 new wayferer zones for dungeon hunting. Although it might sound appealing since the Lost 
 dungeons of norrath was a hit, it really isn't since it's for the higher level and more experienced 
 players. In order to get to Taelosia you have to warp from a wayferer camp to the one in the Abysmal 
 Sea. 
  
  Gates of discord does offer a tutorial for players to go through if they create another player, 
 but unfortunately it's more annoying than anything although they do have a place where new players 
 can get experience until they reach level 5. The big problem with this is, they also have all these 
 interface problems such as: having tip of the day, telling you how trading works, and really annoying 
 problems like that, you can turn it all off, but every time you create a new character, you have 
 to do this again and again. 
  
  Gates of discord's graphics haven't gotten any better and of course, since this is Everquest it's 
 not the main appeal, the same goes for the sound too.
  
  Everquest gates of discord doesn't offer anything for the lower level classes, but if your on the 
 higher end and don't mind sacrificing lots of time and making perfect and well-balanced groups 
 to go to Taelosia for some experience, then this is the pefect expansion for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drigam
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jun 28, 2004 10:19 am PT
Review:  Sony Online Entertainment has hit an all time low with this release. The fact that any hope of 
 experiencing the content provided within this expansion is limited to you being 65th level and 
 knowing a guild full of other 65th level players proves what the community at large has been screaming 
 for a while now: SOE is simply in it for the money.
  
  There are a few updates to the game interface in terms of features. None of which are immediately 
 accessible as you need to have gained in world experience to use them. The leadership upgrades 
 are neat, giving your group extra abilities and graphical representations of current targets, buffs, 
 etc, however why do you have to pay with your time to get levels in these what should be basic 
 given interface capabilities? The tribute system is garbage and mostly useless. In order to recieve 
 upgrades in terms of mana or health regeneration (think 1/level group) , you must offer a particular 
 NPC at one location, being your home city, items of immense value in order to activate these abilities 
 in 10 minute chunks.
  
  Otherwise, what's the point? This thing is a useless piece of garbage forced down the EQ communities 
 throats through the ever emerging, present and greedy immersion into a world full of pop-up ads 
 and system wide messages prompting you to buy the expansion sets. $30 each? Shove this review up 
 your rear end Sony as it's the last time you're ever seeing my money again. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
