-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: EverQuest II: Kingdom of Sky
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/everquestiikingdomofsky/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Achievements let you make some nice customizations to your characters.
 PVP servers provide lots of exciting combat.
 Good variety of new quests, as well as armor and other shinies to acquire.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Geared largely for higher-level players.
 Some new zones are rather repetitious.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 21, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.8, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 232 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sony Online Entertainment
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Feb 21, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Kingdom of Sky is best-suited to existing EverQuest II fans, but those fans will find new adventure, 
 advancement, and PVP combat in this expansion. 

  EverQuest II continues to expand the world of Norrath for its faithful patrons, and Kingdom of 
 Sky certainly opens up a whole lot of content for high-level players. An increased level cap and 
 new zones, dungeons, and quests gives current end-game players new stuff to explore, while the 
 achievement system and the all-new player-versus-player server lets others get in on the ground 
 floor. There are a few kinks to be ironed out here and there, and there's not much available to 
 brand-new players, but this is an otherwise substantive addition to the rich EverQuest II world. 

          Hope you're not scared of heights!     

  The "Kingdom of Sky" moniker is evocative of the new high-level (and highly lofted) world zones 
 added to the game, consisting of island clusters floating over the existing land. The islands are 
 fragmented into three major areas: the Tenebrous Tangle, the Bonemire, and the Barren Sky. Each 
 zone is comprised of multiple floating islands to explore, and you can briskly hop from isle to 
 isle via some helpful magical clouds. Getting to the Overrealm can pose a bit of a challenge in 
 and of itself; you can only teleport skyward from a handful of spires scattered around Norrath, 
 and you'll have to travel to these spires on foot at least part of the way. The existing flight 
 systems won't get you directly to a spire. Once you reach a spire, there's a wait of up to five 
 minutes for the portal to activate -- which stinks if you arrive just after a port went off -- and 
 then you can kick off your adventures.  

  The monsters that live at these altitudes take advantage of the new level range all the way to 
 70, so only the most advanced characters and groups can ply their skills here. For all the challenging 
 creatures and quests awaiting you on the floating isles, though, it's still possible to take on 
 monsters and other content solo, if you're careful about where and when you pick your fights. While 
 adventuring in Norrath will likely always put an emphasis on group play (and raiding, to a certain 
 extent) , it's nice to see that you can still hoof around on your own without too much trouble. 
 In addition to higher levels and better gear, the new achievement system helps make this a little 
 easier, as well.  

          Achievements let you gather points for exploring and interacting with the world, and then 
 turn those points into helpful new skills.     

  Achievements hearken back to the original EverQuest's alternate advancement (AA) system and are 
 essentially new abilities each class can learn to further focus and augment their power. Characters 
 start earning achievement points at level 20, gathering achievement experience for everything from 
 exploring new areas to discovering rare treasures to completing certain quests. Earned achievement 
 experience translates into points that you can then spend in a branched talent system for new powers. 
 You're capped at 50 achievement points total, so you have to carefully pick and choose where you 
 assign your hard-earned skills. If you make a mistake, you can reset your achievements, but it'll 
 quickly cost you lots of coin, so eventually you'll need to make your choices count. By and large, 
 achievements represent useful character empowerments, though depending on your character class, 
 some of the achievement powers may need some tweaks in future updates. Characters near the level 
 ceiling have a slight handicap compared to characters lower in level, in that achievement points 
 aren't grandfathered in. You have the option of roaming the world to get credit for "discovering" 
 areas, as well as having your experience convert to achievement experience once you hit the level 
 cap, though it remains to be seen how efficient this system will turn out to be.     

  A big addition this time around is player-versus-player combat. If you've been itching to battle 
 your Qeynosian or Freeportian foes, Kingdom of Sky fulfills your wish, opening up several new servers 
 that enable world PVP. You'll have to reroll if you want to participate in the stabbing, though; 
 existing servers are being left as they are. While you're fairly safe for the first few levels 
 spent hopping around your home city, once you start to venture out into the larger world you're 
 pretty much fair game. Initially, there's a level-range limit on who can attack whom (a spread 
 of eight levels is the maximum at the low end) , working up to a complete lack of restriction in 
 the highest level zones.  

          The arenas have gotten some updates, but the PVP servers are where the real cutthroat action 
 is.     

  Much like alliance versus horde interactions in World of Warcraft, opposite factions in EQ2 cannot 
 interact with each other on PVP servers in any way -- they can't understand each other's language, 
 group, trade items, and so on. What they can do is nuke the living daylights out of each other, 
 and players on the combative servers do this with gusto. Killing a player lets you loot a certain 
 amount of their coin and has a chance of letting you loot one of their lesser-quality items, so 
 murderous activity serves as fun  and  profit. An interesting twist is that kills are rated as 
 honorable, neutral, or dishonorable, depending on your enemy's health when you first engaged them, 
 so you won't be able to rack up rewards by, say, sneaking up on a person at 10 percent health after 
 they've fought a badger and finishing them off.  

  One downside is that the PVP servers are currently incompatible with EverQuest II's popular mentoring 
 system, so those wishing to quest with friends of differing levels are going to find themselves 
 stymied. Still, these servers are the obvious choice for those who relish the excitement of duking 
 it out with other players and the dangers of questing in such an environment. There's a lot of 
 looking over your shoulder, tracking and scouting, and even players shouting out the position of 
 enemy units as you travel around, and it definitely adds another layer into the EverQuest II experience. 
 The classes are fairly well balanced for PVP, as well -- some character abilities behave differently 
 in PVP than they do against monsters, which lets some skills that would be "overpowered" against 
 players be toned down without being neutered across the board.  

  For PVP fans on the normal servers, the game's PVP arenas also got a minor upgrade in the expansion 
 via some new arenas and new selectable champions, including one hailing from the avian race. There 
 are plenty of other content additions as well, such as various types of new armor and a number 
 of new quest series for players to undertake, including the involved heritage quests. Some of these 
 quest lines necessitate killing powerful monsters, and certain others require very high levels 
 of crafting skill, so heritage quests can be tricky for some players to complete. They're a nice 
 compliment to the substantial existing quest content, though.  

          Kingdom of Sky has a bunch of things for established characters to see and do.     

 
  Visually, the new realms in Kingdom of Sky are pleasing in a surrealist, "oh look, that chunk 
 of continent is suspended impossibly in midair" way, with each of the three zones having their 
 own distinct character. The Tenebrous Tangle is covered in ruins and swathed in vegetation, while 
 the Bonemire has a rocky, alien look to it, and each zone has a good assortment of powerful enemies 
 to cut down. The islands themselves vary a bit in size but are fairly small, so you can explore 
 a given area relatively quickly. That they're so small means that there's not a lot of variation 
 within a given island chain, so you'll get used to seeing lots of repeating elements. The avian 
 races and creatures are well made, though there's not the kind of comprehensive voice work that 
 there is in other areas of the game. The music for the new areas doesn't do anything radically 
 new, but as a backdrop to ceaseless monster slaughter, it does just fine.  

  EverQuest II: Kingdom of Sky is mostly a great content addition for those who are already at a 
 high level, but the additions pass over newbies for the most part. If you've been holding off on 
 EverQuest II because of a lack of player-versus-player interaction, though, the new PVP servers 
 provide fertile ground for lots of combat so long as you can do without mentoring. If you're an 
 EverQuest II faithful with an established character and have been looking for some new challenges 
 to meet, zones to explore, and quests to plot out, Kingdom of Sky should scratch your itch quite 
 nicely.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Heystaw
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  From the very beginning when I downloaded the 7 day trial of everquest II, I was hooked and at 
 the time I just had the very basics down and wasn't exposed to the in-depth parts and strategies 
 of the game. Things got even better when I teamed up on line with friends of mine from work. With 
 this game it isn't the graphics, music, or on line stuff that makes it fun, but it is the freedom 
 to do things how I want to do it. The only negative things with this game are that harvesting-tradeskilling 
 gets old after a while. Also I guess the video card I have for my computer has issues with the 
 game, because the computer goes into an infinite loop which causes my computer lock up and I have 
 to hot shut down my computer to start again. But overall great game and one of the few role playing 
 games I like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denisefr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 27, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Its a puzzle to me why EQ2 gets so little attention from the gaming media. I'd hate to think that 
 those informed commentators are simply going with the flow and giving cudo's to the game with the 
 heaviest marketing.
  
  Surely not?
  
  To my mind this pack added some nice content to a game already overflowing with both solo and grouping 
 opportunities.
  
  I liked the new armour and AA's are very nice now I've managed to hit level cap with one of my 
 chars.
  
  The community is mature (for the most part) and its rare to find even the silliest question asked 
 in chat answered with a flame or sarcastic comment.
  
  I'm not a raider so can't speak for that but there seems to be enough to keep them busy getting 
 that phat lewt - they do complain there's not enough though but I've heard reports from refugees 
 from other MMORPG's with the same complaint. I suppose if you limit your gaming activities to one 
 sort of content there's never going to be enough.
  
  Its true EQ2 is a hardware hog - however - I played initially on a P43ghz, 1gb of RAM and a Radeon 
 9600 with no problems. 
  
  The graphics even on that setting are gorgeous, realistic without being creepy, the world immersive 
 and if you're a bit of a lore lover like me, there's heaps to keep you interested.
  
  My advice if your thinking of try a MMORPG - don't be put off by all the hype that says EQ2 is 
 hardcore and requires hours and hours of time before you accomplish anything. I can be that's true, 
 but if you're happy to go along at your own pace, questing, soloing, grouping, whatever, you'd 
 go a long way to beat what Norrath has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 5, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of the original. I don't think Everquest II is anything like the original, but 
 it is a great mmorpg in my opinion. I base this on a strong community, with many loyal, friendly, 
 and helpful players, excellent graphics and gameplay, and a very good dev team that has put tons 
 of content into the game, fixed bugs, and has been listening to the playerbase.
  
  There are many other things I could go on about . . . the game lore, fantastic combat, character 
 customizabliliy, many zones to explore with tons of quests . . . I could go on and on. I am totally 
 immersed in Norrath when I log in to play. This is my favorite mmorpg to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reavo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 17, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  If anyone is a fan of the fantasy MMO genre then Everquest II is most definitely the game I would 
 recommend. I honestly find it hard to understand the intrigue in WoW and other games over EQ2. 
 EQ2 has got more depth, character, and quality than the other games. And the community is by far 
 better. 
  
  When I read the Gamespot review for Kingdom of Sky I found myself disappointed. I'm not a professional 
 game reviewer, but I know by playing the expansion I have had a great deal of fun. I also play 
 the game with two other friends. The experience for them has been the same. So the review from 
 Gamespot I find confusing. 
  
  Maybe it's one of those professional things that I don't get from my novice "just a gameplayer" 
 point of view. Who knows? :)
  
  Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  When Everquest 2 first came out in late 2004, there wasn't much to it honestly. However, this game 
 has had TONS of things added to it since launch. While other MMOs have a nice patch ever few months, 
 and an expansion every year or so, Everquest 2 does more than twice that. Not only that, but Everquest 
 2 Kingdom of Sky, although mainly geared to the high level players, adds a ton of content, a bunch 
 of new fun and exciting gameplay!
  
  The main thing that this game has going for it is the 10 level cap increase, the new zones (for 
 those high level players) , a new achievment system (similar to AAs) , and new PvP gameplay. 
  
  The new high level zones are beautiful, more fantastical than the previous expansions, and 
 have some excellent content and quests. It is one of the most intuitive and exciting expansions 
 I have ever played. It truly is a great expansion. Also, who can forget the PvP? The new PvP servers, 
 and PvP system adds a whole new dimenstion to the game, allowing people to create entirely new 
 characters, in a completely different situation and environment. 
  
  I think the graphics could be more fantastical, and the zones could be bigger, and more seeemless, 
 instead of zoning. Other than thos complaints, this is a great expansion.
  
  It should also be noted, that EQ2 has one of the best communities of any MMO out there right now. 
 Most of the people are very mature, and helpful. If you are looking to escape the kindergarden 
 that can be WoW, then this is the right place to go.
  
  Overall a great expansion. It is geared to high level players, so if you are just starting the 
 game, you might want to wait until you get to lv 50 or so before picking this one up. With a Level 
 70 cap now, there is plenty plenty to keep you busy for a long time, especially if you are new 
 to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirRocky
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 24, 2006 6:49 am PT
Review:  I've only gotten to experience the new content of this expansion a little bit, but I can say I 
 am impressed with the amount of content added and the number of new zones and features.
  
  One of the nice features about the new zones (and I can only speak for the ones I have seen so 
 far) is that they all offer a unique setting to one another. One zone is sort of a lush forest/grassland 
 style with ruins scattered within, waterfalls, and just an overall pleasant picture. Another is 
 sort of a hilly/mountainous desert with giant chains between some of the islands (the new zones 
 are all sort of flying islands) . And a third zone I have experienced is sort of a barren desolate 
 charred wasteland. No matter what your desire, there's a setting to match.
  
  The addition of PVP servers is awesome. I have 1 character up to level 10 in the PVP server, and 
 its just alot of fun and a great experience (if you don't mind dying alot) . Many features were 
 added to these servers to keep players in line while also encouraging them to PVP fairly. I can't 
 wait til I get my character further along and can take part in raids against the enemy city.
  
  And the new achievement system was added, with points given out based on experience, looting, 
 and killing major creatures. I haven't had the chance to gain any of the new achievements yet so 
 I can't comment on their effectiveness, but the idea is nice. The level cap was upped to 70, so 
 it gives higher level players the ability to become even more powerful. 
  
  Graphics haven't changed, but the new zones really show off the existing graphics engine and they've 
 done a great job creating new environments.
  
  Gameplay is essentially the same, so there's nothing new to be said about that. It's a fun game, 
 with its challenges. I guess the only major change in gameplay comes with the ability to jump off 
 of flying preset path mounts (griffons, flying carpets, clouds) , and with the new zone, jumping 
 long distances and dropping from amazing heights into water below is almost necessary.
  
  As far as expansions go, it's worth it. There's enough content there to keep you busy for quite 
 some time. And with the addition of the achievements and PVP servers, there's always something 
 to work on. The problem may actually be that there is too much to work on :) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
