-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: EverQuest II: Desert of Flames
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/everquestiidesertofflames/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 All-new rich and expansive zone in the island of Ro.
 Addition of duels and the arena provide some PvP diversions.
 Combat revamp streamlines character abilities.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 PvP implementation incomplete and seems underutilized.
 New quest and environment content is all for higher-leveled players.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 21, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 8.0, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 332 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sony Online Entertainment
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Sep 12, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The balance of the changes is a well-rounded expansion with offerings for players of all levels. 
 

  The large and sweeping world of Norrath just got a little bigger in Desert of Flames, the first 
 expansion for SOE's popular EverQuest II. Desert of Flames brings not only a whole new zone in 
 the form of the rugged, arid island of Ro, but it also carries with it a broad combat revamp and 
 increased level cap, as well as the introduction of player-versus-player battles. The substantive 
 raiding and questing additions are primarily for higher-level characters, and the player-versus-player 
 implementation isn't totally polished yet, but the balance of the changes is a well-rounded expansion 
 with offerings for players of all levels.  

          The island of Ro is a pretty wild place, with all-new wildlife to see and monsters to smite. 
     

  By far the most far-reaching aspect of the expansion is the combat revamp, which has greatly reworked 
 not only the skills and ability trees of most classes and subclasses, but has retuned the difficulty 
 of monster encounters overall. As a result, mobs in the game now sport their color-coded difficulty 
 rating that includes arrows over their names to indicate gradations in difficulty; downward-facing 
 arrows indicate weaker enemies, while upward-facing arrows indicate powerful and possibly heroic 
 monsters.  

  Something you'll readily notice is that heroic monsters are no joke -- even if you're several levels 
 higher than a heroic mob and it's grey (very weak, normally) to you, you can still get yourself 
 readily trounced despite the level difference if you try to fight them on your own. A bit more 
 caution is warranted when traveling or leveling solo, but soloing is absolutely still possible, 
 and the newly concentrated abilities of the various classes make a pretty balanced match to the 
 changed monster difficulty levels. If anything, the changes serve to nudge players to be more mindful 
 of their surroundings and to perhaps group a bit more often in a game that is already heavily built 
 around cooperative adventuring. Along with the change to combat, the maximum level cap for players 
 has been raised from level 50 to level 60, along with new abilities to flesh those levels out, 
 and a new zone to ply those skills in: the island of Ro.  

  Desert of Flames' signature new zone is the wild land of Ro, a large desert isle with a distinct 
 Arabian flavor that's populated with plenty of new monsters, new quests, and new objectives for 
 players level 45 and higher. You can actually easily reach Ro from quite a low level by simply 
 riding a magic carpet from one of the main cities and wafting on over, and you'll be able to reach 
 the bustling city of Maj'Dul the same way, zipping through the skies over a variety of deadly wildlife. 
 Plenty of crocodilians teem along the beaches and other foes hover just nearby, so only appropriately 
 leveled characters will be making their way into the countryside. The city itself serves as a single 
 great hub for the new zone, a multitiered sandstone metropolis that's home to a number of different 
 factions.  

          Frogloks on magic carpets somehow make everything all right in the universe. Nothing bad 
 exists where there are flying frogmen.     

  When you're of a level to accept the quests here, you can choose to align yourself with one of 
 the city's factions, currying the favor of a somewhat distrustful people by performing a number 
 of tasks. Maj'Dul has some of the same dangerous and exotic flavor of its environs, with thieves 
 and other hostile entities lurking in the streets that you'll have to be wary of. One of the draws 
 of this new urban center, besides the new environment content, is the great arena.     

  The arena is one facet of EverQuest II's new player-versus-player combat system, which along with 
 dueling finally brings a smattering of PvP to the realms of Norrath. Players can request duels 
 of other players at will, and there's even a feature that allows bystanders to wager on the outcome 
 of the contest if they so desire. Wandering around even the lowest-level areas, we found a number 
 of players willing to drop their quests and challenge each other to short contests of skill. The 
 arena is a feature found only in the city of Maj'Dul, and you can walk up at any time to set up 
 the game of your choosing. There are three game types in the arena -- team deathmatch, capture the 
 flag, and destroy the idol -- and you can easily set victory conditions, time limits, and whether 
 you want to allow spectators outside the game to watch.  

          Arenas have a bad tendency to be pretty empty most times.     

  As far as participation 
 goes, arena battles can either be fought by player characters themselves (if you select this option, 
 you can choose the level range to allow in increments of 10, from 20 to 60) , or fought by champions. 
 Champions are battle avatars that you can purchase from arena master, possessed of their own unique 
 abilities and balanced against each other for strength, from the powerful tentacle-faced Fearknights 
 to the fierce Tae Ew hunters with their mighty ranged attacks and variety of traps, and others. 
 If you do well in arena contests, there are rewards for you to earn, ranging from trophies to special 
 character titles, to new types of champions.  

  It's a grand setup, but your chances of actually participating in these mighty arena contests probably 
 aren't all that high unless you've managed to already recruit a fighting force. The arena stands 
 large and empty much of the time, particularly on weekdays, with the occasional player trying to 
 fire up a pick-up game that has a good chance of petering out due to lack of interest. The arena 
 seems to be a nice, if underused, player-versus-player outlet, but it's hard to gauge the future 
 of PvP in EverQuest II.  

  A final determination regarding PvP and its presence on the game's servers hasn't yet been determined: 
 whether it will be incorporated into the game across the board, or restricted to special servers. 
 The PvP additions made with the advent of the expansion seem to lean more toward casual augmentations 
 of what remains a heavily  game, rather than robust content for 
 PvP players. Desert of Flames provides a taste of player-versus-player action that may or may not 
 get the chance to expand further, though the series has always been player-versus-environment focused 
 anyway.  

          No doubt, EverQuest II is still looking great.     

  And those environments continue to look sharp in Desert of Flames, with lots of detailed, well-textured 
 visuals and interesting sights to see on the island of Ro. The land's expanse of desert trades 
 off with oases ringed by palms and giant carved idols, and there's a nice assortment of new and 
 interesting creatures to see. Large pachyderms and camels, pet monkeys and tigers share the island 
 next to other more dangerous denizens, whom you now clamber around by using a new gameplay mechanic 
 that lets you climb certain vertical surfaces. While the concept of flying around Norrath is not 
 new, doing so on a flying carpet is certainly a lot of fun, and all the swooping and banking does 
 a good job of showing off the world below. The same loading screens that pervade the rest of the 
 world are also present here, though for the most part, the entirety of the city of Maj'Dul is open 
 to wandering without having to sit and wait for anything to load. The non-player characters on 
 Ro don't seem as chatty as their brethren elsewhere in the world, but the animal and ambient noises 
 still fill out the experience nicely, next to Arabian-style music that truly gives the island its 
 own unique feel.  

  Desert of Flames has the most to offer EverQuest II players of advanced level, but the new PvP 
 trappings and the combat revamp mean that there's something new to see for just about anyone. The 
 player-versus-player combat still doesn't feel like a fully realized diversion just yet, but the 
 act of exploring Ro and getting your character to level 60 should nicely fill the time you don't 
 use waiting around for an arena game, provided you're of a high enough level to actually do those 
 things. Existing players who are nearing the level of expansion country should check out Desert 
 of Flames, and if you've let your account sit fallow for a bit, the changes to the combat system 
 are worth sampling.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: os008
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 3, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  If u played a lot of MMOs u know that most take place in Medieval Europe or Ancient Asia, or even 
 Space, and as such, this was a change from the norm we're used to, and it was really well done, 
 nice and not so vague quests, nice Faction system, very nice Raid zones and Fabled/Legend loot, 
 nice Voice Emotes ... etc.
  
  The only really bad thing about this expansion i would consider is the size of it, i feel it's 
 too small, that's just my opinion, but the content might actually compensate for this, and the 
 fact that it was SOE's first expansion in this game, might ... make it pass.
  
  Though, now u'll probably buy the original plus all 3 expansions for 35$ i think, which is a REALLY 
 good bargain, i paid 25$ for the game+KoS, 35$ for EoF, then finally bought DoF for 30$ for the 
 Raid zones and loot only, but found that the rest of it is still good, but NOT as good as EoF, 
 and despite of that i can say that they all deserve the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 8, 2005 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Desert of Flames is a good expansion. Many new zones were added, the combat was revamped to help 
 balance out the different classes, there is now arena fighting, dueling, guild banks, and most 
 importantly, the level cap was raised to 60. If you are already level 50, you will find yourself 
 with a lot to do for at least a few months. There are many quests, and things to do in the new 
 town of Maj'Dul. 
  
  Unfortunately, there is not another EQ2 expansion coming out until at least Spring of next year, 
 and that's a shame, because you will probably do all there is to do in this expansion, and then 
 start complaining about the lack of content. Thankfully, SOE is constantly adding stuff, some worthwhile, 
 some not. If you are an EQ2 fan you've probably already played this. If you are an MMO fan and 
 haven't played this, you really should. It's a great experience with a great community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pergatori
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2005 1:09 pm PT
Review:  While I enjoyed the Everquest games EQII really needs some work in order to get me to log back 
 in.
  
  I am not sure what is with the constanty bent over running graphics but OUCH give my back a break 
 already! The game play itself was fun, if it weren't for all the testosterone ganking i. e. high 
 levels going to newbville in which they start taking out beginning characters. I know this isn't 
 the games fault completely but they could have put in newb-free-gank zone for at least a few levels.
 
  
  When coming to choices of appearances on your new character there needs to be more options. When 
 I first logged on every female character looked just like me except for the armor choices.
  
  I did enjoy the quest options it gave tons of variations and chances at some good stuff.
 
  
  I recommend waiting until they can add more to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2005 11:31 am PT
Review:  this game is the best game i have ever played. its quest are amazing and fun, the graphics are 
 very good, the pvp is great fun, the villages do not lag at all, even when you have a bad computer. 
 if you are a gamer like me. then buy this game. if your running low on cash dont worry its only 
 7.00 a month. other games cost 15.00 a month and it eates away at your money quikly. if you would 
 like to be a creature you can unlike guild wars and other titles in this game you can be a wide 
 veriety of creatures EVEN A RAT. if you would like to contact me at dorf_8@hotmail. com and ask 
 more questions then that would be fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keledron
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 15, 2005 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I remember my excitement when Everquest 2 was released November of last year. The collector's edition 
 arrived on my doorstep right on time, and I had taken a day off from college and work to play one 
 of the most anticipated games for me all year. 
  
  Right away, I had several complaints, one dealing with a new method as far as grouping and encounters 
 go, and another dealing with the performance of the game.
  
  To many returning EQ players, the "locked encounters" removed a great deal of immersion from the 
 game. Yes, it prevented power leveling and kill-stealing in a rather clever way, but forget the 
 good will of the Healer who comes by to give you a heal when you're about to die, or a ressurect 
 when you do. Also, in the original EQ2 release, when you were in a group, and you died, the 'experience 
 debt' penalty you incur would be distributed amongst all group members. While it sounds good on 
 paper, it frustrated many (except for fighter classes who sacrificed themselves for the group) 
 and in the end discouraged grouping and took away from the community mechanic at large.
  
  Enter Desert of Flames, almost a year later. The changes to EQ2 during this time have been nothing 
 short of astounding, breathtaking, and flat out incredible. For one, the game performs an incredible 
 amount better than it did when it was released. No more slow down or halts in North/South Qeynos 
 when more people are around. The performance increase alone would be enough of a reason just to 
 give the game another look.
  
  With DoF came an entire new zone, the Desert of Ro, and a slew of new features and quests. The 
 ability to climb certain cliff faces to reach new areas of zones, Arena combat within the wonderous 
 desert city of Maj'Dul, powerful Djinns that can help or hinder your quest, interesting politics 
 when it comes to deciding which of Maj'Dul's three factions you're going to aid, the list of additions 
 to EQ2 is almost too many to list. 
  
  Along with DoF came Live Update 13, a sweeping change to the entire combat system that, as a whole 
 by the community, has been very well recieved. Like most MMOs, people that were benefitting too 
 much from the previous system have complained, but as a majority the changes were needed to increase 
 community interaction. Locked encounters (where only you and your group can attack the mobs attacking 
 you) are a toggleable option, and group debt sharing has been eliminated. Already, I've seen many 
 more people grouped up in the game near the newbie zones than ever before. 
  
  Graphically, DoF adds some really beautiful zones in the Desert of Ro. The sweeping sands and windswept 
 cliffs are a really cool sight to behold, and a lot of the times you'll find yourself distracted 
 by the scenery while you're getting attacked by orc marauders. Maj'Dul, the new city, is a beautiful 
 sight to behold as well, drawing much of its architecture from an Arabian Night's setting. 
  
  Audio got a big update as well, besides new music tracks, you are able to add your own MP3s 
 to the music folder and listen to whatever you want. Your character now has a voice of their own! 
 Many of the games social emotes now have some kind of vocal addition to it. Its a very cool feature, 
 and gives your character a lot more life.
  
  Gameplay goes way up with DoF, adding to an already humongous quest list, tons of solo and group 
 quests, raid content, plenty more for the EQ2 player to get lost in. The new Arena seems to work 
 well, and brings another interesting aspect to the game with champions, and a Pokemon-esqe 'gotta 
 get em all' feel. Your champions get stronger with each fight, and you can find assorted champions 
 all throughout Norrath. Definitely something PvPers will enjoy to a high degree. Also, on another 
 note, with the latest update came the ability for consensual dueling, so if you wanted to see how 
 your character fares against others, now you are able. You should also give crafting a look now, 
 since many people have written very good guides to get your tradeskill career started, many things 
 that high level characters to this day still don't know. The crafting system in EQ2 is the most 
 fun system I've ever experienced in an MMO, very interactive, and even strategic. Even if you've 
 never tried this sort of thing, its really worth a look. While it takes some patience to learn, 
 the reward is, for lack of better words, awesome.
  
  Overall, Everquest 2 has just made some miraculous leaps and bounds through listening to its player 
 community. There is so much fun to be had in the game now, that passing it up for any reason would 
 be robbing yourself of a really great gaming experience. DoF adds some wonderful flavor to an already 
 great game, quests to a quest base that numbers well over a thousand now. EQ2 has finally become 
 the game everyone thought it was going to be last year. 
  
  If you're looking for a game that takes itself seriously with its quests and lore (sorry, I found 
 WoW to be a little bit too tongue in cheek at times) , and gives you a meaningful world with plenty 
 to do, and now the ability to take part in world changing events, then Everquest 2 is what you've 
 been looking for all along.
  
  
  Thats my take, take it or leave it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
