-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: EverQuest: The Scars of Velious
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/everquestthescarsofvelious/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 12, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 8.5, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 265 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sony Online Entertainment
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Dec 4, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Those that are experienced enough to explore the new lands Velious has to offer will certainly find 
 these areas to be extremely challenging and rewarding. 

 Beginners need not consider The Scars of Velious, the second retail expansion to Verant's extremely 
 popular massively multiplayer online role-playing game, EverQuest. Velious is designed for EverQuest's 
 more seasoned player population - the players who've already devoted hundreds of hours to the game. 
 Statistically, this actually includes the vast majority of the game's more than 300,000 active 
 subscribers. These players will find that the new expansion offers far greater challenges than 
 any they've previously experienced in the world of Norrath, just as they'll find that the continent 
 of Velious itself is filled with some of the most interesting and fully developed EverQuest zones 
 to date.   

  The Scars of Velious is designed for players with characters at around the 35th level of experience 
 up through the 60th-level limit. Unlike the previous expansion, The Ruins of Kunark, Velious doesn't 
 add any new player races to the roster, nor does it cater to players just starting out. The cold, 
 frozen continent of Velious isn't the least bit hospitable. In fact, even the weaker creatures 
 inhabiting the continent are very aggressive, hard-hitting, and fast. Because of all the danger, 
 the 16 new zones in the expansion definitely aren't well suited to casual exploration, nor to casual 
 players. You'll want to travel to and in Velious with a contingent of powerful allies closeby, 
 who can readily assist you with magical defenses, brute force, or diversions as necessary.   

 
  You arrive in Velious by means of a gigantic gnomish ship, the Icebreaker, whose bizarre front-mounted 
 oar-paddle apparently makes it the only vessel capable of navigating the previously uncharted waters 
 around the island. The Icebreaker will drop you off on the coast near the Iceclad Ocean, leaving 
 you to venture forth toward such locations as the haunted Tower of Frozen Shadow, the frost giant 
 haven called the Great Divide, the lost dwarven city of Thurgadin, and more. The most advanced 
 players will also be eager to set foot in the two new ethereal planes in Velious: the lush plane 
 of growth and the bizarre plane of mischief. There's also the Skyshrine, a city of dragons. Each 
 of these zones is rather large and filled with new places to explore, creatures to fight, and treasures 
 to loot.   

  Velious is a snow-covered continent, but fortunately the new zones tend to be at least as distinctive 
 as they are snowy. The Scars of Velious was designed to be a cohesive addition to the world of 
 Norrath, rather than a loosely connected set of new zones; specifically, you'll find that Velious 
 is actually the site of an ancient feud between giants and dragons. Meanwhile, a race of battle-hardened 
 dwarves has also somehow managed to survive on the sidelines. You can choose to side with any of 
 these, at the possible risk of angering the others. Faction standings have always been a key feature 
 in EverQuest - fighting certain types of creatures makes those creatures gradually hate you more, 
 while their enemies grow fonder of you. So inherently evil races such as trolls, ogres, and dark 
 elves can still eventually gain the favor of good races. Velious takes this concept a step further 
 by making you have to choose your alliances more carefully. Certainly, it doesn't seem favorable 
 to be at the top of either a giant's or a dragon's hate list.   

  The expansion introduces some new play elements that will make EverQuest more rewarding for some 
 players but will also make the land of Velious a lot more treacherous for most everyone else. For 
 instance, traps have been added to certain areas, so unless a war party has a rogue or a bard capable 
 of detecting and disarming them, the entire party might fall victim. Death has never been easy 
 to deal with in Norrath, as having to retrieve the possessions from your own corpse, let alone 
 having to spend hours regaining the experience you've lost, can be extremely frustrating, but Velious 
 adds a further possible complication. It's no longer safe for a player with good faction standing 
 to drag another player's corpse to a convenient location for the revived player, as the creatures 
 of Velious won't let someone assist their enemies. This makes death an even greater risk in Velious, 
 so again, unless you're traveling in a large group or with high-level clerics ready to resurrect 
 their fallen comrades, then you'd best be extremely careful.    

 It's true that Velious offers rewards that are suitably impressive compared with the risks involved 
 in trying to find them. Most notably, you'll find several new types of armor in Velious, which 
 should help further differentiate player characters' appearances.   

  In addition, Velious will have some indirect effects on Norrath. Since high-level players will 
 migrate to the new continent, that'll help make more room throughout the rest of EverQuest. Players 
 who've been previously frustrated with just how crowded Norrath can get will probably find that 
 Velious helps alleviate this (regardless of whether they've bought the expansion) , simply by providing 
 much more room for high-level players to hunt. Of further note, since Kunark, Verant has added 
 several new game servers to EverQuest, so server crowding is less of an issue than before. Most 
 servers are still quite crowded at peak hours, but they're not jam-packed, and the game still plays 
 just fine even over relatively slow modem connections.   

  Verant has continued to refine EverQuest in other ways since Kunark, by continually fixing the 
 game balance, improving and enhancing the interface, and more. As a result, EverQuest is definitely 
 a much more polished game now than it's ever been before. The game's interface is now much more 
 fully customizable, and it features resizable windows, more room for skill buttons onscreen, and 
 room for more macro buttons. You can even change the various font colors in the game. These changes 
 have been patched into EverQuest already, so you needn't install Velious to use them if you already 
 own the Kunark expansion or EverQuest before it; however, Velious does contain a significant new 
 interface enhancement - a translucent inventory screen. This lets you play the game in the full-screen 
 mode at high resolutions, and you never have to switch to lower resolutions when you look in your 
 inventory, as was previously necessary. These and other changes to EverQuest's previously unrefined 
 interface definitely make the game much more easy to use, although many of these changes are only 
 helpful and noticeable if you've already gotten used to doing things the harder way in the game. 
   

  The Scars of Velious looks about as good as (and sometimes better than) The Ruins of Kunark, which 
 means the new zones tend to be a lot more detailed than the original EverQuest lands. The dozens 
 of new creatures in Velious include more anthropomorphic beasts such as otter men and walrus men, 
 as well as more serious-looking threats such as the giants and the dragons. Some of these have 
 new sound effects, and Velious even has some new music in it. However, given the amount of time 
 most players spend with EverQuest, chances are they'll be listening to something other than the 
 game's repetitive combat theme and other sounds as they spend their free time in Velious.   

  Some players will find that Velious is very frustrating from the start, when they're initially 
 forced to download a large patch just to get the expansion working with the game. But these frustrations 
 are and always have been inherent to EverQuest. With the exception of adding traps for rogues and 
 bards to detect and deactivate, some new spells for the magic users, and a few new combat disciplines 
 for the melee fighters, The Scars of Velious otherwise does nothing to modify the various player-character 
 classes or to change the fundamental way the game has always played. Like EverQuest, The Scars 
 of Velious demands that you spend a serious amount of time with it, and that you establish a tight 
 network of reliable online allies. Players who meet these demands and who've already devoted a 
 lot of their time to the core game will find that the new expansion is worthwhile, as its low cost 
 will easily translate into hundreds of additional hours of gameplay. On the other hand, there's 
 nothing about Velious to recommend the expansion to anyone who isn't already immersed in Norrath. 
 Perhaps this is the key to the success of The Scars of Velious. It's clearly stated on the box 
 that it isn't suitable for inexperienced players, while those who are experienced enough to explore 
 the new lands it has to offer will certainly find these areas to be extremely challenging and rewarding. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Warfust
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 19, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  Scars of Velious is considered by many Everquest veterans as the best expansion ever released for 
 the game. It brought a new dimension to the game though the three factions (Dragons/Dwarves/Giants) 
 and alot of high end raid content.
  
  But this expansion didn't cater to just the high end player. There is alot of content for players 
 lvl30 and above to explore, as well as pleanty of new gear for players lvl30 and up.
  
  While much of this content is now outdated compaired to more recent expansions, there is still 
 alot to be gained by players who choose to level up and learn to raid in this expansion.
  
  This was my personal favorite as well, and is what drew me so deeply into the game where before 
 the expansion I was a casual player.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RollNpc
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 28, 2005 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Everquest rocked, note I said ROCKED. I was a beta tester for this game and I have to say my first 
 impressions were that I was not very impressed. But, by the time I got beta 4 I was hooked. I rushed 
 out and bought my copy, pre-order of course, and loved it. I can remember to this day at level 
 23 camping the J-Boots in Neirak (sp) dungeon. My mage character was awesome so powerful, and hours, 
 upon hours, upon hours, upon.. You get the picture, of solo game play. I hate groups, always have. 
 I could take on anything after time, but also seemed to notice that my level 40 or so character 
 was starting to get weaker along with my pets. 
  SONY systematically destroyed the game. They killed all the power classes (mages, necros, and wizards) 
 and beefed the week and hybrid classes. They allowed stupid people to get away with stupid things, 
 yes you druid kiting sob. There really should have been an age requirement and a test to play this 
 game, but ultimately it is all about the $$s. I also forked out the cash for the expansions.
 
  
  Kunark was one of the first if I recall correctly: it added a few classes and a few new zone. This 
 was pretty darn good as the crowded world got a little less crowded with the introduction of these 
 new lands. A lot of people left the normal zones and went away. This expansion added a lot of new 
 goodies and textures.
  
  Velious, Luclin, Gates, and PoP all came out when I was getting out of the game. I spent a lot 
 of time in the Velious zones and really liked the stuff that came from there. The player ran auction 
 areas where nice too.
  
  I got out of the game a while back and then revisited it on player ran shards. That was nice as 
 it really allowed you to explore places and characters, along with weapons and items that the normal 
 person would never see. If you have a lot of time to kill, I mean 1000s of hours I would recommend 
 this game 100%. If you dont, just keep on going. This game requires an investment of time that 
 is beyond belief!!!!
  
  Oh, the graphics are awesome, the music and sounds are awesome the movements and animations are 
 awesome the monthly fees are not!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 5, 2005 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Everquest scars of velious is the 2nd expansion to come to Everquest and I guess the guys at SOE 
 thought that they needed an expansion that would turn out to be the hardest one made. 
  
  Everquest scars of velious is an ice continent with snow on the side, it's made only for the classes 
 that are about level 30+. Unless your even close to level 30 then stay clear of this zone, even 
 powerleveling (having a very high level character level the lower level character in a zone suited 
 for the lower level character) is pretty tough to do. 
  
  Still, if your in the higher level area then definitely pick this one up because it has a ton of 
 stuff to offer you. For starters, you can now hunt monsters ane foes that are in the 70 and even 
 80 level range, meaning that you need a raid just to hunt these bad boys down. This is some tough 
 work, especially since every zone in this new expansion is packed with monsters that want to tear 
 you apart, regardless of level, but as you keep adventuring, zone after zone into Velious, you 
 will notice that it keeps getting harder and harder until you reach the ultimate raiding zone. 
 
  
  Other new add on's to this expansion is another water zone that pretty much transports you from 
 the original 3 continents to Velious. Just like the first expansion, you can be transported to 
 this continent by being teleported by a druid or wizard. This entirely new continent also has new 
 armor you can work on. Since the first expansion, Kunark, had the epics for yor Primary slot of 
 your character, this one now has lots and lots of armor pieces that can be molded and made through 
 smithing and other useful skills. 
  
  This expansion is really hard. I can't stress this enough. Everquest has never been an easy game 
 and has always required teamwork for the win, but this expansion pretty much requires a raid for 
 every mob you kill. The loot that you get from each mob or key mobs that you need a raid for has 
 been upgraded quite a bit. This is the first expansion to really introduce something that Everquest 
 players call: Uber gear. Basically, it's gear that is very high level and this is the first expansion 
 to support this, since all of the items you pick up from raids and such can be molded and made 
 into item pieces for specific characters, or just to sell.
  
  Another big edition is being able to warp between zones. One big complaint is that Everquest is 
 to huge and you can't travel from one continent to the other continent to well. So what SOE did 
 was put one spire in each continent for you to travel between. They aren't in the most convenient 
 places and actually the one located in Velious is the least conveniant, mainly because it's surrounded 
 by mobs that are about level 30-40. Still, it's a great new addition and classes that can't teleport 
 such as the Druid or wizard now can use this.
  
  You also need certain keys to go into some zones. Some zones such as Sleeper's tomb you need a 
 key to go into. Faction has also been upgraded. Until now, the only faction you really needed to 
 worry about was your own hometown, but this time you need to worry about Giant faction. Basically, 
 these are Ice giants that live in a certain zone, that if you befriend with, they will make it 
 worth your while by letting you pass through and use that zone as somewhat like a city. Or you 
 can just kill them and use it as a hunting area.
  
  The graphics in the game have not been upgraded at all. As a matter of fact, on this cold new expansion 
 continent, it all looks very drab. The snow only has one color and it almost hurts your eyes just 
 to look at. The character models haven't been upgraded at all, but overall the graphics look pretty 
 good. The sound is the same as the graphics, none of it has been upgraded, so be ready to have 
 out your music or TV.
  
  This is the expansion that high level characters have been waiting for. It's easily the best expansion 
 if you have a level 50 or 60, but if you just started, you might want to pick this one up a little 
 later on because there's no real reason for it until you reach level 30, still this expansion contains 
 everything that made Everquest a great game and any fan of the game should pick it up. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
