-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Evidence: The Last Ritual
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/evidence/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fascinating experiment in game design.
 challenging puzzles that force you to do a lot of research.
 creepy art and sound.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Puzzles are insanely difficult.
 requires more time with Google than with the actual game.
 gameplay often feels contrived.
 interface occasionally hard to figure out.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 14, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 7.9, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 125 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: Lexis Numerique
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Oct 16, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Evidence is an experimental serial-killer tale that will raise goose bumps and tempers. 

  Serial killing is all the rage these days. You can't channel surf without landing on some Bill 
 Curtis special on the BTK killer or a gruesome  CSI  episode referencing John Wayne Gacy. Not surprisingly, 
 the Bundy bandwagon has gotten a little tiresome, so it's tough to get worked up about a serial-killer 
 adventure game like Lexis Numerique's Evidence: The Last Ritual. But even though the plot about 
 a stereotypically brilliant Hollywood-style mass murderer called the Phoenix isn't innovative, 
 original gameplay moves the killer's machinations out of the traditional game format and into your 
 head. Yet while the gameplay makes Evidence unique and captivating, at least in the early stages, 
 it's also maddeningly impenetrable due to absolutely grueling puzzles.  

          What would a serial-killer game be without a 'put the lotion in the basket' moment with 
 a female victim?     

  If you played last year's Missing: Since January, you'll already be familiar with the gimmick at 
 work here. Rather than setting Evidence up as a traditional murder mystery adventure and placing 
 you in the shoes of a world-weary detective or a grizzled cop, you play yourself. This illusion, 
 which is nicely kicked off by distributing the game in a sealed plastic evidence bag, sees you 
 working to find out what the Phoenix did to Jack Lorski, one of the vanished characters you had 
 to find in Missing, and also determine what role the killer played in the disappearance of Adrian 
 and his sister Jessica. The twin stories don't make a great deal of sense for much of the game, 
 so the only way to untangle the Phoenix's twists and turns is by examining the "game" CDs that 
 the taunting killer has sent to the FBI, which they have kindly forwarded on to you.  

  It's all remarkably effective at raising goose bumps, if spectacularly mind boggling. Gameplay 
 is split between action that takes place with the game running and components that take place in 
 the real world, or at least the part of the real world connected to your Web browser and e-mail 
 client. In the game, you examine logic puzzles that the Phoenix has put together while he taunts 
 you with elliptical comments. Generally, there is some kind of abstract setup, like symbols flying 
 around an open mouth, eyes blinking in a pattern, or even a map with a starred boulevard you have 
 to locate via an online service like MapQuest (lots of luck with that one) , and you have to figure 
 out how to arrange items or figure out a code based on what you either see on the screen or can 
 research on the Net. Most are inventive and feature bizarre backdrops that involve mashes of text, 
 hacked-up photographs, and eerie, artistic doodles like something produced by a sociopathic William 
 Blake.  

  Plug the right information into a puzzle and it melts to blackness and you usually get rewarded 
 with a video clip that the Phoenix either took from the video diaries of Jack or Jessica. Most 
 of these clips are well acted to the point that they seem like movies taken on somebody's dull 
 vacation to Europe or New York, but many also feature shocking moments like skulls drawn over the 
 face of the Phoenix or bloody smears on the screen. Toss in sparse, creepy music that makes you 
 look over your shoulder every now and then, and you've got a game guaranteed to send shivers up 
 your spine.  

  Well, that is when it's not making you feel like smashing your head into your monitor. Evidence 
 features some of the most incredibly obscure puzzles ever included in an adventure game. Many, 
 if not most, are so fantastically difficult that you can't solve them without looking up loads 
 of hints online or referring to a Web walkthrough, and the clunky interface is so reliant on tiny 
 video clips and whirling icons that it takes forever to figure out how to work the game mechanics, 
 let alone figure out what to do with them. Help is available, however, as the game features an 
 online component where you register with the International Committee for the Phoenix Arrest (ICPA) 
 Web site. There you can check into tips about the killer's motives and influences, which seem to 
 range from ancient Christian texts to medieval secret societies, and maybe even UFOs. In addition 
 to this, the game regularly sends reams of advice (along with "Where did you go?" prompts if you 
 stop playing for a few hours) from fictional investigators also working on the case to an e-mail 
 address of your choice.  

  Both of these elements add appreciable dimensions to sleuthing not normally seen in adventures. 
 They can be effective, too, as there's certainly something engrossing about this fake serial-catching-team 
 atmosphere and getting taunted by a killer who calls you his "little friend." But turning the ambiguous 
 hints in these e-mails and puzzles into actual leads is awfully tough. They often take you on a 
 scavenger hunt around the Net and lead to dead-end Web sites that waste a lot of mental energy. 
 The difficulty is so extreme that you spend far more time surfing the Web trying to round up clues 
 than you do actually solving puzzles in the game itself.  

          Unfortunately, this is about as clear as clues get in Evidence.     

  Here's an example 
 from early on. After wrapping your brain around a puzzle where you listen to sounds to sort disclike 
 tears into a bowl, you are then shuffled off to a second part with numbers flying around the screen 
 atop what looks to be Renaissance-era sketches. Your only clue here is the name Alessandro Mariano. 
 A quick trip to Google reveals that Mariano is better known to history as Botticelli. And then 
 you're stuck... unless you realize that previous clues about Dante Alighieri are connected here 
 and add him to the search. Then, eventually, you might stumble upon a Web site filled with the 
 famous numbered Botticelli illustrations from Dante's  Divine Comedy , which of course match the 
 pictures and numbers from the puzzle.  

  So, nothing here is particularly easy. And this is far from the game's toughest challenge, which 
 means that only Mensa members and astronauts will be solving puzzles here without resorting to 
 the Net for help. Going to the Net so often quickly becomes a pain, too. It makes the game feel 
 contrived and also lessens the gritty, realistic feel that Lexis Numerique was obviously going 
 for, courtesy of the videos. It's also tough to stay the course and just look up clues, as every 
 time you fire up Google you're tempted to end all of the Internet rummaging once and for all and 
 head to a walkthrough or a forum where players are posting solutions.  

  Yet even with its flaws, Evidence: The Last Ritual is a fascinating experiment in game design. 
 Fans of murder mysteries or serial-killer potboilers who want to try something completely different 
 should find a lot to like about this one, as long as they've got plenty of patience and lots of 
 time to prowl the Net for clues. Also, all of the gameplay innovations found within, along with 
 the chills that the Phoenix sends up your spine, make it a better bet than yet another  CSI  repeat. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Voldy26
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 5:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is supposed to have been created by a serial killer known as the Phoenix who sent it 
 to the police that in turn distributed it to people around the world so that they help decrypt 
 it and thus (hopefully) identify the killer. You'll have to pass through 36 symbolic gates (in 
 the form of puzzles) that lead to "illumination". After each puzzle is solved, you are treated 
 to a fragment of a film shot by either of the Phoenix's two victims - a journalist and a young 
 woman looking for her missing brother - one of whom is known to be dead, and the other in the killer's 
 custody. The video clips tell a compelling story and also contain important clues that will help 
 you in your investigation. The actors do an amazing job: if I didn't know the clips were part of 
 the game, I would believe they were genuine amateur movies/documentaries. The authentic feel of 
 the videos is what makes the game so immersive - well, among other things, those things being the 
 actual puzzles and the research involved in solving them. The puzzles are mini-games that will 
 test your intellect, your knowledge, and/or your reaction. Where your knowledge is lacking, you'll 
 have to do some searching on the Internet, based on the clues the killer gives you. You will also 
 receive emails from other "team members" that will sometimes contain clues, as well. You'll have 
 to process a massive amount of information related to religion, esotericism, history and zany conspiracy 
 theories, and if you don't have at least some kind of background in those areas, you will probably 
 be overwhelmed; students of the occult and conspiracy nuts, on the other hand, will feel right 
 at home. Either way, this game will broaden your horizons, unless you happen to be a walking encyclopedia. 
 Most puzzles are bearably difficult, especially when you have become accustomed to the Phoenix's 
 style, although the clues he gives are sometimes a bit too vague and the purely technical side 
 more complicated than it has to be. The ending is suitably disturbing (it freaked me out, which 
 is quite an achievement) and, although it leaves many questions unanswered, satisfying. If you 
 have an above average IQ and are to at least some degree a mystic, this game is definitely for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fidussalix
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  This game hosts some of the most challenging puzzles I've ever been faced with. That said, this 
 ain't no Sudoku, and solving a puzzle feels incredibly rewarding. Example: One of the first puzzles 
 shows you a choppy sepia aerial photo of Cape Cod. If you don't know what Cape Cod looks like, 
 you're too stupid to play this game. The next slide shows you a Image of Portland, Mass and a line 
 drawn down a street. The game asks What's the Boulevard? The answer is found after (for me) about 
 5ish minutes searching Google Earth. Solving these puzzles doesn't make you feel like some kind 
 of expert detective, because you aren't playing as an expert detective. You're playing as you, 
 and that's what I like about the game. Solving these puzzles just makes you feel smart. It's very 
 rewarding. Inversely, I struggled with one puzzle so long members of my fictional detective team 
 thing sent me the solution. This made me feel very stupid. All and all this is a great game for 
 anyone who wants to see if they have what it takes to solve a real mystery. This isn't a detective 
 game where you shine an UV light until you find a blood stain and then you get a 15 minute cut-scene 
 where the character explains the significants of the finding. Nothing is explained for you. You 
 piece together clues and use analytical thought to overcome the obstacles The Phoenix throws in 
 your way. The game is also incredibly immersive, such to the point where, while the first few people 
 who e mail you are obviously bots, eventually you start to wonder what would happen if you replied 
 to their e mails. I've never tried it, but I always wonder what would happen...
  
  In conclusion, if you think you've got what it takes, get the game and it'll be an incredibly rewarding 
 experience. If you're the type of person who likes their games mindless and simple, stay away at 
 all costs. I'd recommend this game to anyone with a decent intellect, and with its 30 dollar price 
 tag it won't break the bank. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReeceBrown
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 7, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  this game is the freakiest and BEST puzzle game i have ever played. It keeps me at the edge of 
 my seat holding my breath all the time playing it. The more i play the more i want to get the guy. 
 The cut scenes are so well done. The acting in it is no short of a emmy worthy. I mean the girl 
 i thought she was accually being held hostage. I had no thought at all that she was an actor. The 
 fact that email things creeps me out and everytime i hear my email noise (even if i hadnt played 
 it i jump still) i was really and i mean REALLY bummed that i spent 28 dolars on a game with no 
 running around or investigating murders or anything. i WAQS BUMMED but i thought id give it a shot. 
 It made me so scared i wanted to play more and more. The game twisted me around its finger and 
 tied me on tight i can get enough. When the game ends im am going to be so sad. Im hopped up on 
 grape juice (with so much sugar in it i can still see it all) and i too scared to go to sleep. addicting 
 at first i could bared to look at myself in the mirror cuz i bought the game, now i cant becouse 
 im scared im going to see teh pheonix in the mirror about to give me another clue. if it was a 
 littl ebit of adventuring in it even just walking from clue to clue through levels i would be all 
 over this game even more.
  They are all real people in this game, no computer animated characters, so graphics would be......0 
 but im giving it a 10 anyway becouse it give the right atmosphere which is apart of graphics.
 
  gamplay is very basic a point and click type game. Pretty basic but it uses it in elaborate ways 
 so not so good but good
  sound...... get me the soundtrack plz. Ok the music creeps the ***t outa me it makes my ears want 
 it to stop. But it sets the mood so well i can turn the music off.
  Value: worth the 28 i spent without i doubt if i new it was going to be this good i woulda gladly 
 payed 50.
  Some puzzles are harder than others like some are just simple point and click the right thing.... others 
 take you to a link where you find something that will aid you on your quest to get this guy. others 
 are less than hard but less that simple, like this girl blinks her eyes and you must write down 
 how many she does. CREEPY cuz it was so real i thought i playing life. I was fully imersed. i thought 
 she was real, the killer was real everything was real....... i am creeped out to even look at the 
 CD case right now. if you can find this game (kinda hard to find in small towns/cities) buy it it 
 is very cheap and it's worth it. Just before purchasing.... have the internet or you game will not 
 wotrk at all it requires that you be on the internet 100% of the time you play. But you dont pay, 
 and have some kind of email at your disposle cuz if not your game wont be very fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentComposure
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 15, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Okay so this game has to be one of the best PC games I've played in a while. The fact that the 
 game integrates your e-mail into the game makes it all the more personal. You receive letters from 
 the killer himself, and from people who are from different parts of the FBI/Police Dept. etc. The 
 clues are well thought out and make you think a little to get the answer. The thing I liked the 
 most was that they used real people instead of designing characters. The way they have designed 
 the killers dialogue really gets into your head and makes you want to finish the game to catch 
 him. This game is a must buy for people who like mystery/adventure/detective games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: startman_1999
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  This game will creep you out with the e-mails you recieve from the serial-killer and the well-crafted 
 video sequences. The atmosphere is great. The puzzles are challenging and thoroughly satisfying 
 to solve. The unravelling of the victims' story will send shivers down your spine. Even greater 
 than Missing a. k. a. In Memoriam (to which this is a sequel) . Trust me, if you have an internet 
 connection and like adventure games then GET THIS. Do NOT listen to Gamespot. They're crap when 
 it comes to adventure games. They ALWAYS kill them with their scoring with only an exception here 
 and  
 by a true adventure fan! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
