-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Evil Islands: Curse of the Lost Soul
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/evilislandscurseoftls/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 20, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.5, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 150 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Fishtank Interactive
Developer: Nival Interactive
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Apr 17, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hours will fly past as you progress from one exploit to another, hooked on the game's hack-and-slash 
 formula. 

 For a brand-new game, Nival Interactive's Evil Islands: Curse of the Lost Soul seems awfully familiar. 
 It's by the same Russian development team that did the simple Rage of Mages role-playing games 
 a few years ago, and it has much in common with those games, though Evil Islands sports its own 
 fully 3D engine. The game involves an all-too-familiar tale of a hero who must discover his identity 
 (as in Baldur's Gate, Planescape: Torment, Summoner, and countless others) while slaughtering umpteen 
 monsters in an isometric fantasy setting (as in Diablo, Darkstone, Nox, and countless others) . 
 You'll quickly see that originality is not the strong point of Evil Islands. Still, as with many 
 of the games it borrows from, it can be very addicting. Hours will fly past as you progress from 
 one exploit to another, hooked on the hack-and-slash formula that was made popular by Blizzard's 
 hit Diablo. So even though it has a worn-out premise and a host of other shortcomings, somehow 
 these things won't matter much to you when you're cutting down packs of monsters and finding one 
 world-saving thingamabob after another.           Zak will need to use a stealthy approach in many 
 situations.    

  The story begins, as it seemingly always does, with a young man waking up with no knowledge of 
 his past. In this case, at least he remembers his name is Zak. Hints of his origins are soon provided 
 by peasants, who greet sleepyhead by proclaiming him to be "the chosen" and then flee in awe. You'll 
 immediately realize that this messiahlike figure is expected to save these helpless citizens from 
 evil. The peasants' village soon becomes the base of operations from which you'll undertake various 
 quests in the land of Gipath. These quests are either assigned to you or hinted at by locals, such 
 as Erfar the Silvertongue, Babur the Tightfist, and Gort the Skullcrusher. The ensuing adventures 
 never amount to much more than errand-boy jobs made dangerous with standard fantasy foes such as 
 orcs, goblins, trolls, and undead, though the goals are mixed up just enough that the proceedings 
 rarely grow stale.   

  The characters in Evil Islands are somewhat different from those in traditional fantasy RPGs, in 
 that there are no set character classes in the game. Experience points gained from killing foes 
 and completing quests are applied to boost skill in melee, archery, stealing, and in three types 
 of magic skills. With this system, you can choose to build a fighter who's powerful in hand-to-hand 
 combat, an archer who's good at a distance, or a mage who's handy with spells -- or a combination 
 of any of these. A wide range of available abilities can likewise be purchased using the experience 
 points you've saved up. A mage might save up for improved skill in lightning magic, while a warrior 
 might use his points on sword mastery. It's a fairly open-ended system.   

  If there's anything else original about the world of Evil Islands, it's that the initial setting 
 is closer to the Stone Age than the medieval setting that's more common in fantasy-themed games. 
 Characters start off wearing rough leather clothing and wielding stone weapons, and only later 
 progress to more standard fantasy gear like metal swords and armor. This is a little off-putting 
 at first -- particularly when you see that Gort the Skullcrusher is decked out in buckskins like 
 some sort of fantasy version of Davy Crockett -- though in time you'll come to appreciate the subtle 
 twist that this gives to the typical swords-and-sorcery theme.           The quests in Evil Islands 
 are simplistic, but plentiful.    

  What's more disconcerting about the game's characters is the truly horrific voice acting found 
 throughout. Zak basically sounds like a reject from the show  Will &amp; Grace . Lines like, "Oh! 
 Are we not  fright ening!" and "I love  ma gic!" quickly distinguish Zak from other, more masculine 
 fantasy heroes. Other characters in Evil Islands thankfully lack Zak's quirks (though the Gipath 
 villagers do speak in deep Scottish brogues) , but they're also ineptly voiced. Most enunciate every 
 word like it's the last they're ever going to speak. This can seriously dampen your enjoyment of 
 the game, as your own party members can often be so obnoxious that you'll want to send them to 
 their doom. On the other hand, you might just as soon appreciation the campiness of the extremely 
 awkward dialogue in the game.   

  Even if you could ignore the voice acting, the audio in Evil Islands still is nothing to write 
 home about. The musical score is rather repetitive and uses the same bland notes in every battle 
 throughout the game. However, the atmospheric effects found in the game are excellent. The chirping 
 of crickets and the howling of wolves echoing in the night are welcome touches of authenticity 
 that help the game seem a little more believable.    

 The game's fully 3D engine requires a Direct3D-compatible card and does a good job of handling the 
 action onscreen on a moderate system, even at higher resolutions and at 32-bit color depth. You 
 can shift the camera angle on the fly with just a right click of the mouse and a quick swivel, 
 while zooming in and out is possible with a flick of the mouse wheel. Unfortunately, the quality 
 of the actual graphics in Evil Islands is all over the place. Some of the wilderness terrain looks 
 lifelike, but some of it looks very bland, and most of the characters look poor. At least they 
 animate fairly well, and besides, most of the time you'll fix the perspective far away enough that 
 you won't really notice the ugly details. Focusing in too tightly on Zak and his companions makes 
 it easy to walk right into an enemy, so you're better off keeping the camera pulled back except 
 during pitched battle.           Gort the Skullcrusher is one of the colorful characters in the 
 game.    

  As you progress through Evil Islands, the weaponry you'll find is limited to the typical swords, 
 axes, clubs, and so on, but blueprints can be found during the game that permit the construction 
 of different devices if you've also got the necessary raw materials. There are just 28 spells available, 
 although magic users can alter them with 24 different runes that affect such things as spell potency, 
 range, and targeting. Items can also be infused with spells, so there's no more waiting to pry 
 that magical sword from the cold, dead hands of a monster. Regardless, these customization options 
 aren't as intriguing in Gipath as they are on paper. It's typically easier just to buy weapons 
 than to make them, and magic in the game seems weak compared with a good battle-axe and melee combat 
 skills. At any rate, going through the bother of manufacturing swords and spells makes little sense 
 when you can simply spend a little cash on equally good gear.   

  Besides this, the basic game engine has some noticeable flaws. Many of your player character's 
 actions require expenditure of stamina points that regenerate only when you're not moving -- running 
 draws upon this reserve, as does casting spells (though combat, oddly enough, does not) . This simplifies 
 matters greatly for those who just want to enjoy some basic hacking and slashing. Unfortunately, 
 it also forces Zak and his companions to walk, creep, or crawl everywhere they go, slowing Evil 
 Islands to a snail's pace. You could learn another language during all the time you'll spend twiddling 
 your thumbs. While it's true that you can run from point to point, you can only do so with lengthy 
 breaks between sprints to recharge your stamina. And if you play this way, you'll inevitably find 
 your characters winded or unable to cast spells when they stumble upon an enemy.   

  Battle sequences are a little different from what you might expect. While simple point-and-click 
 combat remains at the core of the game, the designers have livened things up a little. For instance, 
 you can target your foes' limbs in order to reduce their combat proficiencies and to increase your 
 chances of a critical hit. You can also creep up on unsuspecting foes or sneak past them completely. 
 Stealth is often preferable to the direct approach, and Zak must reach a number of goals by sheathing 
 his blade and slinking through the shadows. The only drawback to this approach is how some quests 
 invariably turn into puzzles. For example, even though there may be three or more ways to sneak 
 to a goal, all but one path will find you detected and caught in a deathtrap, up against far more 
 opposition than you can handle. This leads to some trial and error, not to mention a great deal 
 of reloading saved games.   

  Except for the relative weakness of magic, the combat in Evil Islands is well balanced and becomes 
 suitably tougher as Zak's adventures continue, such that the game stays challenging. The exception 
 to this rule is that all your enemies have the ability to inflict critical hits at random. These 
 deadly strikes come out of the blue and typically do several times as much damage as a normal hit. 
 A critical hit can finish a battle instantly when your characters aren't at full health, which 
 is incredibly frustrating when it happens at the end of a hard-fought scrap you seemed about to 
 win. For what it's worth, your characters can score critical hits, too.           The spoils of 
 war don't always amount to much.    

  You'll also be frustrated by the lack of good loot to be scavenged from the corpses of vanquished 
 foes. Evil Islands is certainly no Monty Haul campaign. The typical monster doesn't have two gold 
 pieces to rub together, and the items that you'll scrounge for later sale never amount to much 
 cash. Most of the good weapons and armor will be out of reach until you slaughter hundreds of foes. 
 Even worse, while you can rifle an enemy for his meager money pouch, you usually can't grab the 
 powerful club he was just using to beat your brains in, let alone grab his armor.   

  The game's multiplayer mode supports up to six players via a LAN or the Internet. After a brief 
 character-customization process, players meet up in the village and set off together on various 
 assigned quests. The game is designed to allow for multiple characters to engage in combat at once, 
 but the lack of an integrated online player-matching service in the game means that finding others 
 to adventure with may prove difficult.   

  Evil Islands: Curse of the Lost Soul is one of those rare games that manages to add up to more 
 than the sum of its parts. Although veteran role-playing gamers will immediately recognize that 
 virtually everything in Evil Islands has been done before in some form -- many times before, in fact -- they'll 
 still spend untold hours in an eye-glazed stupor with the game, striving to finish just one more 
 quest. Because, for all its flaws, few games manage to resuscitate a tired formula as well as Evil 
 Islands does. While it's true that the designers at Nival Interactive borrowed a lot of elements 
 from games like Blizzard's Diablo, they've also apparently understood that being derivative doesn't 
 have to be a bad thing for an action-packed role-playing game.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 26, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  This is an unimpressive game at first appearance. The bad voice acting from many of the characters 
 is quite poor - the very worst acting being from the main character, which makes you hate him but 
 also laugh at him. His appearance and his voice are really funny.
  
  This game was originally in Russian language, and the poor translation shows. People speak everything 
 in unabbreviated words. It is very annoying.
  
  The armour and weapons in this game don't seem that good at first, but once are 10 hrs or more 
 into it, and than you are able to buy spells and metal than forge them together. You can get some 
 awesome and powerful combinations by doing this. You can construct armour from high quality metals 
 you find or buy - further more, you can put spells to that armour before you construct it. This 
 is the best item and armour construction I've seen in any game before. There is some trial and 
 error when trying to attach spells to a weapon or armour, so you can quick save it before you waste 
 money. You can spend hours making amazing armour mixed with healing and regeneration spells. For 
 example, putting weakening spells on a weapon, theres just so many interesting combinations you 
 can do with this in Evil Islands.
  
  The storyline is below average, but its not to surprising, considering how crappy the voice acting 
 is. The story maybe isnt great, but the game still kept me interested in playing it. Some of the 
 characters you meet in towns are kind of funny.
  
  I'm not really sure why they called this game Evil Islands , because they're more like different 
 worlds than islands. There were 3 different main areas in the game. The first part is the least 
 fun of the three, just fighting crap in a swampy area and some forests. The second area was an 
 Icy snowy place; probably I had some of the most fun here because I had lots of money and armour 
 to modify. Third place is sort of a slave world, its not too great, but are tons of things to kill 
 using your powerful weapon and armour. So there are 3 levels, which are much longer than you think. 
 I spent at least 50-60 hours on this game. Thats probably around 20 hours per level/section. The 
 skill gains were so fun, the quality of this impressed me.
  
  Worst part and most disappointing is the very last guy you fight, you can't do any damage to him, 
 so all you do is heal the mage youre fighting with, and let him kill it. Its the crappiest battle 
 ever, and then the game ends with short cut scene. So expect no reward or anything if you beat 
 the game, the only fun part I had was the skill gains and armour constructions throughout the game.
 
  
  The graphics are nicely done if youre zoomed out far. Dead bodies stay on the ground till you 
 loot them (automatic looting too, which makes things fast) . Also, there is no weight to items you 
 carry, the only weight that you have to worry about is the armour and weapon that are equipped. 
 The path finding is amazing in this game, you can zoom a mile out and click somewhere on the map, 
 and it will never fail to get there. You just sit back and watch them travel. The graphics were 
 blocky in cut scenes when they zoomed in really close... but zoomed out, they easily beat many 
 games that are much newer.
  
  8-10 for the game overall. If to judge on gameplay like fighting, skill gain, armour, play control 
 etc, I give this game 9.5-10. But this games crappy voices, storyline, random crashes and poor 
 game ending, really hurt this game (PC games usually have terrible endings anyways) . Expect many 
 crashes, you will need the quick save button... and pretty much the only way to finish the game 
 is to use quick save lots to prevent being over run by enemies. This can happen easily.
  
  If games like Dungeon Siege, Divine Divinity, Neverwinter Nights, and Baulders Gate all used smooth 
 controls and graphically clean zoomed out look, that are in Evil Islands, they would have been 
 playable. The awesome zooming in and out and the isometric view was perfect in Evil Islands. You 
 can never back trail once you move onto one of the 3 worlds, so get all you can before you head 
 to the next world.
  
  I'd love to see a Evil Islands 2, and espeically if it was made from the same people. I can definately 
 see myself playing through Evil Islands again at sometime in the future. If this game only had 
 better storyline and voice acting, it would of been a huge success. Don't let your hatred for the 
 the main character stop you from playing through this game. He's more fun to laugh at than hate. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moomanpen
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  i owned this game for two years but one day the case fell the disk fell out went under the leg 
 of my chair then crack it broke
  
  
  l l
  l l
  l l
  
  ^
  / \
  but suprisingly it made me make an evil islands shrine in my room 1 foot tall 1 foot wide the center 
 peice is the cracked disk 
  
  
  right on to the game evil islands is endless hours of fun you can play story mode or online mode 
 
  
  you can make armor make weapons make charecters (only online mode)
  and make spells
  
  pretty good grapics not to spoil the game or anything but fear the pillars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legice
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 9, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  Its a game that makes you want to play it for hours and hours and hours because, it hase succh details 
 in it. For a 2001 year game it ia simply amazing because the  
 ohne of the best games in the world! World.... you can go fron one plae of the world to another, isnt 
 that great. First youre on an island with goblins, then the island of snow, next the sahara, and only 
 that takes to a lot of time to complete and there are two islands more i think. When will the fun 
 ever stop! Seriously! You must enjoy this game ,but if you dont, then you hate the stile of the game (middle 
 age) than you want something with guns, rifles and stuff, but here is where the things show, how the 
 guns and such things ware invented, and here are the only weapons that can show you the real liffe, not 
 like some knee shooting and you can finish them of, here you have ot fight for survival. Now and 
 days, everyone can shoot ,but in those days ware the true warriors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enforcer-Combat
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 11:02 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately, this game never really took off the ground in terms of popularity. I would define 
 this game as the best game I have ever played in my entire life. What remains of the Evil-Islands 
 community agrees with me.
  
  Despite what anybody else says, I thought the music was great, and it induced the tone and culture 
 of the battle magnificently. I have not met one Evil-Islands player ever who has ever disagreed 
 with that statement.
  
  On the line of voices: I thought the main charactors voice was flamboyantly annoying, but it was 
 bareable. I actually liked all the other voice acting done by all the different charactors Npc 
 or otherwise in the entire game.
  
  The graphics aren't fantastic, but they are completely substantial for a year 2000-birds-eye-view-rpg. 
 I am comfortable while playing this game, and I allways enjoy it regardless of the graphics. It 
 doesn't allways need to look good to be -good-.
  
  This game is simply so severely underated, mostly because you need to understand it to like it. 
 The first map (Which more or less teaches you how to play on the world map. There is still much 
 more to learn though) is it's downfall, as I think it doesn't introduce you to the world of Allods 
 very well (in the eyes of other people) .
  
  I cannot begin to explain the volume of underation this game carries on it's back, those of you 
 who disposed of the game are really missing an experience which would even be substantial for nowdays 
 games (2005) seeing as it was developed in 1999-2000.
  
  Unfortunately, it is close to impossible to purchase the English/French/German/Polish versions 
 of this game, as something to do with publishing completely failed the game, so I've never seen 
 more than 7 servers maximum on the server list at once. It was taken off the shelves so Nival Interactive 
 didn't lose any more money. (or something along those lines)
  
  But the game has never just died like other games have, new and different people come and play 
 it all the time, keeping an adverage of 3 servers at a time, plus that number when veterans return 
 into play. (The game is known for it's elasticy-replayableness. People tend to get bored of mp 
 after about an adverage of 5 months, they -allways- come back)
  
  This could've changed so much in the gaming industry if the game was published successfully. Luckily, 
 the company who developed the game are -finally- making a sequal, after Russian programmer Evil 
 islands fans needed Evil Islands (like all of us ei fans) to grow so much that they learnt how 
 to read the source code, and game content (which is uneditable as nival decided not to release 
 anything other than a gameplay editor) , and with their own resources have started developing another 
 Evil Islands game. Nival are so impressed, their backing them all the way. Hopefully it will be 
 as good as the last.
  
  God bless Evil-Islands! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This game was my First RPG i ever played and boy was it good. It has its flaws like many games 
 and it takes some time to get used to but you will surly like it and if you like any other point 
 and click roleplay games then you might get a kick out of this.
  
  Graphics: Still look good even now. They where pretty impressive back in the day when it came out 
 and i remember not being able to max this game out. But i still enjoyed this. By Todays standards 
 you should be able to run this on almost any rig, the Character Models look a bit chunky though.
 
  
  But the world itself is full of detail and that. and with Nividia's control Panel or ATI's version 
 you can enable 16xQAA and 16xAF (What wasnt around at the time) and Really make this game look good.
 
  
  
  Gameplay: It has some Nice things in it such as the abilty to make your own spells and armour up 
 and weapons. The Leveling system is mostly differnt from other Rpgs but it what makes it stand 
 out. You have 2 other Companions with you however if your character dies aka Zak its game over 
 so it can be annoying if he dies in a middle of a quest so it always wise to let your freinds soak 
 up the damage.
  
  
  Sound: Music is good the Voice acting isnt though and is kind of cheesy at times. But it gives 
 the game its own little charm. The characters are likeable enough and have there own personalty. 
 All in all the sound Design is ok enough for it to be enjoyed.
  
  Value: Great RPG with plenty of Hours though can be hard at times anyone with time to kill or is 
 just looking for another fun rpg to play then you will Enjoy Evil islands.
  
  My Advice is Hold onto your Copy if you have this since it took me 3 years to actuly find this 
 game again, and also this game does have online MP buit shame no one is on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orkfreak
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 2, 2004 8:02 pm PT
Review:  this is one of those games that grows on you.
  if you begin on the singleplayer you could be fine for a hour of hundred but the real strenght 
 in this game is in the multiplayer.
  because of the small comunitie of this game you will know everybody who plays it and become easly 
 friends with them.
  this is one of those games that you play and when you stop playing it you will always come back 
 for more.
  it really grows on you.
  
  gameplay: nice campiagn that will take you a while and exelent multiplayer that just grows on you.
 
  
  graphics: very good graphics and I can't really complain of anything of it.
  
  sound: very good music and special effect but the voices can be a little stupid.
  
  value: 
 a hundred hour campiagn and multiplayer that keep you coming back. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
