-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Evil Genius
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/evilgenius/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 28, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.8, 50 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,799 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: VU Games
Developer: Elixir Studios
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Sep 28, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Evil Genius is surprisingly successful for being so focused on style over substance, but it can 
 also be quite frustrating at times. 

  Taking its cue from the  Austin Powers  movies and the No One Lives Forever games, Evil Genius 
 turns '60s superspy camp on its head. No longer must you tolerate sanctimonious one-liners from 
 overpaid agents -- it's time to put globe-trotting meddlers in their place in what's essentially 
 a tycoon-style economic strategy game about building an evil empire. Apparently, the life of the 
 aspiring supervillain requires quite a bit more work than gloating over imprisoned do-gooders, 
 as it takes an army of minions to build, maintain, and defend the secret island lair expected of 
 any modern megalomaniacal villain. Indeed, while Evil Genius' dry, campy humor is often amusing 
 from the start, it takes quite a bit of time and effort to pull off acts of infamy and establish 
 your notoriety among global powers. Specifically, Evil Genius is hampered by some frustratingly 
 haphazard pacing as well as issues with the artificial intelligence of your minions. So while you 
 might  look  the part of a supervillain and get to show off the latest in evil research while you 
 play, unfortunately, it's not always as fun as it sounds.  

          All diabolical joking aside, Evil Genius' great concept and sense of style are sometimes 
 undermined by some problematic gameplay elements.     

  Before you choose your alter ego, it's best to sit through the tutorial for a refresher course 
 on how to build a top-notch secret lair. Evil Genius' isometric perspective will be familiar if 
 you've played other 3D tycoon games, and the interface isn't difficult to use, but most mechanics 
 are original enough not to feel immediately familiar. Using the extensive information screens can 
 avoid a lot of confusion, and it's also worth paying attention to the tips on the loading screens 
 for helpful keyboard shortcuts. Most of the basics are covered progressively with in-engine videos, 
 and both the tutorial and the videos are laced with the sort of dry jokes you'd expect throughout 
 the game. Unfortunately, this is about the only spoken narrative in Evil Genius.  

  Picking from the three playable supervillains can quickly seem like one of the game's less consequential 
 decisions, as not only does the bulk of the campaign play out the same, but also running an evil 
 empire rarely requires physically involving the mastermind. The most immediate effect of choosing 
 between Maximilian (the bald Dr. Evil look-alike) , Alexis (a fur-wearing beauty) , and Shen Yu (a 
 Chinese conspirator with a mystical air) is that each starts with a specific henchman. And while 
 your criminal mastermind may lurk behind the scenes, henchmen play a key role, serving as hero 
 units that gain experience to go toward unlocking two unique abilities. There are around a dozen 
 henchmen total -- each echoing the comiclike characters from Bond films, from the well-armed Red 
 Ivan commando to the hypnotic Mesmero to the jive-talking Eli -- and you can unlock more as you gain 
 notoriety. As powerful as henchmen are, they aren't invulnerable, and they will be unavailable 
 for a time if they take too much normal damage or if their three lives are used up (henchmen can 
 be killed outright in a fight with one of the five named superagents) . Still, since henchmen are 
 the only offensive unit you control directly, it's worth putting their abilities to use.  

  Since you'll likely have no more than a handful of henchmen, most of your time is spent indirectly 
 running the show, laying plans for the next expansion for your base, adjusting how many minions 
 engage in specialized training, and ordering minions and henchmen to fly off to distant parts of 
 the world to earn money or complete specific missions. Soon enough, the game will impress on you 
 that a criminal mastermind's main talent is not cunning, but patience. Running this operation involves 
 quite a bit of watching and waiting. Approve plans for a new corridor or one of the dozen or so 
 room types, and a blue outline appears. When a minion is free, he'll run to the strong room where 
 your gold and money is stored, pick up a briefcase, run to either the boathouse or helicopter depot, 
 and then return with dynamite to carve the room out of the island volcano you call home. The process 
 is similar for ordering each item, and the round-trip can take less than a minute if there's nothing 
 happening to distract the minion. But if there are too many orders in the queue, pesky enemies 
 on the way to the preferred depot, or too few idle workers, then you're in for a long wait before 
 your build order can be completed.  

          At its core, Evil Genius is about building an island base and managing an army of minions. 
     

  One of your avatar's uses is to walk over to the tag that is floating over a build order's location 
 and tell minions that it's the highest priority. If this doesn't work to get minions on track, 
 it'll be up to you to diagnose the problem, which can be mundane, as you don't have the facilities 
 to keep minions well rested, fed, healthy, educated, and entertained. Every character that sets 
 foot on your island has five attributes that determine its efficiency. It's not enough to keep 
 minions alive and awake -- it's just as much of a problem if their stats for attention, loyalty, 
 or smarts go to zero, since they'll either stand around looking dumb or desert their post. Here's 
 where the evil mastermind's one other ability comes into play. By walking up to a minion and executing 
 him, all shirkers in the area suddenly pay attention and get to work. Things get a lot more complicated 
 than just terrifying minions into obedience, though.     

  It won't take you long to run out of variations for the sparse selection of rooms and items you 
 start off with, but after completing your initial base, the world map opens up and presents you 
 with plenty of opportunities for criminal acts and involuntary recruiting. The basic construction 
 worker can only do so much, but by capturing military, science, and social specialists, you can 
 steal the secrets of their trade and start training your own specialists. Only the simplest away 
 missions can be accomplished with basic workers, so soon enough you'll need to send specific combinations 
 of specialists for missions that range from stealing special items and rare resources to planting 
 political operatives and getting intelligence needed for your very own doomsday device. It's not 
 long before you can put your scientists to work researching new items and traps. Here again, much 
 of the research process involves waiting for your little people to quietly go about their tasks, 
 as the minions first walk around your base looking for existing items to use as inspiration. Since 
 you never know just what will unlock a whole series of new items (and since research tends to work 
 in spurts and droughts) , there's some motivation to build at least one of everything. That is, 
 if you can afford it.  

          Henchmen have some good one-liners as they rush off to do your bidding. They're also the 
 only offensive unit you control.     

  Carving a base out of solid rock and building rooms with shiny steel walls can't be cheap, and 
 your only source of cash is sending workers or, better yet, soldiers out to specific regions in 
 the world to embezzle it. This isn't without consequence, since all evil activities in the world 
 create "heat" with one of the five world powers, and with enough heat, those powers send investigators 
 to your island. If these investigators see anything of note (or are never heard from again) , military 
 agents will start showing up to steal your ill-gotten loot, kill your minions, or blow up parts 
 of your base. You might be able to hold off the early waves by sending your guards and henchmen 
 out, especially if you're lucky enough to not have them walk out as the enemies open up fire from 
 far away. But since minions are never overabundant (the upper limit is 100) , the primary means 
 of defending the base is to set up traps and sentry guns. Traps can be tricky to set up, starting 
 with the fact that detectors don't always notice smarter agents trained to slip past, and they 
 work best in combination with entry corridors long enough to do away with enemies before they get 
 to critical rooms. Extra incentive to create traps comes into play when successful combinations 
 instantly award a cash bonus. But the smarter agents can smell a trap, and they will attack any 
 offensive item. Without well-timed backup from guards, those expensive traps can quickly go up 
 in smoke.  

  There's no denying that an aspiring evil genius gets a payoff for all this effort. Unlocking items 
 and traps through research is pretty satisfying, but watching the items in action is a big step 
 up from reading the descriptions. Most room items get your minions involved, and when you zoom 
 right down to it, the animation is quite fluid and usually pretty amusing. Some of the most active 
 items are in the training areas, including dummies that have workers punch and kick their way into 
 shape, a dojo for martial artists, and a bunch of handshaking robots to train ingratiating diplomats. 
 Some items play it straight, while others are there almost purely as a gag, such as the smarts-enhancing 
 sci-fi machine that literally washes brains. While most objectives don't get their own cutscenes, 
 there are plenty that end with a comical interrogation sequence ingeniously involving some ordinary 
 device.  

  However, objectives can seem few and far between. The first half of the game is made up of only 
 a half-dozen large objectives, and while some leave the order of completion up to you and are composed 
 of smaller tasks that can be tackled in less than an hour, missions get fewer and farther between 
 as you delve deeper into the game. There's a yo-yo effect between success and the heat that it 
 generates, which means that too much activity out in the world will inevitably entrain serious 
 reprisals. The game's toughest moments come when the keys to objectives are hidden in clues written 
 into briefings, which involve multiple world missions that force you to split your limited forces 
 between world deployments and defending the base at home. Between the attrition that away teams 
 always sustain, and the attacks they bring, it's possible to get stuck in a losing proposition 
 when success seems just inches away.  

  Visual style and the quality of the animation really help the game through its more routine moments. 
 Zooming in on minions going about their business, inspecting the unusual items you've stolen, and 
 watching trap sequences unleash their deadly abilities are the best things to do when you're waiting 
 for minions to carry out your orders. The world has a lot of moving detail upon close inspection, 
 but characters aren't drawn with pinpoint detail, and it works within the cartoonish style. The 
 engine's dynamic lighting and reflections on shiny surfaces can become only too apparent when your 
 power needs to exceed what your generators can handle, and the interiors switch to red emergency 
 lights and then to a shadowy darkness when that's drained. The day-night cycle in the exterior 
 is also something to deal with, since enemies have a much easier time sneaking past your mouse 
 pointer in the dark. This can be a problem, since you have to manually order your minions and sentry 
 guns to deal with them (minions only shoot on sight when the base is on high alert) . To vary the 
 exterior visuals somewhat, the chance to switch locations is presented to you after you've spent 
 the first chapters on a desert island.  

          There are many acts of infamy to pursue on the world map, but only some directly contribute 
 to your objectives.     

  The introductory sequence and the handful of movies that play behind the menus help to immediately 
 set the game's tone, which is playful but never over the top (it's more in line with James Bond 
 than Austin Powers) . If the looping videos aren't enough reason to linger on the menus, then the 
 soundtrack is. While the ambient in-game music is more calming than memorable, the tracks that 
 accompany the game's lengthy load screens and menus recall the more action-packed movie soundtracks 
 of 1960s thrillers.  

  Evil Genius is surprisingly successful for being so focused on style over substance, but ultimately, 
 the indirect method of controlling what goes on in your lair is more a source of frustration than 
 a solution for avoiding micromanagement. This is particularly apparent when the minion artificial 
 intelligence does brain-dead things, like sending highly trained, unarmed scientists and diplomats 
 out of the base's protection to pick up bodies that are accumulating outside in a war zone. There 
 are relatively few tools for controlling minions' occasional urges for self-destruction -- it can 
 come down to thinking ahead enough to lock the doors before they leave. Also stealing some of the 
 satisfaction of having the world at your fingertips is the campaign's irregular pacing and the 
 lack of a fast-forward key. Fortunately, when you  do  accomplish the more notorious acts of infamy, 
 it's enough to make evil aspirations worthwhile.   

    Editor's note 09/28/04 : The review originally stated that Evil Genius lacked a manual save feature, 
 and only saved the player's progress automatically, which is incorrect. GameSpot regrets the error. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (60 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TooNu
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2009 10:41 am PT
Review:  I LOVE THIS GAME! and as Rock, Paper, Shotgun just had a small 'Past games' kind of feature today, 
 I thought I would post my thoughts here also.
  
  Despite how much I love this game, it can get really annoying... BUT cheating in this game is never 
 a bad thing, you are evil right? so use the extra cash cheat and make the game a little more enjoyable. 
 I know that is a pretty bad way to start a review, but you the simpleton have not played Evil Genius 
 yet... or perhaps you have in which case you allready know why this is a good idea.
  
  I relise it's not exactly the point of playing a game which is to have a bit of a challenge. However 
 after you have played through it and found that during island 2 it becomes a bit of a "there is 
 only 1 way to win otherwise you are f***ed".
  Try it without the cheat and find yourself being a bit annoyed at the number of super agents that 
 destroy your bits and traps, be a bit annoyed that many of your minions leave for whatever reason, 
 and essentially have a pretty hard game turn into a 1 play wonder that you never touch again because 
 of the frustrating bits.
  
  Or be better at it than me I guess :) 
  
  In my defence however, I have played it on and off since release and only since I could basically 
 make and remake my base with the various traps at my disposal, doing whatever I wanted due to having 
 ALL THE CASH! had I any real fun and could just enjoy the dasterdly traps and henchman that I had 
 installed within the complex. At this point the game turns into a game that focuses mainly on being 
 evil to the poor agents and conjoring up the various ways to make your base super awesome impregnable, 
 stealing various bits from around the world.
  
  So cheating, allowing you to focus on the fun in the game rather than the aggravating tedium of 
 painfully watching your base explode and collapse around you as your evil plans go awry due to 
 a respawning super agent that just minutes before destroyed a large section of your base.
  
  It is a really fun game overall and the one game I feel cheating is not only just, it is expected 
 from an Evil Genius.... ok so a genius doesn't really need to cheat but hey, the 'Evil' comes first.
 
  
  EDIT: I have completed this game now, took me forever and a few on/off terms but now I have done 
 it and I can tell you all it is bags of fun, great artwork, great fun, great humour. PLAY THIS 
 GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gummy_joe
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to evil genius, the world is your oyster and the agents are your enemy.
  You start the game by selecting one of the 3 evil geniuses
  - Maxamilion who is a short version 
 of doctor Evil from Austin powers
  - Alexis who is basically a rich woman who wants the world
  - Shen Yu who is a chines super evil
 
  After you select who u want to play as the game begins, you start on a desert Island with a sum 
 of cash, the main thing to do is build a underground base, this includes several things like a 
 Barracks, a lab and a break room for you minions.
  The base building part of the game isn't that bad, the only thing is that the corridors cant be 
 demolished so they can get in your way if you don't build them right.
  your minions are maintained in a different way to command and conquer or Rise Of nations, instead 
 of selecting the barracks and seconds later a minion appears, you start off with workers which 
 then get taught by other minion classes the basics of being a minion, with the only control over 
 them to select how many you want. you can not directly control minions so your most likely wondering 
 "how do you make them kill?"
  the way you do this is by tagging enemies (or friendlies) with a tag saying to kill, weaken or 
 capture them, the only people you have direct control over is your evil genius and Henchmen (basically 
 the equivilent of heroes in rise of legends) . Henchmen have 3 powers, gather minions meaning any 
 minion in a area around the henchmen will follow him where he/ she goes, the other 2 powers depend 
 on the henchmen that you have.
  the graphics are great in the fact that there is an great amount of detail in the enviroment and 
 objects, minions could have a bit more detail but other than that the graphics are second to none.
 
  
  all in all its worth a look 
::::::

::::::
UserName: astralislux
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  I first gave this game a rating of 3.5. I was very disappointed with some of the graphics. They 
 are fairly basic and I was expecting more of a 3D layout. But then a couple of months ago I decided 
 to try the game again and it is everything I read about, and more. It is a fantastic and fun game. 
 And the graphics, for what they are, truly work. I revised the score to 9.0. There is a lot of 
 strategy to the game, but not too much that it distracts you from the game. The music and props, 
 as well as the goal of the game, evokes the Bond film in its early years (e. g., Sean Connery years) .
 
  
  This game is like the Sierra simulation games (CivRome, Pharoah) except it takes the concept into 
 the spy universe.
  
  Games like this are rarely made anymore and I think the brains behind this game need to come back 
 and expand this or make more games.
  
  This game is still worth playing today. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonny_zoo
Rating: 7
Date: May 2, 2008 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Evil Genius is a game from VU games and Elixir Studios, it is an ok game but it has many flaws 
 and bugs holding it back.
  
  Evil Genius puts you in the role of an evil mastermind who is put in the task of taking over the 
 world, you must build a base and recrute henchmen and minions to run your base.
  
  However, it can also be very fustrating at times, for example is can crash unexpectivly or it can 
 just bug up and slow down, which is and can be very annoying.
  
  
  
  It's not that Evil Genius is a bad game, it is just fustrating at times.
  
  The gameplay of 
 this game ain't nothing too flash either, although the humour of this game can be funny and will 
 take some time before it gets old...
  
  The graphics in this game are it's highlight, it just looks outstanding, although the characters 
 can be somewhat pixulated.
  
  If you are interested in this game, you should play the demo or rent it first, if you like then 
 buy the game, but be very carefull as this game is an all flash, no substance type of game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bush66
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Evil Genius is a fun and entertaining game for the whole family (ok maybe not) , but it certainly 
 is entertaining for anyone who ever dreamed of building a secret base in a mountain and taking 
 over the world. However the taking over the world part is kind of boring (who would've thought) . 
 But all you have to do is send your minions some where in the world, wait, click on the begin mission 
 button, wait, then bring your minions back and wait some more. You don't even get to see these 
 acts of infamy take place. However, while your waiting you can entertain yourself by taking out 
 agents of justice. Anyways, you can send out one of your henchman and depending on who you have, 
 you can kill these agents in very amusing ways (my favorite is the bazooka) . Also interrogations 
 can be lots of fun, especially when you use objects such as a mixing bowl to bring people to your 
 way of thinking. While these are fun, they are about the only fun things you can do at your base 
 (besides using diabolical traps) . Most of the time you will be waiting for minions to build traps, 
 waiting for minions to place objects, and waiting for minions to kill a secret agent, or you will 
 just be doing absolutely nothing.
  
  So all in all this game can be loads of fun if you have nothing to do and you aren't an impatient 
 person. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtbofm
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 31, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games I love to come back to again and again. In part it is because it is 
 just plain fun, in part because there are a variety of ways of playing it and in part because I 
 just get tired of playing heroes out to save the world in so many other games. Evil Genius gives 
 me the chance just stick it to the world of goodness, niceness and cuteness out there.
  
  The game has a great feel to it and designers have thrown in all sorts of touches to capture the 
 feel and look of 1960's spy thrillers while adding in some fun too. Even the opening menu screens 
 have the famous silhouettes from the opening credits of a Bond film  but I won't spoil the fun 
 by telling you what they are silhouettes of! Even the manual joins in the fun, masquerading as 
 the purchasing guide for an "evil lair of unknown location."
  
  You play as one of three highly clichd evil geniuses: a short squat domineering German (sound 
 familiar to any Bond lovers?) , a Russian femme fatale or a wily and inscrutable oriental mandarin. 
 Through them you can take over the world through the use of a suitably elaborate and farcical doomsday 
 device of your choosing.
  
  As your fame  or rather infamy increases  you can attract the services of up to seven specialised 
 henchmen many of whom are lifted from the pages of the spy classics of the 60s: a voodoo priest, 
 big bad afro'ed sharpshooters etc. There are some new ones you can choose too  I have a soft spot 
 for the fun caused by the elderly psychotic nurse known only as "The Matron" and her homicidal 
 handbag... 
  
  Your genius and your henchmen are the only units you can control directly to do what you want and 
 go where you choose. Everyone else  your force of up to 100 minions  is controlled indirectly. 
 You simply issue orders: "Build that!" "Move this!" "Kill them!" and your minions will get around 
 to it. There are over a dozen specialist minion types. You can recruit simple workers who build 
 stuff and can fight when needed or you can train them up into something more specialised like a 
 martial arts specialist or a nuclear physicist so they can perform sophisticated tasks.
  
  Some of those tasks involve going out in the wide world to kidnap, steal, destroy, blackmail defraud 
 etc. Some will result in loot that you can keep that gives you benefits or can be used as part 
 of your research activities to discover new weapons and traps. Once again all the usual fun clichs 
 are there: yes you CAN steal the Crown Jewels, a Picasso or two and even the Eiffel Tower for fun. 
 Each such act increases your infamy but also the suspicion of the nations of the world.
  
  While you are raiding them, they will also be raiding you. They will send to your base various 
 minions of their own  investigators, saboteurs, assassins and, ultimately, super agents of their 
 own. These guys can steal loot back, ruin your base and your plans and even slay your genius if 
 you are not careful. You can kill them, sure - but where is the fun in that?
  
  And so a whole chunk of the game is given to elaborate traps: giant magnets, buzz saws that rise 
 from the floor, lethal gas vents, killer bees, electrical discharge cannons. Dozens of them to 
 play havoc with the forces of goodness. There are great animations as they get caught in each trap. 
 When will I tire of seeing them fall into my concealed piranha tank? As a bonus, you get cash rewards 
 if you can develop a sequence of traps  la Mousetrap in which the hapless victim tumbles from 
 one trap to the next. You will find whole websites and discussions about the ideal trap combinations 
 to protect your hidden hideaway.
  
  In keeping with the whole genre you do indeed have an evil lair hidden inside a mountain on a tropical 
 island which masquerades as a holiday resort  two in fact. In it you can build all manner of rooms 
 from your Control Room and Power Station (including the mandatory hidden rocket silo) to things 
 as mundane as a canteen and recreation room for your minions coming home after a long day of rape 
 and plunder. You need your traps and your minions to protect your base from the prying eyes of 
 forces of goodness as well as the innocent tourists who will be vacationing on the island.
  
  All this means you play this game as straightforward strategy game and race to your doomsday 
 device to take rule the world. OR you can play it as a builder to design the perfect base with 
 the ideal arrangement of traps and have fun just making the lot of them suffer! OR you can focus 
 on a more tactical game and try and take out those forces of goodness whatever way you can.
  
  Best thing I can say about this game is that hard and frustrating as the gameplay can be at 
 times, this is a game where I am smiling all the time. There are so many nice touches to keep you 
 amused. I never fail to laugh when a crack troop of commandos lands on the island and stumble into 
 my tourist hotel only to be unable to help themselves and wind up on the dance floor moving like 
 a 14 year old boy at his first dance. Torturing a spy in my bio-tanks (or even my library!) can 
 be SO satisfying when I see the consequences. The game is a hoot from beginning to end.
  
  GRAPHICS: Nothing to write home about and well done. There are, however, plenty of great animations 
 that are sort of James Bond meets Looney Tunes. Enjoy!
  
  SOUND: Fantastic. Deserves an award. They have really captured the big orchestral sound of the 
 1960's and evoke those spy classics. I promise you, you will linger on menu screens just to hear 
 the various tracks.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Being unable to directly control minions will frustrate you. So will losing all your 
 specialised minions like marksmen after spending half an hour training a squad. But it is a novel 
 gameplay which is fun in itself and there are plenty of compensations. The fun of building your 
 bizarrely complicated doomsday device will keep you having fun.
  
  This game is a hidden treasure well worth looking under the radar for. It is really great game 
 that is fun all along the way!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelMorbid
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 8, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  Great game... tedious... painfully painfully tedious... but a great game.
  
  This game teaches some important lessons about being an evil genius. Firstly that patience is key. 
 Being a third rate despot building towards that fanatical dream of world domination takes unparalleled 
 patience and understanding. It isn't like how it is in the movies. That death ray didn't come with 
 the base, it was painstakingly researched by carefully monitored evil scientists before the first 
 evil valet began to purchase it with your ill gotten gains collected by evil extortionist guards. 
 It's like a more satisfying version of mousetrap. Takes forever to put together, but watching everything 
 slowly come together like clockwork is a rewarding feeling. Bold and rash evil genius don't get 
 far.
  
  An almost equally important attribute of the megalomaniac on the move is some rudimentary understanding 
 of interior decorating. Where does one place the miniaturized eiffel tower to compliment your quasi-futuristic 
 retro motif? If there is only so much space does one spring for a nerve gas chamber or laughing 
 gas chamber?
  
  Last, but not least, an evil genius needs to know a little something about plumbing. Bizarre, but 
 since the enemy sort of just wanders around looking for junk to follow, steal, blow up, the layout 
 of one's base becomes more and more important to protect. The S bend helps a bit by zig zagging 
 them around a little and keeping them from crawling up your corridors to your inner base.
  
  There's a lot of micromanaging if the base isn't properly designed. Henchmen help. The henchmen 
 are fantastic, very colorful characters. All the stereotypes from the genre and then some.
  
  There are some bugs. Some real big and bad ones... there are patches and mods out there that 
 help... but yeah... the game isn't perfect. It can get down right frustrating at times. Certain 
 missions require indirect action from enemy AI.
  
  Over the last few years we've uninstalled and reinstalled this game countless times. And countless 
 times we slip into our nehru suit for another rousing game of conquest. It's a fun game, but it 
 can be tedious... oh it can be tedious... and frustrating. When it comes down to it, this game 
 did something right though... no idea what it was... but it did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-J-J-JayMan
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Still no success on the finding, but anyways i really enjoyed the game for the couple days i borrowed 
 it, it is really different from any game I have played, it has sufficient graphics and has great 
 game play accompanied by a great storyline. It is truly an outstanding game that will occupy you 
 for many hours, days, lets just say weeks. I love the minion control scheme and how it just makes 
 sense, how in real life you can't just tell everyone exactly what to do, especially when your dealing 
 with one hundred plus minions. I also like the global map thingy and missions. I think that this 
 games is under rated. I only know of one person who owns the game and think that every lover of 
 strategy should own it, but thats just my opinion. I rate this game a 10 out of 10 for being total 
 ponage! and for being under rated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caetrarii
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Evil Genius is a part of those games that try to go the other way, a different approach.
  
  In short, if you don't want to read the review, it's a modern world version of Dungeon Keeper.
 
  
  This game lets you go down the evil path. It's a cartoon-ish version, same way Team Fortress 2 
 is right now, you watch things from a top view, much like any RTS. You start off with a desert 
 island and you build your base by digging into a mountain, from there you can build your base and 
 all the rooms (Armory, barracks, strongroom, etc.) From the island you send your minions into the 
 world to plunder money, steal artifacts (Ranging from a Persian rug to the Eiffel Tower) and plotting 
 other conquests of mischief. All this you do with one goal in mind, global domination. 
  
  Of course the forces of good will try to stop you so they'll send agents, first inspectors to try 
 and prove you're up to no good, they'll send burgulars to try and apprehend anything you've stolen 
 from them and if you've caused enough heat, they'll send soldiers.
  
  All of this is outstanding fun, and I still haven't gotten tired of the game. I bought it nearly 
 three years ago and I'm still playing it from time to time. Building the base and running things 
 smoothly is incredibly fun, along with the joy of setting up complex traps that'll literally send 
 those pesky agents flying to their doom.
  
  If you haven't bought it yet, it's probably somewhere around in a bargain bin waiting for you, 
 it's worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matttttttssssss
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 28, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  the good: graphics are well done, good veriaty of things that you can do, commedic vilence
  
  the bad: lack of good gameplay, have to controle your base from a birds eye perspactive, carn't 
 vew the world when you send your minions out there
  
  
  graphics: A
  sound: B-
  gameplay: C-
  overall: B-: 7.0 good
  
  
  
  evil genius is a real time stratagy game were 
 you have to build a base and a thriving evil empire with many minions there will be around 12 different 
 minion types which you must train up from the construction worker which is your commen minions. 
 construction workers can be trained into three different classes and the basic minnion types in 
 that class can be trained up to the intermediate class and they can be trained into the advanced 
 class of that type
  
  you can also get a handfull of henchmen to help you in your quest to take over the world such as 
 a sameri swordsmen to a big musclely phyco wierlding a rocket launcher these henchmen can only 
 be recruted by doing evil deeds that will get you them
  
  the game has some funny moments in it which wants you to continue on with your conquest but without 
 the funny content it would be pretty samey and boring
  
  so overall i give this game 7/10 because even though it is a very good game the funny content was 
 what saved it from being a complete waste of time and it is not a game that everyone will like 
 so you should probely try the demo first before buying the full game
  
  by: matt, gamespot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evilnoob
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  When i started playing this game i wondered this is gonna be another pointless game that will end 
 soon but i was wrong it is very challenging (even on easy) because of the super agents who wont 
 die unless you do a special thing but it also haves hench men who are your version of super agents 
 and there are acts of infamy which includes a panda that needs to be nutered or club some seals 
 and stealing the Eiffel Tower (muhahaha) or you can just waste your day being rude to poor agents 
 like the centrifuge which hits them in (very sensitive spot) and they get their hands stuck to 
 the machine flinging them around the room i am starting to think this is a very long review and 
 if you don`t want to read this then read the scores you lazy people 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swat1913
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  This game is probably one of the funnest games i have played you get to use henchmen and all kinds 
 of minions to defend your underground lair and to help you create havok all over the world damn 
 its fun. The graphics are good and the gameplay awesome however there are some glitches like your 
 henchmen not doing what you tell them to do same for other units sometimes its very rare though. 
 The objectives are really fun like cloning yourself was particuarly fun : ) . In conclusion if you 
 like RTS's and want to just have some fun get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-queen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Before the now bankrupt British developer Elixir Studios keel over, it was able to release a game 
 where you play the bad guy in a spy-like game.
  
  Evil Genius is set in the Cold War, during the golden age of spying, you take the body of an aspiring 
 EVIL genius. You start by making an lair built in a mountain. There are a variety of rooms to build; 
 the basic is corridor, others are Barracks for your minions to rest, a freezer for body bags and 
 a inner sanctum.
  
  Two main resources exist in the game. Money which is in the form of gold bars and cool suitcases 
 and the other are minions. The basic minion is construction workers not only do they construct 
 but they also do oddjobs like man security desks. Over time you'll be able to kidnap people, interrogate 
 them and use there skills for more advanced minions which fall into three catagories: Science, 
 Military and Social. Science minions research and repair, military minions carry big guns and defend 
 your base while social minions comfort your tired minions and psychologically weaken your enemies.
 
  
  When you build the control room you can access to a world map which shows where act of infamys 
 can be completed to raise your noitoriety in the world so you can hire new henchmen
  
  No spy game worth it's salt would leave out Secret Agencies, and Evil Genius gives you five; H. A. M. M. E. R., 
 S. M. A. S. H., A. N. V. I. L., S. A. B. R. E. and P. A. T. R. I. O. T., each has four types of agents; Investigators 
 will look for incriminating evidence, Thieves will steal gold and loot, Sabateurs will blow your 
 base up and Soldiers will assault your base.
  
  Each Secret Agency has Super Secret Agent who will not die easily but all have an weak spot and 
 will have to work it.
  
  The bad of Evil Genius is the slowness, it does get boring waiting for agents to land or complete 
 acts of infamy or find new ones and there are a number of bugs but do remember this was still in 
 development , so Elixir decieded to gives a good game for there send off.
  
  Many RTS WWII may let you play the bad guys (i. e. the Nazis) but what spy game allows you to be 
 the baddie, to control is evil organisation, build his lair and control his minions. Evil Genius 
 is the first in this genre and i hope Rebellion Studios (who bought Elixir's licences) make a sequel 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexmaung
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  What a great game! The graphics are fun, and although they look simple at first you'd be surprised 
 at how much depth and animation all the characters and objects have. The sounds are funny and comical, 
 and although they do get repetitive after about 10 hours or so it's not overly annoying like some 
 other games can be.
  
  My only quip with this game is the world map. It is very difficult to control the placing of your 
 minions and in general there is not enough information available to you. Object placing could use 
 a little more work, but all in all this is really a fun game to play. Setting traps is one of my 
 favorite pastimes. There is an online petition for an Evil Genius 2, so if you play the game and 
 enjoy it take the time to sign up so we can all enjoy some more evil world domination!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarcadoz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 9, 2007 3:18 am PT
Review:  Now is the chance to put all your plans for world domination into action. In a few words, Evil 
 Genius can be perfectly described as Dungeon Keeper 2 in a James Bond environment.
  
  You take the role of one out of three stereotypical evil masterminds: Maximilian (Ernst Stavro 
 Blofeld) , Alexis (probably Cruella de Vil) or Shen Yu (Fu Manchu) . Talking about stereotypes and 
 parodies: You're going to find a lot of those in the game and they have been carefully crafted 
 and are usually hilarious if you know the original. That partially makes up the certain ingenious 
 charme and humor that makes this game so fascinating to play. Furthermore everything is held in 
 a comical context (e. g. the character animation when an enemy is being interrogated or when he 
 triggers one of the many traps you have at your disposal) .
  
  Basically you build your underground lair in a mountain on a remote island and use it as the basis 
 of operation to conquer the world. Even though its so perfectly hidden there will be agents of 
 the forces of justice coming to check it out depending on your heat level (influenced by acts of 
 evil both on your island and throughout the world) . These agents range from investigators and burglars 
 to infiltrators and soldiers trying to take you and your henchmen down. In order to defend yourself 
 against the forces of justice you can build diabolical trap combinations throughout your lair.
 
  
  Even though you cannot directly control your minions' (workers, soldiers, valets, technicians,...) 
 actions you can control powerful henchmen. Apart from the fact that they are hilarious parodies 
 of famous movie characters they are usually devastating in combat and provide some fancy skills 
 for you to use. You start off with only one henchman depending on your choice of evil genius character 
 but as you increase in notorierity you will be able to hire more henchmen and create some very 
 dangerous combinations.
  
  Regarding the technical aspects of the game, the graphics are quite ok tho' I personally miss some 
 detailed character and level design. The models look somewhat clumsy, even for the standards back 
 in 2004. Other than that the graphics are not bad. When it comes to sound design I have to say 
 that Evil Genius features some brilliant tunes but since they are pretty repetitive they will soon 
 become annoying (such as the general in-game background music) . Another notable shortcoming is 
 imo the tutorial. Judging from the tutorial you don't really get an idea what to expect from the 
 game and even though you know what approximate first steps you should take you're better off starting 
 a second or even third time because you will avoid common mistakes and largely increase your bases 
 effectiveness just because you get an idea what the game develops into later on.
  
  The campaign is satisfying and there's enough to experiment with so despite its repetitiveness 
 and minor shortcomings I can heavily recommend Evil Genius to everybody out there whose alter ego 
 enjoys laughing in an evil manner and plotting to take over the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 21, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  This is a really fun game to play. It involves a lot of concentration and thinking. For once a 
 game that is created where you are the evil dude and you are trying to take over the world. You 
 play the evil genius and you have to build up a base and recruit some minions.
  
  The game was obviously designed to look more like a cartoon than a new strategy game, and they 
 pulled it off really well. The graphics are corny, but with good reason. The Animation is great 
 and you can watch everything your minions do for hours. From fighting in a Sparring floor to dancing 
 like Michael Jackson to get info from your hostages.
  
  The Music can sometimes become irritating, and you are often tempted to switch off your speakers. 
 The narrator is a Speaker voice lady that tells you what is being completed ordered and so on which 
 gives your evil base an authentic sound. Just like it was in old action movies.
  
  Good game. It will keep you busy for Days!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBlaklyon
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 7, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  This is a game for megalomaniacs stuck in the Retro 1960's James Bond era. Or those who like Austin 
 Powers. Its a great game for those who like R. T. S. games too! It has micro management for those 
 who want to have absolute control over everything, Mission objectives have you collecting pieces 
 to a puzzle. That puzzle is a doomsday device. Very Retro Super villain like! The music fits and 
 adds to the atmosphere to the game. Well, Now lets get to the issues of the game. There aren't 
 much but, they are present. Just like a blemish on a perfect face or, a stereotype about a particular 
 persons race. You have to get used to the controls. If you aren't used to this type of game play 
 style, you will need to be broken in like a drunken virgin prom date. The game is sometimes very 
 vague about how to do curtain stuff. Even if you went through the tutorial, You might have to find 
 out how to do some stuff on your own. On that note, that means that players of dungeon keeper or 
 theme hospital won't be able to jump right in and have fun. And Like a wife that finds out her 
 husband has been cheating on her, The game can also be unforgiving. When you make moves be sure 
 that its the right one or the A. I. will spank you like a new born child. But despite the short 
 comings, this game provides hours of addictive megalomaniac fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C_Blade
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 1, 2007 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Evil Genius is a single player game, that is really probably unlike anything you've ever played 
 before. Instead of being a hero, you are the maniacal madman (or woman) and you go through several 
 stages until you finally will complete a doomsday device to finally take revenge on the world.
 
  
  Throughout the game, you will find several hechmen to pick up and add to your team, who are extremely 
 creative, usually with eccentric or comical personalities and impressive voice acting. These are 
 actually an important part of the game, but you may not realize it, and they can die and never 
 come back.
  
  The missions are very innovative, and are loads of fun to work with, if only it was easier to actually 
 find the missions. Each mission requires different kinds of henchmen at a minimum, and usually 
 you will need extra. This is one of the most immersive parts of the game, as nearly all of the 
 game revolves around completing different missions to get all kinds of stuff. While very fun, it 
 can be frustrating beyond belief even after you know what you need to do. You also need to check 
 the world map constantly to keep enemies from killing your men on the map who make money for you.
 
  
  Managing minions is probably the most difficult part of this game. Through various training rooms 
 and routines, lower level minions eventually learn how to become much more specialized and they 
 are extremely important for specific missions. It is time consuming, and when enemies attack and 
 your men die, it can drive you crazy. Just hold your cool, though, it's not as bad as it looks.
 
  
  Also, archvillains will occasionally try to find their way in the base and destroy stuff that took 
 you way more time to build than it took to destroy, and at this point, you might go psychotic. 
 But don't worry, every archvillain has an Achilles' Heel, you just need to find that first. The 
 interrogation aspect of the game also shines, as there are countless exciting tools to use to torture 
 the enemy. Being bad can be incredibly fun..... who knew?
  
  The game's soundtrack is stunning, practically perfect I'd say, and the voices are always great. 
 It's look is cartoonish, but it is superb for its genre and the style that it was going for. I 
 never got tired of it. The game's value lacks a little only because once you finish the game with 
 someone, you won't want to do it again most likely, but the one play through can feel worth it.
 
  
  There are so many more great features to this game, and there are also quite a few more bugs, or, 
 rather, just frustrations with the system, such as getting your minions to listen to you instead 
 of dying while fighting enemies much stronger than them. Either way, you'll probably figure out 
 how to avoid or at least live with problems, it just has a pretty steep learning curve.
  
  Believe me, unless you have anger management issues, you'll enjoy this game. There is still nothing 
 like it. I can't wait for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viedric
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Who hasn't watched a James Bond movie and wondered why the bad guy lets Bond get away every time. 
 I would have just shot him on sight, I'd say everytime I see them just put Bond in an easily escapable 
 jail cell. Now, with Evil Genius, you call the shots.
  
  Evil Genius starts you off by forcing you to choose one of the three deviant commanders the game 
 provides. Each evil genius comes with his or her own henchman, and you can more henchmen are available 
 for hire later on. Henchmen are like your 2nd in commands (think Oddjob or Jaws) . There is no option 
 to create your own evil genius, and this could have been a nice option they could have thrown in. 
 Next you are thrown onto a deserted island with a mountain in the middle that you can hollow out 
 and fill it with your base of evil operations. Your ultimate goal is to create a doomsday device 
 and take over the world, but first you have to create a place where your minions can live, train, 
 work, and experiment. If you have played the Dungeon Keeper games, you will get into this game 
 quickly, but others won't find it exactly hard to build the base. The hard part is managing your 
 minions and protecting your base from the ever present do-gooders trying to invade and destroy 
 your evil home. The worst of these are the Special-Agents, which are James Bond like people who 
 are nearly indestructable and will not sleep until your base is nothing but rubble. The game is 
 pretty much as long as you want it to be, as you can spend hours upon hours tinkering with your 
 base and completing many missions. Although, if you want to complete the game, you have to complete 
 the main objectives which are mostly easy to complete. The only problems with the gameplay is the 
 crazy amount of agents that are always walking right through your front doors right behind your 
 minions, and once inside they can cause all sorts of problems, such as stealing your loot or destroying 
 your generators. You begin to question why should I even make a front door because your enemies 
 have absolutely NO problem getting in your base when all they got to do is wait for the door to 
 open (which is almost constantly open because of your minions doing their jobs) . The AI is sometimes 
 frustrating. There is a lot of waiting (troop training, missions, research, etc.) . The Super-Agents 
 WILL NOT LEAVE YOU ALONE. They are nearly constantly outside and inside your base killing you hard 
 trained minions and expensive structures. Even on easy, its extremely frustrating dealing with 
 these agents.
  
  The graphics look great, and even though they look great they don't require an expensive computer 
 to run the game. Everything in the game has a cool function and funny animations when your minions 
 interact with them. The whole look of the game follows the whole James Bond thing. Lots of shiny 
 surfaces and button covered computers with glowing screens and buttons. Great and numerous character 
 models are thrown at you, with dozens of types of agents, investigators, nosey tourists, minions, 
 henchmen, and more. The environments (two different islands) are nice, and the second island is 
 covered in jungle with monkeys running around, which provides a nice atmosphere.
  
  Not much to say about the sound. The music sounds like it could fit right into an old Bond movie. 
 Its great at first, but after hearing the same song over and over, it gets tiresome. They decided 
 to go the Sims route with the voice acting, everyone speaks jibberish, but its not distracting. 
 The sound effects are great. The gunfire sounds great, the computers make all kinds of beeps, and 
 the generators make a pleasing hum.
  
  Once you complete the game, there is a little incentive to do it over again. You will be on the 
 same two islands, and the missions will be the same, but it is unlikely you will have researched 
 all the items in the game in one play through, and there is always a different way to design your 
 base. Other than that, there isn't much to do over again.
  
  Overall, Evil Genius is a great game that is worth at least one play through, if not two. Its not 
 hard to get addicted to the cool atmosphere the game provides, but with no extra features, such 
 as customizable Evil Genius's or player made maps, this game will become tiresome overtime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chip211
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 7, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  Hi guys this is my third review so I hope its helpful. (Just a notice, I bought this game when 
 it first released during 2004 and I'm still playing it 3 years later.) Before I bought This game 
 I read the review on GameSpot and found out that it had a bad review. But It did not stop me from 
 buying it as other sites gave it a good review. My review Shall begin...
  
  GAMEPLAY:8
  The only downside to this game is a major bug that affects my game. After updating my game to 1.01, 
 the game jumped back to the desktop when the menu was loading. After reformatting my computer the 
 game could work again so I decided to re- download the 1.01 patch and the problem repeated several 
 times over 3 years. I dont know why this happens. I consulted VU games/Sierra customer service and 
 after sending them an e-mail of my problem, they did'nt reply for 3 years. Wheres on the plus side 
 you can choose 3 different characters each with different pros and cons. The game's interface bar 
 is very helpful when you are in those tight situations where you don't have enough power and someone 
 attacks your minions etc. It has quite a few shortcuts but not too many to make you strain your 
 eyes to find the shortcut you want to use.
  
  GRAPHICS:10
  For a 2004 game, the graphics are awesome. Helicopters are well modeled, the concrete floor of 
 your base shines beutifully due to the games magnificent lighting. Buildings and items are made 
 sharp and neat.
  
  SOUND:9
  The game's sounds are awesome. From time to time your assistant will shout through a public address 
 system any in-game activites that are going on eg: fire etc and when she speaks for that short five 
 seconds or so you can appreciate the perfect voice acting for an evil assistant. One of my guilty 
 pleasures of this game's sound is during the process of torturing someone. The screams are so clear 
 that it feels very realistic not robotic.
  
  Value:8
  I'll give it a score of 8 again due to the mysterious problem of patch 1.01. After 13 years of 
 gaming experience and after playing 37 games This game Is the best Game I everplayed. It is definitly 
 value for your money . These days only costing $19.99 USD It is superb!
  
  I hope my review was useful to any to-be buyers of this game. Thank You for taking a good five minutes 
 if your time reading my review. Once again... THANK YOU! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marthapartha
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 25, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  The premise of the game is a hoot , James Bond from the evil side of life. The drawbacks are the 
 amount time fiddling around making money, we all have to do that as it is. Playing a game where 
 we are pretty much sitting around watching bank accounts grow and dwindle for the first 20 to 40 
 hours of gameplay, is enough to jade the player's atttitude against the rest of the game... remembering 
 the hours wasted and lost. The other drawback is, as Gamespot pointed out, the Island is too cramped 
 and small to build a totally creative stronghold. There are some great moments that will make you 
 forget yourself, which is what this gaming thing is all about. Some of the devious plans and devices 
 you can construct are just hilarious. The music is terrific. It is one of the best soundtracks 
 I've ever heard... they really nailed the James Bond, Goldfinger fantasy flavor, better than most 
 of the subsequent James Bond movies did. For an older game, it played extremely well, I did not 
 experience crashes (unlike the well known , buggy, but well loved Morrowind) . Unfortunately, getting 
 and stealing money in this game is analogous to throwing dice and seeing what comes up and then 
 throwing the dice again. That problem overshadows the whole game. Its bettter than a lot of games 
 that have been released in the last 3 years. If you can find it, it should be at a discount price... there 
 are some clever moments that wil make this game worth your while. marf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowgolla
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 13, 2006 5:27 am PT
Review:  This is one of the easiest games to learn and the thought of being a bad guy this time and invading 
 the world is a great twist! I love the fact that you can pick your own evil genius and have your 
 minions do all your dirty deads. Also to torture some of the pesky investigators and agents is 
 a treat. I still have not finished the game, but I'm already on the 2nd island - planning out my 
 secret lair. I play hours building up my notoriety and getting rid of those tourists that get in. 
 It's great to torture them too while building up some loyalty. What a great concept for this game 
 and I must say that there's an evil side to everyone. This game has given us freedom to do as we 
 please. I can't wait until they release a part 2 for this game! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Themilkman418
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 27, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Evil Genius is a game that has never been done before, you pick from 3 different super villians 
 and try to gain enough notoriety to be reconzied all over the world. Of course you have a doomsday 
 device, but that's mandatory for all super evil genuises.
  
  One of the cool things about the game is minion training/buying. The base minions are constuction 
 works who build your evil base for you, so on so fourth but through missions you capture guards, 
 scientists etc... and they train construnction workers to become what they are (guard, etc...) 
 of course you have to make a training room and the higher you want your guards/scientists to go 
 you are going to have to build new things and capture new people.
  
  Another great thing is the world map, you can deploy minions in certain locations of the world 
 to carry out missions, to steal, or to get information for missions. Some missions advance the 
 game and some are just for fun, like stealing artificacts to boost the moral of your minions.
 
  
  Evil Genius is a new game of it's type and hopefully we see more games like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elstoneman
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 26, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  You can't really be that mean to a game which lets you carry out one of mankind's base fantasies 
 aver since James Bond first donned his tuxedo: taking over the world. Unfortunately, I didn't quite 
 get from Evil Genius what I was expecting. I mean, graphically it wasnt bad and the sound was alright 
 but I just felt a bit... you know... unattached. I mean sure I sent my minions off to take over the 
 world but I didn't actually get to see any of it happen, whilst the base side of things spent too 
 long as just a simple tycoon-style thing and then suddenly flooded you with saboteurs, at the same 
 time expecting you to send all your gaurds to another country to gain funds. At the same time, 
 whilst some actions flew past, others seemed to drag on for ages. Oh yeah, and surely an Act Of 
 Infamy which apparently causes the brink of nuclear war between America and Russia would have some 
 sort of effect of the rest of the game? No? Maybe I'm just picky...
  
  Anyway, it's hard to stay mad at a game which despite all its faults, is truly stylish and has 
 some AMAZINGLY cool theme music. And there is so much satisfaction from seeing some hapless agent 
 turned upsidedown and dunked in your bioactive goo. Oops, that didnt sound right... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renger6002
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 24, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  This game promises to never bore you, though sometimes it can be highly challenging. Agents are 
 constantly invading you while you try your best to keep the money flowing and finishing your objectives 
 at the same time.
  
  Graphics:
  
  For a 2004 game, I think it has pretty good graphics. The graphics are in a comedy-cartoonish fashion 
 which matches the sense of humour in the game.
  
  Sound:
  
  As far as I know, the sounds are satisfactory, though you don't hear a lot of talking. Only your 
 evil genius seems to know proper english as other characters sort of mumble.
  Completing acts of infamy tune you to the regional radio station which always make me laugh.
 
  The sound effects sound good.
  
  X factor:
  
  A very original idea that everyone has thought about at least once:
  What if I was an evil genius. 
 This games comic style and original idea combine to give you a fun experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opulous
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 9, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  Let's face it, who has ever wanted to play a baddie in a computer game? Everybody. When I heard 
 about the game called Evil Genius I wanted to get it immediately, due to the fact you could play 
 a baddie. At first I thought it was a godsend. Later, I discovered it is more like a poisoned chalice. 
 In the game, you take control of one of three maniac madmen bent on world domination. There is 
 Maxamillian, the short, plump, scar-faced, monocle wearing brute who has a fetish towards advanced 
 technology. Next, there is the red-haired beauty Alexis, who tends to like her toyboys alot and 
 likes to set minions on fire with her cigarettes. Finally there is Shen Yu, a strange intoxicating 
 madman who was a one time a A. N. V. I. L agent. Now that the background is done, let's talk about 
 the good parts of Evil Genius first. Overall, it is great fun. Seeing your minions do funny animations 
 such as bashing musical instruments on agent's heads really is a joy to watch. The gameplay is 
 fast and furious, but even seeing your evil lair being built really is a very pleasant sight. Now, 
 time for the bad. The word that best describes all of Evil Genius's flaws is frustration. Not only 
 does seeing that infernal agent somehow dig a hole underground and then come up into you power 
 room then blowing up your generators, leaving you in a blackout annoying after the tenth time, 
 but there is even more. You'r minions on the world map get killed very easily, not only because 
 agents pop up in a region and kill them behind your back when your not looking at your map but 
 sending your minions on ANY Act of Infamy is a suicide mission. One time I sent my minions on a 
 0 risk mission (risk is the measure of how risky for your minion's lives the mission is) and nearly 
 all of them ended up dead!! It really is a shame that such a promising idea is so frustrating to 
 play, but if you are able to overlook its annoying facts then it will be a pleasure to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legice
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 26, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  This is a game tha makes you get a hell lot of fun! First you start as an ass, and then you take 
 over the world. And wait till you get the snappy traps. It will make you say eojethebiuoneqbionqebuo 
 very fast in a dark and evil way. You get the Do Not Touch trap with flashing lights just flashing 
 the Big Red button, or like the big Man EATING Plant and there says do not feed the plant, or the 
 tesla tower on wheels. Well this game makes you cry because the traps if you make a combo with them. In 
 short this game is FUN! It is a game that makes you becime a  
 person! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AutisticAngel
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 11, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  The front cover for Elixir Studios Evil Genius bills it as The World Domination Simulation. 
 This is a fair description, but as with most of lifes career paths, the reality of running an 
 Evil Organization turns out to involve a lot more humdrum administrative work than most people 
 typically include in their fantasies. Theres a great deal of game play to be found here, and a 
 lot of fun for people who dig the whole Austin Powers super villain vibe, but not without the aggravation 
 of some wonky AI and some annoying stability problems along the way.
  
  As the title genius, your primary goal is to direct your minions in establishing a base of operations, 
 defend yourself against meddling government agents, conduct acts of infamy across the globe to 
 increase your notoriety, and eventually construct a doomsday device which will force the world 
 to its knees. Getting your hands dirty is not part of the job description. This game is not really 
 about committing evil, but about creating the infrastructure which will allow evil to be victorious. 
 Its all surprisingly defense-minded because, in order for your schemes to succeed, youll need 
 to train a well-organized staff, research and develop a variety of base facilities to keep them 
 fed, coordinated, and productive, and figure out a way to keep the whole thing secure from the 
 do-gooders out to bring you down.
  
  All of the actual work is carried out by minions who come in four broad categories. Construction 
 workers arrive on the island at regular intervals and carry out the most mundane tasks, such as 
 shuttling briefcases full of gold to or from your strong room, excavating new rooms, or staffing 
 base equipment. Theyre the bottom rung of personnel ladder and utterly expendable, but with the 
 proper training, they will eventually advance to become a variety of more advanced and more tightly 
 specialized employees. Soldiers get to carry heavier weaponry and excel at both defending the base 
 and stealing income from the outside world. Researchers perform routine maintenance on your base 
 equipment, use the laboratory facilities to devise many incredibly useful new gadgets, and help 
 discover devious new Acts of Infamy around the world. Finally, social minions focus on distracting 
 pesky government agents sent to investigate your operations and smoothing things over with the 
 global powers that be. Each category of minions has four specific types  the soldier category 
 includes guards, mercenaries, martial artists, and marksmen  and each type has its own strengths 
 and weaknesses, so by the end of the game a well balanced staff will include a diverse cast of 
 characters.
  
  You have no direct control over the minions as they mill around the base, but they can be interacted 
 with indirectly in a number of ways. Creating a surveillance web of security cameras and loud speakers, 
 for example, allows a single minion stationed at a security desk to alert others to the whereabouts 
 of an intruder  a system that wouldnt be necessary if the player could just band-select troops 
 and move them like in a normal RTS. On the plus side, this encourages careful consideration in 
 determining how to lay out the base to ensure that your base entrances are well defended and any 
 valuable swag gained through Acts of Infamy is safe from would-be government thieves. Unfortunately 
 this system also relies heavily on the AI characters to make good decisions about how they should 
 act and results in a great deal of frustration when they wind up doing bone-headed things instead. 
 One of the most frustrating behaviors is the way youll carefully brainwash an enemy agent to blank 
 his memory of your Evil Organization, only to watch one of your men leave him *inside* the entrance 
 to your base so hell start investigating anew the moment he comes to his senses. This doesnt 
 always happen, as sometimes your men will walk an unconscious prisoner out into the middle of the 
 jungle before letting him go, but its quite aggravating when it does.
  
  Fortunately, your Evil Genius will also occasionally attract the services of special henchman: 
 unique characters who *can* be directly controlled to move to specific locations and make use of 
 special abilities. Jubei the Samurai, for example, can teleport to any location on the map and 
 use his Eviscerate ability to deal extreme damage to his foes, while Red Ivan can lay down mine 
 fields and hurl hand grenades at groups of enemy soldiers. Additionally, all henchmen have the 
 ability to rally nearby minions to their side, creating a small force of armed personnel you can 
 command to respond to threats outside your normal security net. This tactic can be invaluable for 
 intercepting dangerous enemies scouring the jungle before they can penetrate your base. Unlike 
 normal minions, dealing fatal damage to a henchman merely incapacitates them for a timeunless 
 theyre killed by an enemy Super Agent.
  
  The Forces of Justice will send a variety of personnel against you, including investigators and 
 agents who try to collect evidence of your evil-doing, saboteurs who attempt to infiltrate your 
 base and blow up your equipment, thieves who will attempt to steal back anything valuable they 
 can lay their sticky fingers on, and soldiers who move in squads and will shoot your men on sight. 
 The most dangerous enemies, however, are the games five Super Agents: characters with their own 
 special abilities allowing them to slip into your base undetected, wreak havoc with your security 
 systems, or even mow down your average minions like they were paper dolls. Super Agents are extremely 
 hardy, requiring a concerted effort on the part of your men to subdue. Even then they cannot be 
 killed by any conventional means: over the course of the game you can eventually discover each 
 Super Agents secret weakness and destroy them for good, but until then they remain an urgent danger 
 due to their ability to decimate your workforce and even permanently kill your irreplaceable henchmen. 
 Like your selection of henchmen, Super Agents are clearly modeled after archetypes from popular 
 spy and action fiction, including a scantily clad vixen able to charm your minions to her aid, 
 a bandana-wearing maverick soldier who unloads twin automatic rifles against your men, and a familiar 
 British saboteur wielding a silenced pistol and a tuxedo full of devastating time bombs.
  
  Your Evil Genius can opt to run a fully functional hotel, bar, and casino on the island as a front 
 to misdirect enemy agents and erstwhile tourists, but the only real income in the game is gained 
 through grand theft from territories around the world. Once your base has a control room up and 
 running, minions and henchmen can be sent out onto a map of the world which is divided up into 
 several RISK-like territories. Each territory has its own security level, possible Acts of Infamy, 
 and potential for embezzlement, and each one is color coded to indicate its allegiance with one 
 of the five major world powers. Conducting global operations generates heat with that governmental 
 faction, and the higher your heat levels the more intent that faction becomes on taking you down. 
 Heat levels can actually be lowered by using social minions to distract and sweet talk enemy operatives 
 into believing theres nothing suspicious going on and send them home to report as much to their 
 superiors. At the highest heat levels, however, the Forces of Justice will dispense with simple 
 investigators and begin flooding your island with squads of soldiers armed with automatic rifles 
 and free clearance to use them on anything that moves. Maintaining a steady source of income and 
 raising your global notoriety while keeping your heat levels manageable is a delicate balancing 
 act that the game pulls off very well.
  
  The world map is fairly static and embraces its board game inspiration by representing your men 
 with little statuettes which show where theyre stationed and will tumble over like chess pieces 
 when theyre killed by local authorities. Its charming, but no where near as nice as the main 
 base screen where youll spend the majority of the game watching your minions tend to their duties, 
 socialize with one another, and train lesser-skilled minions into more advanced professions. Evil 
 Genius gleefully embraces its campy 1970s spy movie heritage with characters in brightly colored 
 uniforms, clunky punch-card computer terminals, and the garish wall paper that adorns the staff 
 recreation rooms. Individual character models are simple and angular, but their animation is smooth 
 and very expressive: martial artists in training will shatter boards, doctors will plunge enormous 
 syringes into the chests of their patients, scientists will jot notes on their clipboards as ideas 
 occur to them, and idle characters will pull out cigarettes and chat with others nearby in their 
 quiet moments. Even torture and death enjoy a liberal dose of cartoonish humor as prisoners are 
 spun between giant rollers, dunked in tanks of glowing green chemicals, mind-wiped by swirling 
 patterns of psychedelic colors, and forced to endure bad Michael Jackson impersonators before they 
 kick up their heels and fall into a sky blue body bag. With well over a hundred individual characters 
 milling around tending to their duties at any given time, your underground lair really starts to 
 feel like its a living, organic place.
  
  Each individual character in the game has a set of five stats which, similar to needs in The Sims, 
 dictate behavior and must be satisfied in order for the person to function properly. A proper base 
 layout will give the minions access to rest, relaxation, food, and intellectual stimulation to 
 keep them alert and happy without having to waste time wandering long distances or bottlenecking 
 foot traffic. The AI is reasonably good at making intelligent use of the available facilities, 
 but sometimes suffers from some inexplicable gaps in logic where four men will line up at four 
 different ping-pong tables and stand around waiting for opponents when they could be playing each 
 other. One object, the weight machine, seems almost completely useless as your men refuse to acknowledge 
 its existence except in the rarest of circumstances. These problems are fairly easy to work around 
 but suggest the AI routines werent entirely complete when the game shipped.
  
  These five stats also come into heavy play in the games dynamic trap system. Unlike previous base-building 
 games like Dungeon Keeper which only allowed players to deploy pre-created trap devices, the developers 
 of Evil Genius went to great lengths to create a system of different interconnectable triggers, 
 tricks, snares, lures, and decoys which allow you to literally design defensive systems of your 
 very own. Its an appealing idea which rewards intricate combinations with instant cash rewards 
 and includes a fun variety of lethal and non-lethal devices intended to exhaust, frustrate, or 
 coerce your enemies. Sadly the system is rather badly flawed, suffering from trap combinations 
 which will randomly fire off out of sequence or fail to correctly affect an enemy while injuring 
 several of your own staff instead. Few of the non-lethal traps are sufficient to actually incapacitate 
 an enemy on their own, and because the enemy is likely to then dust himself off and start trying 
 to destroy your expensive traps, theyre rarely worth the time, money, and effort youve invested 
 in them.
  
  Easily the best element of Evil Genius sound design is the musical score inspired heavily by 1960s 
 and 70s spy movies. Though it lacks any song memorable enough to approach the opening of a classic 
 entry into the James Bond franchise, its clear that a lot of love for the genre went into creating 
 the half-dozen major themes used to accentuate a major coup by the Evil Organization. Things in 
 the game otherwise sound pretty much the way youd expect, with working and fighting and interrogations 
 all matched up with a simple variety of sound effects designed to match the games campy and lighthearted 
 atmosphere. One sound effect in particular seems to have been intentionally created to be irritating 
 though, as the most compelling reason not to have your base operating at Yellow Alert all the 
 time is to avoid hearing the alarm klaxon non-stop.
  
  The games interface is generally very good, relying on a system of simple color coding to let 
 you see how your minions environment is affecting their stats and a context-sensitive right-click 
 menu that lets you do everything from place a new personnel locker to tag an individual for execution. 
 The stainless steel and rotating counters are perfectly in keeping with the games 1970s motif, 
 while an unseen announcer shouts orders and warnings about base fires and nearby fighting though 
 the lairs omnipresent loudspeaker system. An interesting note is the fact that the game intentionally 
 forces you to split your attention between events on your evil island and your minions activities 
 in the outside world by displaying your global heat levels only on the world map screen. Also, 
 losing a minion or henchman in the field triggers only a subtle red flash near the bottom of the 
 screen when youre in the default 3D base mode. Unless youre paying very close attention or remembering 
 to check the map screen frequently, you can find yourself in a world of hurt if your global heat 
 level rises too far and your best men get themselves killed off in the field. This isnt really 
 a flaw in the games interface, but a deliberate design decision made to force players to balance 
 their attention almost as if it were an in-game resource akin to gold. Still, if youre easily 
 discouraged by setbacks, this system is likely to be extremely frustrating.
  
  Another controversial design decision will be the games ponderously slow pace. For example, establishing 
 a single room involves waiting while workers bring briefcases of gold from the strong room out 
 to the supply depot, buy some dynamite, return the dynamite to the base and carve out the room, 
 then grab some *more* gold to go buy furniture for the room which is finally delivered a piece 
 at a time. Its actually a good system for the way it encourages you to anticipate your needs in 
 advance, but the lack of any sort of time-compression means that this entire sequence has to play 
 itself out in real-time. Conversely, when your base comes under heavy assault from multiple directions, 
 youll probably find yourself wishing there were a way to pause the game to assess the threats 
 and issue orders to your henchmen. Evil Genius is a game which could have greatly benefited from 
 the sort of time compression features found in The Sims or The Movies, allowing players to speed 
 through the labors of mundane research or construction while easily directing the response in times 
 of crisis.
  
  Finally, Evil Genius also suffers from some severe stability problems, including random crashes 
 to the Windows desktop and corrupted save games which require you to try and revert to earlier 
 ones. Fortunately the game rotates through three different auto-save slots as you play so youll 
 rarely lose more than ten or twenty minutes worth of play, but these sorts of glitches will severely 
 try the patience of even the genres biggest fan.
  
  Evil Genius is exactly the sort of game that makes you long for a sequel that could fully realize 
 the franchises potential. By combining the ever-popular idea of playing the bad guy with some 
 innovative game play mechanics and a wonderfully campy motif, it should be applauded for delivering 
 something interesting, fun, and unique to the market. There are certainly some issues with the 
 games execution, but no one can fault the developers are Elixir Studios for shooting too low. 
 Unfortunately, while many of the games quirky AI issues might have been overlooked, most gamers 
 will find it ultimately undone by severe stability problems and pacing problems which tend to overshadow 
 the games charm. Patient players willing to brave the crashes will discover a clever base-building 
 game unlike anything else on the shelves, but anyone with a low tolerance for irritation should 
 stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benny32
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 4, 2006 4:16 am PT
Review:  A good game with little replay value, and the release version has some technical problems a good 
 all rounder, my girlfriend loves this game. The patch can solve many problems tho i dont recomend 
 trying to steal lots of things on the first level because if you stay on that level too long you 
 will have problems trying to get the game to let you move on. I recomend playing as the little 
 fat bloke cos hes just funny and its nice to see a fat guy take over the world, also if someone 
 is gonna rule the world better an Evil genius then someone like George Bush who is more of a slightly 
 annoying moron. So to fill up some more space i submit to u this ............. There once was a 
 man from nantucket and he really liked to ...... [Space Exceeded] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  When i saw this game i did not know what to think. I was told it is like 'Dungeon Keeper' and that 
 made me buy the game.
  
  The game is quite real a James Bond version of Dungeon Keeper, but like the Keeper, you will be 
 the evil dude/dudette.
  
  It is easy to learn, and after a few minutes you will be in the middle of it all.
  The part that 
 is even more compelling is that the you get different types by converting good guys, and they train 
 others to be like them. Here is the difference. If you lose them all (guards for example) then 
 you must first capture another guard and convert them, before you rebuild a group of guards. 
 
  
  You build the rooms from rocks, so you need plenty of dynamite, and making a building error is 
 punished harder then it was in Dungeon Keeper.
  
  So, a game with good graphics, good sound, and a nice atmosphere, however, it did not match up 
 to the wonderful world of Dungeon Keeper.
  Still, it was a nice game to play, and filled with plenty of challenges. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeshoe1121
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 14, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Picking up this title made me think back to the days of Dungeon keeper and the devious traps that 
 one could set up throughout their dungeon. Evil Genius is similar in many aspects to Dungeon keeper, 
 requiring a player to build defences and traps throughout their base to keep the prying eyes of 
 agents and soldiers out of your operation. The base building of Evil Genius is the highpoint of 
 the game, allowing players to customize the size of hallways and rooms, the layout of furnishings, 
 traps, guards, doors and so much more. This allows players to taylor a fortress to their style 
 of gameplay, be it more secretive and covert to all out strength and brutality.
  
  The traps in the game are easily one of the funnest things to fool around with. There are various 
 traps in the game, from Gas traps that can kill or put to sleep enemies to deadly flame pits that 
 will incinerate your foes. You can also link traps together to make deadly combinations. An example 
 would be connecting a wind trap to some saw blades. When enemies step into range of your wind trap, 
 it will activate and send them flying down the hall. Then your saw blades you hopefully placed 
 down the hall will slice them to bits.
  
  Another aspect of the game that is also well thought out is the minion system. Every minion starts 
 out as a basic worker, armed with only their fists (initially) and only able to build and contruct 
 things as well as provide a half-hearted defensive measure. As the game continues however, you 
 will be able to build facilities and capture certain individuals who can allow the training of 
 more advanced minious such as technicians, scientists, guards, mercenaries, valets, and various 
 others. Each one is specialized to various activies such as fighting, running and cleaning the 
 base, researching technologies and even making your operation even more notorious. Speaking of 
 notoriety, your evil self is also protrayed in the game. You are able to pick from one of the 3 
 evil geniuses, a typical short and fat genius (like Dr. Evil) , a sedcutive Empress of a company, 
 and even a far eastern crimelord. Apart from stalking around and looking smug, your evil self can 
 also help increase the productivity of your base and taunt captured agents.
  
  The graphics of the game are just right, but not incredibly spectacular. Although they reflect 
 the look of the 80's with a cartoonish look, the game still looks a bit bland. Although there are 
 some nice reflective and lighting effects in the base, everything else including the minion models 
 and environment are single tone and seem "flat". The music helps to create the omnious tone of 
 an evil genius as does the voice acting. The sound effects are also enjoyable, especially when 
 your traps work correctly.
  
  Overall, this game is a good experience, however, this game is defenityle not the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 30, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Evil Genius was an interesting game that I picked up while I Was off at CompUSA and I Wasn't sure 
 of what to buy while I was there. However when I got the game it did prove to b e quite an interesting 
 game when I had played it for quite a while, although its replay value behind the game is weak. 
 The graphics behind the game are quite well done, however there are many aspects to the game that 
 still leave much to eb desired. The main concept of the game is quite original as there really 
 aren't all that many games where you are actually the main badguy who seeks to take over the world. 
 The game is a mix of a sim city game where you build your own secret hidden lair, with a mix of 
 strategy as you have to send your minions all over the globe in order to cause evil deeds to raise 
 up your reputation as someone who is evil. However I personally hate the fact that you have to 
 build each soldier up from a single level which causes quite a long waiting time, not to mention 
 the gameplay is quite slow and it takes a long time in order to get things executed. But like many 
 of the other games in my collection it also boasts many cartoonish like looks to it in general. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 28, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  The idea of this game is great, to be an Evil Mastermind plotting in your lair the downfall of 
 the world. Just fantastic.
  
  So i buy the game, get it home and load it up and start to play. And what a good game it is. Essentially 
 it is just a resource gathering and building game. The idea is that you build your lair, equip 
 it out with the latest evil inventions, hire yourself some minions and then plot to take over the 
 world.
  
  The game itself is very colourful and looks lovely. It looks like a lot of time has been spent 
 making sure that this game looks and sounds great and it really does show.
  
  As you progress through the game, more and more items become available to you and there are an 
 awful lot of them. The pinacle of your evilness though is to create the ultimate doomsday device, 
 whatever that may be. I never quite got that far.
  
  Why, I hear you all say. Well, for me anyway, whilst it is an excellent game, it does become a 
 bit repetative after a whiel and I just lost interst. But that does not mean it is not worth buying 
 or playing, just don't expect a game that will keep you coming back for months and months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsychoJJ
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 16, 2006 12:00 am PT
Review:  Ever went against the grain growing up and instead of wanting to be someone on the right side of 
 the law or the butting super hero in the red cape and rather wanted to well.. ummmtake over the 
 world? Well then your not only just like me growing up but in luck cause this game lets you do 
 just that.
  
  To begin Im just going to be upfront and honest. This is a great game but only if used in moderation. 
 If you over extend your play time this game will get old fast and just be another dust collector.
 
  
  In this game you get the chance to live out your most inner evil fantasies of world domination 
 but in a very long drawn out process that could strip you of most of your life span sitting in 
 front of a computer. 
  
  If you are one to just take all the options thrown at you and make things up quick give no thought 
 to things and are very on the fly you can indeed make a fun quick game of it. On the other hand 
 if you are like me and tend to be more drawn out and think about every subtle detail and layout 
 of plots floor plans and security then this game could take you a while.
  
  There are so many options to chose from when constructing your base as well as your arsenal as 
 well as your minions that you will find yourself stuck in the game.
  
  If you have the time or if you just really want to know if you have what it takes to bring down 
 the world then give this game a go. If your not down for the duration and just want a quick fling 
 then I would say this game is a pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 9:23 am PT
Review:  I never really liked Austin Powers as much as I like Dr. Evil, but then again, I'm a "bad guy" 
 kind of person. Evil Genius caught my eye because the player gets to be exactly that: evil! 
  
  Picking from three evil masterminds (I choose the Dr. Evil look-alike, duh!) you begin your 
 criminal career of world domination. From behind your desk in your comfortable, luxurious office, 
 you will command your minions to carry on with your evil plans.
  
  Evil Genius takes a little while to get used to, since there is so much to do and control. I strongly 
 recommend going through the tutorial first to get to know the commands, the interface and which 
 characters do what, since the learning curve is quite big.
  
  The information screens are very useful and explanatory, so make sure you read them if you need 
 a little help. The loading screens also give you useful information about keyboard shortcuts, so 
 keep an eye out for these messages.
  
  The gameplay consists of two major parts. You begin by building a base and training your forces, 
 and then move on to world domination on a Risk-like world map.
  
  In the first part of the game, you worry about building appropriate facilities and discovering 
 new technologies, so you can train your minions as best as you can.
  
  Minions do your dirty work, so to speak, and they come in three varieties: scientific (your technicians, 
 who maintain and research equipment) , social (diplomats and propagandists, who do management and 
 information) and of course, military (your security guards and mercenaries, who defend your base 
 and conquer the world) .
  
  Each of these has attributes such as health, intelligence, loyalty and endurance.
  
  You will 
 find that you have several building components at your disposal, from corridors to freezers (where 
 else would you keep all those body bags and dead enemy agents?) , labs, shooting range, barracks, 
 armory, even a prison (complete with holding cells and interrogation devices) .
  
  Once your base is established, the world map opens up, and here the sky is the limit. You can send 
 your minions to infiltrate other countries to capture their specialist and steal their secrets. 
 Missions will vary from infiltrating an area and gather intelligence to stealing resources or items 
 from a nation.
  
  Your only source of revenue will come from sending out troops to certain regions of the world for 
 extortion and embezzlement purposes, but limited to 100 minions, you will soon need more protection 
 in your base.
  
  As the game progresses, you will gain access to traps, which you can place all over your base to 
 defend yourself from intruders. Some of these include electroshock devices, piranha tanks, spinning 
 saw blades, poison gas and other deadly but hilarious gadgets that prevent some enemies (others 
 will try to destroy them) from getting to you.
  
  Humor is a big feature in this game, in a subtle but effective way. The environment resembles a 
 spy movie from the 60's, the music is reminiscent of James Bond movies, the characters are hilarious, 
 the sound effects are a blast, and setting traps to just watch them work is probably the funniest 
 thing in the entire game. Even the tutorial and manual have tons of witty remarks.
  
  All of these little things more than make up for the linear story and the slow and sometimes a 
 bit confusing gameplay.
  
  So many evil deeds to do, so little time.... Muahahahah!
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=evilgenius
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackPandemic
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 26, 2005 8:34 am PT
Review:  Well I lost my internet for two weeks and bought this for $5 with a gift card to fill the time. 
 I now know that I would have paid retail for this amazingly original game.
  
  Right of the bat, nobody has made an evil genius RTS, ever. World War II? - done, future? - done, 
 conquering ancient civilizations? - done, torturing agents who are stealing your loot? - I don't 
 think so...
  
  The graphics, when maxed out, although are not Half-Life 2 or Doom 3, are respectable in the sense 
 that they look good enough to eat. The floors reflect every action and every object in your base. 
 The shadows inside are cast from ceiling lights and outside, the shadows react dynamically to the 
 time of day. The particle effects such as sparks, smoke, or explosions are also very good looking, 
 and although bad in the game, very apealing.
  
  The music score is reminiscent of old Bond flicks and all those corny spy films. The sound effects 
 are classy and well crafted and each of your minions speaks in Sim's style jibberish.
  
  The gameplay is what has my vote. You start with about 250,000 dollars and a mountain. You must 
 carve your way into the mountain building rooms like barracks, control rooms, power supply stations, 
 and armories to support your growing evilness. As you do this, you gain access to a World Map in 
 which you commit Act's of Infamy which gain notoriety which attracts more minions to your cause. 
 This is the true replayability factor, you can learn from your mistakes and make a better base 
 each time you play.
  
  The one thing I have a gripe with is the stability. Without the patch, I expierenced crashes or 
 even slow downs that slowed the game so much I wish it crashed instead. After the patch, I had 
 the occasional corruption of the game in which a button or action would link a crash. The only 
 way to solve this was to run my computers msconfig and turn off all background apps before playing. 
 After this it worked fine, but that is severe just for good gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spenta
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 16, 2005 9:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun. Its the best way to describe it and its what all games should be. That certainly 
 doesn't mean it isn't without flaws or drawbacks. 
  
  The AI can be frustrating at times and the game does tend to stall at times but overall this is 
 a very creative and imaginative game. Anyone with a fun sense of humor will find plenty of things 
 to chuckle at while playing the game. The creation of the evil lair although rather controlled 
 is till very fun and the traps are quite inventive. There is a lot of content to this game and 
 offers well over a 100 hours gameplay without repetition.
  
  If you are looking for a more relaxed paced humor infused game then defiantely dont let yourself 
 pass up this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CallumP
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 18, 2005 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Ever wanted to rule the world? Now you can!
  The game starts you off with the choice of three evil geniuses: Maximillian, the more original 
 of the three, Shen Yu, man of mystery, and Alexis, the female EG.
  You then have to build your own secret lair, with objects such as food mixers, which can double 
 up as torture devices, to nuclear power stations. 
  Overall, the game is so entertaining, the cartoon-style graphics work really well, and there is 
 lots of humour scattered through the game. This game is a must for all those who want to reveal 
 their inner evil! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaethro
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 10, 2005 3:20 am PT
Review:  Welcome to your Volcanic Island at Undisclosed Location!
  
  Actually I find it hard to believe that the location undisclosed considering that both agents of 
 the world AND tourists know where its located, but when suspension of belief sets in, Evil Genius 
 is a pretty well rounded and solid game. In case you didn't catch this from the title already, 
 you play a classic 1960s supervillain in your "underground layer" and order henchmen to do your 
 evil bidding in the hopes of achieving world domination. To do this you must pester the nations 
 of the world by committing dastardly deeds and collecting money, whilst creating a protective base 
 with traps smart enough to catch secret agents but simple enough that your henchman don't get caught 
 in the crossfire. It makes for quite an amusing task indeed.
  
  Concept: 9.5
  
  What better game concept is there than playing the Sims: Evil Edition?
  
  Look: 7
  
  While 
 the graphics are inarticulate at best, it is good at keeping you amused for a while and not causing 
 your attention to wane. Watching the interrogations is always amusing as the animation is close 
 to perfect despite the blockiness of the characters in question.
  
  Interface: 8
  
  Simple and concise, it works well with the game's concept that henchman are not individuals, but 
 rather function as a large group that does tasks automatically by having tags get assigned to things 
 thus picking the closest available person for the job. Though the way corridors have to placed 
 is a bit frustrating and the little globe that flashes red when you're losing henchmen isn't usually 
 distracting enough to draw your attention, these are the only real complaints I have about it.
 
  
  Flexibility of Learning Curve: 4
  
  Playing through the tutorial is not enough to get you building an efficient base in this game. 
 Because you stay on the same island for a good long time, you'll end up starting over because you'll 
 suddenly notice you've botched your lair design the first time, more than likely because you didn't 
 leave room for something to be reasonably accessible or did not give a certain room ample space 
 to expand. One thing ends up leading to another until your base just collapses in on itself. This 
 game is very unforgiving to unnoticed mistakes.
  
  Feel: 9
  
  The music fits the attitude, though it gets to be rather repetitive (especially because the same 
 music bit plays every single time some sabotages or door or something) . The evil genii as well 
 as henchman you get to choose from are easy to connect to favorite spy novels and the ideas are 
 pretty well tacked together, though some of the Acts of Infamy seem a bit too untactful for an 
 Evil megalomaniac (effacing the Philosopher's Stone? Even Dr. Evil isn't THAT uncouth) . The feel 
 is still well-based by most thing however; the henchman in the yellow jumpsuits that can't stand 
 up to any decent agent; the super agents that cannot be killed except for one special weakness. 
 Ya gotta love it.
  
  Mechanics: 7
  
  Though nothing sticks out that's bad, nothing sticks out that's good either. It is rather unremarkable 
 though it by all means that does not detract from the game. It simply is not the game's forte.
 
  
  Fluidity: 9
  
  It rolls along steady paced forever more into the distance. That's a good thing.
  
  Depth: 
 7
  
  Though this is not a bad score, for this type of game there should have been more variety in such 
 things as traps and interrogation devices. The variety was there, just not in the quantity it should 
 have been. The minions were in good number and so were agents, it was simply the number of different 
 kinds of items you could place was limited. As for the plot, it isn't even relevant enough to the 
 game to be noted here.
  
  Breadth: 8
  
  There is a multitude of stuff to do in this game at any time. There are at least ten different 
 types of rooms, you have to manage your cash flow, your notoriety, make sure that agents are not 
 doing anything sneaky, make sure your henchmen are not doing anything stupid, and look out for 
 cool chances to snatch loot from different areas of the world. There will be times when you have 
 nothing to do for a while, but these periods are neither frequent nor are they long. In fact, they 
 usually occur when you feel like taking a break anyway.
  
  Overall Complacency: 9
  
  The game is fun. Period. It is difficult, sometimes frustrating, and not fun forever, but it maintains 
 a high level of amusement for quite a while. If you don't mind the cruel humor (such as making 
 spies suffer relentlessly while strapped to a chair) , Evil Genius is quite eager to please. Even 
 certain concepts that occur in most games are enlivened in this game. I have never had more fun 
 accumulating anything in my life than the kick of grandeur I got from watching my stacks of gold 
 bars get bigger and bigger in my strongroom. I played the game for several hours one time just 
 to amass wealth. There is no simplistic feeling quite as good, I assure you.
  
  Age Group: 16 and up
  
  Though kids of earlier ages CAN play this game and have fun, the subtle 
 humor would go ungrasped by young ears and the true feel and amusing spy/conspiracy overlapped 
 concept would probably not be quite as appreciated as it should be (the game makes quite an effort 
 to throw LOTS of spoofs at you) .
  
  I recommend this game to people that...
  
  -Have inner evil to expel
  -Are heartened fans of the Austin Powers series (specifically the 
 first one)
  -Are tired of the Sims but want a game they can relate to
  -Liked Dungeon Keeper
  -Do not get frustrated by large disasters occurring while they play (trust 
 me, bombs suck)
  -Need a decent nostalgic laugh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatality4u
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 26, 2005 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Evil Genius is a compliment of the Austin Powers parody movies. You have the choice of being one 
 of three evil geniuses. Depending on the person that you choose to be your evil leader, you will 
 have different abilities with each, but it really doesnt matter because none of the special abilities 
 are better than any other. You start off with no notoriety and only the most basic of workers. 
 As you progress you will have to steal money and perform Acts of Infamy to become more famous and 
 to receive better minions and items. You final objective, which should be pretty obvious, is to 
 take over the world. You will have to play a decent amount before you will get a chance to take 
 over the world but it can be an interesting journey to it.
  
  As you perform acts of infamy you will be able to train your lowliest minions into greater warriors, 
 science minions, and diplomatic minions. These will be needed later as you progress to harder and 
 harder missions. Also along the way you will be able to recruit more henchman, or your right hand 
 men or women. These are the most valuable assets that you will have on your journey to conquering 
 the world. They are much more powerful than your minions and they can be directly controlled, as 
 opposed to your minions. 
  
  The game play is the only real stand out of the game although it does have its downfall. As you 
 perform acts of infamy you will be able to receive loot in which you can research to gain better 
 things. Unfortunately one of the downfalls is that you do not get to choose which stuff the minions 
 will research they will choose what to research and you will choose what device to research it 
 with. The idea of the missions is good in theory but they get old after a while. Plus after a while 
 you will have the super agents of good after you, but until a certain point you can not kill them, 
 and they are extremely hard to stop. After a while you will just feel like finishing the game in 
 order to see what the end is like.
  
  The graphics in the game are not really strong. The cut-scenes that you will see at only very short 
 intervals and only a few times, are so spectacular that you want them to last longer or for more 
 of them to be there. The regular graphics do not really seem bad or good. You wouldnt really expect 
 to see some really good graphics on a strategy type game, so its not like you are disappointed 
 by the fact that they are not as good as other games.
  
  The sound in this game is extremely disappointing. You will hear the same music, over and over. 
 They dont even really try to get any really cheesy music that would go along with the type of 
 game it is. I dont expect to hear totally different music throughout the entire game, but I also 
 dont expect to hear the same tune more than once within an hour of playing.
  
  The value of the game is ok. The price now is about 29.99. It is a game that will keep you entertained 
 for a decent amount of time, but dont be surprised if you want it to end after a while. I suggest 
 that you download the demo and give that a try before you go out and sink that kind of money into 
 it. The full version is a little different, but it is the same deal as the demo.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: knitecrow007
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 23, 2005 4:27 am PT
Review:  This is a control type game, where you monitor and micromanage an evil genius to gain world domination. 
 As such, micromanagement does not suit everyone and I am one of those people. Speaking as an evil 
 genius, we do not like micromanagement -- we liking coming up with crazy unrealistic plans and 
 leave the execution to our minions. But enough of reality.
  
  The Good:
  -Interesting concept
  -The game has style
  -THE SIMS type gameplay (will appeal to fans)
 
  
  The Bad:
  - The SIMS type gameplay (will turn off those with short attention spans and those who hate micromanagement 
 and repetition)
  
  The Ugly:
  -Gets boring and repetitive REAL quick. I spent way more time on SimCity even though I hate micromanagement 
 type games.
  
  
  While interesting in itself, one really needs the personality to play such tedious games that focus 
 on micromanagement. Although I hated it, you make like it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainDingo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 14, 2005 4:36 am PT
Review:  Evil Genius will remind many gamers of the Dungeon Keeper series, which turned out to be a love 
 it or hate it affair. While it could be called the same type of game, there are many reasons to 
 love it, despite the few reasons not to. Evil Genius is a pretty solid game, and despite its shortcomings 
 is definitely worth looking into.
  
  Evil Genius hands you the key to your own secret volcano lair as an aspiring criminal mastermind 
 in the 60's with world domination on the brain. With a starting amount of cash, you need to get 
 your island base going, and by the time you become very notorious for your evil deeds, you'll usually 
 have a fully-functional base complete with traps, armories, and of course the occasional place 
 for your minions to slack off.
  
  In order to construct rooms within your mountain, you need to blow out room shapes with dynamite. 
 This is accomplished very easily by right-clicking on any un-built area, selecting the type of 
 room you'd like to construct, and drawing a blueprint before OK'ing the design and letting your 
 minions get to work. They will run to grab funds from your Strong Room, take it to a helicopter, 
 and order dynamite. They will then come back with the dynamite, set it, and blow the room out. 
 It all works quite smoothly, and is simple to get working. The only gripe with the system is the 
 list of rooms you have to work with, as it gets bigger, gets more difficult to find the room you 
 want to build (this also goes for items) . This problem could have been greatly alleviated if the 
 list was two columns wide instead of one.
  
  Of course, no villain game would be complete without letting you pick on everyone. When it comes 
 time to perform evil deeds, the world map is the place to be. From the world map you can spring 
 your minions into action, and have them either plot, steal, or hide from various regions of the 
 world. Different types of minions are better for different tasks (construction workers good for 
 nothing particularly) . For example, scientific minions are best at plotting and uncovering acts 
 of infamy, which act as small missions that serve one particular purpose: to raise your notoriety. 
 Raising your notoriety is important because it allows you to raise your maximum minion cap, making 
 your force even more powerful. Military minions work well at stealing funds. Stealing from the 
 world map is the only way you will be able to make up for spent funds, so it's important that you 
 always keep minions somewhere stealing. The world map also has sort of a "Risk" feel to it. When 
 plotting or stealing, occasionally the forces of justice from the respective region will pop out 
 and see what's going on. In addition, they'll try and wipe out your minions in the area. Hiding 
 makes sure that they can't do any harm to you, but you also can't steal, perform acts of infamy, 
 or plot while hiding, and hiding automatically shuts off after a set amount of time, reverting 
 back to the previous action you were performing.
  
  Acts of infamy are the best ways to raise your notoriety rating, but they also raise your heat. 
 In order to perform an act of infamy, you must first meet the prerequisites, which involve making 
 sure you have the right type of minions in the area. If you meet all the requirements, you may 
 begin the act, and after a short duration (though others can be very long) , if all of the minions 
 survived, the act will be completed and your notoriety and heat will rise. Heat rising isn't a 
 good thing, however. The more heat rises with a particular world region, the more military personnel 
 will be dispatched to your island to try and bring your evil genius down.
  
  When it comes time to defend your base from the forces of justice, you have a few good choices 
 at your disposal. Firstly, you may use henchmen to fight off the threats. Henchmen are extremely 
 powerful uber-minions that are meant for disrupting the enemies and generally wiping the floor 
 with them. Of course, your construction workers and really anybody except social minions can fight, 
 but construction workers especially die quickly and probably won't fare too well in battle. You 
 can also use a network of traps to keep intruders at bay. Unfortunately in Evil Genius, trap-making 
 is a frustrating and seemingly hopeless task, and you'll find that more of your own minions get 
 caught in them than the enemy. In order to create traps, you first need to construct a button to 
 set the trap off. You then construct traps where you want them. There's everything from wind machines, 
 to sawblades, to pretty hungry fish, and even a "Do Not Press This Button" trap. After setting 
 up your trap design, you will link the buttons to the traps you want them to set off. Unfortunately, 
 a lot of traps feel pretty useless. Gas cage traps, which drop down on the intruder and gas them 
 to death, never work because you can't put buttons underneath them. What normally happens as a 
 result, is they will walk on the button, stand there, the cage will come down, and gas someone 
 else instead. In this respect, traps can be a frustrating waste of time, though as the means to 
 set off traps become more enhanced through research, some of these problems are alleviated, if 
 only a little.
  
  The graphics in the game are the star of the show, not in terms of technical achievement, but because 
 they are artistically pleasing to look at. The textures on all of your minions almost has a cel-shaded 
 feel, and the general character style is cartoonish, but not too much so. Floors of most rooms 
 are shiny and reflective, and the characters animate smoothly (and have some good humorous animations 
 for interrogations and leisure activities) .
  
  The minions are almost like watered-down versions of Sims, each with statistical bars to show their 
 levels of contentment under your employment. Health, endurance, loyalty, smarts, attention, they'll 
 all play some part in what decisions each minion makes during a routine day at the office/armory/missile 
 silo... If these aren't fulfilled, the minions will collapse from exhaustion, become stupid, or 
 in the case of loyalty, abandon your cause or maybe start stealing money from the Strong Room. 
 It's ultimately up to you what happens, since you don't have direct control over any units except 
 your evil genius and henchmen, by building objects for your minions to use to keep happy. Beds 
 will of course let them sleep and regain endurance. A library will let them regain their smarts, 
 and your evil pharmacy will make sure nobody stays wounded long.
  
  The game sounds alright, but unfortunately there's nothing special about the soundtrack in-game. 
 The same slow, quiet music is looped over and over, and it can almost make the game experience 
 feel boring. The music in the title screen, loading screen, and options menus are excellent, and 
 it's a wonder why more music of the same type wasn't included while actually playing. Still, a 
 lot of the sound can be humorous, especially in the case of interrogating captured folks who are 
 poking around on your island. Particularly hilarious is when you interrogate someone in the chair, 
 and your minion starts doing Michael Jackson impersonations as the victim moans in displeasure. 
 This sort of humor is sprinkled quite liberally throughout the game, and it really helps everything 
 stay interesting when the game occasionally takes a nosedive into dullsville. Still, with all the 
 items you can unlock with research, it should be quite a while before you get exclusively bored 
 with the game, and if you're a fan of this genre, you might as well give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShraZ_Zy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 7, 2005 8:35 am PT
Review:  You first start up the game by chosing your evil self: Maximilian, Alexis, and Shen Yu.
  This game is just plain fun. If you like to build your own evil lair, this game is for you!
  
 You construct your base, plot terror around the globe, and steal money. I've played it for 15hours 
 straight when I got it for christmas and rebuild my base twice after learning a few tricks!
  You also have to capture some artifacts to research new buildings.
  The graphics are splendid 
 and the sound rocks when you set it to the 24bit mode from Creative sound blaster 2 ZS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hifoo
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 23, 2004 1:12 am PT
Review:  This is an RTS very focused on micro management. I feel that they really took away from the whole 
 idea of RTS. There is some very humorous and interesting elements of this game, but there is a 
 whole of nothingness. 
  
  After a few hours of the game you merely are waiting for the next room to create and keeping the 
 spies out of your base. You really have zero action with in this game. I must admit that is nice 
 to see your evil empire grow and become more dangerous to the world but you really get no way of 
 truely seeing your power.
  
  The "action" of the game is seen (or not seen) on a large world make that resembles a game of "Risk" 
 You decide where you want your minions and soldiers to go, where they can steal money, gain power, 
 or just hide out. You see no physical action on this screen which is very dissapointing and trust 
 me you will be looking at this map for a good amount through out the game.
  
  The develops did make the game humorous and will remind you of the 007/ austin powers movies but 
 that is mainly what keeps you playing. The new excisting intsrument or room is the only thing that 
 will keep the player intact. It was a great idea but the huge amount of micro-management with very 
 small payback hurt this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacsea
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 27, 2004 5:55 am PT
Review:  Although a few bugs do crop up here and there, overall I've found this game to be very enjoyable 
 with a lot of replay value attached. I purchased the game the day it arrived in stores and still 
 find the game as interesting and involving as I did almost 2 months ago.
  
  There were a number of bugs (I've only finally been able to download the patch) however, I did 
 not find that they truly distracted from the overall enjoyment. The various tasks can be challanging 
 and silly - but that's what the game's about, isn't it? The characters are memorable and unique 
 (although it is a bit frustrating that you can't control your minions except through your henchmen) 
 
  
  Overall, I've enjoyed playing this game and would definately recommend it to anyone that is looking 
 for a unique and fun experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 25, 2004 10:22 am PT
Review:  I know you have a similar dream as mine. You must. Everyone wants to take over the world, don't 
 they? Not only does Evil Genius let me take over the world, but it lets me have a hilariously good 
 time too!
  
  Evil Genius starts you off by giving you control of a small island, on which you begin creating 
 your secret super evil lair. The game starts off slow, but you'll eventually find yourself building 
 a maze of corridors, rooms, and booby traps.
  
  The game revolves around you sending out minions around the world to take part in criminal activites, 
 while fending off government agents from investigating your secret den. So, you recruit a few generic 
 minions, train them up a bit with some fighting skills and weapons skills into a mercanary, and 
 then send a few out to steal some cash from the eastern united states. They'll be bringing in an 
 income for you to better build your base, but at the same time they'll be generating heat from 
 the local government, who will most likely respond by sending agents to occasionally investigate 
 your base.
  
  Eventually, you'll have built up your base and gained enough cash to outfit it with decent booby 
 traps - laser trip beams, tanks of pirhanas, poisonus gas chambers, hidden sawblades, and much 
 much more. If you're lucky, you'll get to see a few snooping agents get caught in the traps, as 
 they are truely hilarious to watch. After you've nearly killed one of those snooping agents, isnt 
 it about time to interrogate them? Interogating can be seriously funny stuff, as you watch one 
 of your minions do extremely agrivating things to their prisoners, all the while you stand by and 
 gloat to them about your secret plans.
  
  Of course, you have many secret plans up your sleeve. And just as you could send out minions to 
 steal money for you, you can send them out to plot and scheme up some totally nefarious deeds for 
 you to take on. Once you've got a few great plans cooked up, you can execute them simiarly to stealing 
 or plotting. Your deeds range from stealing famous artwork from around the world, to blowing up 
 a storehouse of gold, and even to stealing the Eiffel tower.
  
  Gameplay is pretty good once you get the hang of how things work, but that can take a little while. 
 The graphics are pretty snazy, and the sound is aproprate as well.
  
  Evil Genius is probably the most fun i've had in a while, the idea of building a secret base, guarding 
 it from agents, and doing evil deeds across the world, is just plain fun. I reccomend this game 
 to anyone who's up for a change from the tried and true gameplay of more popular genres, and anyone 
 who has a few spare bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BryanR73
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 18, 2004 6:00 pm PT
Review:  In this game you will design and build your own evil lair, recruit and train loyal minions, and 
 terrorize the world until they submit to your power. Being evil was never so much fun despite some 
 minor annoyances. The graphics are cartoonish, but fit the campy concept of the game perfectly 
 and some of the animations are downright hilarious. The sound effects and music are also a great 
 compliment and work well with the theme. There were some crash to desktop bugs in the original 
 release, but they have been addressed in a recent patch. You will start the game on a remote island 
 that you will convert into your base of operations. This is where the fun begins. As you progress 
 through the game you will gain new rooms, items, henchmen, and specialized minions that will aid 
 you in you quest. The "governments" of the world will not sit idly by and let you take over the 
 world. They will send investigators, sabotuers, soldiers, and James Bond type super-agents in an 
 effort to stop you. You can devise various traps to kill them, capture and interrogate them, or 
 your minions can "weaken" them, sending them home before they find out your evil plans. If you 
 can be devious enough and keep your "heat" down, you can build the ultimate doomsday weapon and 
 bring the world to its knees, swearing alliegance to you. You will be playing and enjoying this 
 original game for hours on end. It is truly addictive and has endless possibilites and replay value. 
 Get this game today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sakko
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2004 8:24 am PT
Review:  Okay, this game is alot of fun. Many hours I've spent toiling away at my evil empire. I'd say I 
 got alot of play time out of it. But I had to stop, cause the AI is just too damn cheap. More on 
 that later, lets see the vitals.
  
  Gameplay 8 - The game is truly fun to play, but has it's problems. Notably, important hard to obtain 
 scientists taking it upon themselves to run off into the wilderness and retrieve a corpse only 
 to be capped by a team of soldiers. A few bugs involving the movement of items, capture of important 
 figures. A few other things. The game is fun, not perfect.
  
  Graphics 10 - Very unique and beautiful graphics. Gives you that 70's spy movie feel. Well done 
 all around.
  
  Sound 9 - Also superb. Very immersive soundtrack and the sounds of the game themselves draw you 
 into the world of spy tech and evil bases. You feel like an evil genius the sound is so good.
 
  
  Value 7 - Here we discuss the AI problems. In the game are different kinds of agents. The creme 
 de la creme are the Super Agents, who are specific personalities. Jet Chan, is one of 3 or 4 super 
 agents who are skilled in the talent of bombing your base. Fair enough. The problem lies in the 
 fact that they can not be killed. You must find and exploit a weakness to eliminate them permanently. 
 Sounds cool, but the problem is when they enter your base they become a liability. Give them free 
 reign and they will find an important (and very expensive) room and bomb it to hell, costing you 
 a small fortune and probably killing off some henchman. Capture them and interrogate them and during 
 each phase (escorting, imprisoning, moving to torture device, interrogating, escorting back to 
 cell) they have a chance of escaping. If they escape and happen to be a demolitions Super Agent 
 they will upon being in an important room (prison room) IMMEDIATELY go for a bomb and place it. 
 There is nothing you can do to reverse this process. If this were to happen only every so often, 
 it would not be a problem. But even taking time to reduce your "wanted level" so to speak, you 
 will often find yourself juggling 3 different super agents (sometimes multiple demolitionists) 
 in your base at any given time. This is on easy setting.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt 7 - I am so put off by the difficulty in trying to corral all the stupid super 
 agents that I have given up on the game. I may go back at a later date armed with a full compliment 
 of cheat codes just to get to the ending. But I'm rather miffed at the moment. What is so maddening 
 is that the game is actually fun to play aside from this super agent dilemma. As a result I have 
 to only "tilt" it by a 7. Still winds up giving the game an 8.0 total, which it deserves, but buyer 
 beware... this game is difficult to the point of playing cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: var1000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 25, 2004 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I can understand why some people may have scored this game low because at first there is sort of 
 a drag in the game. But that all ends soon and the game gets very fun. As you recruit more henchman 
 and unlock more of the object/rooms etc, the game gets more intricate, fun and the strategic part 
 of the game comes out. Once you learn who to interrogate, who to weaken, who to kill, how to gain 
 notariety, how to keep the heat off you, how to deal w/ security issues, etc. the game becomes 
 more solid. Also, get experimental, use your Evil Genius to gloat over prisoners, try things and 
 you will find that there is a lot to this game.
  
  Also the graphics in the game are really good. I like how you the floor is so shiny clean that 
 you can see the reflections of everything in the floor. 
  
  Also, the sounds are great. Obviously this game is amusing and the things that your henchman say 
 are very amusing.
  
  This is definitly a game to own. Dont give up on it right away, play it for a few hours and you 
 will be hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrplaid
Rating: 6.4
Date: Oct 22, 2004 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Evil Genius infuriates me. Not because it's shoddily-made or overly difficult, because it isn't 
 either one of those. Evil Genius infuriates me because it's easy to sense the potentially awesome 
 game that's hidden behind this tedious and boring experience. Evil Genius should have surpassed 
 the Dungeon Keeper games as the great strategic base-building game, but it falls drastically short 
 of achieving that goal. The concept is a great one that's rife with exciting and fun opportunities: 
 You're the mastermind of an evil organization that directs acts of infamy all over the globe while 
 defending your hidden island fortress. It is maddening to think of how the developers could have 
 botched such a great premise, but, as it stands, Evil Genius is just a superbly-made bad game.
 
  The number of bad things you could say about Evil Genius heavily outweighs the good, but they're 
 definitely worth mentioning first since it's probably the only reason you'd want to play it to 
 begin with. The game has a great 60's sense of style. The mission briefings and item descriptions 
 pretty funny most of the time and worth reading (too bad you can't see what your minions are actually 
 doing during missions) . All of the parodic henchmen and super-agents have a lot of character and 
 funny backstories, too. The cartoony character designs suit the darkly comic vibe of the game while 
 being low-poly enough to keep the game running smoothly. The game ran very well on my now modest 
 system. I experienced the crash-to-desktop bug a number of times, but with frequent quick-saving 
 it really isn't that big of an issue. Tutorials and a glossary explain the most important parts 
 of the game pretty well, but it leaves a few things curiously absent (namely freak production) 
 so you'll be forced to scrounge through GameFaqs to find a few answers. The best part of the game 
 is watching all of the little animations your minions and other characters use when interacting 
 with objects around your base, the most humorous being the torture animations. Watching a Rambo 
 lookalike get tickled by a giant supercomputer doesn't get old until about the twentieth or thirtieth 
 time you've seen it. There's also a lot of great music during the loading screens, although the 
 music in the game itself is pretty forgettable. It's obvious a lot of care, talent, and hard work 
 went into making this completely un-fun game.
  The main enjoyment-sucking factor of Evil Genius is the pacing. It's slow. Painfully slow. Every 
 single action in the game involves waiting. Here's what happens when you want to build a room: 
 You make a blueprint of the room, then a worker minion runs to your strongroom where your gold 
 is kept. The minion then runs to the depot (which may or may not be on the other side of the island) 
 to buy dynamite to excavate the room. The minion then runs all the way back to your future room 
 and places the dynamite down. If he needs to (and he probably will) he and his other worker pals 
 (provided there are any) repeat the process to buy more dynamite. What would have been wrong with 
 the gold being deducted from your total automatically and the worker just pulling a stick of dynamite 
 out of his back pocket? Your minions do the same thing when you want to put furniture in a room 
 except the process is multiplied exponentially depending on how much furniture you want to buy. 
 Sometimes it doesn't seem to take too long, but other times you could be left waiting upwards of 
 ten minutes waiting for a piece of furniture to be bought or a room to be built all while your 
 base is being unrelentingly besieged by agents. Sometimes a minion carrying a piece of furniture 
 or a briefcase full of money will be killed, leaving it to languish on the ground for some indeterminite 
 time. Once your realize this has happened, it's often easier to delete the blueprint for the piece 
 of furniture and order it again. If the minion dropped some money, you might as well send your 
 soldier minions out to steal again because there's no guarantee it will be picked up in this century. 
 Once you actually have a base built, the problems with base-building become less of a hindrance. 
 However, about halfway through you're forced to make a new base on another island. That's where 
 the problems with pacing become their most severe, and where I doubt many people will bother playing 
 past.
  Another tedious process like the drawn-out money-fetching procedure occurs every time you undertake 
 a mission in Evil Genius, too. Once you decide where to send your minions to on the world map, 
 they have to head to a depot to leave for that area in a boat or a helicopter. It may take your 
 minions five to ten minutes to get to their destination (I understand that's good time to make 
 on a trip halfway around the world, but having to wait every time you start one of the hundred 
 or so missions just isn't fun) . I haven't exactly figured out why it takes so long for your minions 
 to show up at their assigned destinations on the world map. The boats/helicopters could be on a 
 schedule (I couldn't find anything in the game verifying that) , or the other minions are kept from 
 leaving because they are waiting for a minion to get to the depot from halfway across the island. 
 The latter is the most likely scenario. Regardless, getting minions to their mission destinations 
 could have been handled more efficiently.
  Training your minions involves more waiting, too. Different minion types are needed for missions 
 and each type does something different around your base. Military minions are supposedly better 
 at fighting and stealing, social minions are better at psychologically weakening agents and staffing 
 (useless) hotels, and science minions research new items. The problem is that every minion starts 
 out on the bottom tier as a worker minion and they have to progress up through the 'minion-tree' 
 by using objects in the training room. It takes a long time for a minion to progress all the way 
 up the tree, and another minion must be there to train him at each step of the way. If you need 
 to go on a mission that requires five guards and you only have two, you'll just have to wait. The 
 fact that you can only have a maximum of 100 minions without editing the population. ini file doesn't 
 help matters. Also, on the normal difficulty setting the minion attrition values (that deterimine 
 how many minions you lose on a mission on the world map) seem insane. When you send your minions 
 out on a mission you're always guaranteed to lose quite a few, and there's nothing you can do about 
 it.
  Waiting for your minions to advance up the career ladder becomes even more maddening when you consider 
 how quickly they're chewed apart by enemy agents. Regular agents always travel in packs and easily 
 kill your minions as they straggle around outside your base. You have no way of controlling your 
 minions directly outside of going to red or yellow alert. Going to red alert only means every one 
 of your minions will attack any agents they see, which probably means they'll just aggro a bunch 
 of agents on top of them and die that much quicker. You can only control your henchmen directly, 
 and alone they aren't any more of a match for the higher-level agents. You have no direct influence 
 over where your minions are or where they're going, so guards are really only helpful if an agent 
 stumbles upon a room full of them. Most of the time your only recourse is to helplessly watch your 
 minions get mowed down in a hail of gunfire. Super-agents are even worse. These insanely overpowered 
 characters rip through your minions like they're kleenex and can easily level your entire base 
 in minutes if you're not lucky. Even your henchmen don't stand a chance when going mano a mano 
 with a super-agent. When I began the second island, I was attacked by two super-agents and went 
 from 121 minions to 36 in about four minutes. That may seem in line with spy movie logic, but it's 
 not a lot of fun when you're losing and the entire situation is basically out of your hands. 
 
  After that incident I contemplated quitting, but I pressed on in spite of that bad luck. After 
 the third or fourth try I finally managed to establish my second base. What finally made me decide 
 to quit was a bug that prevents you from gaining a key research item. I could have continued playing 
 in spite of that, but what would that have proved?
  It makes me sad to think about how many of Evil Genius's problems could have been solved by simply 
 adding a fast-forward button. Most of the other problems could have been solved by improving the 
 AI or allowing you to have more direct control over your minions. If only the game wasn't so adamant 
 about its hands-off approach...
  Few games have frustrated me to the extent that Evil Genius has. In fact, the only game in recent 
 memory that has frustrated me into giving up was Elixir's other game, Republic: The Revolution. 
 Actually, calling Republic a game may be giving it a bit too much credit. Republic would be more 
 accurately described as a pie chart and day planner simulator. But just like Evil Genius, I kept 
 playing Republic because of its awesome premise even though it wasn't fun. In spite of the fact 
 that Evil Genius is basically a neutered version of Dungeon Keeper with more waiting added in, 
 I still found it compelling and addictive. I sincerely hope the game designers at Elixir go back 
 to looking at what makes games fun. If they do that, they would be one of the most formidable studios 
 in the industry. I really want to like their games, but I don't think that they want to like me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drkstlkr
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 19, 2004 3:50 am PT
Review:  Evil Genius is the latest good vs. evil role reversal game to hit the market for the PC. The game 
 places you in the shoes of one of three, well, evil genius bent on conquering the world. For an 
 added twist to the game, Evil Genius has a retro 60s feel, nicely blending a mix of Austin Powers 
 and James Bond settings. You start off on an island with a meager sum of money, and begin the process 
 of building your secret lair inside the large mountain located in the center of your hidden spec 
 in the ocean. Eventually, you begin unlocking new rooms and functions, and start on the process 
 of defeating the forces of good on a global scale.
  
  Advancement through the game is accomplished by completing major game objectives and committing 
 Act of Infamy missions in different regions of the world. Starting a mission requires you place 
 the correct type and number of minions working for you in the territory the Act is located. Once 
 you have met the requirements, you begin the mission and the mission timer counts down. While the 
 timer is running, you have a chance of losing minions based on the risk factor associated with 
 the Act. The higher the risk, the more likely your minions will be caught or killed. Lose all of 
 your minions and you fail the mission. Completing a mission always gives notoriety, but sometimes 
 a piece of loot, a new minion class, or other bonus to help you. 
  
  You have to be careful though, as each completed mission also adds heat, or bad attention, to the 
 major organization charged with keeping evil entrepreneurs like yourself out of business and behind 
 bars. It is normal to have a few agents from various organizations wandering your island to see 
 what you are up to, but too much heat will bring larger numbers of armed soldiers that prefer to 
 shoot first and ask questions later.
  
  The graphics work well for this lair building game. They provide pizzazz and detail to the experience 
 without watering down or distracting from the gameplay. All of the floors have a waxy reflection, 
 and the character models work well to convey a feel similar to the No One Lives Forever series 
 of games. One of the best features though is the excellent music that has a very brass instrument 
 heavy jazz feel. 
  
  The game, although daunting at times, sets an overall good pace. While the goal is to complete 
 the objectives laid out for you, the Acts of Infamy sprinkled throughout the world map in addition 
 to lair creation tasks are a nice mix. The biggest challenge is actually learning to balance all 
 three without neglecting a feature too much. Spending too much time on the Risk-like world map, 
 and your base could end up suffering from serious agent infestation.
  
  While the game is solid in design, there are a startling number of major bugs which can crash the 
 game or even worse, force the player to restart from the beginning. I cant go into much detail 
 without ruining portions of the game, but poor minion pathing, text display issues with the in 
 game help, and minion training problems are the most common. More extreme cases have crashes to 
 the desktop, corrupted saves that kill your genius on load, or missing items that prevent you from 
 completing some objectives. While the EG community has come up with some workarounds and fixes, 
 it really seems odd that most of these problems made it to release. Even more strange is that even 
 at the date this review was written, a patch has still not been released.
  
  Overall, Evil Genius is a fun game for those that dont mind an occasional challenge, but I recommend 
 waiting to pick this one up until a major patch is released.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: leecy1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2004 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Once in a while, only ONCE in a while, even the most experienced experts can get things wrong. 
 Gamespot generally provides very reliable reviews, but unfortunately, they have got it wrong this 
 time. How could they miss a classic like this ?? Yes, it has got small imperfections, but these 
 can be easiliy correctable by a patch or two, and do not really detract from the gameplay.
  
  This game is clearly a labour of love and it is as addicative as it is admirable. The premise 
 is innovative. Likeness to Dungeon keeper is only superficial. In fact, the more I play, the more 
 I realised how the designers have successfullly assimilated the excellent graphic and aminations 
 and character simulations of "the Sims" ( the minions you control are effectively 'sims' in that 
 they have a mind of their own and tries to fulfil thier own needs while indirectly under your command) . 
 The lair design out and trap designs are the parts that are most like "Dungeon Keeper" but of course 
 , occurs at a much more sophisticated level. The world maps and world missions are interesting 
 but probably the weaker part of the game and reminds me of "X-Com" games. 
  These elements are combined well to make an impressive whole and an engaging game.
  The sound 
 track is excellent, very stylish orchestral work with flashy tune very appropriately reminiscent 
 of Jame Bond 007 movies.
  Last but no least is the humour of it all. Watching the aminations alone can make you laugh, but 
 there are many finer nuances that are really funny.
  
  All in all, Excellent effort to Sierra and Elixir studios. Most impressive game for a very ong 
 time. I will rank it right along with classics for originality, style, humour, and well intergation 
 of several genres. An instant Classic (and that is a lot coming from a 10-year veteran gamer since 
 the days of the early PC games)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicalclick
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 16, 2004 9:37 pm PT
Review:  GregK (from video) is not evil enough to be evil genius. =)
  Some of problems he encountered can be solved easily. It is all about your evil experience to the 
 game.
  
  There are few key ideas about the traps and heat.
  
  1) There are visible heat and invisible heat. Visible is on the world map. Invisible heat is in 
 your island. The more agents you kill, the more of the invisible heat you have. In other word, 
 the more you kill, the more SKILLED agents they send. The best way is to not kill them as much 
 as you can, just like in the movies. You should let 007 investigate until he gets too far.
  
  2) The AI is somehow smart. They will always find a path to investigate the whole island. However, 
 if you intentionally block the way, they will know. At early part of game, you can build buildings 
 outside of your base, such as hotel. If it blockz the way totally. The agents will know instently. 
 And they will become extremely annoying. They will DIG to your base. That's the worst you can get.
 
  
  3) Trap design is art. You can build trap that only hurt agents but not your minions. The main 
 structure of your trap should be build based on "door" and "freezer". Both are the most important 
 parts of the trap design. I don't want to spoil the game, so if you want to know more about it, 
 you shuould visit their fan sites and forums. A good trap will prevent agents to ever come close 
 to your base. A good trap will not just kill the agents, but took care of the dead bodies as well, 
 so that you don't have to worry about your highly skilled minions go out to pick up the bodies. 
 A good trap actually doesn't kill agents so it will not increase your invisible heat. A good trap 
 doesn't require expensive equipments.
  
  Gregk said that your minions will go out to pick up dead bodies, and then get killed. This can 
 be avoided if you have good traps. Also, killing is not the only way to be evil. Just keep that 
 in mind. Before I know the art of trap design, I was actually a lot more fustrated than GregK can 
 ever be. So, if you ever face the following problem, that means you are not evil enough. ^+++^
 
  
  1) Your trap kills your minions.
  2) Agents dig into your base.
  3) You don't have enough freezer for dead bodies.
  4) Agents keeps getting into your base.
 
  5) Your minions go out of your base to pick up dead body in result of getting killed.
  
  Those issues are the sign of your lack of evil experience. Once you are evil enough, those problems 
 will not happen most of time.
  
  Overall, the game is really fun. If you ever tired of waiting your minions to build the objects, 
 there are console code to do it instantly as well.
  
  DF_BuildInstant 1
  DF_BuildInstantObjects 1
  
  I am not yet finished the game or purchased a second island. So 
 I don't know how much depth of this game has. But it seems that the game lacks of different types 
 of islands you can play on. It will be great if it has different scenerios to play with. Maybe 
 a level creator and let other people to play as an agent to explore your evil traps. I hope they 
 will release expension pack for it. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkali
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 15, 2004 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Fans of Dungeon Keeper and Dungeon Keeper 2 will definitely enjoy this game, as will anyone who 
 likes the Sean Connery / James Bond movies. This game has a lot going for it - humor, strategy, 
 and depth.
  
  Cheifly, your goal is to build an island base while keeping the forces of justice at bay and also 
 gaining enough notoriety to be considered an evil genius. Your goals are acheived by stealing and 
 plotting on the world map (while trying to keep your "heat" levels down) , performing acts of infamy, 
 and research. A very addictive formula, as there's always "one more thing" to do before bed.
  
  Gameplay is solid. My only complaint is it's easy to place objects so that while they don't 
 block access to the object itself, it does close off a walkway - your minions can't get by and 
 will panic. An agent trapped in such a way will start destroying objects. Another complaint about 
 the gameplay is that world map events run simultaneously with island events. This is great - it 
 keeps the game from getting tedious. However, it would be nice if you could set your minions behaviors 
 to, say, autohide when agent appears or when heat gets above a certain amount.
  
  The graphics are a nice touch. They aren't realistic, more of a campy feel with a touch of comic 
 book thrown in. However, they are perfect for the game, contributing nicely to the overall atmosphere.
 
  
  The music is great. In the save/load screen there's a watery background with scuba divers in silhouette 
 doing aquabatics. The music feel matches perfectly with the old Bond movies - it made me feel like 
 I was getting ready to watch Goldfinger. Henchman and Evil Genius lines are amusing, while your 
 minions speak in Simlish. The rip-off there peeved me a bit, but... *shrug*
  
  So far I'm having a blast with the game. It's challenging and entertaining, and I'll probably get 
 a lot of play out of it (upwards of 100 hours) . I'm not sure what the replayability is, but even 
 if I just play it once I feel I've gotten my money's worth.
  
  Evil Genius - a trip down memory lane with modern polish. Definitely a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juiceless
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 13, 2004 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game. I really enjoyed Dungeon Keeper, and I thought that 
 taking that concept and moving into the world of evil super villians would make a really, really 
 fun game. 
  
  Well as it turns out, it makes a really, really ok game. I mean, it's kind of fun, initially, building 
 and decorating your secret lair. But it gets old quickly, mostly due to stupid workers (yes, I 
 know, they're supposed to be stupid) . And the "world map" portion of the game really feels thrown 
 together and awkward. 
  
  Since playing the game for a couple of hours one night, I have virtually no urge to play it again. 
 This seems like one of those cases where someone has a great idea, but never really turns it into 
 something great. Too bad, it could have been a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jswallow
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 8, 2004 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Let's get this straight before I start - I loved the demo of Evil Genius, read all the websites, 
 and was totally caught up in the pre-release hype of the game. I was disappointed by the review 
 of the game on Gamespot initially (not having a copy of the game myself) but wasn't going to be 
 put off.
  
  Then the day finally arrived, and Evil Genius was installed. And then things started to go downhill. 
 Choppy sound throughout the tutorial made this difficult to watch.
  
  MINUS POINTS
  The game, once you get into it, is v-e-r-y s-l-o-w. So slow in fact that you can spend ages waiting 
 for the story to advance. And then there are the bugs - whenever the game autosaves you should 
 always go and put your minions into hiding on the World map, as that's the only time the agents 
 of justice seem to appear. Moving objects within a room is a real pain as well - if you want to 
 move an object just one square to the left then you usually can't - you need to move it completely 
 out of the way. Wait for ages, and then move it to where you actually wanted it to be. And forget 
 about resizing rooms - once something's built, it's built.
  
  PLUS POINTS
  With the negatives out of the way, here are the positives about Evil Genius. The music (when it's 
 not choppy) is fantastic. The female announcer in the base is total "Theme Hospital" rip off (and 
 that's not a bad thing by the way) . Graphics are attractive, if not ground breaking, again not 
 intended as a bad thing.
  
  OVERALL
  Is it enough to make me stop playing Sims 2 this weekend? Sadly no it isn't, but for me it's not 
 a game that's going on the scrap heap immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weirjf
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 7, 2004 5:22 pm PT
Review:  The problem I see with the Gamespot review is that the reviewer obviously didn't take very much 
 time playing it. The complaints about tagging agents, heat, no manual save, defending your base, 
 and others make no sense to anyone who has spent more than 20 hours playing Evil Genius.
  
  Don't get me wrong, EG has its problems; specifically bugs which should never have made it to gold. 
 The tech support forum is plagued with people having the same problems with AI, item physics, and 
 crashes. This, however should be remedied quickly.
  
  The general gameplay is very intriguing. You build your base, stock it with rooms and items, capture 
 and train minions, and eventually get out to do your evil deeds in the world. The first thing I 
 did was steal the Eifel Tower once the Uber Loot was available to steal. There are several key 
 aspects to gameplay which everyone should know. If you hold left-click while tagging someone, everyone 
 in that group gets that tag (valuable time saver) . Heat is lowered in the world map by having social 
 minions (valet, spin doc., playboy, diplomat) with that team. Yes, there's a manual save, use it 
 to save yourself tons of grief until the game is patched. Defending your base is a simple matter 
 of many social minions on top of a logical alert system. Security desk, outside cameras, indoor 
 cameras, and speakers everywhere that minions accumulate will ensure a quick reaction to any tagged 
 agent who comes close to your base. I have actually found no practical use for traps except to 
 play with the configurations and getting extra resources from the very successful configs.
  
  Graphics are clean and appropriate. There are fun details in everything.
  
  Sound; also 
 appropriate. The female announcer voice is very typical of the special agent genre. 
  
  Value; I can see myself playing this game all the way through at least two more times just to see 
 how the other avatars work. I have started a new game several times already just because I thought 
 of a base configuration idea that I just couldn't wait to implement.
  
  Finally; if they would just FIX THE BUGS, I would have no problems recommending everyone who loves 
 Sims or the Dungeon Keeper series to run out and buy this game. However, there are some truly frustrating 
 bugs which need to be addressed or some people will be completely turned off of this game. Also 
 keep in mind, this is a very methodical game; if you hurry you will find yourself in trouble. Be 
 patient and enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladerunner666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 4, 2004 2:51 am PT
Review:  I am bewildered as to why the gamespot reviewer gave this game such a low score. I consider myself 
 a hardcore gamer and play a lot of games so I know when to appreciate a good quality game.
  
  This game has great style and a lot of substance. Lots of polish with the only drawback being 
 some cheesy voiceovers (radio broadcasts) . I swear some of the devs must have thought they could 
 do some of the misc. voicework in this game and get away with it, well they were wrong. Luckily 
 most of the main voicework is good.
  
  The graphics and especially the animation are top notch. 
  
  But almost all I have said so 
 far can be seen from the demo. 
  
  Where the games shines is in detail and deep gameplay.
  I am impressed with how deep the game 
 mechanics become as you play. It all boils down to how well your base is designed. If you really 
 think out the design you will find the gameplay to reward you nicely. If you are sloppy with your 
 base layout then the game makes you pay for it by laying on the heat so to speak. And I am not 
 just talking about laying down traps either. Room locations are key for succesful gameplay.
  
  One thing that must be said, is some of the tongue and cheek humor is spot-on. One little detail 
 that cracked me up and is really a small thing, is the background animation of the load/save. I 
 won't spoil it, suffice to say it may tickle your funny bone.
  
  The game offers lots of gameplay primarily through researching new items as well as improvements.
 
  
  So far I have put in 20 plus hours and I am still engrossed with it. That means a lot to me. Most 
 games get repetitive and boring after the 20 hour mark for me but not this one. A sign of a classic 
 for my standards. 
  
  If you are a fan of Dungeon Keeper and love the Austin powers movies then this is the game for 
 you. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fett35
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 2, 2004 8:37 pm PT
Review:  An amusing, easily-paced, strategy game.
  
  (Reviewed on a P4 3GHz, with 1MB RAM, SoundBlaster 24-bit Extigy, ATI Radeon 9800 256MB, DirectX 
 9. x)
  
  SUMMARY:
  
  Evil Genius is a fun, stylish game, modeled after the uber-criminals of the James Bond movies. 
 Evil Genius requires patient planning and game play, avoiding the usual click-fests that most RTS 
 games become. The graphics and sound, while not earth-shattering, are well done and add greatly 
 to the atmosphere of the game. Evil Genius is very addictive, even though some of the gameplay 
 aspects could be improved upon.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8
  
  First and foremost, Evil Genius is straight-forward. The interface is easy to use and streamlined. 
 The game requires almost no micromanagement, and accomplishes most tasks on its own, following 
 general orders issued by the player. Once one gets used to the mouse setup, controlling your minions 
 in the game is easy.
  
  Evil Genius takes place on one main screenyour island lairand two separate screensyour control 
 room where you direct your minions against global targetsand the minion management screenwhere 
 you select the occupation each of your lackeys will follow.
  
  The island lair portion is where you spend the majority of your time. It is here you construct 
 your underground lair, order your lackeys into action against intruders, interrogate hostages, 
 stash ill-gotten gains in your inner sanctum, and train lackeys into higher-skill occupations. 
 Everything is pretty easy to order and straight-forward to accomplish. There are no interface frustrations 
 in Evil Genius.
  
  The minion management screen is an easy way to set your recruitment speed (slowest is free, as 
 you recruit faster it costs more and more) , and determine your training levels. Once you have recruited 
 generic workers, they can train up to higher-level positions, provided you have a suitably-skilled 
 trainer available. You can create trainers by kidnapping, then interrogating, appropriate civilians.
 
  
  The world-map screen -- where you send your lackeys out on jobs to gather money or criminal influence -- is 
 the weakest part of the game. There is really nothing more to it that selecting a province, waiting 
 for your minions to show up, and then let the cash or notoriety flow into your coffers. You can 
 also order your lackeys to plot in a particular province. Plotting uncovers missions and rewards 
 that you can use back on your base. You have to occasionally check the screen to order your minions 
 into hiding if law-enforcement appears, but that is the extent of interaction in the world-view. 
 More functionality other than mildly deploying and recalling your forces would have made for a 
 much more fun game.
  
  GRAPHICS: 7
  
  Evil Genius has nice graphics that fit will with the tongue-in-cheek atmosphere of the gameplay. 
 That being said, they are also somewhat pedestrian. The dynamic lighting and reflection effects 
 are good. The animation is smooth and solid, but there isnt much to be excited about in the graphics 
 departmentespecially since other recent releases (Sims 2, Warhammer 40K Dawn of War) have much 
 smoother, vibrant graphics.
  
  SOUND: 9
  
  The music is one of the best parts of Evil Genius and really sets the mood for the game. Your orders 
 are confirmed by the ubiquitous female-voiced speaker found so often in science fiction and spy 
 movies. The arrogant, fatuous commentary by your avatar could be lifted right out of a 60s action 
 movie. Evil Genius is atmospheric and addictive in no small part due to the sound.
  
  VALUE: 7
  
  If this game retailed new for $40.00, Id be more impressed. At $50.00, Id say 
 its a touch overpriced. Its a good, fun game, but in light of recent releases and the lack of 
 interactivity in the world map, $50.00 is a little steep.
  
  REVIEWERS TILT: 9
  
  This game is a lot of fun to play. Evil Genius has some lulls in the action that allow you to regroup, 
 think, plan, and execute. It is challenging at times without being an exercise in seeing how quickly 
 one can click the mouse. It is funny most of the time, and the idea is very original. Ive been 
 having a lot of fun playing Evil Genius.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr0wnage_PhD
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 1, 2004 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Evil Genius plays like the classic Dungeon Keeper games where you manage minions and a base with 
 many types of rooms and gadgets used to take control of your enemeis and territories. Unlike Dungeon 
 Keeper, Evil Genius brings a breath of fresh air with a 60's style spy theme with a ton of humor 
 and addictive gameplay.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are bright and colorful exactly like you would expect from a campy 60's 
 spy theme. Characters and the environment are very detailed and character animations are done well 
 and with humor. The graphics aren't the best in the world but for this type of game they are quite 
 nice.
  
  Sound: The music is great and goes well with the spy theme. The sound effects are all done very 
 well and the voice acting is very funny and professional sounding. There really arent any complaints 
 with the sounds in the game.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is very addictive and similar in style to the Dungeon Keeper games. So, 
 if you enjoyed DK you should find a lot to like in Evil Genius. The game has a very good tutorial 
 that will help you learn the basics and the rest of the game gives you many tips in video form 
 and has an encyclopedia that you can use to learn what everything is in the game. You start off 
 the game building your base and training minions on an island which will be your home base and 
 training grounds to to take over the world Evil Genius style. There are so many types of rooms 
 to build for your base which all serve very important purposes. For example you need to build a 
 training room to train up your minions into more powerful minions and different minions. You need 
 to make barracks to hold your minions, Mess hall for your minions to eat, Armories to hold weapons 
 and interrogation devices for agents you capture. Each room will have many objects that come available 
 to you to use like the interrogation chair, walk in freezers to hold all the dead bodies so tourists 
 dont see them lying around your island and tons of other objects. Most of the fun is building up 
 your baase and discovering all the different gadgets and objects to use. There is also a world 
 map which will be your tool for sending out minions on missions to take over the world, this is 
 where your main cashflow will come from. You can have them all over the world stealing and plotting 
 for you. While the game does have some small flaws and balance issues overall this game is highly 
 addictive, fun, full of humor and packed with enough gameplay to keep you playing for many hours. 
 Recommended to any Dungeon Keeper fans and anyone who wants to try something different and have 
 some good laughs with addictive gameplay. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
