-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Evil Dead: Hail to the King
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/evildeadhailtotheking/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 30, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.4
Critic Score: 4.5, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 5.1, 61 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Heavy Iron Studios
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Mar 27, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Evil Dead: Hail to the King unfortunately offers little of the appeal of its source material, as 
 everything about the game is derivative, boring, or just plain bad. 

  Evil Dead ,  Evil Dead 2: Dead by Dawn , and  Army of Darkness  are some of the finest B movies 
 ever made. Particularly in the latter films, Director Sam Raimi's reworking of the splatterfest 
 horror genre is a hilarious thrill ride, thanks to the irreverent scripts and Bruce Campbell's 
 winning performance as the fall guy/hero of the series. Anyone who's seen the films will never 
 be able to forget Ash, the smart-assed protagonist, who's either serving as a whipping boy for 
 the undead in uproarious pratfall scenes or cutting the undead to shreds with the chain saw he 
 wears in place of his lopped-off right hand. Inspired by the trilogy of movies, Evil Dead: Hail 
 to the King unfortunately offers little of the appeal of its source material, as everything about 
 the game is derivative, boring, or just plain bad. The entire game seems to have been developed 
 around the misguided notion that any game with a cool lead character like Ash (whose one-liners 
 in the movies were so good that 3D Realms used a number of them verbatim in Duke Nukem 3D) has 
 to be a good one. The designers were apparently so caught up in re-using trademark Ash-isms that 
 they failed to notice that the gameplay was a jumble of dated elements that were handled much better 
 in Capcom's original Resident Evil back in 1996.           Evil Dead follows the same formula as 
 countless Resident Evil rip-offs.    

  Visual flaws practically slap you in the face as soon as Ash appears onscreen, reminiscing about 
 his struggles with the undead that began way back in 1982. For a few moments, you'll think that 
 he's taken your computer back 19 years with him. In fairness, that's a bit of an exaggeration -- but 
 it's no stretch to say that the graphics throughout the game are more than a few years past their 
 prime. The maximum resolution is a blocky 640x480, and even with Direct3D support, that's unacceptable 
 for a PC game today. Of all the characters and monsters present in the game, only Ash himself is 
 even remotely presentable. The rest are either drawn or animated poorly. It's hard to be impressed 
 or scared by ghouls and ghosts that lumber about like they'd just blown disks in their lower backs. 
   

  Poor background visuals reveal Evil Dead's roots as a console game. These prerendered 2D backdrops 
 possess all the depth of a painted sheet of plywood and, as such, have no power to draw you into 
 what's supposed to be a spooky setting. Muddy colors and blurry textures further remove Ash and 
 his decomposing adversaries from the environment. Blood glows and jiggles on the ground like radioactive 
 Jell-O. The lone saving grace is a suitably ominous treatment of light sources and shadow. While 
 they're few and far between, a few scenes can actually send a shiver down your spine because of 
 these qualities. But most screens are so dark and nondescript that you'll need to engage in tedious 
 pixel hunts to find objects and resources needed to progress. Complicating these searches -- and 
 just about everything else -- are the game's consistently awkward camera angles. The third-person 
 view is rarely where you'd like it to be. Combat is often difficult because you're either too far 
 away from Ash or you're looking down on a battle from such a weird vantage point that you can't 
 tell where your enemy is really located.           The environments in the game leave a lot to 
 be desired.    

  The audio is just as unimpressive. The musical score is tinny and repetitive, and the ambient noises 
 don't convey any sense of the midnight world surrounding Ash. Nor do the sound effects punch up 
 the action and give that necessary oomph to shotgun blasts punching through zombies or to the chain 
 saw cutting into them. Even Bruce Campbell's voice talent proves disappointing. The actor's staccato 
 delivery has been dialed down so far that it sounds like some comments were recorded while he wasn't 
 really paying attention to what was going on. It's as if he recorded his lines over the telephone 
 while flipping through the morning paper. If Ash's lines had sounded this weak in the movies, Duke 
 Nukem wouldn't have bothered ripping them off.            Combat in Evil Dead is repetitive 
 and bland.    

  The gameplay in Evil Dead is typical of any number of games that have borrowed from Resident Evil 
 in the last five years. Along with his new wife, Ash has returned to the lonely cottage, where 
 it all began, to work out a little problem he's been having with nightmares. However, confronting 
 his fears just gets his lovely bride kidnapped by the forces of evil in the opening cutscene, and 
 he spends the remainder of the game trying to find the missing pages of a black magic book (the 
 necronomicon ex mortis from the films makes yet another appearance) needed to rescue her. That's 
 a little different from the "just get out alive" theme prevalent in Capcom's horror-themed games, 
 but that doesn't make it any different to play. You still search for clues and keys, slaughter 
 bad guys, and collect weapons, ammo, items, and various power-ups with the aid of an awkward inventory 
 system, just as though you were in Resident Evil's Raccoon City. Aside from the way that Ash saves 
 his progress with an audiotape reel instead of a typewriter ribbon (you can't save on demand) , 
 the games are actually quite similar.   

  Still, there are some key differences. The primary one is a dreary pacing of Evil Dead. Ash's weapons 
 are weak, and even the chain saw requires seven or eight clean swipes to send a foe to the afterlife. 
 Creatures also respawn, so the game's interminable, repetitive combat can be found on virtually 
 every screen. This design does successfully manage to lengthen the game, albeit at a cost of putting 
 you to sleep. You don't even get the satisfaction of carving up a ghoul or two with the chain saw 
 when you do score the required number of hits. Although Ash will occasionally go into a frenzy 
 with the weapon -- cutting into a monster with a real blood-spewing relish -- it's not nearly as over-the-top 
 as fans of the movies would expect. And much of this limited gore is obscured by the substandard 
 camera angles. The game seems sedate -- at times, you'll have to remind yourself that it's supposed 
 to be an Evil Dead game.           Even Ash can't save this game.    

  Unfortunately, a control scheme that's limited to mouse and keyboard support makes progressing 
 through the game even more exhausting. While the "read me" file mentions gamepad support, "keyboard" 
 is the only option to choose on the options screen. Repeated attempts to get Evil Dead to recognize 
 a Microsoft Sidewinder and a Logitech Wingman Rumble Pad met with failure. It's exceedingly odd 
 that the designers didn't make a gamepad as the default control option, especially since the game 
 was first developed for consoles.   

  Evil Dead: Hail to the King raises a lot of questions, not the least of which is an enduring fascination 
 with why THQ is publishing it. Irresistible source material aside, it's a little late to be jumping 
 on the survival-horror bandwagon -- especially with such a lackluster rip-off as Evil Dead: Hail 
 to the King. If you're a fan of the movies, you'd be better off spending the same amount of money 
 on the collector's edition of  Army of Darkness  on DVD instead. You'll enjoy it a lot more than 
 playing Evil Dead: Hail to the King, which will wear out its welcome in a much shorter span than 
 the 96-minute running time of the film.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  This game was absolutely boring. Even now that I'm thinking to it to review it I'm bored! LOL
 
  Bad:
  First of all it's very slow. You may experience this slowness even after runing it on a powerful 
 game, because it does not relate to your PC hardwares but it's all about game's core itself. The 
 whole game except FMVs are like an slow motion movie. Ash (Your character) is a real slowcoach 
 and it takes years to move from this scene to next one. The game does not allow you to modify resolution 
 and so you've got to keep yourself satisfied with 640X480 pixels.
  Your enemies are supposed to scare you but they don't. They're designed so silly. They're bad in 
 graphic details. All characters except Ash were drawn very badly.
  Handling and Navigating Ash is also a tough and boring job. Sometimes you may think that he's drunk 
 and can't walk on the right path easily. While fighting or touching you've try for several seconds 
 in order to find the right position for aiming/attacking undeads or touching/picking up objecBoss 
 Boss battles will really bust your head and fingers. They're too hard and I've to say that I couldn't 
 beat the last boss. Ash's being slowcoach is the main reason I believe. I tried that scenario about 
 60 times and I finally couldn't manage to win. I was always being attacked by the ghoul and I couldn't 
 dodge his attacks because Ash were moving too slowly, rather he was walking.
  Save times were too limited and that made the game harder.
  
  Good:
  The story was very good. 
 It was interesting enough to take you after. Weapons and One-Liners were funny and nice too. Sometimes 
 they helped this game to look a bit interesting. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
