-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Evolva
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/evolva/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  7, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.5, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 139 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Computer Artworks
Genre: Action
Date:     Jun 1, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a third-person squad-based action shooter whose original design concept actually succeeds in 
 adding to the overall quality of the game. 

 Evolva is a third-person squad-based action shooter whose original design concept actually succeeds 
 in adding to the overall quality of the game. Evolva's organic visuals are also rather impressive, 
 though they put quite a demand on your system.   

  In the game, you command the Evolva, a team of genetically mutable "genohunters" on a mission to 
 rid a planet on the edge of the galaxy of a world-eating parasite and its spawn. Your four genohunters 
 are capable of mutating to incorporate genes unique to the aliens you encounter on your crusade, 
 as they physically append new weapons and morph to reflect their added abilities. You actually 
 control the development and balance of various genetic abilities in the mutation screen: Each time 
 a genohunter mutates, you are presented with two genetic paths to choose from, each with benefits 
 and shortcomings, until you accumulate more genes to achieve a net increase in power.   

  Evolva adds some slick visual touches to remind you of the genohunters' mutating abilities. Switching 
 weapons actually causes the selected weapon to grow out of your genohunter's limbs. Different mutation 
 paths superficially distinguish your characters over time; as they mutate, their color will change 
 and various crests, spikes, and fins will grow on their bodies. Genohunters can earn up to five 
 levels of proficiency in various weapons and special abilities, and the higher levels of the running 
 and jumping abilities will make the character look noticeably leaner and more fit. However, such 
 details don't mean Evolva is a virtual life game, because by and large, the superficial changes 
 you'll see on your genohunters are just that. As such, it's unlikely that you'll make much use 
 of the genohunter export feature, which theoretically lets you swap your mutations with your friends. 
   

  What the mutation concept means in terms of gameplay is that you must gib every dead enemy or indigenous 
 creature and break down their dead bodies into meat (the game's term) , which is an ethereal, starry 
 stream that flows evenly into your genohunters' bodies. Going beyond the action-game convention 
 of meat-as-health, the acquisition and accumulation of genes become a refreshingly physical indication 
 of character building. The premise works pretty well: It gives a new twist to power-ups, as well 
 as showcases the game engine's adaptability. Although, you might stop to wonder why a genetically 
 advanced commando unit hasn't already found the right genes for super-speed, jumping, or projectile 
 weapons.   

  The game's missions are satisfyingly straightforward and each has hordes of indigenous and alien 
 creatures to dispatch. The missions provide a variety of clear objectives, and often you'll need 
 to find specific new genes in the scenario to accomplish your goals. One problem with the mission 
 structure is that each mission brings only one or two new creatures in, since the designers had 
 to balance the progressive expansion of the gene pool. Though the 12 levels are quite large and 
 interesting, they're also mostly linear, so it's helpful that there's an arrow on the heads-up 
 display to indicate the general location of your next mission objective.   

  In addition, although some missions split up your genohunters so that they can accomplish separate 
 objectives on their own, you'll play most of the game running point with the rest of the squad 
 in tow. Evolva's squad artificial intelligence works surprisingly well for general navigation of 
 the levels, and the "go here" command can be useful for convoying items that are great distances 
 across a map. Fortunately, the squad artificial intelligence is rather effective at concentrating 
 firepower during combat with small numbers of enemies. However, in larger battles, you'll notice 
 that your genohunters don't strafe and skirmish as well as you'd like and don't often choose the 
 right weapon for a situation. Group encounters are also complicated by the fact that most of your 
 weapons can harm your other squad mates. These factors will make you wary of charging into battle, 
 especially since health often seems scarcer than is warranted. What makes these issues less frustrating 
 is that you only need to complete a mission with one genohunter still alive - the others are restored 
 with all their abilities in the next mission.   

  The designers focused their attention on creating an organic, alien look for the game's levels. 
 Many outdoors settings feature sweeping landscapes that include curving cliff faces, arching rock 
 bridges, and occasional vegetation. The enemy creatures, like the clawed arachnids you'll see frequently 
 in the early game, often seem inspired by sci-fi alien movies like Starship Troopers. But all those 
 lushly detailed polygons and textures have their price, as it will take a top-of-the-line system 
 to run Evolva at full detail in high resolution. Yet no matter what you're kind of system you're 
 running, the small cameras displaying your other squad members' points of view are set to update 
 at a leisurely pace of several times per second - that way, your main display's frame rate doesn't 
 bog down unnecessarily.   

  Because the game's combat action is somewhat slower and less visceral than that of the current 
 standard of first-person shooters, and since its squad micromanagement is sometimes frustrating, 
 Evolva ends up being most impressive because of its rich, resource-intensive graphics. The mutation 
 management system also works well with the gameplay, as it provides an original alternative to 
 traditional power-ups.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Unicronus
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 7:59 am PT
Review:  Evolva is a tactical shooter but it is like an RPG. You play as four Genohunters through different 
 levels. You kill beasts, gain new abilities, and upgrade your characters. I think that this game 
 was fantastic.
  
  Story: (10/10) This game is about four Genohunters on a strange planet. You have to kill all kinds 
 of weird beasts like huge spiders and aliens. Your characters start off with only fists, and then 
 when you kill people you unlock new weapons and increase your stats. You can change your characters 
 weapons, and color. My favorite weapon was the "Spore Launcher." The story is an interesting Sci-fi 
 story.
  
  Gameplay: (10/10) The gameplay is very fun. It is squad based gameplay in the third person. The 
 combat system is fun and works smoothly. You have a lot of different weapons. The game is in levels 
 and you basically have to kill everyone in each level. 
  
  Graphics/Sound: (10/10) The graphics are good as well as the soundtrack of the game. The enemies 
 bleed in different colors and it looks fairly realistic.
  
  Entertainment: (10/10) Evolva is a very fun game. I enjoyed every level of the game. There are 
 numerous challenges in the game that should keep you interested. If you are a fan of sci-fi squad 
 based shooters then this is definitely the game for you.
  
  Replay Value: This game has a high replay value. It is fun to go through the game and upgrade your 
 characters differently or play in a different way the second time around.
  
  Overall: (10/10) Evolva is a great shooter. The story is great, the gameplay is fun. Overall this 
 game is truly a masterpiece and is definitely worth buying.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lond69
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 25, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I first saw evolva at some tv game show, the idea behind the game was really interesting to me, 
 with all that evolving and such, I've always liked this kind of game.
  Some years later, I finally bought the game, and then I played, it was not so interesting as it 
 looked at first, but it wasn't a bad game, after all.
  The graphics in evolva are old, just like the game, and if I remember correctly, they wasn't much 
 in the time it was released either. The sound have few musics (or they are much alike, I really 
 don't know) . And the sound effects for the enemies are just what you are waiting for, some noises, 
 and such, nothing much of innovation.
  The mutation system is simple, anyway, you kill a enemy, and then you get what is left of him, 
 if it is a new mutation, the blue meter on your screen will blink, and you will be able to get 
 a new ability, if it is an old mutation, then you will only make your meter go up. The difficult 
 part is to mantain your abilities at a good level, 'cause when one goes up, generally, other go 
 down..
  
  Well, the game isn't much, if you like the genre, you should give a check, otherwise, just get 
 as far as you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 17n5
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 18, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  we make it the sole survival criteria of genetically enhanced yeasts that they can inhibit HIV 
 protease or enhance insulin sensitivity. Those yeasts that manage this feat are allowed to pass 
 the genes (and compounds) they used onto the next generation. This second generation then tries 
 new combinations of these genes for the same task. Some gene combinations give even better compounds, 
 and so on...
  Because nature does not aim to make drugs, both the compounds and the ways in which they are made 
 are sub-optimal from a pharmaceutical industry point of view. This in turn has made natural product 
 drug discovery a challenging process and many companies have abandoned the field. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
