-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: F-22 Lightning 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/f22lightning3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  6, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 7.3, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 347 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: NovaLogic
Genre: Jet Sim
Date:     Apr 30, 1999
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It provides a variety of missions and multiplayer options that other sims willfind difficult to 
 compete against. 

 Since the early days of NovaLogic - you know, back when voxels were the size of your fist and hours 
 were wasted trying to squeeze out some extra lower memory to run Comanche - the company has steadily 
 released simulations, typically with a military theme, that are fast, fun, and furious. You didn't 
 expect a lot of realism or even depth in some cases, but what you got was a game you could load, 
 play, and shoot something in, with some nice explosion or other graphical treat as your reward. 
 Despite NovaLogic's attempt to gain legitimacy with official sanctioning from the F-22's manufacturer 
 Lockheed Martin, you still couldn't expect the level of realism of, say, the Falcon series, or 
 sims from Digital Integration, Jane's, or Digital Image Design. So, with that in mind, if you look 
 over NovaLogic's latest offering, F-22 Lightning 3, you are presented with NovaLogic's credo (that 
 is, fast, fun, and furious) front and center, which is really not a bad thing at all.  

 F-22 Lightning III is a fairly straightforward, easy-to-play, simple-to-get-into F-22 flight simulation, 
 featuring good graphics and mission structure, as well as a more pronounced emphasis on fast and 
 furious multiplayer games. You can step up the screen resolution all the way to 1024x768, though 
 800x600 runs fine for 3dfx owners (recommended, as the HUD is easier to read in the full cockpit 
 mode) . Hardware requirements are surprisingly lax - 800x600 on a Voodoo2 is extremely smooth with 
 all the options turned on. Then again the price you pay is the fog, which seems to be too close 
 for comfort, diminishing how far you can see onto the horizon. One nice graphical feature is the 
 variety of weather: snow, thunderstorms, driving rain, and so forth. The lightning is a particularly 
 good effect, not to mention the nuclear explosions (more on those babies later) . The aircraft are 
 well detailed and sport a variety of paint schemes.  

 That brings us to gameplay, which is pretty simplified and easy to learn. Many of the controls are 
 standard, borrowing from previous NovaLogic flight sims in more than a few areas. Many extra commands 
 can be accessed directly through various though somewhat unusual key combinations, mostly through 
 the use of the control key. You can customize your controls for the keyboard and joystick to whatever 
 you want. You'll spend most of your time in the HUD or virtual cockpit views, or slewing to the 
 padlock in between. There are external views, including a target view, all of which can be tilted 
 and/or panned, but they are hardly intuitive or action-oriented. Typically everything you need 
 to know is in the HUD, though when the missiles start flying it would be better to switch to the 
 virtual cockpit for a gander at the radar view. Missions are objective- and waypoint-oriented, 
 so you basically fly your route and attempt to accomplish the goal - blowing something up, shooting 
 something down, or trying not to get yourself or your buddies killed.  

 Combat is easy - as soon as you are within range, directional cues and other indicators will tell 
 you what it is and where it's going. All the standard weapon types are here: AMRAAMs, sidewinders, 
 your trusty 20mm Vulcan Gatling gun, HARMs, JDAMs, various types of iron bombs, and everyone's 
 favorite B61 10-kiloton tactical thermonuclear free-fall bomb. Why in the world an F-22 would be 
 carrying one is beyond me, but it's fun to drop the bomb and ride the shock wave. One departure 
 from most F-22 sims is not having to worry about opening the weapon bay doors before releasing 
 your ordnance - all of the F-22's weapons are stored in internal weapon bays - and closing them 
 again after launch to reduce your radar signature. It's all done for you. Heck, you hardly even 
 have to worry about your radar signature.  

 F-22 Lightning 3 has three modes of play: quick missions, campaigns, and multiplayer. The quick 
 missions are not instant action, a feature that was surprisingly left out. Actually the quick missions 
 are a set of training and situational missions, set first in Nevada and then moving overseas. They 
 can be played in any order, but they are arranged in a tutorial-like manner from the beginning, 
 and the complexity rises with each successive mission. There are 22 quick missions, and more can 
 be created via an external mission editor that comes with the game, which is another nifty feature. 

 There are six campaigns, with a total of 46 missions split between them (each campaign features 
 either seven or eight missions, which must be played in order) . The campaigns cover various hot 
 spots around the world (Libya, Chad, Indonesia, Syria, the Kola Peninsula, and so forth) . Difficulty 
 varies, though the missions aren't nearly as difficult as some in F-22 Lightning II, but the campaigns 
 should be played in the order they appear. Some of the missions can get tricky but not overly head-banging-against-the-wall 
 hard.  

 Then there's multiplayer: Click to enter the NovaWorld. net servers, pick a game, and off you go. 
 Typically there are three game types (more may be introduced later) : deathmatch, RAW, and cooperative. 
 Deathmatch is pretty self-explanatory, though the games can be made with full ordnance loads or 
 guns only. In RAW, teams attempt to bomb their enemy's base off the map before the same happens 
 to their own base, while in cooperative games you can participate with up to seven other players 
 in specially built missions (the other game modes support a whopping 128 players) . NovaWorld games 
 are typically a blast to play in, and latency is not a big issue - low-speed modems play just as 
 well as cable modems. To make things even more interesting, NovaLogic threw a microphone headset 
 in the box to accommodate its new Voice-Over-Net technology, letting you communicate with each 
 other using voice transmissions while flying. And it works, too.  

 So what does F-22 Lightning 3 have going against it? For one thing the simplicity may turn off some 
 of the more die-hard flight-sim fanatics. NovaLogic also applied the same simplicity to its game 
 manual, a 38-page travesty that is short on explanation and long on nothing in particular. Well, 
 OK, it does devote a significant length to taking off and landing, even in-flight refueling, but 
 what about air combat basics or even flying and aerodynamics? Actually there is an Adobe Acrobat 
 file on the CD-ROM about air combat, but this is the kind of stuff that should have been in the 
 manual. Throw in a couple of other annoying tidbits for good measure, like no instant action, set 
 mission structures with no randomization, and bland view options, and F-22 Lightning 3 ends up 
 not quite all it might have been.  

 Overall, though, NovaLogic has churned out a pretty good flight simulation that does its job well. 
 It's an F-22 flight simulation where you can jump into the cockpit, fly for a minute or two, and 
 hop straight into the action, and it provides a variety of missions and multiplayer options that 
 other sims will find difficult to compete against.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DiamondBacks
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this game online since 1999 and all i can say is i cant get enough this is 
 a game u should be able to pick up for 10 and is well wortth the purchase.
  
  If you like Flight games not Flight Sims then you will loves this it has a gradual but STEEP online 
 learning curve and a real community feel.
  
  You wont need to hit variations of 25 different buttons just 2 take off but you will need a understanding 
 of dog fighting physics if u want to be the best.
  
  All i can say is buy this game check out the online feature and look for me in the skies ill be 
 happy to train you :)
  
  Rio out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link1990
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 25, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  F-22 Lightning 3 is no doubt one of the best flight simulators that NovaLogic ever made. It surpasses 
 its predecessors by far in every area. It's a thrilling game to which almost no other flight sim 
 can compare. First, the game play was excellent. It featured several campaigns, each with a set 
 of missions. These missions all have a purpose, either to accomplish an objective, or to win the 
 war. The background info and everything just makes it feel like the player is accomplishing something, 
 that there is a purpose in all of this. The player earns points mainly by accomplishing objectives 
 and getting kills, but also by landings. The points allow for a rank increase, and completing a 
 campaign earns a medal. There are more enemies to face in this game, than the previous games, but 
 the best feature by far is the capability to unleash 20 square miles of nuclear destruction. Even 
 though this is not the most realistically behaving simulator, the thrill is its strong point. The 
 graphics are acceptable. There are a few glitches here and there, and some details seem flat. The 
 terrain is not as complex as other flight sims, but it is still good. The aircraft explosions also 
 look ok, but not as good as other sims. The music for the game is excellent. It changes based upon 
 how the mission is going. If something bad happens, the music changes, if the mission is accomplished, 
 the victory music plays. Menu music is also good. Sound effects are satisfying, especially the 
 nuclear explosions. This game has a long enough length to allow for several hours of play. Evan 
 after playing it through once, it is still worth it to play through the campaign again, it is just 
 that good. Finally, there is the multi-player. It allows for several people to go against each 
 other online, and this is also worth trying out. Overall, F-22 Lightning 3 was no doubt, the best 
 game in the series. It totally overpowered its predecessors, and definitely deserves a sequel (something 
 with graphics like those of Comanche 4) . Though it is not the most realistic sim, it is one of 
 the most fun and exciting sims to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrlarryg
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  This game should be updated or modded to take advantage of today's technology. It was great for 
 such a simple game, and it wasn't too hard on your pc! The interface was simple, and would've been 
 nice if it was more interactive. The missions were fairly simple. The single missions were more 
 fun than the campaigns, unfortunately, but what can you expect for a low price? The cameras were 
 good, as well as the backgrounds, using the old voxel technology, which, at the time, novalogic 
 was very big on. The ai was kind of buggy, and simplistic. The game comes with a mission creator, 
 that was somewhat buggy in itself, and often caused crashes in the game. There was limited wingman 
 control, with a short list of common commands, but the wingmen were basically cannon fodder, and 
 were no real help. The multiplayer option was pretty good for the time, due to novalogics great 
 servers. Overall, this game could use a 21st century overhaul, and would make a great game with 
 todays technology. For that time, though, this game was great fun, with an arcade flair, and a tad 
 bit of simulator reality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marshalwebb
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 9, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  I thought, the best part of the game was how it adapted to your skill level. Almost anyone could 
 play the game, and more experienced players could really use their skills to their advantage, so 
 the game adapted very well. The controls where also very simple which made it extremely easy to 
 play, but had the more advanced features for players who wanted to use them (dropping fuel tanks, 
 etc...) so it formed around the player.
  
  The main thing about the game was the multiplayer (or atleast what i found myself playing the majority 
 of the time) because of the challenging pilots and exciting base bomb/defend modes of play (R. a. w.) 
 and the free for all pilot vs pilot mode (deathmatch) . Theres still people who play it online today. 
 
  
  After all this time I still find myself playing this game. The flight sims helped make novalogic 
 what it is today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andch17
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 7, 2006 9:47 pm PT
Review:  F-22 Lightining is a solid flight simulator game, it's very different from any other flight simulator 
 game in a variety of good ways. The game has a lot of ways to amaze you and you'll never get bored 
 of playing this game. 
  
  Novalgic, the developers of this game, are known to make good first person shooting games such 
 as Delta Force. Flight simulations are necesarilly their strong point but they've delivered a decent 
 flight sim game in F-22 Lightning 3. The game has 3 gameplay modes: Quick play, campaigns, and 
 then the online mode. There are 22 quick missions and 46 missions in the campaign. The game is 
 very easy to play, the combat system is simple yet effective. There are tons of weapons to choose 
 from, including a nuclear bomb (why a F-22 fighter would carry a nuke is beyond explanation) . The 
 game is bvery fun and easy to play, even newcomers to flight simulation games won't have any worries 
 about playing this game for the first time. The game presents itself really well, the graphics 
 stand out really well. All of the terrains that you'll be flying over look great and the game's 
 sound is also solid. F-22 Lightning has a lot of value in the 3 game modes that I mentioned earlier. 
 The campaign and quick missions are fun and the multiplayer is also very fun. 
  
  F-22 Lightning is an action packed game and will impress most flight simulation gamers out there. 
 F-22 Lightning is a fun and action-packed game, it's a fantastic flight simulator. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vezony
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 26, 2006 5:38 am PT
Review:  really good simulation makes you feels that your in a real aircraft ,.. and it's also not easy 
 at first , but with time you will figure it out that you will always play it to improve skills 
 ,.. it's turning you into a real pilot with time ... lol
  
  and to enjoy it ,. you don't have to but any cheats ,.. just play and escape from the incoming missiles 
 ,...
  
  the game has new weapons ,.. neuclear bomb is the most powerfull from all , but remember to get 
 away fast after bombing ,.. coz it could get you, just use the after burn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukehu
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 3, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Although old already, this game is quite a nice combat flight simulating... altho only F22.. no other 
 choice. Many missions and such.... includes training. Compared to the F22 rapter, this game has 
 quite detailed graphics and sound. It is downloadable from the internet... mostly BT download... not 
 hard to find DOn't BUY it (if it's still in sale.... kinda not worth the value! I've never tried 
 the multiplayer (it has this feature) . I'm guessing it doesn't work for those cracked ones. But 
 never tried it... u can try ^^ go try this game out. Of course, this game is nothing compared to 
 the flight simulators by microsoft ... like combat flight simulator and flight simulator 2004: A 
 century of flight. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
