-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: F.E.A.R.
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/fear/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 FEAR elevates gun battles to a cinematic level.
 Creepy and atmospheric.
 Visually amazing--you will smell the smoke.
 Sounds incredible.
 Wild and fast-paced multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The game is a system hog.
 Some environments and enemies recycled a bit too much.
 Some loose ends in the plot don't tie up as well as they could.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 14, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 8.9, 64 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 18,682 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: VU Games
Developer: Monolith
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Oct 17, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This outstanding shooter combines creepy horror with kinetic and visceral action, and it elevates 
 the genre to a whole new level of intensity. 

  When you get down to it, the gun is the heart and soul of a first-person shooter. Even the genre's 
 name alludes to this fact. Yet while shooters have been around for more than a decade, very few 
 of them have actually captured the visceral experience of firing a gun. It's an intense and violent 
 act, not to mention loud. Enter F. E. A. R., the highly anticipated action game from Vivendi Universal 
 Games and developer Monolith. F. E. A. R. is a shooter that captures the sensation of being in wild 
 and desperate firefights like no other game before it, and it's an incredible, kinetic, almost 
 exhausting experience from start to finish. More than that, though, is the fact that it's also 
 one of the most atmospheric and creepy games ever made, as well as one of the most intense shooters 
 that you'll play this year.  

          F. E. A. R. is easily one of the creepiest and most atmospheric shooters ever made. You'll 
 also battle some amazingly smart opponents.     

  The challenge in describing F. E. A. R. is trying to avoid any spoilers, because this is definitely 
 a game that you want to experience unspoiled. What we can tell you is that you play as the newest 
 member of the First Encounter Assault Recon, the military's top-secret task force assigned to deal 
 with paranormal situations. And the mission in F. E. A. R. certainly counts as above and beyond the 
 regular call of duty. As explained in the opening cinematic (which is also game's only third-person 
 cutscene) , a military commander named Paxton Fettel goes insane and takes command of a secret army 
 of cloned soldiers that are telepathically linked to him. Fettel and the battalion of elite soldiers 
 then go on the rampage in a nondescript American city. They appear to be searching for something, 
 though their objective is a mystery. It's up to you and the rest of the F. E. A. R. team, along with 
 units of Delta Force, to find out what it is they're looking for and stop them.  

  F. E. A. R. works because it elevates first-person shooter combat to cinematic levels. And while we've 
 certainly seen games with movie-quality combat before, you've never seen anything quite like this. 
 Playing F. E. A. R. is like battling through a John Woo movie like  Face/Off , because when firefights 
 happen in this game, they're downright glorious to behold. Bullets tear chunks out of concrete 
 and wood; blinding clouds of dust and debris fill the air; bodies are torn apart or slump on the 
 ground; and the deathly silence of the aftermath contrasts so sharply with the sheer chaos that 
 erupted only moments before. Gunfights in F. E. A. R. just feel  right .  

  Part of the reason for that is because the weapons that you have in the game feel powerful, like 
 weapons should. You have the standard fare of guns to play around with, including a pistol, submachine 
 gun, assault rifle, shotgun, and rocket launcher. There's also a scoped, burst-firing rifle that's 
 a dead ringer for the Master Chief's battle rifle in Halo 2; an incredibly nasty particle weapon 
 that sears the flesh off of opponents; and a few other special toys. All of these weapons, even 
 the pistols, pack an incredibly satisfying punch and are capable of putting down opponents quickly 
 (you can even dual-wield the pistols, for that extra John Woo-style gunfight action) . This goes 
 against the genre's convention, since most shooters usually scale weapons on a curve, with the 
 smaller and lighter ones being next to useless later on in the game. That's not the case in F. E. A. R., 
 and virtually every gun you use can tear up the place.  

          Combat simply looks and feels spectacular, because the environment looks like it's flying 
 apart due to all the bullets.     

  You can't run around like a pack rat carrying every weapon, though, because F. E. A. R. limits you 
 to only three weapons at a time. This is a familiar gameplay mechanic, but it's a good one, as 
 you have to weigh the pros and cons of each weapon. Obviously, you'd like to have a close-range 
 weapon, a decent long-range weapon, and a heavy weapon for those special encounters, but it's tempting 
 when the game offers you a rocket launcher or a repeating cannon that you weren't expecting. At 
 that point, something has to be sacrificed. In addition to guns, you also have grenades in your 
 arsenal. And unlike most shooters, in which you have to equip grenades separately prior to using 
 them, the grenades in F. E. A. R. can be readily thrown at the press of a button. This eliminates 
 the need to fumble around with your inventory, and it opens up your tactical playbook, as you can 
 toss a grenade without a moment's hesitation and force the enemy to react.     

  As a member of the F. E. A. R. team, it goes without saying that you've got some special abilities 
 at your disposal. For example, you can kill foes with a swift drop-kick or scissors kick, which 
 is such an awesome move that even when you pull it off in desperation (like when you've emptied 
 a clip and don't have time to reload) , it still feels incredibly cool. Yet your most important 
 ability is your ultrafast reflexes, which can be activated in short bursts to create a sort of 
  Matrix -like bullet-time. Now, bullet-time has been done to death over the past few years, but 
 the execution of bullet-time in F. E. A. R. is still well done. When you kick in the reflexes, everything 
 else slows down, and you can see the vortexes in the air created by bullets. You can only activate 
 this ability in short bursts before it runs out, but it recharges at a decent rate, so you generally 
 can have it at your disposal in most fights. This slow-motion ability is almost essential for surviving 
 some of the tougher battles; you can use it to whittle down the odds. With that said, we almost 
 wish that it were a bit rarer in the game, as F. E. A. R. really comes alive when the firefights are 
 at full speed, not slow motion.  

          Slowing down time creates a cool visual effect, as you can see the trace of every bullet 
 in the air.     

  Without a doubt, you've got an extremely formidable arsenal at your disposal, but you're going 
 to need it against the artificial intelligence in F. E. A. R. Put simply, these are the smartest, 
 most aggressive, most tactically oriented AI opponents that we've ever encountered in a shooter, 
 and they're downright impressive. The AI is incredibly sharp, and they'll do things that you don't 
 expect, like pin you down while one of them flanks you. Or they'll pin you down and plop a grenade 
 down next to you. These guys move around from cover to cover; they communicate with one another; 
 they'll react to any sound or sight of you; and they'll also react if they see the beam of your 
 flashlight approaching. They've got the same weapons that you do, and their guns do the same amount 
 of damage to you as it does to them. So you've got to use cover and lean around corners as much 
 as possible, because it doesn't take much to shred your armor and health to zero. This can create 
 situations in which you're pinned down, firing desperately to keep their heads down while trying 
 to figure a way out of your current situation. The AI can also take advantage of the game's physics 
 system, and they can knock over objects to create cover.  

  You'll take a lot of damage during the game, but thankfully, there are countless health packs and 
 armor kits that you can pick up. You can also collect up to 10 health kits for later use, which 
 you'll use liberally in the heat of battle to keep yourself going. And while there is a way to 
 permanently boost your maximum health level, as well as your stamina, sooner or later you'll fall 
 to the enemy. Fortunately, F. E. A. R. uses a combination of checkpoints, quick saves, and auto saves 
 to keep track of your progress, and you can automatically reload at the last save point in just 
 a matter of seconds, or go back to an earlier save to try something different. It's a good system, 
 but our only complaint is that there are only 10 save slots, which is a bit limiting since you'll 
 want to save a lot.  

  F. E. A. R. features excellent combat, but as good as the AI is, it doesn't take too long for you 
 to get used to taking down small groups of soldiers, and these encounters can feel a bit repetitive 
 after a point. Since you're dealing with an army of clones, you're essentially battling the same 
 guy over and over, so this also lends to an air of familiarity with your opponent. It's not until 
 you run into the huge, set-piece battles against upwards of a dozen foes that things get tricky. 
 The game does introduce a few new foes to change things up a bit in the middle of the game, but 
 the cloned soldiers represent the opponent you'll battle most of the time. And while they're solid 
 opponents, we'd love to have seen more variety, such as more of the high-tech ninjas that appear 
 midway through the game. These guys can cloak themselves to be invisible, they can climb up walls, 
 and they possess the same ultrafast abilities that you do. The first time you encounter them can 
 be a shock, and it's disappointing that they show up again rarely afterward.  

  The environments can also feel a bit repetitive after a time. F. E. A. R. takes place in basically 
 three settings: a deserted industrial area, a deserted office complex, and a deserted and rundown 
 urban setting. Notice a pattern? While the levels are designed to allow for wild and wooly gunfights, 
 F. E. A. R. could certainly use more variety when it comes to environments, because there's a certain 
 point where you feel like you've explored the same factory or office complex for the umpteenth 
 time. It would be nice to also have an unpredictable element in the game, such as civilians who 
 you need to protect, or at least, not harm.  

  It's well known at this point that F. E. A. R. is a game that's heavily influenced by Japanese horror 
 movies, most notably  The Ring . In fact, the game uses many of the same kinds of visual tricks 
 to scare you that you've probably already seen before in a movie, like the split-second appearance 
 of a ghostly apparition when you least expect it. And while the imagery in F. E. A. R. may not exactly 
 be entirely original, it's exceedingly effective. The designers are smart enough to realize that 
 less is more when it comes to building tension. There are stretches in F. E. A. R. when you don't 
 battle anything, and it's unsettling to search abandoned office buildings, finding nothing more 
 than pools of blood or the voicemails left by family members trying to contact their loved ones. 
 Then there are areas where you expect some kind of gargantuan throw-down and you brace yourself 
 for battle, but nothing happens. You certainly feel like you're being watched the whole time, though, 
 as there's always some kind of noise or rattling of objects to greet you, or the fleeting image 
 of someone in the corner of your eye. Admittedly, some of these tricks become a bit too familiar 
 over time, but they're still enough to keep you on your toes, and there are a number of jump-out-of-your 
 seat moments in the game.  

          Alma is the creepy little girl in the game, and she loves messing with your head, big time. 
 This is one of the many hallucinatory visions you encounter.     

  This omnipresent tension combined with the outstanding combat make F. E. A. R. a superb game, though 
 one that can leave you a bit emotionally exhausted after a while. And as much as we enjoyed the 
 game's atmosphere, we must admit that we were a bit disappointed by the plot. Rest assured that 
 F. E. A. R. features a complete story, as well as an ending. The trouble is that it feels like several 
 plotlines lack some kind of satisfactory payoff for all your trouble, so the game's a bit of a 
 letdown in this aspect. The end level is also disappointing in that it's surprisingly easy, especially 
 compared to what you've experienced to get to that point. Thankfully, F. E. A. R. does end on a spectacular 
 note, though we won't spoil it for you.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1481 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Bluekunai22001
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2009 11:04 pm PT
Review:  -------The Good -------
  Intense gunplay, Realisticly intelligent AI, Good Voiceovers, Interesting Story, Creepy Atmosphere, 
 Eerie Soundtrack and great sound effects, Fun online multiplayer.
  
  
  -------The Bad -------
  Campaign is pretty short, Repetitive environments, Character models are 
 rather simplistic compared to the other graphics.
  
  Story: 9
  Music: 8
  Gameplay: 9
  Controls: 8
  Overall: 9/10
  
  In 2005, Monolith released one of the creepiest shooters to 
 appear on PC.
  F. E. A. R (First Encounter Assault Recon) is an intense gameplay experience with a creepy side to 
 it that offers a great campaign while it lasts.
  
  In this game, you play as a silent protaganist only known as the Point Man. The gameplay is like 
 that of a typical first-person shooter, but with a few twists. 
  Melee: The Point Man can use various forms of melee attacks. Some include hitting things with the 
 current weapon without using ammo, a sweep kick which can be used while crouching, a basic punch 
 and a roundhouse kick which can be pulled off after you jump.
  Slowmo: One of the games most fun features. The Point Man is said to have reflexes comparable to 
 that of "a cat on an adrenaline rush", and slowmo is how the player sees this. When activated, 
 for a limited amount of time, the player can move around at about x1.5 speed compared to everything 
 around him. The time limit you can use Slowmo in can be increased by collecting reflex boosters 
 found throughout the game (or by entering a cheat code of course) . Also, if your playing on Moderate 
 difficulty and above, you may need to rely on slowmo to survive any battle, or at least without 
 using all your Medkits.
  Medkits: These have been used before in games, but in this game, they are found around the place 
 and you can stock up to 10 and use them at anytime.
  Health/Reflex Boosters: There are a few of these found scattered around the game. Health boosters 
 are syringes (ouch) that glow blue and increase your maximum health by 10 for every one picked 
 up. Reflex boosters glow green and slightly increase your reflexes so you can use slowmo for longer.
 
  The enemies you encounter in the game are usually Replica Soldiers who are under control by a 
 psychic (we'll talk about him soon) and sometimes creepy appearitions (ghosts) created by a creepy 
 girl (we'll talk about her soon too) .
  
  The story takes place in the city of Fairport. Eight years after her death, the psychic essance 
 of Alma released another psychic from a prison in the Perseus Compound. His name was Paxton Fettel. 
 Alma slowly persued Fettel until she reached his cell. She then made a connection to Fettel through 
 his mind and drove him crazy. Now under the influence of Alma, Paxton Fettel reawakened the Replica 
 Soldiers and started killing members of Armacham Technology Corporation (ATC) . This bought along 
 the attention of F. E. A. R, a group formed to deal with paranormal threats. Their mission, to persue 
 and eliminate Paxton Fettel and stop the Replica Soldiers.
  As the mission carried on, The Point Man became aware of a stronger force at hand, Alma. A powerful 
 psychic that had killed many people by tearing the flesh from their very bones, leaving nothing 
 but a scorched, bloody skeleton behind. Throughout the game, the Point Man encounters creepy appearitions 
 of people that had been killed by Alma or Fettel, horiffic halucinations and Alma herself, in some 
 moments that may make you blast at them with your gun, pause the game, or jump out of your chair.
 
  Near the end of the game, you no longer see Alma as a little girl in a red dress, you see her 
 true form, a creepy, skinny, pale and naked woman with long black hair. And to make matters worse, 
 now she can kill you by herself! And just wait until the climax and the ending, those are two of 
 the most epic parts of the game in my opinion.
  If you want to fully understand the story, you'll need to find most if not all of the laptops and 
 phone messages scattered through the game, they explain so much. However, missing some may cause 
 you to not understand some of the story.
  
  The majority of the games creepiness is thanks to the atmosphere. Dark, bloody, echoy and suspenseful. 
 Whenever you may expect something to pop out, you're left continuing through deserted buildings 
 only to be jumped by Alma when you least expect it. Other causes of the creepiness are the ridiculously 
 loud sound effects for things like buckets when you even touch them, a few creepy images that show 
 up on the screen for a split second and last but not least, your unreliable flashlight that recharges 
 but always runs out of when you least want it to.
  
  Overall, I enjoyed F. E. A. R for it's frights (and the adrenaline you get from them) the story and 
 the awesome firefights. If you like epic first person shooters with a creepy atmosphere, this game 
 is for you. But I don't recommend it for the faint of heart.
  
  TIP: Try playing it with headphones, loud, past midnight, in a dark room all by yourself (that's 
 when it's the most immersive and fun! But extremely creepy) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gammit10
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2009 6:07 pm PT
Review:  I'll play the worst game if it has a great story that draws me in. When F. E. A. R. came along, I 
 realized that the gameplay didn't have to suck in order to experience an entertaining story. This 
 holds just as true in reverse; I didn't have to play a great shooter with a throwaway story either.
 
  
  Sure the premise dips from Japanese horror movies like "The Ring." Sure, other games like "Max 
 Payne" did slow-motion shooting before this. Sure games told entirely through the first-person 
 point-of-view have been done. But no game has ever put all of these together, along with great 
 graphics, physics, and enemy AI the way F. E. A. R. does.
  
  It also doesn't hurt that the game genuinely scared the sh** out of me a few times.
  
  I can't 
 wait until I get my hands on F. E. A. R. 2: Project Origin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowtails9000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 5:14 pm PT
Review:  I know I am a little late on the bandwagon, but I finally bought a laptop recently that I was told 
 could handle games like FEAR and Dead Space. I got FEAR over Ebay, and all I can say is "Wow, I 
 am impressed." There are some issues here and there, but they are mild and acceptable.
  
  Gameplay: If you enjoyed Doom 3, you will notice the two are very similar in atmosphere, VERY SIMILAR. 
 Flickering lights in office buildings, blood on metallic walls, sounds of people crying, laughter, 
 and the general spooky-kookiness appreciated by horror/shooting games nowadays. FEAR will definitely 
 keep you on your feet, and that is a good thing; enemies are smart. Dangerously smart, even on 
 easy mode! Guns are easy to use, even aiming wasen't too difficult on a laptop touch screen, that 
 alone was impressive to me. The only issue I had was lag at the most innoportune of moments, like 
 when Alma first jumped out to say hello, the computer almost shut down from lag. Also, when surrounded 
 by enemies, lag does pop in to say hi, even on the lowest graphics option. 
  
  Sound: Rivals Doom 3, enough said. 
  
  Multiplayer: I am afraid I can't review this yet, I 
 just got the game today, heh.
  
  Graphics: Optional, they can be as good as a PS3 game, or about the same as a good PS2 game, depending 
 on what you set it on. Only issue is that fog is a bit choppy at points.
  
  Content Warning: Language is all there, typical commando-marine fair. Blood is everywhere, in frightening 
 dosages. There is a pool of blood with the living dead at one point. Also, for those who suffer 
 from heart issues, there are multiple 'screamer' portions of the game. As in nothing is happening, 
 then a chopped up face flashes onscreen. Very unsettling. If you could handle Doom 3 or Resident 
 Evil Zero, you should be fine.
  
  Overall: I was not dissapointed, and you won't be either, if you can stomach the occasional bit 
 of lag. 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadDevotion
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 1:35 pm PT
Review:  In the game FEAR, which is an acronym for First Encounter Assault Recon, you play as the Point 
 Man of the FEAR team, which, according to the game, is a secretive special operations force that 
 specializes in dealing with paranormal threats. Little is revealed about your character in the 
 game, other than the gender. At the beginning of the game, you witness a man named Paxton Fettel, 
 who supposedly holds a threat towards them, and in the game it is ultimately your mission to eliminate 
 him.
  
  As suggested by the opening cinematic, FEAR is intended to be a terrifying game, and it does a 
 good job of presenting itself as such. This is mainly due to the games' atmosphere, which is inspired 
 by many Japenese horror films. Throughout the game, your character encounters many hallucinations, 
 often which involve methods of escaping, or eliminating whatever threats appear. Alma, a girl that 
 you have many visions of in the game, is one of the main characters in FEAR, and little is known 
 about her, until you progress further and draw yourself to the conclusion of who she is. Aside 
 from hallucinations, the dim and creepy environment that you go through also contributes to how 
 scary the game is.
  
  Other than the fact that it can be truly horrific, FEAR also has other things that make it well 
 worth playing. It's weaponry, for example, can play a big role on how well you will do in certain 
 situations. You start off with nothing more than a pistol, which later becomes almost useless, 
 until a certain point you reach, where you are forced to use it. After defeating several enemies, 
 like most games, you will come to find that you can take their weapons and use them as your own. 
 The selection of weapons can range from anything like Sub-Machine Guns (SMG's) to Rocket Launchers. 
 However, it is up to you to decide which weapons would be best for a particular fight, as you can 
 hold a maximum of three weapons at a time. Other than guns, you have grenades, proximity mines, 
 and other explosives at your side as well.
  
  For the most part, FEAR, isn't that difficult of a game. However, you certainly run into some difficult 
 situations. In fact, you usually encounter at least one very challenging part in each chapter, 
 or interval, as they are referred to in the game. What makes the game a little bit easier than 
 it normally would be, is the vast availability of Med Kits that can be found, as well as the Slow-Motion 
 ability that your character possesses, which can be done by simply pressing the control button. 
 Med Kits restore a certain amount of health, and are rather easy to find. Needless to say you'll 
 still be using them quite a bit. You can carry a maximum of 10 Med kits in the game, and sometimes 
 you'll find that you have reached the limit on how many you are carrying; and you will undoubtedly 
 find certain points in the game where you are out of them. The enemy AI is very challenging, and 
 they will do things such as throw grenades towards your position, find areas to take cover at, 
 instruct their teammates to do certain things, and call for backup. What your enemies say can often 
 give you clues as to what tactics they will use or where they will go next, which can be a big 
 help on your part. They can also do things such as hit you with their gun, and use a small variety 
 of martial arts skills, which you as well have the ability to use. Fortunately, you are able to 
 quicksave whenever necessary, and you can adjust the difficulty in-game if you ever run into a 
 situation that is too challenging for you to handle. Although the enemies you encounter in the 
 game are intelligent, there isn't a very large variety of them. Other than combat troops that use 
 the same weaponry you do, there aren't much more different types of enemies you will run into. 
 Not too far into the game, you will encounter an enemy that has the same abilities as you do, as 
 well as being able to turn invisible. These are usually not too difficult to spot, and they don't 
 take a whole lot of shots to kill, but still add some variety. You will also encounter heavy armor 
 troops, which usually have a very powerful laser gun or rocket launcher, which you yourself can 
 use as well. The heavy armor troops take a fairly long time to kill when not having the best selection 
 of weapons available, and their shots are very powerful too. Turrets can be found in certain areas, 
 and can sometimes take a while to destroy, though they only appear several times in the game.
 
  
  The level design in FEAR isn't amazing, but certainly isn't bad either. Although the game is linear, 
 there are many alternative paths that you can take in each level, and with certain paths, you will 
 find rewards that will help you in the game. Other than Med Kits, you can find very powerful weapons, 
 additional armor, Health Boosters, and Reflex Boosters. Unlike many other shooting games, Health 
 Boosters in FEAR increase your health permanently, rather than temporarily, so it is critically 
 important to find as many of these as possible. Reflex Boosters, on the other hand, increase the 
 timespan for how long you can use your slow motion abilities. These things make levels worth taking 
 time on, and make searching thoroughly in certain areas necessary as well.
  
  The single player campaign usually takes anywhere from ten to fourteen hours to complete, and though 
 at a certain point one might lose interest due to the fact that the game can get rather repetitive, 
 it manages to revive itself towards the ending. After beating it, you might choose to play it through 
 a second time, searching through anything to may have missed. The multiplayer can be fun, but the 
 single player mode is the better of the two. While one could say the multiplayer adds value to 
 the game, it was recently made freely available, so the single player mode remains the ultimate 
 reason to buy the game.
  
  FEAR is an overall fun game, and is well worth buying. It brings some new and interesting things 
 that will add a whole new experience to any shooting game you have played before. It's well worth 
 the money, and is not a game that missed by any fan of horror films or FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrWednesday14
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2009 4:02 am PT
Review:  The forums are littered with the topic "Scariest PC Game ever?" or variations thereof and inevitably 
 F. E. A. R. gets mentioned. It's one of those benchmarks of the modern FPS horror genre along with 
 games like Doom 3 (which I'm currently playing through) and it's place is well deserved. Not only 
 is F. E. A. R. bone chilling, its also a great FPS and the blending of the two genres is seamless.
 
  
  The basic synopsis: you are a member of an elite special forces squad who has been tasked with 
 the elimination of rogue commander. The only problem is that the commander controls a squadron 
 of super soldiers with a direct telepathic link to him. And so it goes... with further complications 
 and the introduction of a little girl called Alma. If your even reading this review you have probably 
 already heard of her. If you haven't play the game and find out for yourself.
  
  The storytelling is one of the weaker parts of the game. It lacks the strong characters or a really 
 powerful backdrop but the important part is it functions enough not to distract from the more powerful 
 elements. Mainly the gun play and the scares.
  
  The first is incredibly well done. Visceral is the best word for it and it takes some getting used 
 to. Your movements feel more real than other FPSes and the damage you deal with weapons is incredibly 
 satisfying (two words: nail gun) . One of the most well polished parts is the A. I. which is quite 
 cunning. Yet F. E. A. R. is not ultra-realistic either. You can't spray and pray or run and gun your 
 enemies down. You have to be tactical and make full use of the peek and slow motion abilities available 
 to survive. This is what F. E. A. R. does best: balancing the FPS between reality and fantasy making 
 a game that is visceral but at the same time fun.
  
  As for the horror aspect it relies on the in your face scare tactics from time to time but mostly 
 draws itself from atmospheric tension. Like any good horror the main scare is kept off-screen most 
 of the time, but this doesn't stop you fearing Alma constantly. The small encounters you have with 
 her are enough to make sure you're constantly checking your back and swearing profusely at your 
 commander when he tells you to go check that latest darkened hallway. More often than not it has 
 soldiers for you to blast away with your shotgun but occasionally you'll be greeted by Alma and 
 this is enough to keep your on your toes for most of the game and in my case, a small phobia of 
 hallways, elevators, and ladders, after I finished.
  
  These two excellent elements are complemented by strong graphics and a wonderfully sound design 
 which make the game all the more enjoyable and scary. 
  
  There are downsides: the levels are rather generic and almost always confined offices of some type; 
 the objectives are static for the most part; and I personally had bug issues which took away from 
 some of the grander moments. 
  
  All in all however, this is something an FPS or horror fan must get.... even if you don't like one 
 element you'll be excited by the other. However if you do play this play it right: alone in the 
 darkest room of your house, lights off, headphones in with medium to loud sound. Otherwise you 
 simply aren't doing this great game justice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeh_m8_13
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2009 1:02 pm PT
Review:  a game that has AI like reality.
  a game where the most used buttons are ALT + F4
  a game which scares you S***less (literally)
  
  this game has a really AI, you have to think 
 like a hunter, act liek a hunter, as fast as you can, because in this game there wont be time to 
 react, keep moving, screaming (in reality) , and killing as many as you can, because they will round 
 you up, firing at you from the front so you duck down and hide, while they send others to attack 
 from behind. ingenious. but you have one weapon that they dont have. SLOW MO (oh yeah)
  
  
  the graphics are B. E. A. UTIFUL (bruce almighty) showing the bullets flying towards an enemy.
 
  
  there is one thing that you may not like though, repetetive enemies, they are all the same, bar 
 a few exeptions.
  
  but other than that this game is nerly perfect. thumbs up guys. keep the F. E. A. R coming ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomemozok
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Fear has it all. Pumping action, a lot of shooting and all of that intertwined with a lot of blood 
 and wery big mistery. I don't want to spoil the fun for anyone who hasn't played the game, so i won't 
 go into the story. The graphics is phenomenal (hey for 2005 it was!!!) .
  The sound is superb. All in all i would say 10 out of 10 for sure. There is so much blood that it's 
 really creepy sometimes (especialy if you have the graphics set to high) . There is something like 
 a vast army of clones and the thing is, they don't do the same mistakes more than 3 times. And they 
 speak on the radio and are doing some crazy tactics (at least on the hard difficulty) . There is one 
 creepy girl that will scare you to death at some points. I won't spoil the story, so get it, play 
 it then talk. Oh and if anyone passes the game on the last difficulty without cheats, please leave 
 a comment. I would love to hear dor it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furnish
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 11:42 pm PT
Review:  The game's story revolves around a supernatural phenomenon, which F. E. A. R.-a fictional special 
 forces team-is called to contain. The player assumes the role of F. E. A. R.'s Point Man, who possesses 
 superhuman reflexes, and must uncover the secrets of a paranormal menace in the form of a little 
 girl.
  
  F. E. A. R. simulates combat from a first person perspective. The protagonist's body is fully present, 
 allowing the player to see his or her character's torso and feet while looking down. Within scripted 
 sequences, when rising from a lying position or fast-roping from a helicopter for example, or climbing 
 ladders, the hands and legs of the protagonist can be seen performing the relevant actions.
  
  A prominent gameplay element is "reflex time," which slows down the game world while allowing 
 the player to aim and react at normal speeds. This effect is used to simulate the character's superhuman 
 reflexes. Reflex time is represented by stylized visual effects, such as bullets in flight that 
 cause air distortion or interact with the game's particle effects. F. E. A. R. lead designer Craig 
 Hubbard stated that Monolith Productions' primary goal was "to make combat as intense as the tea 
 house shootout at the beginning of John Woo's Hard-Boiled." He continued on to say that "defeating 
 ... enemies ... with style" was crucial to this goal and that reflex time plays a large role in 
 "making the player feel like they are an action movie hero."
  
  
  The game contains weapons based on non-fictional firearms, such as pistols, assault rifles and 
 submachine guns, as well as entirely fictional armaments like particle beam weapons. Each firearm 
 differs in terms of ammunition type, accuracy, range, fire rate, damage and bulkiness. The latter 
 characteristic is crucial, as more powerful/specialized weapons tend to be more cumbersome and 
 slow the player's maneuvers. Unlike other games of the genre where lighter/smaller weapons tend 
 to be useless, F. E. A. R. does not scale guns on a curve, so any firearm is potentially deadly in 
 most situations. Monolith Productions stated that it aimed for "a balanced arsenal where each weapon 
 serves a specific function," rather than "just going with a bunch of real-world submachine guns 
 and assault rifles." F. E. A. R.'s heads-up display crosshair's size dynamically shows where shots 
 will fall based on movement, aim and the weapon in use. The player may carry only three firearms 
 at a time; thus, strategy is required when using and selecting weapons.
  
  Compared to other shooters where melee is usually a last resort, F. E. A. R.'s melee is a viable instant-kill 
 alternative for taking down enemies. The stocks of all firearms can be used in close combat. Lighter 
 weapons, while being less powerful, allow the player to move around more quickly, increasing their 
 chances of melee. Movement speed is maximized if a player holsters their weapon, which also allows 
 them to engage in hand-to-hand attacks with maneuvers including punches, kicks, and slides.
  
  F. E. A. R.'s artificial intelligence allows computer-controlled characters a large degree of 
 action. Enemies can duck to travel under crawlspaces, jump through windows, vault over railings, 
 climb ladders and push over large objects to create cover. Various opponents may act as a team, 
 taking back routes to surprise the player, using suppressive fire or taking cover if under fire. 
 The game's artificial intelligence is often cited as being highly advanced, and its efficiency helped 
 the game win GameSpot's "2005 Best AI Award," and earn the #2 ranking on AIGameDev's "Most Influential 
 AI Games."
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SragentThom
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Story - 10/10
  
  You are a guy who is part of a team that fights "paranormal threats to the nation's security" named 
 FEAR. FEAR is short for First Encounter Assault Recon. You are a nobody - you have no name, no 
 past, no face, no nothing. No one knows anything about you or where you came from, except that 
 you have super-human reflexes. There's this guy named running around who has telepathic control 
 over an army of clones. His name is Paxton Fettle. Your primary objective throughout the whole 
 game is to kill this guy. Sounds simple right? Actually, the developers put a lot of thought into 
 the story. As you go through the game, you learn more and more about what is going on with Fettle, 
 and more about yourself. If I said anymore, I would ruin the great story that this game has to 
 offer.
  
  The story progresses much like Half-Life 2's story. To understand what is going on, you have to 
 listen to telephone calls, listen to what people say, and pay attention to weird things that happen, 
 as well as some cut scenes. "The story isn't obvious like it was in Halo 2". This is great, because 
 it gives you satisfaction once you figure out for yourself the solutions to the mysteries that 
 take place. Even though the Single Player game play for this game isn't spectacular, the amazing 
 story will keep you motivated to finish the game to see what happens.
  
  Congratulations Monolith, you did one thing right!
  
  Single Player - 7/10
  
  FEAR basically 
 has two types of game play to it - shooting spree, then exploring. You first start the level off 
 with 5 minutes of shooting, then you get 5 minutes of exploring... you repeat until level is over. 
 The same pattern goes on throughout the whole game. It is very predictable, because there is nothing 
 new that comes up or any change in pace to add interest.
  
  The AI is good, but not amazing like some people describe it to be. The AI can do a few things. 
 Most of the time they just walk from cover to cover, shooting at you when they get the chance. 
 They don't hide themselves fully behind the cover - usually an arm, leg, or their head is sticking 
 out. So you can shoot them and they will not retaliate. They throw grenades (very inaccurately 
 I might add) if you stay in the same spot for too long. Sometimes they yell out things like "He's 
 trying to flank", or "Sniper!" even though I am not trying to flank them or I am only 20 feet away 
 from them. They jump over stuff and knock things over to use as cover, except this usually gets 
 them killed, since these actions take a long time, and are not something that gives them much of 
 an advantage. There are a few major problems with the AI - they can sometimes shoot through walls, 
 and once they see you, they know where you are at all times. This gets really annoying. Don't try 
 flanking them if they have spotted you, they will just turn around as soon as you see their backs 
 and start shooting. Another problem is that they only spawn unless you walk into a certain spot. 
 In a few cases, I was able to not trigger them by avoiding a certain spot on the map. They can 
 also see you in pitch black, which takes away from any possible stealth aspect.
  
  FEAR takes a big hit from repetitiveness. You'll find that I will use the word "repetitive" a lot 
 in this review. There are only five different types of enemies to kill, and most of them only appear 
 a few times in the whole game. You get to fight basic clone soldiers, "Heavy Armour" clones, Flying 
 Robots, Assassins, and Mechs (big robots) . I counted a total of 5 Assassins, 4 Mechs, 8 Flying 
 Robots, and about 20 Heavy Armour Clones in the whole game. There are about 1000 basic clones in 
 the game. So savour the fun of killing the non-clone bad guys, because there aren't many of them. 
 Why did Monolith create these enemies if they only put a few of them into the game?
  
  The environments are very repetitive as well. There are four environments in the game, all of which 
 are very similar and claustrophobic. You get to play in abandoned houses, an office building, a 
 warehouse, and a high-tech research facility. Level design isn't varied at all. It feels like I 
 am playing in cut-'n'-paste rooms the whole game. You ONLY get to fight in close range, so if you 
 like sniping, you are going to be disappointed with FEAR.
  
  The weapons aren't very different from each other. All of the six light weapons are the same (the 
 shotgun being the exception) , but of course they have different skins, and have different rates 
 of fire. The heavy weapons are almost identical as well. There is a Railgun, a Cannon which is 
 basically a Railgun with splash damage, and a Rocket Launcher which is basically a Cannon with 
 slow moving projectiles. There are three kinds of grenades, but they are all used in the same way 
 and are equally effective, so there is no point to having three different kinds.
  
  Another problem is that nothing new comes up in the game to add variety. FEAR is a one trick pony. 
 You do the exact same thing the whole game - kill everything to get to a certain place. There is 
 no variation in the objectives you get to do. There are no vehicles to drive, or different characters 
 to play. You do meet allies, but you never get to fight with them.
  
  Another selling point of this game is the Slow mo, or bullet time. It basically slows everything 
 down, and makes the game super easy. Its pretty much the same as in Max Payne, except it was very 
 poorly implemented - it gives you too much of an advantage. When used, you are able to run around 
 out in the open without getting shot. By slowing down time, the enemy's accuracy somehow decreases 
 to almost zero. Not only that, but Slow mo recharges by itself! Now anyone can beat the game on 
 the hardest difficulty just by using Slow mo, killing the enemies without resistance, hiding and 
 waiting for it to recharge, and repeat. Once you get the rhythm down, you start to realise even 
 more just how repetitive this game is.
  
  Like I said before, after about 5 minutes of shooting, you go into exploration game play mode. 
 This is where you learn most about the story, as well as some other useless crap (answering machine 
 messages about social gatherings and why two people don't get along, etc) . You basically run around 
 poorly lit rooms, trying to find the next wave of bad guys. Sometimes weird things happen, like 
 this little girl that pops up and tries to scare you (Alma) , or you might see Paxton Fettle walking 
 around. For some reason, the developers thought that little girls are scary to most people - wrong. 
 I am a big fan of horror movies and games like Doom 3, so I want to being scarred. I tried to be 
 scarred when playing this game, but it failed to scare me at all. This is a big disappointment, 
 because one of the selling points of this game is that it is supposed to be scary. As you are exploring, 
 you might stumble across Steroid Injectors (jeez, Monolith is teaching kids that drugs are good) . 
 The blue ones increase your maximum health, and the green ones increase how long you can use your 
 Slow mo. This is a great addition to the game, it rewards you for exploring the levels (unlike 
 in Doom 3 where you are rewarded with a monster closet) , and adds a reason why you should come 
 back and play this game again after you beat it.
  
  However, the Single Player is very short. I beat the game in 8 hours. Yes, it is good enough to 
 replay maybe once, but you have to take into consideration that you won't as much fun playing this 
 game over again because the exploration parts become very boring, and you will remember the parts 
 that surprise you (parts that were supposed to scare you, but didn't) . On your third replay, you 
 won't get any enjoyment out of it whatsoever.
  
  Multi-player - 1/10
  
  In my opinion, multi-player is the most important part of any shooter, since you will be playing 
 it for a much longer time than Single Player (if it is good) . I hate to admit it, but this game's 
 multi-player is terrible. This is where FEAR falls apart. There are just too many problems with 
 multi-player for it to be enjoyable after 3-4 hours of playing. If you are buying this game for 
 the multi-player, don't. You are wasting your money. FEAR has worst multi-player I've played this 
 year. It is literally torture. There are so many problems with multi-player, I will number them 
 to make this review more organised.
  
  1) The first problem is the unbalanced weapons. You have a choise of picking one of the six light 
 weapons to start with. This would be a good system, if all weapons were balanced. But, the weapons 
 are not balanced, so this system fails. It is a very foolish choise to start with the Dual Pistols 
 or the Sniper Rifle, when you can pick a weapon that does the exact same damage but with a much 
 higher rate of fire (the Assault Rifle) . It gets very boring using the Assault Rifle all the time, 
 and only killing people who are using Assault Rifles. Also, the three cannons are far too strong. 
 The winner of every game is decided by who uses the cannons the most often.
  
  2) You have so little health, so whoever shoots first wins. This makes it easy for people who are 
 new, because they can get some kills against even the best players if they happen to spawn behind 
 them, or see them first. If you had more starting health, the better player would be able to turn 
 around and kill them. The way it is now, you are already on the floor as soon as you hear their 
 first shot go off. Don't bother trying to turn around, it is futile. Your average lifespan in a 
 game with ten players will be about 10-15 seconds, no kidding.
  
  3) The crosshairs on the weapons are huge. There is no way you can get a headshot, unless you just 
 get lucky and one of the bullets go to the head. To add skill to the game, the crosshairs should 
 be smaller. Also, there is no recoil on the weapons, so you can spray all you want, and your weapon 
 will not lose accuracy. This makes spraying easier. Yes, you CAN go into aim mode to get good accuracy, 
 but there are so many disadvantages to doing this, that you are better off just spraying like everyone 
 else, unless you are fighting at extremely long range (which is very rare in this game) . Because 
 you start with so much ammo, you can hold down the trigger for the whole match if you want. This 
 makes aiming less important because you don't have to worry about ammo. Because of these problems, 
 you can't improve your skills at this game by a whole lot, since it is already so easy to start 
 with.
  
  4) Another problem is that you can carry around First Aid Kits. So, if you happen to have 10 First 
 Aid Kits on you, the chances of you dying are very slim, since you have 500 health in First Aid 
 Kits (each one heals 50) . There is no time delay between using them, so they can never get your 
 health down faster than you can heal it.
  
  5) Slow mo is even worse Multiplayer. It is a noob's dream. Whoever gets the Slow mo Injector is 
 pretty much a god, because Slow mo makes everyone move so slowly that you are better off standing 
 still if you don't have it (except for the guy with the Slow mo, he moves at normal speed) . So 
 guy with the Slowmo gets to shoot at a bunch of stationary targets the whole game (half of the 
 game actually, since half the time you are hiding while you charge up) . Slow mo is even worse in 
 Capture The Flag. Yes, it gets worse. The Slow mo guy grabs the enemy flag, then activates slow 
 mo, so no one can catch up to him and kill him to get their flag back. They do this the whole game, 
 and win with little effort. You CAN kill the Slow mo guy, but the odds of that are very slim, because 
 he will probably have a lot of First Aid Kits, and he only uses Slowmo when he encounters someone.
 
  
  6) The respawning places in FEAR are terrible. There are only about 8-9 places you can spawn in 
 the map, all of which give plenty of cover to campers. Unless you can tolerate being spawn killed 
 at least 5 times in a row, don't get this game. I estimate at least twenty percent of all my deaths 
 in this game are from spawn killers. You can also place proximity bombs on the spawn locations, 
 which gets you many free kills.
  
  7) Now about the technical issues. Firstly, the lag in multiplayer is terrible. It only takes 5 
 bullets to kill someone with the Assault Rifle with no lag, but with lag, I usually have to pump 
 10-12 bullets into them to kill them. This is called phantom bullets - the bullets appear to hit 
 them, but they don't register with the server since the client is chronologically behind the server. 
 This happens in every game, but much more so in FEAR, because of the inefficient net code. I live 
 in North America, and have a 600 kb/s internet connection. So you can't argue that my internet 
 connection is too slow. Secondly, the cheating situation with this game is very bad. There is NO 
 anti-cheat for this game at all, so you are free to hack all you want. It is safe to say that half 
 of everyone who plays this game cheats, or has cheated before. There are so many cheats for this 
 game, its not even funny. FEAR is very poorly supported by the publishers and developers, so don't 
 expect many patches for this game.
  
  8) There are only two game types to play - Deathmatch and CTF. The game gets stale because of a 
 lack of game types to play. The only game play option you have is to add Slow mo. PLEASE don't 
 add Slow mo. It is more fun to hit your head against the wall for an hour than play with Slow mo. 
 You probably won't be playing CTF much, since you only get 2 maps (one of which was in the demo) . 
 So unless you REALLY like playing Deathmatch, you are going to hate playing FEAR.
  
  Audio/Visual - 9/10
  
  The graphics and sound quality are the best. There simply isn't a better 
 looking and sounding game out there. The graphics look almost lifelike. I can't wait to see what 
 FEAR 2 turns out to look like. The music was used exceptionally well to add to the atmosphere to 
 the game, and the voice acting is excellent.
  
  However, the reason this category only gets 9/10 is because this game is very poorly optimized. 
 Don't say that my computer is bad. I am using a 7800GTX graphics card with an AMD 4000 Processor, 
 and 1 GB of RAM. Whenever I walk into a new area in the game, it stutters for about 4-5 seconds. 
 This is not acceptable. I still get stuttering even if I lower the resolution to 640x480. This 
 is not acceptable. This game is obviously very poorly optimized if I can't run it well with a high 
 end computer. From what I have read on numerous online discussion forums, most people cannot even 
 install this game. If you buy this game, you will probably end up having to buy a new graphics 
 card, even if your PC meets the system requirements.
  
  Overall - 6/10
  
  Should you buy FEAR? That depends. If you are wanting to get this game for multi-player, don't. 
 If you are wanting to get this game for single player, first play the Single Player Demo. If you 
 think you can play the exact same thing as in the demo for 8 to 10 hours over and over without 
 getting bored, go ahead, buy the game if you can afford to spend $5 an hour on video games and 
 the money for a video card upgrade. It costs $50 to buy this game, and it will last you 10 hours, 
 so it costs $5 an hour to play. A new video card can cost anywhere between $150 and $600, depending 
 on how good the card is. FEAR would be a perfect rent, but sadly, there is nowhere to rent PC games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soadforever1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2009 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Ok lets take this from the beginning. First of all F. E. A. R. is a really good FPS that any Fps fan 
 should play. It's graphics are really good, and so is it's gameplay. Not many bugs and a really good 
 plot.
  
  But, guys F. E. A. R. in not only fps. It is also a survival horror. So let's just say that F. E. A. R.=fear. There 
 is nobody in the world that can play this game without having the feeling of fear.
  
  There are also grown-ups that can't play this game because of the terror it produces. So (this is 
 really important) it is inappropriate for people suffering with heart diseases. I'm really not kidding. If 
 you have a heart problem this game may also kill you. So don't play this if you have these kind 
 of health problems.
  The atmosphere of this game is extremely scary.
  
  F. E. A. R. has a really good multiplayer though. So if you want to play it without getting frightened 
 play only multiplayer.
  
  (But i have to say that when i played multiplayer in a deathmatch, i was wandering around in a place 
 where i was alone and because of the atmosphere i was really scared, i dunno why. So i fired a couple 
 of times so that the enemies could see me and come find me hahahhahahaha LOL!) 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soitrang
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 24, 2009 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Before I install Fear, I'd expected that it would be a great horror-action game and would make 
 me out of breath while playing. But I was very very disappointed. There's no such a thing that 
 could make me scream. Dead bodies full of blood or Alma's soul are not scared enough. I also felt 
 very bored during playing because there's no other soldiers follow your character. He's alone, 
 fighting with dozens of enemies. As for the action aspect, it's quite good and the A. I is really 
 smart. But one thing I dislike is there is no map or mini map. 
  The visual is another disappointment. It's too dark and make you feel stifle. In addition, the 
 game sounds are boring too. In general, the graphic and sounds don't make you scared, they just 
 make you feel lonely and boring.
  In conclusion, this game deserves a 6 mark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggest_loser
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 1:57 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R (First Encounter Assault Recon) is a First Person Shooter that places you into the shoes 
 of a super soldier with amazing reflexes. You are tasked with investigating paranormal activities, 
 and your first assignment is to track down a madman named Paxton Fettel, who has unleashed an army 
 of clone soldiers. As your investigation for Fettel grows you begin to experience strange hallucinations 
 and imaginings, in particular that of a small Asian girl named Alma, who carves a wave of destruction 
 in her path. It becomes apparent that you are somehow more closely tied to the case than you would 
 have initially expected. 
  
  The core game play of FEAR is a composition of intense fire fights, with arguably the best combat 
 and enemy AI seen in the FPS genre. As you exchange fire you are able to hear enemy soldiers communicating 
 with one another and assessing the situation. They will make startlingly accurate remarks, such 
 as how many soldiers you have killed or indicate that they need reinforcements. Your opponents 
 are also able to effectively navigate around the environment by smashing through windows, taking 
 cover, sneaking around to flank you or sometimes even creating cover by tipping over objects. The 
 game is also aided immeasurably by some excellent weapons ballistics, giving your guns a suitably 
 punchy and powerful feeling, as well as some very flashy gunshot effects, like decals that carve 
 holes in walls, and bullets that ripple through the air as you move in slow motion. You can carry 
 up to three weapons at a time, such as a pistol, a shotgun, an assault rifle, a pulse rifle and 
 a bazooka. You also have several inventory items like hand grenades and mines. 
  
  Unfortunately, the excellent combat system reveals how mediocre the rest of FEAR is. The game is 
 infuriatingly marred by lacklustre level design and recycled environments. You will travel through 
 the corridors of decayed buildings, to sewerage tunnels, a laboratory and an office building, frequently 
 blasting enemies and pushing buttons to open doors. It is a shame that this lazy and unimaginative 
 level design also undermines the terrific AI in some ways too. Unlike Half-Life 2, the game is 
 not daring enough in the ways it throws enemies at you. Rather you will frequently attack guards 
 when they are patrolling or waiting behind cover for you. Only occasionally will they have some 
 more interesting scripting, like rappelling and smashing down through glass. The AI  90% of which 
 consists of the exact same soldiers throughout - could have been utilised a lot better, in so many 
 more exciting ways. 
  
  The game attempts to diversify its level design by having the player climb through vents or smashing 
 through gratings and floorboards. Yet with such a flat context  that is a purposeful narrative 
 that illustrates thoroughly why you are in these environments  many of these moments lose their 
 impact and feeling strangely unengaging. Not enough effort was placed into the fiction of the game. 
 Lazily, Monolith obligated to tell much of their story through text on a load screen, and therefore 
 the narrative feels like an afterthought. For a game that demands to be taken seriously, like a 
 cinematic action horror movie, it is surprising how little there is to the plot and context of 
 situations beyond "search the building for Fittel". There are sometimes message on answering machines, 
 but many of this are superficial and not worth listening to. Perhaps the main weakness of the narrative 
 though is the lack of a main protagonist. In a bid to capture the same immersion as the Half-Life 
 games, FEAR casts you as a silent protagonist, who we also never see. The problem with this is 
 that  unlike Half-Life  you are not surrounded by thorough NPC's who fill the void of the protagonist's 
 personality, and you also don't have the appropriate amount of context for the games narrative. 
 It detracts heavily from ideas and moments in the story that should be emotional, but are now cathartic. 
 There is not a great deal of FPS with excellent stories. Regardless though, if FEAR wants to mimic 
 storytelling elements from films like The Ring, then it should be critiqued in how successful its 
 portrayal and replication of this is. 
  
  FEAR is a very easy game as well, and that is a disastrous combination with repetitive game play. 
 A game can be easy but it can sustain its engagement through having a variety of challenges. There 
 is so little variation in FEAR's game play beyond shooting and pushing buttons that it quickly 
 becomes stale. Playing the game on the second hardest difficulty will give you very few problems, 
 especially since you are given ridiculous quantities of health, ammo and armour. The biggest mistake 
 is giving the player the option to store up to ten health packs, which can be used at any time 
 instantly during combat. It makes battles against even the toughest opponents too easy. The developers 
 might as well have put a regenerative health system in. At least visually the game is fairly consistent 
 and looks very sharp, especially so with Full Screen AA. The decals and muzzle flashes and all 
 the gun effects look outstanding. Though despite how sharp it looks the game still insists on taking 
 you through some very ugly environments like the sewerage tunnels. It is a shame that the visuals 
 are largely wasted in making everything a shade of brown.
  
  One of the selling points of FEAR and its main attempt to mix up the game play is through its depiction 
 of Japanese-influenced horror elements. There is a creepy atmosphere here and a few moments of 
 tension, but you quickly become familiar the games tricks, like smearing the walls in blood. It 
 is also tiring how discreetly the game divides its horror sections and action moments, to the point 
 where you can pinpoint when the horror bits are coming up and going to happen. More thought should 
 have gone into where these horror moments arise. It is also very strange to be walking through 
 a warehouse and then having these hallucinations, seeing them end and then go right back to walking 
 through the warehouse as if nothing has happened. It feels too disjointed, unlike a game such as 
 Max Payne, which purposefully implemented its nightmare moments at separate moments from the action. 
 
  
  There is no doubt that Monolith is going to be a talented development studio in the future. Yet 
 their insistence to make games like FEAR and Condemned, with such repetitive and monotonous game 
 play is concerning, as is their lack of respect and dedication for the cinematic stories they would 
 like to tell. FEAR has terrific combat and AI but it is wasted in a game that represents both how 
 far and how little the genre has evolved since the days of Quake. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: s4spencer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Grab your laptop, and
  
  A) Go buy some diaper
  
  or
  
  B) Go sit on the toilet
  
  those are your ONLY 2 options while you play this game, this game is horrificlly stunning in 
 both graphics and audio, and when you pick up a gone, youll get the same excitement as when you 
 pick up your dads old 30 caliber hunting rifle :)
  
  its a must try as long as you can handle the scare, as for me, popped it in, popped it out, un-installed 
 it, and then ran over it, and continued to smash it with a hammer
  
  THERE! is that 100 words now? if it aint.. imna be soooo steamed, so thats all, good luck to those 
 who are gonna play this, YOU WILL NEED IT! so thats all folks, see ya!
  
  
  WHAT? still not there... ermm... ok.. well.. its an AWESOME GAME, seriously ive rated it, and said 
 alll i want to say, can i please just submit it now? im gettin tired of typing
  
  
  oh PS
  
  Dont look up the cheats! it just ruins it!
  
  
  so thats it, if this aint it, 
 im just giving up! i cant take this anymore! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nareik15origin
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a pretty good fps and successfully manages to scare the pants of any mortal foolish 
 enough to play it. From the first corpse-like wanderers to the amazing epilogue, the game manages 
 to keep you on the edge of your seat and occasionally cause you to jump off it shooting wildly 
 into nothing. 
  The unpredictable and "get-under-your-skin" music also does its job in making you believe that 
 any shadow could at some moment spew forth an army of clone soldiers or indeed the lead flesh crawler, 
 Alma. Though not the more verbal of video game antagonists, she somehow commands more presence 
 than others. 
  Despite the atmospheric music, the terrifying Alma and wide variety of satisfyingly destructive 
 guns one of the main flaws in the game is the sheer lack of diversity in terms of level design. 
 There are stages that you begin to think;"Hold on a second, haven't i been to this helipad/office 
 block/staircase/storage room/corridor before".
  I suppose it could be argued that this adds to the suspense in that, as you turn a very similar 
 corner for the third time, to be confronted by a small girl with destructive powers comparable 
 to no other, it certainly is "spooky".
  All things considered, F. E. A. R is well worth buying and though possibly not one of the most inventive 
 or intriguing first-person shooters out there, it is definitely one of the most gripping.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtbug
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  NB: I am reviewing this game in 2008 - three years since it was released, so it's possible that 
 it was better then.
  The thing is, F. E. A. R isn't all that scary... not until you get to the end, anyway. When you do 
 get to the end, you might want to get a clean pair of underpants. Yes, the decent scares are pretty 
 much left until the last mission, or 'Interval' (of which there are eleven) . There's the warped 
 perception which is slightly overused throughout the game, and the apparitions of the walking dead 
 and the girl with the long black hair covering her face (similar, as I'm sure you've heard, to 
 the ones from Ring/Ringu, Shutter, The Grudge etc) and lots of blood-streaked walls in drab corridors. 
 This imagery isn't really effective until the last interval because there's not really a sense 
 of creeping dead or survival horror that was so effective in the Resident Evil and Silent Hill 
 series. Of course, this is an FPS, so it's gotta be action action action.
  The sounds are what standout in this game. They're not overdone, and they effect you in the way 
 that you'll be spinning around with your gun outstretched going, "What Was That?" So, impressive 
 sound design.
  Level design, however, is less impressive. In fact, it's not impressive at all. The aforementioned 
 drab corridors are unfortunately de riguer in standard FPS games, and the factory/office building/ 
 military complex settings are defintiely getting old now. You have seen it all before countless 
 of times. Quake and Doom did this many years ago.
  Unless you play the game on one of the harder difficulties, it's not really worth it, and this 
 is one of the game's flaws: the soldiers you fight are either super soldiers or dumb lugs.
  Having said all that, the actual firepower and shootouts are really cool. It's a tactical shooter; 
 and by that I mean you'll be wanting to duck behind crates and cower behind walls and use the Q 
 and E buttons to peek around corners and use the Left Shift to zoom in to get a better shot: because 
 of the armour these goons can be hard to take down. 
  Strangely enough, I found the dual pistols amazingly effective in shootouts. They're more accurate 
 than a lot of other guns in the game and reload quickly. There could have been more guns, too. 
 But when you first fire one in F. E. A. R it feels really good to hear that blast.
  All up, an atmospheric shooter, though kind of standard.
  Killer end scare in the helicopter, 
 mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KnightsofRound
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 4:12 am PT
Review:  It's difficult to know where to begin with my experience of playing through F. E. A. R. In fact, I've 
 spent the last ten minutes re-writing this first paragraph over and over again simply trying to 
 think of a way to begin talking about the game, so let's just get down the basics. F. E. A. R. puts 
 you in the role of an unnamed operative of the First Encounter Assault Recon team, known only as 
 the F. E. A. R. point man, as you track down the rogue commander Paxton Fettel and deal with his army 
 of telepathically controlled soldiers.
  
  The point man isn't just any ordinary operative though, since as soon as you take control of the 
 character you learn that your reflexes are "off the charts". This is pretty much the focal point 
 of F. E. A. R. As soon as you begin playing you'll quickly discover that you possess the ability to 
 literally move at super-fast speeds for short bursts of time, effectively slowing down time for 
 everyone around you. This ability is not only incredibly satisfying to use - it is essential to 
 your survival. Surviving F. E. A. R. without this ability is all but impossible, seeing as you will 
 also encounter quite possibly the smartest enemy AI of any first person shooter of the last decade. 
 Not only that, F. E. A. R. also combines horror with incredibly disturbing atmosphere and sound design. 
 All of this combined just makes for a really unique experience unlike any other I've had in a really 
 long time.
  
  The combat in F. E. A. R. is really something special. There's just something really satisfying about 
 going into slomo, jumping into the air, and kicking an enemy soldier in the head and listening 
 to him groan as he flies over a balcony ledge in slow motion. There's just this really visceral 
 feeling to the action that gets you really pumped to keep pressing onwards. One of my biggest gripes 
 with the first-person shooter genre is when a game doesn't adequately capture the intense feeling 
 of shooting a firearm. Let it be known that F. E. A. R. passes this with flying colours, as the weapons 
 are all very satisfying to use and just feel really powerful. The weapon selection is admittedly 
 limited, and you'll only be able to carry three guns with you at the time, but the weapon selection 
 is not the main focus here, it's the intensity of the action itself that keeps the game interesting 
 throughout. It's just a nice feeling when you've got a pistol in your hand but it doesn't actually 
 feel like a useless piece of crap, even if it is the weakest gun in the game. It's even better 
 when you can dual wield them so you don't feel utterly defenseless against a bunch of dudes equipped 
 with rifles, submachine guns, and shotguns. The aforementioned weapons generally make up the selection 
 of weapons you'll have throughout F. E. A. R. but there are also several others you'll be able to 
 get your hands on, such as a grenade launcher, rocket launcher, burst-fire sniper rifle, the ridiculously 
 awesome nail gun that impales dudes to walls, and a particle cannon - which is without a doubt 
 one of the most satisfying first-person shooter weapons, ever. There's just something really awesome 
 about shooting a giant purple beam at an enemy and watching him vaporize instantaneously into a 
 skeletal frame accompanied by a pile of ashes. Not only that, but you will also have access to 
 several other fun to use weapons, such as grenades, proximity mines, and remote detonated sticky-grenades. 
 To top it all off the point man is also capable of pulling off a slew of fancy martial arts moves 
 such as a flying triple kick, and a jumping round-house kick.
  
  Regardless of the almost essential slomo and satisfying weaponry, what really brings the action 
 together into an incredibly satisfying cohesive whole is the enemy artificial intelligence. Never 
 before have I ever encountered enemies as intelligent as the ones found in F. E. A. R., and I assure 
 you this is no exaggeration. Often times you will read about how great the enemy A. I. is supposed 
 to be in some game and when you actually play it the enemies don't seem half as intelligent as 
 the back of the box claims they are. F. E. A. R. is the one game where the A. I. actually does everything 
 developers have been claiming their A. I. will do since the 90s.
  
  You'll mostly face off against an army of clones, who are being controlled telepathically by the 
 central antagonist of the story; Paxton Fettel, who is some disturbed rogue cannibalistic commander. 
 One thing you will quickly learn in F. E. A. R. is that the enemies you will face are much easier 
 to take out when they are not aware of your presence, they will even die in less hits. That being 
 said, once they're alerted to your presence you better get ready for a serious fight. These guys 
 will literally move all over the place, they move about the terrain flawlessly, they will seek 
 out cover, flush you out, communicate with one another. These guys will hunt you down relentlessly 
 until either you or they are dead. It's really awesome when you're in a fight with a bunch of enemies 
 and the commander yells "get to cover!" and the other soldier yells out "where should I go?" in 
 an absolute panic - as he can't find cover. They will even yell several obscenities such as a notorious 
 S-word when you pop out and they have nowhere to hide. These guys just aren't about hiding though, 
 if you're hiding somewhere yourself they'll accurately toss grenades to force you out - where you 
 literally have to leave your cover and come out into the open or die in the explosion. If you're 
 persistent on hiding these guys will take alternate paths to come around from behind you, or even 
 creep up slowly to your position to try and take you out if you refuse to move. They are also especially 
 anything but dumb, since as soon as they are shot at they will instantly run to cover and try to 
 figure out where the bullets were coming from. Words simply cannot adequately describe the enemies 
 in this game. While it is true that you will spend the vast majority of the game, literally, fighting 
 the -exact- same enemies for almost the entire game, combined with the excellent weaponry and their 
 absolutely insane intelligence and tactics you'll never get bored of fighting them. That being 
 said, it is worth pointing out that there are some other types of enemies you will be fighting 
 such as cloaked teleporting cyborg ninjas, flying robot drones that shoot super-heated lasers at 
 you, as well as giant mechs. These enemies do not appear very frequently, but whenever they do 
 it's usually a blast to fight them, but you'll be glad you won't be seeing anymore for a while 
 once they are defeated. The A. I. though, is just something you have to experience for yourself 
 because no matter how much one drones on and on about it, words simply cannot do the A. I. in this 
 game justice.
  
  What makes F. E. A. R. especially special though is that aside from all this intense action there 
 is also this really creepy psychological horror element to the game that pops up every now and 
 then to keep you on your toes. If you've played Doom 3, or at least heard about it, you know that 
 Doom 3 relies on extremely intense in-your-face scares that make you jump out of your seat. Although, 
 Doom 3 also has absolutely amazing sound and atmosphere, which helps ratchet up the anxiety and 
 scares. F. E. A. R. is not a horror game in the same sense as Doom 3, as after the first level or 
 so which are focused mostly on scares the game calms down into a much more atmosphere-heavy environment 
 that rarely if ever has cheap in-your-face scares a la Doom 3. F. E. A. R. has excellent sound design, 
 which is just full of absolutely chilling ambient and droning background noises that repeat over 
 and over again that just send an absolute chill down your spin, even though nothing scary is actually 
 happening, it just instills that feeling that something should be happening but it never actually 
 does, until you are least expecting it. Regardless of the fact that F. E. A. R. doesn't really have 
 any jump-out-of-your seat scares aside from a few key moments, it easily has some of the absolute 
 most disturbing spine-tingling, demoralizing, disturbing, heart-pounding scares I've ever experiences. 
 One in particular where you are looking at a computer monitor and the creepy little girl Alma Wade, 
 who is a central focus of the plot slowly scrolls up from the bottom of the screen to just glare 
 at you in the most chilling way possible, which is easily even more chilling than any of the demon-spawn 
 scares found throughout Doom 3.
  
  It helps that F. E. A. R. takes place in mostly the same areas for the majority of the game. Even 
 though it's kind of a drawback that the game lacks aesthetic variety, the industrial setting of 
 the game, and indoor office complexes that you'll be spending almost the entirety of the game fighting 
 in absolutely perfectly fit F. E. A. R.'s combat, as well as the horror aspect of the game. It is 
 true that the F. E. A. R. feels like it could benefit from a few more interesting areas, the combat 
 will have such a tight hold on you that you won't even really have time to stop and reflect on 
 the fact that you're starting to feel a bit tired of seeing the same looking areas over and over 
 again. That being said, the final area is unique enough to make up for it if the repetitive levels 
 do start to wane on you after a while. One thing that I really loved about F. E. A. R. that I felt 
 was worth mentioning, was the attention to detail. In many games when you deploy an explosive device, 
 it's gone for good. It's going to stay wherever you put it until it explodes or you just abandon 
 it there and move on. However, in F. E. A. R. at one instance I had placed a sticky mine in a terrible 
 location and had never detonated it during the fight, I soon realized I was able to salvage it 
 for later use, and could also do this with proximity mines as well. This is a very minor thing, 
 but it's something that goes to show the love and care that went into the creation of this game, 
 and that instance stuck with me throughout my entire experience.
  
  F. E. A. R.'s biggest weakness is the fact that one of its most interesting aspects is the unique 
 storyline, which is told rather disappointingly throughout long stretches of the game. That's not 
 to say it's terrible or anything, but you generally will learn about the plot through uploading 
 computer files to your mission director who is in contact with you for pretty much the entire time, 
 who will then tell you a little bit about whatever was in the file you uploaded to him. The annoying 
 part is that it just seems too easy and convenient that these laptops are openly placed throughout 
 the levels for your immediate use where all you have to do it click one button to immediately start 
 uploading top-secret documents to your allies. The other way you learn about the plot is through 
 listening to answering machine messages left on people's phones throughout the various locations 
 you will visit. It isn't necessary to listen to these and they generally are not very interesting 
 to listen to either, which is kind of disappointing. The good part is that the story also advances 
 through these bizarre dream-like flashback sequences and creepy hallucinations involving the little 
 girl Alma, as well as Paxton Fettel. It's just a bit disappointing when you've got an above-average 
 plot in a first-person shooter that uses a mostly uninteresting method of listening to answering 
 machines to advance the story.
  
  When it comes down to it F. E. A. R. is just an immensely satisfying experience. While it is true 
 that F. E. A. R. could have benefited from a slightly more interesting way of conveying the plot, 
 as well as some more interesting locals to explore, as well as a bit more weapon variety, the overall 
 experience is just so good that it's ridiculously easy to completely look passed any flaws you 
 can come up with. F. E. A. R. is an absolutely excellent game and has without a doubt earned a place 
 on the essential must-play first-person shooters list of the current decade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ux4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Fast and furious. Levels add interest for repeat play. Fast engine. Cheats have a nice surprise 
 at end of play. Dam - I have to make this 100 words or more; however, this is a downer attributable 
 to GameSpot, not FEAR. Rendering - very nice. Can change difficulty level, resolution (nice) , as 
 well as other options after game start. DAM well worth the money - for a change! May be discounted 
 now. Is fear 2 this good? If so, I'll report back; for extension of this masterpiece is an exciting 
 prospect.
  
  Definitely the best shooter in my library, and, as I said, one of the few worthy of repeat play. 
 The plot of the game becomes a little creepy and builds to a frenzied climax sure to test the skills 
 - and nerves- of the most skilled and hardened veterans. Graphics are superior as are the always 
 challenging mazes and puzzles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BD3D
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Wants to have fun? 
  
  You're new to First Person Shooters and don't know what to get?
  
  If yes, then F. E. A. R. is one of the first games to include on a list of games to play. F. E. A. R. 
 begins with some of the funnest game play, the middle of the game you're hooked on completing it; 
 and in addition to all the fun and scary stuff throughout; the ending is definitely as scary as 
 any game gets. 
  
  If you start with F. E. A. R. you'll always relish the game and wish that all others had the ability 
 to provide just as must fun and excitement.
  
  The end is so scary that, the second, third, or even fourth time you play it you have to be sure 
 nothing in the room that you are in, is going to snatch you right out of your chair and instantaneously 
 devour you like a dinosaur would a kitten. muahaha! *mommy! please help me*! Seriously, the ending 
 is that scary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 2:28 am PT
Review:  FEAR is one of the best shooter games, with an amazing story, which will have you playing for months. 
 And of course, as its name says, you will be terrified from the beginning to the end of this one.
 
  
  The story says that you are the newest member of F. E. A. R., an organisation which deals with monsters 
 and paranormal creatures. Your task is to find commander Fettel and his army of clones and using 
 your mighty units, stop him from achieving his goals (which are unrevealed in the beginning of the 
 game) .
  
  What is amazing about FEAR is both its cutscenes, and the rest of the game, which is a film-like 
 FPS. These two cameras, perfectly combined, give you a great sense of pleasure, if not amazement.
 
  
  The environments of the game are exciting in the beginning, but later on you may find out that 
 they bear too much resemblance to each other. The same with the enemies. Nevertheless, the AI remains 
 aware and very realistic in every part of the game.
  
  There is also a very good multiplayer, but to try it, you must be very ridiculous-or extremely 
 skillful, as this multiplayer is really not for everyone.
  
  But the best part of the game is the visual one. The graphics give you a sense of feeling content 
 with purchasing FEAR as they are completely innovative and it is a real honour for everyone to 
 play in such perfect environments. But it is a pity that the system will crash every time you try 
 to open the game if you don't have a very good graphics card. And of course, another good point 
 of the game is the sound, which makes the game real, bringing to you the ultimate desire to play 
 more and more.
  
  F. E. A. R. is an unforgettable game to play and it is a game which changed things up to better for 
 the FPS genre. You owe yopurself a play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rikoflishas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  My real rating is 9.3, but you know I can't rate with that number.
  this game was just amazing since the beggining to the end, I was totally addicted. Great story 
 that makes you feel you are watching a movie, great environment that will scare any who gets excited 
 (I'm telling you this because some friends didn't get scared but well, I get scared very easily) . 
 
  The weapons feel very nice, you need to control and move your mouse so the bullets keep damaging 
 the enemy. Each weapon has its own type of feeling and you will distinguish each of them. 
  The "Matrix Effect" makes the game a bit easy (that's why I didn't use it so often throughout the 
 game) but hell yeah you better use it sometimes to beat a hard part or just to have fun watching 
 and shooting the falling bodies in front of your eyes. 
  Alma... oh Alma that little girl is FREAKING AMAZING she appears in the perfect moments, yet sometimes 
 you can predict when she's going to appear (she still rocks) . Her childish yet creepy voice makes 
 you feel like a little rat and guess what? she is the cat that wants to eat you! 
  Multiplayer is great, very quick and amazing. Lots of servers and very very good players. (believe 
 me, they kick my ass but I still play it :P) Big and small maps and a lot of types of game modes. 
 Very entertaining. 
  Almost the entire game is in indoor environment but with the intense action you won't sense a repetitive 
 feeling and won't get bored as a result.
  Ai is impressive, intelligent. They take cover with anything they want. They can move through rooms 
 to find you and even might surprise you. 
  Perfect combination between action and supernatural events. 
  I'm just waiting for FEAR 2 so 
 we can fear Alma again. Hope the ps3 version is released with the same quality as PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobraman007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Although I really enjoyed FEAR, and feel it is one of the best shooters to hit the market, it reminds 
 me of a Half Life wtih a spookier theme. Fans of the movie, The Ring, will be delighted with the 
 surprising appearances of apparitions and dream states. 
  
  
  POSITIVES:
  
  *A new, creepy atmosphere. (To experience the full effect, I highly recommend playing this in a 
 dark room at night, and alone.) 
  
  *Realistic Enemy A. I. (artificial intelligence) makes for some of the most intense and high tension 
 gun fights.
  
  *Big levels with plenty of ammo and weapons to choose from.
  
  *Matrix-like flying kicks knock your enemies unconscious and allow you utilize stealth moves. 
 
  
  *Slow Motion feature lets you absorb all the action and helps you get through the tough spots. 
 
  
  *A good, epic music score/soundtrack, and realistic sound effects. 
  
  *Surprises and a good story to keep things exciting and unexpected.
  
  
  NEGATIVES:
  
 
  *As with most shooters, the story is pretty thin. 
  
  *This is a long game; so after a while, it can get monotonous. To make it more challenging, try 
 to play the easier sections with just the pistol.
  
  *Like with any game, make sure you have the appropriate video card memory to play this. I prefer 
 to use the "recommended" specs instead of the "minimum" listed specs. I find that some games understate 
 their minimum requirements, and all the neat graphics and technology are lost when you play with 
 a system that barely conforms. 
  
  
  TRICKS:
  
  *You can only carry a limited amount of weapons at a time, and once they run out of ammo, they 
 are useless until you find more ammo. Here is a cool trick that applies to most shooters: you can 
 move and drop all the weapons you want as you walk. When one weapon runs out, run back to your 
 last drop to swap to a new, fully loaded weapon. 
  
  
  SUMMARY:
  
  All in all, if you are a shooter fan, you will definately enjoy FEAR and it's new approach. If 
 you are new to FPS (First Person Shooter) games, this is a great game to introduce you to your 
 latest addiction. 
  
  This is now almost 2009, and you can find FEAR at any BIG LOTS, or other discount store for about 
 10 bucks- which is a deal no one should pass up. As always, you can never go wrong checking critic 
 and user reviews- Gamespot is the definitive source for unbiased reviews BEFORE you buy. Thank 
 God it's still FREE for gamers!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDismal
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  "Terror is something out of the ordinary - something extensive and revolting, but a minuscule girl? 
 Once again, terror is something startling and chilly, but come on, a young, frail girl?" Thoughts 
 inhabited my brain at the time that I witnessed "F. E. A. R." for the first time. This girl made the 
 game look horrid - a small, peculiar human being versus a great deal of competent soldiers. I esteemed 
 this human being - she looked so frightening and unpleasant, which made "F. E. A. R." evoke interest 
 in me - I was obliged to purchase this captivating horror game. 
  
  Monolith Productions, that also made the "Condemned" series, has brought a game of high quality 
 into existence and provides the player with a mysterious plot and several unlit and alarming corridors. 
 
  
  I wait for "F. E. A. R. 2: Project Origin" with pleasure - it is capable of outdoing "F. E. A. R." - 
 the requirements are to make the campaign of higher quality by delivering a more thrilling plot, 
 more occasions worth remembering, a cooler protagonist and a more gruesome experience, for example. 
 Improving on the multiplayer should not be troublesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alma996
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  This game is much better than it may sound. Yes you are in an area with people who are trying to 
 kill you and yes it is a horror. However, the horror is highly unexpected when and what will happen. 
 And for the enemies. They are clones that are very strong and they are every where. The main story 
 is simple. Paxton Fettel has an army and you are trying to stop it. The girl, Alma, is also included. 
 She tries to freak you out and what seems like no intention to kill you but that isn't too clear 
 in this one. The game is also cheap. You can get FEAR and the two expansion for $30. This game 
 alone I could easily see buying for $50. The game is also really hard if you play on a highter 
 difficulty and it takes quite a while to finish. It may be sci-fi but it has a twist of reality. 
 Your not on another planet, you are at a power plant. You have a limit with 3 guns so it isn't 
 like you can hold 10 guns as easily as 1 2 3. I highly recommend this interesting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsykoSyke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  In F. E. A. R. you assume the role of "the Pointman" (for lack of a better name) during his first 
 assignment with the secret U. S. Government organization "First Encounter Assault Recon". There 
 was an uprising at the headquarters of Armacham, a weapons research corporation where a man called 
 Paxton Fettel took control of an army of clones using his psychic link with them. You are dispatched 
 to find, and neutralize Fettel before he can cause any more damage. Of course, the game would be 
 ridiculously short if you killed him in the first mission, so things don't go as planned resulting 
 in an escalating catastrophe. People blow up, pigs fly, cats and dogs rain from the sky, and little 
 girls in red dresses control fire with their minds. If you're into action and horror stories then 
 I suppose FEAR could be considered solid in terms of plot, but it wouldn't be wise going into it 
 and expecting a good deal of depth. The game is after all first and foremost, a first person shooter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamib
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  one of the things that jumped out at me apart from the ghosts was the great combat. it was greatly 
 enhanced by the slow-mo and for some of the things you will be fighting you will need it. an example 
 of this is the mobile suites named that have the name eve these guys shoot hails of missiles and 
 if you get to close the knock you back strongly. it has to be one of the most immersive games for 
 a while and once you play it you will know what i am talking about. dark corridors ventilation 
 systems all add to the already very scary game. one other example is at some points of the game 
 you will come a cross a bloody body or a body devoid of flesh that will fall from a ventilation 
 shaft. in all the game always was up to my expectations up the the very end and i cant wait for 
 the expansion. GOOD GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJ47
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  A cross between the physics and spookiness of Half-Life and the action of Halo and Counter Strike, 
 and you have F. E. A. R. This game is an excellent cross between horror and shooter and action and 
 it bonds well. The physics of this game leave the other games in the dust.
  The action and horror are mixed in as you, the main character known as The Point Man, track down 
 a telopathic phyco by the name of Paxton Fettel that controls a full battalion, or 1000, cloned 
 super soldiers that recently attacked Armacham facilities. As you progress, you come across the 
 main source of horror in the game, a little girl named Alma. You learn how The Point Man, Paxton 
 Fettel, Alma, and Armacham are all connected gathering clues through computers and hallucinations. 
 That is the beginning of the story.
  The gameplay is spectacular. More physics then what I have ever seen in a video game. Besides weapons 
 like semi-auto shotguns, machineguns, and partical beam rifle, you also have a melee attack. This 
 melee is not just a hit with the gun. When executed correctly, you can perform one-hit kills with 
 roundhouse kicks. There are a few more in the game besides that, but that is by far the favorite 
 and most easy to execute. There is also a Slow-mo mode that slows the world around you, like in 
 Max Payne. When tuned up with high graphics, the Slow-mo looks spectacular as you see streams of 
 bullets speeding by and mists of blood hovering in the air, it looks amazing to say the least. 
 The action and horror are in a balance. When you are not fighting the cloned soldiers, you are 
 going through japanese horror hallucinations. It is like it has an on-off switch between the two, 
 but it keeps and excellent balance. There are a few other goodies I will let you as a gamer find 
 out.
  Now, the multiplayer. Three words; Fast-paced, Spectacular. When you beat the game, you can go 
 onto the multiplayer section of the game (or when you want a break) . The online experience is very 
 fast-paced as there are many people and you move twice as fast. That and a rifle, shotgun, or even 
 grenades adds up to gruesome fun. The only thing missing is the Slow-mo. I can see how this would 
 affect the online as EVERYONE would have to slow down as well. However, if they could get it in 
 there, it would be amazing.
  This game is an excellent game and would be excellent to play on a beast of a PC such as an Alien 
 Ware or XPS computer as the graphics can cause your PC to cough at times when tuned to very high 
 settings. But, if you can get it, you will find an excellent looking game and it will look so real, 
 you might piss yourself when Alma finds you. Through the balance of action and horror, and an exceptional 
 multiplayer, I rate this amazing game from Monolith a 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAL5000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  I played this game when it was first released and enjoyed hours of game play. I am not one for 
 running into an area with guns blazing so with this game it allows for the player to look and use 
 the environment to your advantage and at times disadvantage. Tactics and a sharp eye will keep 
 you moving forward. The games environment and visuals were simply breath taking. The firefights 
 were realistic and quite tense. With the occasional face of Alma and the hallucinations that you 
 will experience just adds to the overall satisfaction of getting immersed into a great game. Everyone 
 will walk away with their own interpretation of the gaming experience with FEAR. Some will love 
 it others will not. Don't let those who seem to have an answer to everyone's gaming dilemma turn 
 you away from this game. We all must remember that these are games developed to give us an adrenaline 
 rush individually. We all have preferences and are bias to some gaming format. But to those who 
 simply want to have a fun time gaming and want to enjoy the hours committed to playing a game, 
 well you won't be disappointed. Each level brings you deeper into the unconscious mindset of the 
 unknown. I look forward to the next chapter, if you haven't play this game get it and play itit 
 is time you faced your Fear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just_for_kicks
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2008 4:12 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. (First Encounter Assault Recon) is a FPS where your part of a assault recon team sent 
 in to deal with paranormal situations. Your character is sent in to investigate the goings on at 
 a company called Armachan and you quickly realize that something paranormal is around.
  
  The single player lasts for about 9 hours and is a excellent story to play through. The atmosphere 
 is one of the best I have ever experienced in a game and this achieved by a good mix of freaky 
 moments and periods of encountering little. This is topped of with an excellent soundtrack that 
 will ensure you get into the setting. The graphics are quite nice and were top notch when first 
 released. The weapons are fun and well designed, you also have a few unarmed moves that not only 
 look cool but are fun to use. The AI is the best I have seen in a game, very intelligent. The enemy 
 will duck, go for cover, throw grenades at you all with very nice physics. The reflex or 'slowmo' 
 meter is fun to use and is very useful in tight spots although the hardcore gamer might find it 
 makes it a little easy in spots. Due to the fantastic story and freaky moments its almost like 
 a movie and few games can live up to that.
  
  The multiplayer is just as fun as the single player if not more. Brilliant set up with modes like 
 Death match, Team Death match, Slowmo, and CTF. This makes the multiplayer refreshing. All the 
 weapons that were in the single player can be used in multiplayer. The level designs are great 
 and have good variety. You will find yourself coming back to the multiplayer as there isn't any 
 other game quite like it.
  
  F. E. A. R only has few small flaws that can be considered nitpicking.
  - The Type 7 Particle Weapon 
 can be a little irritating in the multiplayer as it is 1 shot weapon.
  - The multiplayer can be unforgiving to lag at times
  - When something is knocked over the noise 
 tends to repeat itself for a bit.
  
  F. E. A. R is a must have for any FPS fan, with a great story, multiplayer and AI to go with it your 
 going to have some fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deiviuxs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  GOOD:
  The best aspect of the game is the fear factor. The atmosphere is great but I wish there were more 
 scary parts in the game. Also, the gun battles were fun as well. Slowing down time and seeing bullets 
 everywhere is great. Thus, enemy AI is great. They are not afraid to die as well as not afraid 
 to shot you. They use cover, grenades, etc. Guns.. interesting and good. I just wish the game had 
 a decent sniper rifle and maybe a level where you could snipe some guys without being seen so easily.
 
  
  BAD:
  The game lacks variety. I mean the level variety. May levels are inside and in the offices which 
 are good but gets boring after while. Maybe more open spaces.. like a dark forest in the middle 
 of the night. Also, the melees combo attacks are fun but it's really to hard an enemy with attack 
 like that. The last thing is the length of the game. It's not a long game and you can finish it 
 in under 8 hours easily. If it had been several hours longer it would be a great game. 
  
  ----
  Recommend for FPS fans and people who like to get scared. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrickstat
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  First of all, ill start with this, FEAR changed everything i once knew about gaming. Made me fall 
 inlove with FPS rather than my old love for Race Car games.
  
  
  Graphics
  When FEAR first came to the market, without a doubt it blew everyone away with its graphics and 
 even better physics anyone has ever seen. even today with all the new DX10 technology its hard 
 to find better graphics, and more so graphics that work! with FEAR you can set high settings, have 
 dynamic lighting and still get over 70fps. water detail is fantastic and ricochet is amazing as 
 is the damage the bullets make to the environment... no game today matches this.... not even i dare 
 say CRYSIS.
  FEAR is a PC friendly awsome looking game.
  
  Game Play
  
  this is by far the greatest atribute to the game, it is dark and mystic and always has a feeling 
 of super natural forces surounding you. At work a staff member once said to me if you want to be 
 scared and freaked out get FEAR! so i took his advise and the next day i told him he was absolutley 
 right! i actually was scared and jumped out of my seat at least 30 times during the game. The game 
 play is totally submersive environment wise and even more so when useing all the weponry that works 
 amazingly! feels real, sound real and handles realisticaly. 
  Slowing down time, called reflex in the game is the first of its kind with all of todays games 
 copying this function with no success like in FEAR, whitch was mastered! The enemy is also smart 
 and will cause a chalange, useing tables and walls to make cover, its really feals real!!!
  
  i did not run into any problems during the game such as bugs or whatever, it was 100% from 
 begining to the end.
  
  It is a Must Have!!! 
  
  so good infact, you can finish it and then re experiance it all over again a few years later like 
 i just did!! AMAZING shame todays games are not this good!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gray_Wolf-13
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  My brother bought me FEAR as a Christmas present shortly after the expansion, Extraction Point, 
 had been released. He had already played the game and, knowing my love for First Person Shooters 
 and Horror games alike bought me the game and assured me that "this will make you trip out".
  
  When I started playing I found it rather mundane. Admittedly the Slow-Mo was kind of cool but 
 there didn't appear to be any horror aspect to it.
  
  That's when I began the actual first mission and watched as my team was reduced the ashes by the 
 hands of a little girl, but that was just the beginning. The further I went in the game the more 
 horrors I discovered. Whether it was a brief appearance while I was crouched and helpless in the 
 ventilation system or discovering the mutated bodies of Replicas and ATC alike I felt a pleasurable 
 adrenalin rush and even, every now and then, fear.
  
  Not the best horror title ever but a very interesting game with a good plot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 10:09 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 7
  Sounds: 8
  Value: 9 (basing on the GOTY edition otherwise a 7)
  Tilt: 7
  Actual score: 7.8
  
  Monolith 
 Games (the people who developed FEAR) has this fixation of turning a pre-existing concept into 
 something special and enjoyable yet still maintaining its own identity. Take a look at their previous 
 games: The No One Lives Forever series  Austin Powers in the form of Kate Archer; Aliens 
 Vs Predator  self explanatory (and basing on the Dark Horse comics) and now FEAR  
 The Ring meets Max Payne. The question is that is it a good thing to copy ones 
 ideas  well as stated before, as long it can stand up on its own two feet. NOLF and AvP 
 certainly did however FEAR really wanted to dash ahead but tripped occasionally hence arriving 
 just in second place; but all is not lost due to its exceptionally intense combat which certainly 
 saved the day.
  
  FEAR  an acronym for First Encounter Assault Recon is a team dedicated to 
 combat the paranormal; stuff that the eighties Ghostbusters would join if FEAR was around. Nevertheless, 
 the FEAR team was called upon as there was a threat to National Security as the telepathic soldier 
 Paxton Fettel suddenly took control of the cloned super soldiers and was caught on 
 tape eating an Armacham Technology Corporation (ATC) employee. Well, this was certainly an odd 
 thing to do however whats more bizarre is that all of this was started by a little girl 
 who played Chinese Whispers in Paxtons ears and thats how the story 
 unfolds.
  
  For me, I really had enough about little girls running amuck and causing havoc. This happens in 
 Hollywood (a. k. a. The Grudge and the many horror movies where the little girl/s suddenly appear 
 like the Amityville Horror or A Nightmare in Elm Street) and now in video games (Bioshock and of 
 course FEAR) . Well, like what John Lennon states Let it be and so I did. You take 
 on the action of the person who's referred to as Point Man  yep the man without 
 a name (yeah I know another movie reference  at least we could call him Horse 
 but isnt that part of another movie) is basically the uber soldier 
  the man who can do slow-mo stuff and melee just like Jackie Chan himself.
  
  So this is what FEAR is all about  a little girl wandering around playing hide and 
 seek, Patton whos playing Chinese Whispers with you and you playing 
 Jackie Chan  All the Worlds a stage. But all is not lost as even though FEAR was 
 based on the concept of those Japanese horror themes; you know that 'rule' how a 
 ghost should appear in spooky corridors and the likes, the main grabber for me was the combat. 
 Not since Unreal Tournament 2004 have I seen such concentrated and tight combat sequences that 
 really needs to be commendable. The point man not only shoots his foes, but can do this in slow-mo 
 (a. k. a. Max Payne or Neo in the Matrix) and can perform really cool melee routines that certainly 
 enhances the game play. Now add the outstanding AI which will fire, flank and/or flush you out 
 (I call this the three Fs  actually there is the forth one that rhymes with duck 
 but I need to consider censorship here) you really need to plan out your combat progression which 
 I've enjoyed immensely.
  
  FEAR also tried to bring the story together in the forms of computer laptops, missed calls and 
 updates from your chumps. On the surface this may seem pretty cool as you can see the downloads 
 from the laptops or listen the missed calls in anticipation however the vast majority is either 
 absolutely no info (e. g. did you get my call?) or extremely vague that it's really not worth listening. 
 Other times the voices are so faint you really cannot make out what they have said and worst of 
 all there's no replay option. This really bugs me as at times I really wished I heard that message 
 again so I can really understand the concepts behind 'Project Origin'.
  
  Sadly, where it also fell down like a sack of potatoes was the graphics department. I always regarded 
 the Lithtech Engine the poor cousin of the Unreal and id Tech gaming engine. However 
 there are vast improvements from Lithtechs previous engines that utilises the Direct X 9 
 to its fullest extend. Parallax Mapping gives textures a more realistic look and the lighting affects 
 is something to adore. This undoubtedly provided the necessary ingredients to increase the anxiety 
 factor as it plays the dancing shadows to perfection, especially during combat as 
 youll rely on the shadows cast by the enemies. Yet, like a house of cards, it totally fell 
 down with the environments; the entire game is pretty much a bore to look at  nothing interesting 
 to see. Granted there were some aspects that really took an interest (e. g. the skyline and the 
 water effects) however it generally was back to boring walls, boring tunnels, boring pictures, 
 boring grass, boring rats and just boring stuff.
  
  The sound quality was a marginal improvement from the graphics department. The sounds from weapons 
 firing wasnt too convincing enough however what improved the quality was the results from 
 the slow-mo actions as it really produced some great affects like bodies slumping 
 into walls. The voice acting wasnt convincing enough as well as there was no real panic 
 or desperation especially from your pals on the intercom; seriously if you have a freak-a-zoid 
 who controls via telepathy these super soldiers and from time-to-time bump in Patton and the little 
 girl, you will going to say something more than just a quick pant here and there or the chumps 
 on the intercom stating Where the duck is Patton  he just disappeared  
 well come on guys  add one and one  it does equal to two you know. And that fat slob 
 who youll meet thats not afraid of no ghosts (another movie reference  Im 
 on a roll here) and not afraid of eating cheezy poofs either.
  
  The games length is average for a first person shooter. Because the nature of the game being 
 slow and cautious (because you want to be prepared for the worst) and then suddenly increases the 
 tempo by a hundredfold during those terrific combat sequences, the game will entices you to continue 
 playing until the end. This is a sure sign of a immense game and if you managed to get hold of 
 the Game of the Year edition (like yours truly) there are some really cool additions 
 thats worth investing to take a look at like the interview with Alma (the 
 little girl) , the making of and the commentary which provides excellent 
 insights to the game. As for multiplayer I really didnt dabble in that too much therefore 
 wont comment on this however for what I have played, its not too shabby at all.
 
  
  Upon the release of FEAR, it promised intense combat, a riveting storyline and spooky atmosphere 
 and it has almost done just that. There will be times where you play very cautiously as the unknown 
 is always lurking about in any direction, the shadows and sounds constantly playing tricks on you 
 and the combat is definitely by far one of the best I have ever encountered. That said the storyline 
 is somewhat a disappointment to those who are fans of any Japanese horror flicks as there was nothing 
 of a real surprise that made you sit up and think. If Monolith have put more details 
 in the characters caught up in this game would of elevated to another level (e. g. Kate Archer in 
 NOLF as you can really understand her motives and not just another combat chick or the marine in 
 AvP as he is only human and have human weaknesses hence feeling hopeless 
 and really relying on the guns and ammo you have) . Creepy, in certain points and intense, most 
 definitely in every sense of the word. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagara-Voldo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 4:16 am PT
Review:  Even though this game is like 4 years old, I think new computers these days still have trouble 
 running it on Max. That's ofcourse a good thing, but not for everyone ofcourse.
  I had to downgrade the graphics and for me it wasn't so fun anymore. But still very creepy game 
 ( if your PC can handle it) , controls handle very smooth ( if your PC is too) . AI is very good, 
 you see them take other routs and try to sneak up on you. Scary things all around you, incredible 
 how things break like glasses ( if your PC can handle it ) . A real treat for the eye, a attack 
 for your nerves. I didn't check out the multiplayer but it should be very good, you can also slow 
 down the game, and you'll see some players go really fast. If you think your PC can't handle it, 
 i'll wait for the new game coming to ps3 (&xbox?) . But if your PC is good, i'd say, check this out! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NIkoscho
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is one of the most atmospheric shooter which you can find till this time. In some review 
 i read that the game can scary in some moment or in one bulgarian site i find this words - some 
 times the game can get you and you must stop. This sort of things don't catch me. Yes the game have 
 the atmosphere, but is no horror game like Project Zero, Silent Hill and Resident Evil. In the other 
 aspect - the first person shooter the game is what you want. It have slow motion, a variety of weapons 
 - some unique for the game ( u can have 3 weapons in one time, if you pick forth you drop the one 
 which you are equip in the moment) .
  The story is linear. You must find and kill Paxton Fettel. He is the master head of one organization 
 of clone soldiers and killer. You see Paxton often and he talk about your and his history, sometimes 
 playing with your mind which can you freak out. The other part of story is the Archam organization 
 and them experiment with the child named Alma. This girl is the most ruthless and scary person in 
 the game. You see her sometimes and she like Paxton try to playing with your mind.
  The graphic engine for it year is the best. Every person is detailed perfectly and beautiful. Every 
 level have it own destructive environment. One of the great minuses in the game is this - you fight 
 only in corridors and rooms in the 90% of the game.
  The sound effect are the greats plus in the game. It don't have any weak point. Every character have 
 it own and great voice actor. Every shot and step is clear. The creepy whisper of Alma get the tense 
 bigger and bigger every second of the game.
  The AI of the enemies is on very good level. When you start shooting them they start running in 
 different pose, start pushing shelves and etc. for using them for cover, cover behind every corner 
 and start peeking or using one of them hand and shooting. I love this type of smart AI. The great 
 effect in the battle is to use the SlowMo in the right moment, have the definite weapons and have 
 enough med packs till it's end.
  And for Epilogue i said this - this game have the hours, have it great gameplay moment in one word 
 - masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jepsen1977
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a strange game. It starts out as an amazing game but quickly turns into a bore. The 
 idea behind F. E. A. R. is sound. The designers wanted to create the ultimate horror game and yet 
 stay true to the FPS experience. Unfortunately they failed on both fronts and the game suffers 
 from it. But lets look at the game to see where it went downhill.
  
  F. E. A. R. have you the player as a member of the new military unit named F. E. A. R. and the task is 
 to search out strange encounters of the supernatural kind  in other words you are part of the 
 Ghostbusters unit, only now Bill Murray has gone missing and you take his place. Your job is to 
 infiltrate an office complex and check out some paranormal phenomenon there. More specifically 
 a little girl named Alma (a carbon copy of the girl from The Grudge) is causing a stir and you 
 must discover the story behind it all and eventually you will learn why you became a last second 
 member of the team. The story is told via various answering machine messages, emails, logs, and 
 your intercom. The story is also pretty generic and the attempt at drama between important characters 
 is totally wasted since you really don't care what happens to anybody.
  
  The horror moments in F. E. A. R. are taken directly from The Grudge and in the beginning they are 
 great. You will see flashbacks of violence, Alma will appear out of the corner of your eye and 
 the light will suddenly flicker or go out. That's great but you will soon realize that none of 
 these horror moments will ever hurt you but they are repeated again and again and again for the 
 entire game. When you see Alma for the 25th time she stops being scary. When you can predict the 
 horror moments before they happen they simply aren't scary anymore (the same fault that Doom 3 
 made) . So the game fails miserably as a horror game!
  
  F. E. A. R. is a FPS so how does is fare as such? Well, let's find out. What separates F. E. A. R. from 
 the rest is bullet-time or slowmo as the feature is named. Actually what happens is that for a 
 short time you get super reflexes and move super fast so everyone else seems to move slowly. This 
 is copied from Max Payne (that stole it from The Matrix) . The problem in this game is that slowmo 
 makes the game too easy. Take out the shotgun and use slowmo against 6 enemies and you shouldn't 
 have a problem. Your weapons are the usual kind: shotgun, assault rifle, pistols etc. The Ai in 
 this game is actually pretty good. They will knock over tables and boxes and hide behind them and 
 flank you and coordinate their attacks and use grenades and other such stuff. The gunfights are 
 great in the beginning and you will tear out chunks of concrete and break furniture etc. in the 
 environment. On top of this you have some martial arts moves you can use like a drop kick, flying 
 drop kick and rifle butts but they are hard to use because proper timing is hard and in the end 
 its much easier to just shoot the damn enemies. 
  
  But the absolute worst part of F. E. A. R. is the level design! The game takes about 10 hours to complete 
 and for almost the entire time you fight in office cubicles, hallways, offices, lobbies, bathrooms 
 and other such "exciting" places. The color palette is grey, brown, black and more grey. It becomes 
 repetitive really fast and the most exciting place for the entire game and the most varied level 
 takes place in an underground car park made of concrete (this should be a hint of how boring the 
 game is) . The level design is the worst I have seen in my 20+ years of gaming and Pong had more 
 interesting levels than F. E. A. R. It really is this bad!
  
  F. E. A. R. could have been a great game. The core shooter mechanics are sound enough and bullet-time 
 is okay and the AI is very good. But the horror moments fail completely and the level design is 
 the greatest horror of the game and not in a good way. My advice is to steer clear of F. E. A. R.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rapture382
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 3:25 am PT
Review:  game is worth the money i paid singpleayer makes you get into the scary as hell moments that make 
 you jump up the moments that make you "i do not wnana go over there but i havfe to!!" the multiplayer 
 like i say is really fun even to this day people still play it multiplayer never gets boring fast 
 paced but also not jsut run and gun if you do that your likely to see a gernade blow in ur face 
 you can buy this gmae play it plenty of times on single player and still get scared at moments 
 and if you get bored of singleplayer you can just og to multiplayer wich is really fun and great 
 and the community is still alive in multiplayer you can always enjoy seeing the enemies face as 
 he comes out of the corner to see u with a shotgun at his face or to seee a grenade coming straight 
 at him plenty of moments are filled with "omg.. i am dead!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenewau25
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Fear is a game of paranormal spec force and a little girl that jump out of the ring, overall a 
 nice story!
  
  The game relies in realistic ballistics and the BEST slow mo i ever seen in a game allowing you 
 to fight countless of excellent (best AI so far) bio-engineered super soldiers clones that are 
 controlled by a psychic commander praxton fettel and thats the objective find and eliminate fettel 
 that he escaped from prison and controls the prototype soldiers, the game has many paranormal scares 
 by ghosts popping up into the screen which is nothing more than physchic events power that stored 
 in that area by the telepathic ones that area and filled it with energy that reacts like a projection 
 event, mainly you kill super soldiers with slow mo and some similar enemies and the boring part 
 is that all the ares look alike i mean seriously now is there some kinda boredom hit the designers 
 a little bigger ares wouldnt hurt! slow mo kill the same enemies in the same areas a little changes 
 wouldnt hurt, there are also goo points eg no search on where to go next! 
  
  Fear doesnt have physics like moving boxes or stuff to blow up but corpse really break apart, mainly 
 fear hs its roots to outher games like the visions you see are the physic visions tha system shock 
 2 operative had because he had physic augmentations also the phones that say you have 1 new messafe 
 just like max payne or the slow mo and dream levels and the ares remind me doom 3 a pretty good 
 game but not amazing not one of the best game eve because if thats so, so do the expansions there 
 not equal to fear but a little worse recommended to all fans however you mostly do all about the 
 same so i wouldnt call it one of the best fps or like people saying fear rocked but peresus mandate 
 sucks becasue its dated, plz if thats true then i should give a medicore rating to fear right now 
 for not having any physics or because i review it now both expansions are goo if you wanna see 
 what happens right AFTER fear get extraction point its really scary eg fear didnt scary me at all 
 but the expansion pack, so i got to say stable value of this game for now then and in future an 
 8 a great game but not amazing since its about the same not one of THE best ever but a great game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Testify_exe
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  FEAR pulls off everything you'd want from a scary FPS. One, it has great gameplay, and two it has 
 everything that makes games scary (i'll get into that in a little bit) . It makes for one of the 
 better FPSs you'll most likely play.
  
  Story - 8
  FEAR's story starts out strong but gets a little weak towards the end. It includes some twists 
 and turns that are cool but in the end you can see coming. Overall though the story is better than 
 it is is some FPs/horror games.
  
  Graphics- 7
  I played this on the 360 and the graphics aren't very next gen, some of the effects are but texture 
 and lighting aren't. The bullet time effect is superbly done though
  
  Sound-9 
  Some of the best i've heard in a non-realistic FPS. The music is very fitting to the setting and 
 makes you dread moving into the next room. 
  
  Gameplay- 10
  Controls - 10
  Controls are solid, everything works well and moves real smooth. I have not played a FPS with controls 
 this well on the PC since half life 
  AI - 10
  Some of the best AI in an FPS you will go against. Your enemies really make use of thier numbers 
 flanking you, suppressing oand overall trying to swarm you, but you can answer back with equally 
 strong tactics.
  Features - 10
  The outstanding features in this game are slo mo effect and the freakiness of everything. The slo 
 mo effect is like the Matrix but in first person. The freakiness of it all however is just amazing. 
 At the begining of the game alot of freaky things happen to you, and these things will transfer 
 on later very well making you afraid to climb laters or go in air ducts in case those things happen 
 again. Also, opening doors sometimes cues dramatic music only for the door to stop because there's 
 a crate on the othe side, bujt to late your pulse is already sped up.
  
  Overall FEAR is a great game that you shouldn't pass up if you like FPSs, especially if you like 
 scray games too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sigleaf
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9.0
  Visuals: 8.0
  Sound: 7.5
  Value: 6.0
  Fun: 8.0
  
  Final Score: 7.7 (C+)
  
  
  F. E. A. R has all the great things that make up a wonderful shooter, 
 but its psychological horror is short lived and fails to deliver.
  
  F. E. A. R is a traditional first person shooter with a bunch of guns, bunches of killing, and an 
 added freakish paranoia feeling that is disturbingly scary but short lived. Your typical guns will 
 be here from your basic pistol, to a close range smg, and a mid ranged m16 type gun with several 
 other extremely powerful and unique weapons. Every gun in F. E. A. R has a purpose and they all feel 
 great. The ballistics are well done and the physics system can still hold up to today's games. 
 Throwing a grenade in a room full of baddies will send leg chunks and boxes flying everywhere. 
 Aim your weapon at the head of your enemy and every once in awhile you will blow it completely 
 off. The AI is okay (playing on 2nd highest setting) but it is note worthy that it can sometimes 
 be stupid. For every one enemy that throws down a table for cover there will be about 5 more that 
 leave their legs sticking out behind a wall leaving easy pickings to obliterate them. This doesn't 
 go without saying though that your enemy is accurate, deadly, and will flank you if given the opportunity. 
 All of these elements combine into a great, fast paced first person shooter.
  
  The visuals in this game are obviously dated by today's standards however the atmosphere of the 
 game is what keeps the visuals alive. You will experience a small number of different environments, 
 but the ones you do explore are well thought out. Many of the places you go through in the game 
 will be dark, and this is where the lights shine and make the game look really great. Shooting 
 a light fixture on the ceiling will cause it to flicker illuminating everything in the room in 
 a lifelike manner. Blood splatters on walls realistically however it disappears after a short amount 
 of time. Every once in awhile your character will have a type of flashback in which he or she will 
 experience some extremely crazy, but wonderfully designed cut scenes in which you can control your 
 character. Including this element was a nice touch and integral in telling the story as it feeds 
 you a little at a time.
  
  The sound in the game is eerie and scary. When you get into a big fire fight the same music will 
 play though however and I was not a big fan of the musical score. The ambient tones playing in 
 the background were top notch in keeping with the theme of the game; however their repetitiveness 
 made them less effective the more you play.
  
  Value wise this game does not offer much replay value. I found myself not wanting to play the game 
 again but instead play the expansion once I was done. There are no alternative endings and the 
 multiplayer is almost non-existent. The game will take roughly 10 hours to complete which is normal 
 for most shooters. You can find the game for roughly 20 dollars for the main game and both expansions 
 which is a good deal, but still perhaps not worth it for only one satisfactory play through.
  
  F. E. A. R is a fun game. It attempts to deliver a physiological thriller along with a fast paced 
 action game and while it does complete both for some time, it seems to focus on the later much 
 more than the earlier. The story is a nice change from the norm and will leave the player wanting 
 more.
  
  F. E. A. R is suggested for players who love first person shooters and want something a little different.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: metal_head159
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  The game has everything good graphics, interesting story, sensible game-play and quite a scary game. The 
 physics are awesome ; the rag-doll effect. Some areas look the same and u may get lost in the hallways 
 but that makes the game more interesting. Nearly the entire environment is breakable.
  
  The enemies are sensible and smart they will not sit in a corner instead they will throw grenades 
 at you. The story and the scary flashbacks really gives you the creeps. The enemies are scary. I can 
 continue about the horror but it's better if u play it yourself. There is a lot of gore like the 
 blood splats against the walls. There are no boss fights instead you will face an army of soldiers 
 at once.
  
  The guns are easy to use. There are dual pistols, sub machine guns , semi automatic rifles , shotguns 
 , rockets , some other guns. The ammo gets over faster but the powerful weapons cover up for it.
 
  
  Overall I think the game is worth your money and it is a must buy game. The game is flawless.10/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vengeance911
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 5:11 am PT
Review:  i got my hands on this one a little late, but it was all worth. to begin with, it is definitely 
 one of the bloodiest and most magnificient games ive ever got my hands on (including the likes 
 of crysis, bioshock, silent hill etc.) . The fire fights are superb, and the artificial intelligence 
 is almost perfect, the only drawback being that it isnt real. As if its supposed to be (whatever) . The 
 graphics are great, even from todays standard. But What i like the most was the killer atmosphere, 
 the games an absolute psychological thriller, pulling you into it till such an extent that you'll 
 actually recoil during the hallucinations and hit the "shoot" button every time Alma or Fettel 
 turn on you. The game is perfectly crafted, and has great sound effects, with almost everything 
 right. The only drawbacks are that though the story is superb, its not very clearly told in the 
 game, making it a nightmare-ish maze, and that some elements are used to often in the game, such 
 as the SMG bearing replicas. The presence of more enemy types could have made thsi masterpiece 
 even better. Still, the games easily one of the greates FPS of all times
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aksboomer
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  You start the game off like any regular shooter, but then things start to get weird. Flashes of 
 gruesome images flood your screen, and sitings of people that aren't really there really start 
 to amp up your anxiety. You never know what will happen next. And that is just the first two levels. 
 After playing for about 3 hours you become accustomed to the "horror" aspect of the game. What's 
 left is a very intense shooter. The firefights are punishing since the AI will try to flank you. 
 Some will hide, waiting for you to walk by and then butt you in the face with their rifle. You 
 always need to be on your toes while playing this game because you never know how the enemies will 
 react to your assaults. While this game is great at pulling you into a world filled with gruesome 
 "visions" it is a tad short (but the quality of the game makes up for it) , it took me about 18 
 hours to beat. I know that some people will think this is a average time for a shooter, but I think 
 they could have put in a little more to lengthen the story line. All in all, if you're looking 
 for an intense shooter with smart AI and freaky playable "visions", you couldn't do better than 
 F. E. A. R. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  Blood.. thats one thing u'll find in plenty throughout the game... Now FEAR has to be the creepiest 
 game i have ever played, well if u play it with a surround sound system with the volume turned 
 real up the game will seriously reel u in, the game though relies on hollywood-esque horror sequences 
 to spook u but they seem to fit the bill very well... The graphics are great and the lighting's 
 spectacular, but the sound's the real show stopper, the gameplay is intense and the environment 
 is full of breakable objects which should gratify any fps lover, the rag doll effects are pretty 
 neat too (not anything new nowadays but still) , levels are repetitive n even more repetitive are 
 the enemies, esp the replica soldiers which constitute bout 90% of what u'll be killing throughout 
 the game, there are variations but most of them have really minuscule differences like their helmet 
 color, which if ur busy admiring the envirionment n the damage effects can be tough to spot, FEAR 
 does sport a decent weapon cache but it'll take a while before u r introduced to the more 'serious' 
 kind of weapons, horror sequences are impeccable n Alma manages to give ya goosebumps each n every 
 time she shows up, the AI is pretty good too, its one game in which i never came across a single 
 AI glitch throughout. The story, though can be a bit difficult to piece together from the various 
 sources which unravel the story, is outstanding, now honestly if u dont get the story go to wikipedia 
 n read it, its pretty cool. The game did lack vehicles though, now FEAR does contain quite a no. 
 of drawbacks but believe u me they, by no means, make the game feel redundant or boring, at least 
 the story and the action will keep u going if not the repeatetive environments n the enemies, the 
 game features slow motion which was quite reminiscent of bullet time aid in max payne 2, goes by 
 the name of Reflex Time here n will save ur butt 90% of the time.. FEAR is overall a great game 
 and i'd definitely recommend any fps lover to play it, n once again i'll say if u r gonna play 
 it turn the volume up!!!... that'll give u the real FEAR experience.. defenitely goes into the 
 list of my favorite games of all time.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perry101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is your standard FPS game with a few extras and twists, for starters you control a guy (known 
 only as the Point Man) who has unmatchable reflexes but seems incapable of talking.
  
  FEAR combines a well made FPS shooter game with several different guns, some more devastating than 
 overs, with the creepy atmosphere and many scary moments. They borrow heavily from Japanese horror 
 movies such as The Grudge, the game features a creepy girl whos every appearence will always take 
 you by suprise. The first time I saw her crawling at me in while I was trying to get through a 
 tiny vent I quit playing and didn't start again for a good hour! 
  
  Graphically the game looks amazing, the lighting and shadows in every area not only look flawless 
 but they add heavily to the overall creepiness of the game and make you wonder if something is 
 going to jump out of the darkness at you. If you are lucky enough to have a graphics card that 
 can handle the max settings of FEAR then you are in for a treat because the lighting and effects 
 on things such as reflexions in the water are simply breathtaking.
  
  One of the interesting features of the game is the Point Man's reflexes or SlowMo as it's called 
 in this game, tap Ctrl and your firing and movement speed will go so fast it will seem like slowmotion. 
 The SlowMo is not only extremely fun but also very useful when trying to run past machine gun fire 
 or taking down the many replica soldiers you have to fight during the course of the game.
  
  The Replica soldiers are very intelligent and will use cover and try to flank you if you leave 
 your self open, they also move very fast and on the harder difficulties become near impossible 
 to take down without the SlowMo. The AI is one of the best I've seen and it's qutie a treat to 
 see a soldier you are fighting jump through a window behind you and knock down a table to use as 
 cover!
  
  There are very different and devastating weapons you can atain as you progress through the game 
 such as a Nailgun (with such power you can shoot a nail through someones face and have them hanging 
 from the wall from their head) to the plasma rifle which can strip an enemies flesh from its bones 
 with one shot, and its always fun to run around with a shotgun in SlowMo and blast a Replica at 
 point blank and watch him saw goodbye to his limbs!
  
  The multiplayer I haven't had much time to play but seems very fun with many different game choices 
 to choose from including Capture the Flag and your classic Deathmatch.
  
  However the games few downsides keep me from giving it a perfect 10 one part being that about 3/4 
 of the way through the game it starts to get quite repetative and I felt there were less scary 
 parts in the final quater of the game (apart from Alma) and changes the game from a "Horror FPS" 
 to a "FPS action game with some horror elements" but it is still quite entertaining. 
  
  Overall this is a really great game with minimal flaws and is a very entertaining FPS with lots 
 of great action fights combined with scary horror elements and creepy atmosphere and I definately 
 think it's one of the best games on PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronos_ss2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  FEAR, the name says it all. FPS a bit scary, full of action and intense mystery. Play it and you'll 
 never forget it. FEAR it's your classic FPS, although bit scary. FEAR is an entertaining game that 
 I think you can enjoy. Weapon diversity is ok, you a number of weapons that you can enjoy throughout 
 the game as well as a number of enemies to have fun with. Graphics are very good, of course. 
 
  
  Cons:
  Game play is not a fast pace one, at least not as much as you want it to be. It doesn't have a 
 very good story line. The enemy diversity is low, there aren't that many different enemies for 
 you to shoot up and kill all over the place, that was a bit disappointing. There are parts in the 
 game where it can get very slow meaning the action will cease to exist for a while. But other than 
 that the game was fine.
  
  Try it ;P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cunhao
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2008 12:49 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R begins when you, a member of the First Encounter Assault Recon, is designed to capture 
 Paxton Fettel, a psychic commander that can control a clone army. And he's using this army to attack 
 an organization named Armacham Technology. Throughout the game, we'll discover that has much more 
 that appear in the beginning, and this is made through some people, with some notebooks that contain 
 information and through some scenes. The history becomes very complex in the middle of the game, 
 making you being involved with all what happens. And the game is'nt short. You'll take 12~20 hours 
 to finish the game, depending on the difficulty that you are playing (and I recommend the high 
 ones) .
  
  And in accordance with the progress of the history, the stages will change to some locations. But 
 this is a negative point to Fear, because all the stages seems to be repetitive, with a poor level 
 design with a little variation in how they look. But almost everything in the stage is breakable, 
 making a shot in the wall open a hole and make a lot of dust be throw in the air. This give more 
 life to the combats, making them look more intense and aggressive.
  
  The game uses a new engine that uses some new techniques to project more precise light and shadow. 
 Fear have one of the most advanced lights effects. When you fire a weapon, the weapon flash can 
 project precise shadows in the objects around you are firing, and even your 'char' project a shadow. 
 If you're in a dark corridor and then open a door to outside, that open door will illuminate the 
 corridor and project all the shadows like in the real life.
  
  The engine can make great textures with many details, and brings many other effects, like explosions, 
 bullets, fire, blood, reflexes, water... ops! Water! Here we have another negative point to Fear 
 (but happily, Fear almost don't have water) . In some (rare) parts of the game, you'll have to pass 
 throught some flooded areas, and if you try to look to your feet, you'll notice that you're walking 
 on the water!! (Obs: Fear's water is one of the most well made that I ever seen, also making awesome 
 reflexes) 
  
  And Fear don't have rain, that would be perfect in this kind of game. Inexplicably, the flashlight 
 don't project shadows in the objects on the scene (like Doom 3) . And it's some way unstable.. you 
 look to a big open area and stay with a good frames, but then, you look to one room at your side 
 and have your frames dropped in half, without a good reason. Another problem is the physics, that 
 it will bug sometimes, like when some object crosses another one.
  
  While you play Fear, is normal to you be involved in many combats with many enemies, that later 
 will appear better with strong weapons. In the beginning, you'll only face light armed enemies 
 and not so outnumbered. But soon you'll have to face squads of enemies equipped with heavy guns 
 (like the rocket, for example) . And don't expect easy fights here, because Fear have one of the 
 most advanced AI of all time. If you think that stay stationary and wait for them to come, probably 
 you have a grenade for company. Maybe you can be flanked or fall in a trap (when they will hide 
 and wait for you to come) . It's look like they know all the ways and passages, and they know how 
 to use them to get you. If you came for one door, and have another behind you, they can use that 
 door to get you while you're waiting for them in the front door. They can also communicate between 
 them, talking, making strategies, warning about any enemy presence, asking for covering and reinforcements.
 
  
  The gameplay don't bring many innovations. The "Bullet Time" was already seen in Matrix and Max 
 Payne. But at least, they maked a perfect adaptation of this "tool" to Fear, that just give to 
 the game a new combat level, extending your actions, like some people say "The bullet time gave 
 to Fear a cinematic feeling". In the beginning, you'll be very limited using it, but throught the 
 game, you can extend the time you can stay in "Bullet Time". 
  
  In the same way is your health. You start with 100 points, but you can collect some type of special 
 medkit that extend in 5 points your total health, allowing you to stay with 170~190 of health in 
 the end of the game if you collect a good number of the 'special medkits'. And the influence from 
 Max Payne did'nt finish: you can carry 10 health kits with you (in Max Payne was the painkillers) , 
 that depending of the difficult level, they will heal more or less. It's the only way to recover, 
 except the critical health level, that's when you reach a limit that will be heal automatically 
 when you're not receiving damage.
  
  You can also use a good variation of weapons and some melee attacks. We have some traditional weapons 
 like the pistol, shotgun, assault rifle, and together with these weapons, you can execute some 
 melee attacks like (extreme powerful) punchs and kicks. Special attention to the melee combat, 
 that can be extreme fun if you learn to make them right (and this is'nt hard to learn) . And Fear 
 have some grenades (three types) that complete the arsenal that you can carry: three weapons at 
 time. But they all look great, feeling right to shot with them.
  
  Sometimes, some weapons can make great damage into your enemies, making their peaces fly away. 
 If you make a good shoot, you can even divide one enemy in two! And you can cut off almost any 
 part of your enemy body: head, arms and legs. Depending in how much damage you can give (like a 
 explosion) , you can cut off many parts in one time (the head and one arm, for example) . And all 
 with the blood necessary to dirty the walls, objects, etc...
  
  The soundtrack is'nt many, but make right what it have to do. But the sound effects are amazing! 
 The sound of shells hitting the floor, the bullets in the walls and hitting the body of someone, 
 the explosions, fire and water's sounds, the footsteps and more... all have a high quality sound 
 effect. Fear really deserves the Great Sound Effects and the Terrific Voice Acting merits.
  
  Also, the multiplayer is amazing good. Monolith just presented us with a full and free multiplayer 
 option. Here we have the Deathmach (that can bring 12~20 people in one same map fighting for survive!) , 
 Team Deathmach (very fun too) and the Capture the Flag (I did'nt have the chance to play it) . But, 
 if you really want really play Fear online, you should download the Fear Combat. It's free, and 
 all you have to do is to go in the Fear's site, register and download.
  
  Now, that I'm almost finishing this review you can ask: "why you're giving 10 if you have listed 
 many defects?". Simple: they are mere graphic's defect, and a game is'nt make of graphics. Fear 
 is a solid well made FPS, giving to us many hours of frenetic action, allowing you to use many 
 strategies, making all the combats great sequels of pure action. More the taste of a terror history 
 (The Ring influence) , that shows to be complex and will probably such you in, more the flawless 
 voice acting and the great sound effects. This will be for about 20 hours. And when all is over, 
 you can play the two expansions (Extraction Point and Perseus Mandate) and Fear Combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swiftstrike5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I picked up this game expecting to be scared and well... there were a few moments. It's not the 
 greatest FPS on the market, but it does have some very good sellers. First off, it runs great and 
 looks great. I averaged 83fps on a 8800GT/E6600 maxed @ 1600x1200, which is great considering all 
 the smoke and concrete flying everywhere when you engage a enemy. The action is usually pretty 
 intense and fun.
  One downside I noticed was you seem to face the same enemy in segments. You might fight a few drones 
 for awhile (with no soldiers in sight) , but then you'll fight soldiers+heavies for about 2hours 
 before seeing another drone. I guess what I'm saying is the mixture of enemies was predictable. 
 See one replica and you're bound to fight that one for the next 30mins. 
  The major downside is that the levels get repetitive, fast. You're in the same building for about 
 5 out of the 6hours of gameplay. 
  Other than that, it's great. The AI is definitely above average. Once you make yourself known they 
 cut the chatter and you no longer know their positions. You might come around the corner and noticed 
 a crouched heavy waiting to blast you. They do call for reinforcements so you know when they're 
 low. 
  As for the scare factor... it seems to go away after about 10minutes of gameplay. Story is rather 
 difficult to follow also and was designed for a series rather than a single game. Unfortunately 
 FEAR 2 (project origin) isn't continuing off the expansions so good luck following that storyline 
 after playing the expansions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daxxter
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. contains everything a shooter needs to. 
  
  The weapons are awesome, and it feels so freakin' good when firing them! Though there's not a big 
 variety among them, they are still awesome, and that's just enough.
  
  AI's great, and enemies look cool too, big and scary guys. Ouuuh! They speak to each other, they 
 almost "discuss" tactics, and sometimes they hurl grenades at you, and try to flank you. Awesome!
 
  
  The story sucks you in, although you might sometimes need some time to think about it, and put 
 the pieces together if you want to fully understand it. When you do, it's a good story indeed. 
 And there is nothing better than games with a great story, right? (Especially if the story involves 
 a japanese girl with black hair covering her face!)
  
  Great gameplay, which is very solid, and overall it's just very fun to go through the game. Let's 
 just say that you won't get bored :) And it also has these sequences where you'll be falling of 
 your chair. The "Oh Snap!"-reward, as gamespot would call it. 
  
  A shooter mixed with horror is a great cocktail. Prepare for an extremely scary and amazing experience! 
 Go, go, buy it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_originator
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 1:01 am PT
Review:  Before I go into detail I will say this: I was scared playing parts of this game. If you've owned 
 this game for a while, then you probably won't get too scared anymore. It's the first time you 
 play it that will be your best. There is something about this game unlike most other first person 
 shooters. See, unlike most FPSs, this one actually gives you that feeling that you're the hero 
 of this horrific, yet epic, tale of shooting. The plot is pretty interesting. A murderous cannibal 
 psychic named Paxton Fettel, along with his psychic-controlled army of cloned soldiers, suddenly 
 unleashes a violent attack on Armacham Technology Corporation, a major defense contractor. In reaction 
 to this, the First Encounter Assault Recon force is called out to apprehend Fettel, with you as 
 the point man. As you dwell deeper into the resulting chaos, you realize that there's more going 
 on than just cloned soldiers and psychic cannibals.
  
  The gameplay in F. E. A. R. makes feel like you're in an action movie. Nearly everything in the environment 
 is breakable, so be ready for intense firefights. Slow-mo is a nice feature. As the F. E. A. R. point 
 man, you possess high-ended reflexes, moving 5x as fast as everything else. This translates to 
 everything moving in slow motion. It's an obvious nod to "Enter the Matrix", but it still works 
 well. The guns are loud and loaded, as they should be. You get the basic set of weapons, like a 
 shotgun, pistol, assault rifle, rocket launcher, and sniper rifle; and of course, grenades. Also, 
 there are special weapons, which I won't reveal, as finding what exactly they do was fun. In addition 
 to guns, you can also punch and perform kicks and floor slides. They're fun to use, especially 
 when you use them as a last resort. 
  
  The enemies are incredibly cool and smart. Usually in games, you can just wait in a corner and 
 kill each enemy as he passes by, but not in F. E. A. R. Instead you'll be treated to a nice grenade 
 thrown by the not-so-dumb AI. The enemies are clones, so you're basically killing the same guy 
 over and over. But what they say makes them feel like their real humans. Sometimes they curse, 
 sometimes they reveal to each other their next action. There is some variety in them, though again 
 I won't reveal anything. Be aware, though: there is no big boss battles or anything like that; 
 instead the game pits you against a crazy amount of opponents at once. But you come out just fine.
 
  
  The soundtrack adds to the action and suspense. 
  
  Another thing that makes F. E. A. R. unique is its use of horror mechanisms. In your quest to bring 
 down Fettel, disturbing visions and flashbacks obscure you. Whether the flashback is yours or someone 
 else's, you have no choice but to push forward. Some enemies in this game gave me the creeps. There's 
 a lot that can be said about the horror, but it's funner and scarier finding them out your self.
 
  
  One thing that seems to drag F. E. A. R. down (but not that far) is the lack of level creativity. 
 You can easily get lost because you backtracked through the wrong hallway because it looks the 
 same. Hopefully Project Origin will finish this. Also there's no unlockables, so if you beat F. E. A. R. 
 once, that's it. But I'm pretty sure you're gonna want o play through F. E. A. R. again and again.
 
  
  Multiplayer is pretty fast-paced. Capture the Flag and Deathmatch with teamwork are available. 
 I personally find this multiplayer harder than most Call of Duty games, due to the fact that your 
 opponent can obtain slow-mo in certain matches. But it's till incredibly fun.
  
  I highly recommend you buy this if you have a good PC. You won't regret it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 3:29 am PT
Review:  FEAR... even the name of the game sounds scary... really?
  
  no!!! let me start by saying that fear didnt scared me at all, i mean how could it be scary if 
 they sand at you like 100 soldiars??
  
  anyway the graphic is great, the sounds are really great, and everything in this game is great 
 but not scary... i saw every "scary thing" coming
  
  the scary parts could have been way way better buy still isn't scary!!
  
  but i loved that 
 game and i finished this game like 10 time that game is simply great... amazing!!
  
  its worth playing and worth to buy so buy it now, but anyway even persus mandate scared me nore 
 than this... when i talk about the graphic im talking about F. E. A. R but if i want some really scary 
 game ill go
  to DOOM 3 OR CONDEMNED... anyway thanks for the game enjoyed it alot!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DennisChu22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  I had been hearing a lot of things about F. E. A. R. over the yeras, so I decided to give it a shot. 
 I'm glad I made that decision.
  
  At first, I felt like I had stumbled upon another Max Payne: just an ordinary mindless shoot 'em 
 up game. But once I hit Interval 02, things started to change. The story got much deeper all of 
 a sudden, and the gameplay got turned up quite a bit. 
  
  I absolutely loved the SloMo combat feature, which came in handy in many different occasions. Some 
 of the weaponry was kind of ridiculous (Type-7 Particle Weapon comes to mind) but it was still 
 fun to vaporize the enemy soldiers. I am impressed in how coordinated the enemy AI was, trying 
 to flank you and flush you out with grenades even.
  
  This game is enough to send chills up your spine at times, with cleverly-timed noises and an exceptional 
 soundtrack. Be sure to pick up F. E. A. R. sometime, or else you might just miss one helluva experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcavoybn
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Before purchasing this game I have downloaded both the demo and the free multiplayer client for 
 this game, and enjoyed both. When I finally got the entire package it was no less satisfying.
 
  
  This game is scary, and will defanatly scare you if you havent yet played a game like this. It 
 has moments that keep your stomach churning, and will make you want to run away from wherever youre 
 at. It has high pitched squeals, shadows and lighting effects that will keep you guessing at every 
 turn
  
  While it will make you crap your pants at times, it also will give yo lots of satisfying physics, 
 AI, and graphics. If you shoot someone in the head the will scream and fall to the ground. If you 
 shoot someone in the leg they will trip and smash their face into the ground. THe blood is EVERYWHERE, 
 and the AI will gang up on you from 2 directions, in different waves, and will stick to the shadows.
 
  
  While this game is a must buy for all FPS lovers, there are some drawbacks. First off, the biggest 
 one, the characters that you shoot, are always talking really loud on their radios, so you can 
 almost always tell where most the enemies are before anyone shoots. Secondly, There are long periods 
 of time where you aren't doing anything. You're not in a scary moment where you might pee yourself, 
 and your not shooting, for about 2 hours of the game, which is slightly dissapointing, but you 
 learn to deal with it.
  
  Overall this is a great game, and if you want the multiplayer only then just download FEAR Combat 
 from fileplanet or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoguy93
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 17, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  basically, this game is fun, but has it's flaws. in the good, you can slow down time & kick ass 
 in slow-mo, with the addition of using that to break through windows & hear people's voices in 
 a somehow funny way. you can also use a variety of weapons that can blow your enemies away. the 
 ai has a great sense of intelligence, which i don't see often in fps games, like if u want someone 
 to back up, just walk towards them, & the enemies react to your flashlight. this title includes 
 a few combat melee moves, like the roundhouse kick or a sliding collision. but there is some bad 
 to this game, like shadowing. sometimes light would come through an airvent beside you & light 
 patterns would hit onto you, but the light doesn't cast your shadow, like if you were not there. 
 for slow-mo, it can get boring after a while since the enemies are harder than usual, & if you 
 want a fast-paced action game, try buying serious sam. some items gives off blurred point pixelation 
 on some objects, like a piece of a shattered vase. the game does good with physics, but lacks realistic 
 backgrounds & shadowing in parts. the multi-player mode makes up for the single player mode, with 
 plentiful modes & community made downloadable levels, but how it downloads is the problem. around 
 2-3KB/s is the normal rate for some pc's. i reccomend this game moderately, but buy the platinum 
 pack so you don't spend 19.99 for each game/expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cenneli
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 16, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is a unique game providing an excellent playing experience. In every sense, one feels to be 
 in a real combat thanks to significantly high intelligence enemies have. They are not simply there 
 to be shot and died. Excellent design of spaces and thrilling music are perfectly contributing 
 to it. For a game like FEAR, but, probably these are not the first things to be mentioned. For, 
 it is above all a horror type game and whether it successfully achieves to frighten is the primary 
 issue. I must say that for the first 4 or 5 levels, it does. I have even had some difficulties 
 before falling asleep. After a while, however, it turns out to be a simple  
 if-it-doesn't-matter-much more. (But, I still don't recommend it to anyone younger than 18) . I 
 mean as the game advances, the horrific aspect seriously decreases and instead pure quality of 
 playing raises. I think FEAR is a game everyone who likes to play shooter must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesolateGraveX
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  In the game FEAR, which is an acronym for First Encounter Assault Recon, you play as the Point 
 Man of the FEAR team, which, according to the game, is a secretive special operations force that 
 specializes in dealing with paranormal threats. Little is revealed about your character in the 
 game, other than the gender. At the beginning of the game, you witness a man named Paxton Fettel, 
 who supposedly holds a threat towards them, and in the game it is ultimately your mission to eliminate 
 him.
  
  As suggested by the opening cinematic, FEAR is intended to be a terrifying game, and it does a 
 good job of presenting itself as such. This is mainly due to the games' atmosphere, which is inspired 
 by many Japenese horror films. Throughout the game, your character encounters many hallucinations, 
 often which involve methods of escaping, or eliminating whatever threats appear. Alma, a girl that 
 you have many visions of in the game, is one of the main characters in FEAR, and little is known 
 about her, until you progress further and draw yourself to the conclusion of who she is. Aside 
 from hallucinations, the dim and creepy environment that you go through also contributes to how 
 scary the game is.
  
  Other than the fact that it can be truely horrific, FEAR also has other things that make it well 
 worth playing. It's weaponry, for example, can play a big role on how well you will do in certain 
 situations. You start off with nothing more than a pistol, which later becomes almost useless, 
 until a certain point you reach, where you are forced to use it. After defeating several enemies, 
 like most games, you will come to find that you can take their weapons and use them as your own. 
 The selection of weapons can range from anything like Sub-Machine Guns (SMG's) to Rocket Launchers. 
 However, it is up to you to decide which weapons would be best for a particular fight, as you can 
 hold a maximum of three weapons at a time. Other than guns, you have grenades, proximity mines, 
 and other explosives at your side as well.
  
  For the most part, FEAR, isn't that difficult of a game. However, you certainly run into some difficult 
 situations. In fact, you usually encounter at least one very challenging part in each chapter, 
 or interval, as they are referred to in the game. What makes the game a little bit easier than 
 it normally would be, is the vast availability of Med Kits that can be found, as well as the Slow-Motion 
 ability that your character posesses, which can be done by simply pressing the control button. 
 Med Kits restore a certain amount of health, and are rather easy to find. Needless to say you'll 
 still be using them quite a bit. You can carry a maximum of 10 Med kits in the game, and sometimes 
 you'll find that you have reached the limit on how many you are carrying; and you will undoubtably 
 find certain points in the game where you are out of them. The enemy AI is very challenging, and 
 they will do things such as throw grenades towards your position, find areas to take cover at, 
 instruct their teammates to do certain things, and call for backup. What your enemies say can often 
 give you clues as to what tactics they will use or where they will go next, which can be a big 
 help on your part. They can also do things such as hit you with their gun, and use a small variety 
 of martial arts skills, which you as well have the ability to use. Fortunately, you are able to 
 quicksave whenever necessary, and you can adjust the difficulty in-game if you ever run into a 
 situation that is too challenging for you to handle. Although the enemies you encounter in the 
 game are intelligent, there isn't a very large variety of them. Other than combat troops that use 
 the same weaponry you do, there aren't much more different types of enemies you will run into. 
 Not too far into the game, you will encounter an enemy that has the same abilities as you do, as 
 well as being able to turn invisible. These are usually not too difficult to spot, and they don't 
 take a whole lot of shots to kill, but still add some variety. You will also encounter heavy armor 
 troops, which usually have a very powerful laser gun or rocket launcher, which you yourself can 
 use as well. The heavy armor troops take a fairly long time to kill when not having the best selection 
 of weapons available, and their shots are very powerful too. Turrets can be found in certain areas, 
 and can sometimes take a while to destroy, though they only appear several times in the game.
 
  
  The level design in FEAR isn't amazing, but certainly isn't bad either. Although the game is linear, 
 there are many alternative paths that you can take in each level, and with certain paths, you will 
 find rewards that will help you in the game. Other than Med Kits, you can find very powerful weapons, 
 additional armor, Health Boosters, and Reflex Boosters. Unlike many other shooting games, Health 
 Boosters in FEAR increase your health permanently, rather than temporarily, so it is critically 
 important to find as many of these as possible. Reflex Boosters, on the other hand, increase the 
 timespan for how long you can use your slow motion abilites. These things make levels worth taking 
 time on, and make searching thoroughly in certain areas necessary as well.
  
  The single player campaign usually takes anywhere from ten to fourteen hours to complete, and though 
 at a certain point one might lose interest due to the fact that the game can get rather repetitive, 
 it manages to revive itself towards the ending. After beating it, you might choose to play it through 
 a second time, searching through anything to may have missed. The multiplayer can be fun, but the 
 single player mode is the better of the two. While one could say the multiplayer adds value to 
 the game, it was recently made freely available, so the single player mode remains the ultimate 
 reason to buy the game.
  
  FEAR is an overall fun game, and is well worth buying. It brings some new and interesting things 
 that will add a whole new experience to any shooting game you have played before. It's well worth 
 the money, and is not a game that missed by any fan of horror films or FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  My rig ain't nothin' special, it's not even an SLI:
  
  - Custom built air-cooled system
  - Samsung T220 22 inch Widescreen LCD Monitor
  - Logitech G5 Gaming Mouse
  - Ideazon Merc Gaming 
 Keyboard
  - Antec NePower 480 Watt PSU
  - Windows XP Pro Service Pack 3
  - Intel Pentium 4 571 3.8GHz LGA775
  - Corsair XMS3200 CL2 2Gb (2x1Gb) Dual Channel Ram at 400Mhz 
 (2-3-3-6-T1)
  - Asus P5GD1 Motherboard (Intel 915P (LGA775) PCI-Express) Bios v1014
  - 4 X Maxtor Diamondmax Plus 9 120Gb Serial ATA
  - EVGA 512-P3-N841-A3 GeForce 8800GTS (G92) 
 512MB 256-bit GDDR3 PCI - Express 2.0 HDCP Ready
  - Soundblaster Audigy SE
  
  ... so I was stunned that this game played really well when cranked it up to maximum settings. 
 The action does become somewhat repetitive at times, but I especially enjoyed the feature that 
 allowed you to slow down time (on account of cat-like reflexes) and take down multiple targets. 
 It has a movie-like feeling to it and the model animations and blood splats against walls are spot 
 on.
  
  There's a nice variety of weapons and you can only carry three at a time, so choose carefully. 
 I always found that double pistols was my preferred CQB weapon as it had great penetration power 
 and knocked opponents back, giving me time to re-assess, re-aim and get the kill before they got 
 one on me.
  
  The quality of the graphics is superb, but the "scary" cut-scenes didn't add much to the game for 
 me. I kept wanting them to finish so I could get back to the game. It is a creepy game, but I like 
 the action more than the suspense.
  
  The AI is also quite impressive and the soldiers will try to flank you or draw you out with grenades.
 
  
  This is a game worthy of your bookcase and at a good price if you hunt for the Platinum Edition. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatal_Byte
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  This game will rock your socks off folks! The AI is amazing, and as good if not better than any 
 game out there. The stroyline will captivate you, amazing detail again. THIS might be the freakiest, 
 scariest game ever played by me, hey if your cool play it in the dark at night alone with surround 
 sound on! It can make you flip your lid in a few scenes! The weapons are pretty comparable to most 
 games, but the slo-mode used alongside makes the game stand out abouve the rest! I've never seen 
 that in a game before, and the best thing is you can choose when you want to (if at all) use it. 
 Gameplay is at least 20 hours and with all the expansions you can make it even longer. Also, I 
 suggest you buy the platinum pack since it comes with all the expansions. If your thinking about 
 buying this game, do it, it will not regret it! A+++ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toomsuba2
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a intense first-person shooter with some severe psychological horror, which can deeply 
 disturb you, if you're into that kind of thing. In F. E. A. R. you play as the point man for a Black-Ops 
 team used by the U. S. military. You are an operative to investigate and battle paranormal threats. 
 You are called in when only the most elite can control the situation. You are F. E. A. R. 
  
  One of the most common criticisms about F. E. A. R. is that you never learn the protagonists name, 
 background, etc. Monolith does this, however, to help further immerse you in the game. As time 
 goes on, unspeakable and unexplainable events occur. Delta Force teams are murdered, without any 
 physical being committing it. They just begin to bleed. A little girl in a red dress is heard laughing, 
 but she disappears once you get to her. It can be deeply disturbing, so make sure that you don't 
 take a game literally at all before buying this game, because while you may have never before been 
 immersed in a game, you will in F. E. A. R. 
  
  You're assignment in F. E. A. R. is to capture and kill a man named Paxton Fettel, who belongs to 
 Armacham Technology Corporation. Paxton Fettel telepathically controls clones, so you can guess 
 he's gonna mess with you're mind more than a little bit. However, killing Fettel becomes increasingly 
 more difficult. As more of his clones, the Replicas, come, they become armed more heavily. You 
 begin to encounter giant robots (mechs) in which Replica's are concealed. You encounter a biologically 
 rendered creature who is as fast as you are when you are running full speed (I'll talk about running 
 full speed later, just keep this in mind) who can temporarily turn partially invisible. Now, in 
 F. E. A. R., it is always dark, so seeing them can be very hard. You also encounter ghosts when you're 
 head is being "hacked". I found this ironic, because once you finish killing them, if the settings 
 are high enough, you can see bullet holes in the walls where you had shot the ghosts. However, 
 the ghosts do damage (I guess you're dude is so scared he does himself damage psychologically) . 
 
  Playing through the game, you find out a little bit about his past. Just: His mother, his brother, 
 where he was born, and how he got into the military. 
  F. E. A. R. is about 12-14 hours long as far as gameplay-wise. Ironically, the game starts in late 
 afternoon (on a grey day) and on the second mission, after you enter a house, when you come out, 
 its very, very, very dark out. It stays dark for the remainder of the game, only lights and flashlights 
 brake it. You can see without a flash-light or light on though, just an FWI. 
  F. E. A. R.'s graphics are great. If you max out all the settings, it looks remarkable. Reflection 
 effects look real, as do textures, real-time lighting and shadow effects, etc. The water, though, 
 no matter what resolution you are on, if you're not in the reflection, looks real. Like a photograph. 
 The other graphics are good, but the puddles of water seen in the 2nd and 3rd level look like photographs. 
 (when you swim in water, it doesn't look all that amazing) . F. E. A. R. is incredibly bloody, with 
 realistic blood, the most realistic blood I've ever seen.. If you shoot someone with a shot-gun 
 point blank, three things happen. 1: He explodes in a cloud of blood like a balloon, and then you 
 see 2 or 3 pieces of burnt flesh (yah, thats really gonna happen in real life, considering the 
 cloud of blood stays in the air without wavering for a few seconds) 2: you'll shoot him in half. 
 3: His head, arms, or legs will come off. F. E. A. R. has great other weapons too. They all feel balanced 
 and powerful, and fun to use. There's the pistols, which are pretty accurate, can be dual-wielded, 
 and pack a punch. Theres the SMG that looks like an MP5 (what shooter doesn't have an MP5 or their 
 own version of one) , the assault rifle, which I'm not a big fan of. Theres the nail-gun, with which 
 you can nail enemies to ceilings or walls or whatever. Theres a laser, which if you shoot an ATC 
 guard or Replica, they will explode in that cloud of blood, and then you'll see a skeleton. Theres 
 the shotgun, that, because of F. E. A. R.'s being a close-quarters shooter, feels over-powered, along 
 with the fact that it has great range and too much damage. Theres you're rocket launcher, but the 
 rocket launcher is different in F. E. A. R. It shoots in 3-shot bursts, and is fed by a magazine. 
 Theres your fully automatic .50 cannon as well, which is probably my favorite weapon. And last, 
 but not least, there is the ASP rifle, which is a 3-shot burst assault rifle with a scope and is 
 pretty long-range, and has a low ROF. All weapons in F. E. A. R. have a 1.5x zoom if you press the 
 zoom button, but the ASP Rifle and the Laser have real scopes. 
  In F. E. A. R., you can slow down time, in which time you move at 4 times the speed of an average 
 human (the full-out run) . In slow-mo, or bullet-time, you can snipe much easier, and you can move 
 faster, shoot faster, and melee faster. Slow-mo recharges after time. In slow-mo, effects are different, 
 of course. You can see things you wouldn't have been able to see before, but you cannot dodge bullets 
 in bullet-time (thank god) . It is a nice addition to the game, but the real-time fights are just 
 as good. Sound in F. E. A. R. is great. The guns sound loud and like they hurt, you're footsteps sound 
 realistic, and the enemies saying "die, mother fu (ker", "grenade, oh sh1t" etc. sound great with 
 voice acting. AI in F. E. A. R. is fu (king amazing. The enemy will crawl on the ground, cover each 
 other, take cover, blind fire, flank, play dead, and work as a team. They are easily the most advanced 
 AI I have ever seen. 
  
  
  F. E. A. R. is an over-all great game, personally, my favorite along with CoD4, Gears, R63, Zelda 
 Ocarina of Time ( I hate Nintendo, I just still have it from a christmas present) and Halo 3/2. 
 While I don't give the rest of these games as high a score, they are still all #1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken32
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  First Person Shooters have gone through many genres, Military, Space, Futuristic, and now with 
 F. E. A. R., Horror. And this game pulls it exceptionally well.
  
  Because this game blends the FPS with a genre its never touched before, I've gotta say its one 
 of the best shooters created. Instead of having the same bland story about an alien invasion, or 
 fighting terrorism. You get a story about the paranormal, and a little girl called Alma with a 
 struggle. After playing through the game, you can tell that this is just the first part of a series, 
 some thing are left out, and are very vague., such as your identity, and who really is Alma? And 
 what really happened to her.
  
  
  With the Horror aspect in mind, FEAR as well becomes a standard on how future horror games should 
 be created, the Engine masterfully creates the perfect horror atmosphere, for example, strobe lights 
 in a dark area have never creeped the hell out me. The sound has been done extremely well, music 
 that crescendos at the right time.
  
  Even though this is a horror game, its not the standard survival horror, such as Silent Hill, this 
 is a Shooter after all, and you got an arsenal of weapons ranging from assault rifles, laser beams, 
 and especially shotguns. The shotguns are very fun, blasting your opponent and watching him fly 
 in awkward motions, thanks to rag dolls. As well FEAR introduces bullet time, and it create a great 
 example of how to do bullet time in a game, the screen turns colors, sharpens contrast, and bullet 
 trails.
  
  The graphics in this game are excellent, especially the environments, robotics and creatures, but 
 some character models could use some work. As well there are some stuttering problems, but other 
 than that its silky smooth 60 frames. I'm speaking at current year 2008 by the way. The sound is 
 excellent as well, especially the ambiance it creates, the voice overs are great and some weapons 
 sound too weak, or they can get annoying very quickly.
  
  FEAR, blends shooting action, and Horror. It it does it phenomenally well. Because of this it distinguishes 
 itself from other shooters. Let's just hope that this won't be overused with other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartmanisfat
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  After talking with some people at school, they recommended playing FEAR for a good scare, and I 
 was like sounds good. While the game does have some good scares, it just isn't the scariest game 
 i've ever played. Although I found the shooting and action parts to be amazing.
  
  Shooting wise, this game is great, especially how you can slow down time and shoot everyone in 
 slo-mo. The physics are great, the guns are great, and the artificial intelligence is great too. 
 
  
  Graphics, for 2005, are great with the fact you can shoot a hole in the wall and similar destructive 
 features. 
  
  The sound is good although its mostly gunshots and the enemy talking to themselves.
  
  The 
 story is pretty good, but the one problem is the character you play as, he never speaks and you 
 barely learn anything about who he is, although you learn a lot about his background. He is basically 
 a "silent protagonist", like claude in gta 3.
  
  Now onto the part with how scary this game is. First let's look at who, and what, you are. You 
 are a special forces agent who has the ability to slow down time and you can use amazing weapons. 
 Hmm, to me, this sounds like this guy has a chance against the enemies, he doesnt seem vulnerable 
 at all, where's the scare in that? A part of making a scary game is that the character you play 
 as is to be seen as vulnerable or just not be as skilled as the enemy. So with this guy having 
 a definite advantage over the enemy, that results in the game not being as scary, although there 
 are some parts in the game that are scary no matter how much of an advantage you have.
  
  There are some very scary parts in this game where that girl jumps out at you, but for me I only 
 got a good scare about once every 2 hours, the rest was just fun shooting. And at the end, there 
 were these floating creatures that had no mouth and no expression, and they actually scared the 
 hell outa me lol. Just the fact how there was no expression in that murderous face was creepy enough, 
 then they all floated toward you and you could see even more of them, good times. So yes, this 
 game can be very scary, but for short times. And overall, it doesn't have the most memerable scares 
 either, so I prefer to classify this game as a shooter instead of horror. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  FEAR one, if not the best shooter of 2005. It was one game I never dreamed of playing, because 
 it looked so freaky. But I have been wrong a lot, and this was one game I was wrong with. FEAR 
 is an amazing shooter, that focuses more on combat then on scary, and what FEAR does, it does really 
 well.
  
  FEAR stands for First Encounter Assault Recon, which is a special force trained to deal with serious 
 problems. FEAR starts out with a guy named Paxton Fettel goes insane and gets control of a clone 
 army. You, as point man of the FEAR squad most go in to try and stop him.
  
  FEAR's gameplay is about gun fights. You walk into a room with a bunch of soldiers, and the heat 
 is on. There spaying bullets all around the place while trying to flank you. When bullets hit things, 
 they send debris every where. This making it harder to find an enemy target. The enemies are really 
 smart and will try to flank you all the time. They will do various things such as kick down tables 
 for cover or jump out of a room that you had just thrown a grenade into. This game really makes 
 you feel like you are in and action movie, because you have action reflexes, which make everything 
 move slow, and you have the ability to do some Kung Fu. One of the problems with FEAR is that you 
 pretty much fight the same soldiers over and over. There are a few new enemies in the games, but 
 not much.
  
  The enemy A. I is good, but you have a bunch of powerful weapons to bring them down. The guns in 
 FEAR are fun to use, and you fell strong with them, even with a pistol. You have dual pistols, 
 sub machines gun, semi auto rifle, shotgun, rockets, and a bunch of other cool guns. Do be warned 
 though, that the weapons are powerful, but they burn up ammo fast.
  
  FEAR can get pretty scary at times, when you run into the strange little girl Alma, who can make 
 soldiers dissolve with her mind. You see Alma in these strange visions, and sometimes you will 
 see her, only to find that see in not there. You also come across some strange encounters with 
 Paxton Fettel, who is a Cannibal. Fear always keep you alert, because, when every there is no gun 
 fights, you are always looking around in dark places to see if some thing is there. The horror 
 in FEAR is a lot like the horror in Japanese horror films.
  
  Fears graphics look pretty good, but now they look a bit dated. Some of the character and look 
 good, but some do not. The gun models look amazing. The environment on the other hand looks ok, 
 but there are some parts that look bad. The environment can get really repetitive at time. You 
 will go through a lot of identical environments, and it can get a bit tiresome.
  
  The sound in FEAR is pretty good. The music can be intense when you are in a battle, but the sound 
 can also be creepy when something strange is happening. You can normally tell because you hear 
 screaming, or some laughing.
  
  The single player takes about ten too twelve hours, but when you are done with that, the multi 
 player is pretty fun. You basically just run around and shoot other players in multi player, like 
 all multi player. The multi player does not do really anything new except that you can use the 
 slowmo and Kung Fu in it. The multi player can be really intense like the, single player, and it 
 is fun to use all the weapons in it. But FEAR's multi player is something that might keep you interested 
 for a week or two, because there are far better multi player games out there.
  
  If you want intense game play, with a little bit of horror, then FEAR is a must buy for you. Even 
 if you do not like scary games, if you are a first person shooter fan, then you should still get 
 FEAR for the intense gun fights, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1615
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  The Good - A mix of FPS and horror story ( think Resident Evil) . Rather then use an over abundance 
 of cut -scenes, story elements happen within in-game. Some of the smartest AI you will face. Fluid 
 FPS shooter mechanics and game-play. Great audio. Very good graphics. The game is not so much scary 
 as it does a great job of giving you the unexpected.
  
  The bad - too many levels look the same and take place in the same environment for too long. Some 
 mobs are a huge jump in terms of difficulty, as in any game save often until you get a feel for 
 them. Obviously adjusting the difficulty gets by this issue. 
  
  The Ugly - toward the end of the game, the story is predicable and you are more focussed on finishing 
 the game rather then solving the story. The expansions get worse and worse, the first was OK and 
 the second just bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StainBoy87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  This game was a must have after i played the demo. But the demo was like nothing i'd ever played 
 before. A genuinely creepy and spooky FPS. The weapons are great fun to use and the gameplay is 
 good too. The story follows the vengeful spirit of a young girl called Alma (who in my opinion 
 must be related to Samara from The Ring films) . She was part of a scientific experiment as a child 
 and gave birth to two boys. One of these children is a man called Paxton Fetell. He has raised 
 an army of Replika Soldiers which are great fun to take down (although, they're are too many of 
 the same enemy throughout the game) . You as a new member of F. E. A. R. have to investigate this and 
 fight an onslaught of Replika Soldiers whilst trying to stay alive and solve the puzzle of Alma. 
 The games graphics were revolutionary when it came out, and still stand the test of time. The atmosphere 
 is totally immersive with light, setting and sound (that should either be played through headphones 
 or surround sound) all put YOU into the environment and make you feel all that the character is 
 supposed to feel. A truely great FPS and will surely one day become a classic... roll on Project 
 Origin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bangell99
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a horror-shooter, in which you are the point man of an elite unit, trained to deal with 
 paranormal activities. 
  F. E. A. R's combat is excellent, with intense firefights against intelligent AI. Weapons include 
 standard assault rifles, shotguns, sub-machine guns and dual-wielded pistols, as well as advanced 
 guns like the particle gun, firing a deadly pulse which literally fries enemies. You can carry 
 up to three weapons at a time. There are also 3 different types of grenades, and you can carry 
 5 of each. There is the standard frag grenade, which will either explode on impact with an enemy, 
 or explode after a short timer. Proximity mines are useful for ambushes; as you'd expect, they 
 detonate when enemies are in close proximity. The third grenade type can stick to surfaces, and 
 must be detonated manually. The arsenal is interesting and varied, but the most basic guns will 
 be enough to see you through. As well as your weapons, you have some martial arts moves! You can 
 hit a guy with your fists or gun, but you can also take them out in one hit with a slide-kick or 
 jump-kick. These melee attacks, however, are only useful when your enemies are unaware.
  Combat is especially fun because of the excellent AI. Depending on how you approach a situation, 
 it will adapt to counter your tactics. Enemies will mainly constist of clone infantry. Some have 
 different skins, ect, but they're essentially the same guys. There are also, however, enemies in 
 advanced armour suits, that are difficult to take down. Sometimes, though, encounters with these 
 enemies will force you to empty your entire stash of grenades, as it's unlikely you're going to 
 carry a rocket launcher through the game with you. It's an attempt to add variety.
  Back when this was made, these graphics were cutting-edge, but now they look... drab. The textures 
 are bland and blocky, and some of the effects look pretty bad. The scene at the end, when you're 
 looking at a nuclear explosion from a helicopter looks downright terrible, when it should have 
 been awe-inspiring. That said, the blood effects look good, as blood spurts out of decapitated 
 bodies and mutilated limbs. A good hit with a grenade or shotgun can splatter the enemy into pieces. 
 Firefights still look good, as bullets affect everything they impact. For instance, when hitting 
 a wall, it will leave holes and send dust and concrete flying, and when richocheting of a metal 
 surface, sparks will fly. Explosions still look good, and you'll see shockwaves expanding when 
 watching in slow motion.
  Slow motion is one of the best features in F. E. A. R. It allows you to, for a short period of time, 
 use your heightened reflexes to "slow time". This makes it easy to accurately hit enemies, while 
 dodging their fire. After a certain period of time, you will drop out of bullet time, and must 
 wait for the meter to recharge before you can engage it.
  You have a certain amount of health and armour. This will decrease as you take hits. To regenerate 
 your health, you must pick up medkits. You can carry up to ten at a time, and these will restore 
 some of your health when used. In addition to this, boosters are located throughout the game, which 
 will permanently raise your health by a small amount, and also fully recharge your health. Your 
 armour limit cannot be raised, but is likewise restored by picking up armour. Boosters can also 
 be found to increase the amount of time you can spend in slow-motion.
  But F. E. A. R isn't just about action; perhaps what characterizes F. E. A. R the most is the horror 
 element. This horror aspect is pulled off extremely well, and is genuinely chilling. There will 
 always be something you see in the corner of your eye, or a disturbing sound to put you on edge. 
 Horror moments are unexpected, and you'll often be walking through an area only to encounter Alma 
 or Fettel. I'll try not to spoil the stroy, so I'll just say that Alma is a little girl with psychic 
 powers, who often appears randomly to scare you. F. E. A. R creeps you out so well, because you're 
 not seeing some big, bad monster-thing who jumps out at you. Alma is mysterious and you can't kill 
 her; F. E. A. R aims to toy with your mind, rather than make you jump or fight big monsters. She seems 
 so innocent, and you'll hear her giggle even as you walk past corpses she has mutilated. 
  Fettel, on the other hand, is a much more sinister character. He controls the clone army (your 
 enemies) , and in his visions, he speaks to you in a menacing manner, before seemingly disintegrating 
 as he leaves. Horror moments are often preceded by an incoming radio transmission, from an "unknown 
 origin". The horror sequences usually take place in long, deserted corridors. There is a door at 
 the end, and it's in slow motion. You always know something is going to happen before you actually 
 reach the end, and this makes you reluctant to continue. The fact that F. E. A. R can scare you so 
 much is amazing.
  F. E. A. R wouldn't be so intense and scary, if it didn't have great sound. Fortunately, it does. 
 To create a creepy atmosphere, there is little music, keeping you on edge. The sound effects are 
 brilliant and appropriate, both in the horror moments and firefights. Explosions sound right, and 
 the bullet sounds as they hit surfaces are excellent. Some of the weapons, however, don't sound 
 very convincing. The enemy squads talk amongst themselves, saying things like "I heard something" 
 and "We need reinforcements!". Listening to your enemies will give you information on their location, 
 status and how aware of you they are.
  While F. E. A. R can get a bit repetitive, the horror and sublime action will always keep you on your 
 toes. It's a great shooter, and also a chilling experience. You can pick it up for a fiver, and 
 I'd definately reccomend buying it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidpearsonj21
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  Bought this game last night, because it was on a 2 for 15 offer at GAME.
  I decided i would complete it before i even touched BF2. I selected HARD mode (75% difficulty) 
 i managed to somplete the game within 9hours, 3 hours the first night and six hours today. I have 
 to admit, it is one of the best gaming experiences i have ever had! And boy, the last 5 minutes 
 (last gameplay and cutscene) was EPIC!
  
  The slow motion effect turns the game from a bog standard (Halo, Half Life) into a playable action 
 thriller movie, just like, you guessed it!, Hard Boiled!
  
  The game really is a pheneominal acheivement and i will be sure to buy the expansion pack.
  
 
  pros:
  -slow motion
  -good story
  -amazing level design
  -great guns
  -stunning AI
  -a good 10 hours in story
  
  cons:
  -slightly easy
  -not as scary as i 
 would have liked it to be
  -multiplayer: crap, and dead anyways
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grim_Wolf88
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a first person shooter game with an very well thought story and horror elements. It 
 also boasts having one of the best enemy AI on a shooter to date.
  
  First off I'd like to begin with the story. Shooters in general have pretty sub-par to bad stories 
 to justify your mindless killing of all enemies. F. E. A. R. however is one of the few FPS's to actually 
 HAVE a story. The plot runs deep and is rich with detail. However it is mostly told via phone messages 
 or through data caches on laptops lying around. Some of which were very easy to overlook. To sum 
 things up the story was presented badly and made it harder to access than needed.
  
  The actual fire fights though are awesome and the action is very fast and hectic from time to time. 
 F. E. A. R has a slow-mo feature in which the pointman, you, take use of your super reflexes and slow 
 it all down. This adds for some neat effects and all but the game really can become to easy if 
 you abuse it as enemies will never have time to react. 
  
  The AI is terrific as well. The A. I. is very intellegent and will use cover and tactics as well 
 as flank your position. Two or three soldiers will pin you down while another will go down a seperate 
 hallway that leads behind your location. He then fires upon your open body and your dead. There 
 are few instances though were this comes into play as F. E. A. R. is basically a corridor shooter 
 with the occasional open space.
  
  The horror aspect of the game is done decently for the most part. Nothing that will actually make 
 you scream though. Most it lies with the atmospere. Excellent lighting and sound come together 
 to create a very creepy and mute scene. The game also tries not to use *boo* scares all that much. 
 Rather it tries to stay hidden by staying in the corner of your eye. Only a few times does it directly 
 come at you.
  
  It also happens to have pretty repetitive enviroments. This however didn't bother me as the enviroments 
 just seemed to fit and work right for the game rather than take away from it for me.
  
  Graphics are rather nice for its time as well. The textures especially are very well done and ,again, 
 lighting is used to such an effect to help produce the atmosphere. Sound is pretty good too but 
 some of the guns sounded a little underpowered. The music also helped enhance the moment at appropriate 
 times.
  
  I find this to be a very excellent FPS but had to bring it down for linearity, repetivity, and 
 poor presentation of an otherwise excellent story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_luz_10
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2009 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  
  1) Possibly one of the best, and creepiest stories/plots ever in any game or movie. I still say 
 the plot from Final Fantasy VII reigns supreme in all aspects of gaming, but FEAR certainly came 
 close to challenging FFVII's title as best plot.
  
  2) The level design, and flow of combat and story telling is phenomenal. The use of Alma and the 
 balancing of firefights and creepy moments (some moments are going to scare the crap out of you 
 and make you jump, but overall not a horror movie that will give you nightmares) presents a feeling 
 like your in a Hollywood movie.
  
  3) Fire fights are awesome. Bullet time really adds to the great graphics. One of the best collections 
 of firepower in a videogame. Weapons feel powerful and they are very different and fun to play 
 around with. You can blow people's legs off (or in one case i blew them in half) with a shotgun 
 in slo-mo, you can staple people to a wall with a gun that fires bullets similar to the spike gun 
 in the "Blade" movies (only difference is its a rapid fire assault rifle... oh yes... very sweet) , 
 and one gun allows you to vaporize people's flesh which leaves just a pool of blood and their skeleton 
 behind.
  
  4) Graphics look great and can be scaled to fit even the lowest systems (geforce 6600le 1GB ddr 
 and 2ghz amd64) . And even look good with that setup. I can only imagine what it looks like with 
 a higher end system.
  
  5) Alma and Fetal (I think his name was) moments are creepy and memorable, and are worth delaying 
 blowing people away with awesome weaponry
  
  6) ***Very early part of the game spoiler*** One of the most memorable moments in any video game 
 I've ever played. You get blown out of a building through a window... all in first person. Sounds 
 strange but is freaking awesome.
  
  
  
  Cons
  
  ummm... the game ends?
  
  Other thoughts
  
  the multi player is free just go download it from the publisher's website 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  In the game FEAR, which is an acronym for First Encounter Assault Recon, you play as the Point 
 Man of the FEAR team, which, according to the game, is a secretive special operations force that 
 specializes in dealing with paranormal threats. Little is revealed about your character in the 
 game, other than the gender. At the beginning of the game, you witness a man named Paxton Fettel, 
 who supposedly holds a threat towards them, and in the game it is ultimately your mission to eliminate 
 him.
  
  As suggested by the opening cinematic, FEAR is intended to be a terrifying game, and it does a 
 good job of presenting itself as such. This is mainly due to the games' atmosphere, which is inspired 
 by many Japenese horror films. Throughout the game, your character encounters many hallucinations, 
 often which involve methods of escaping, or eliminating whatever threats appear. Alma, a girl that 
 you have many visions of in the game, is one of the main characters in FEAR, and little is known 
 about her, until you progress further and draw yourself to the conclusion of who she is. Aside 
 from hallucinations, the dim and creepy environment that you go through also contributes to how 
 scary the game is.
  
  Other than the fact that it can be truely horrific, FEAR also has other things that make it well 
 worth playing. It's weaponry, for example, can play a big role on how well you will do in certain 
 situations. You start off with nothing more than a pistol, which later becomes almost useless, 
 until a certain point you reach, where you are forced to use it. After defeating several enemies, 
 like most games, you will come to find that you can take their weapons and use them as your own. 
 The selection of weapons can range from anything like Sub-Machine Guns (SMG's) to Rocket Launchers. 
 However, it is up to you to decide which weapons would be best for a particular fight, as you can 
 hold a maximum of three weapons at a time. Other than guns, you have grenades, proximity mines, 
 and other explosives at your side as well.
  
  For the most part, FEAR, isn't that difficult of a game. However, you certainly run into some difficult 
 situations. In fact, you usually encounter at least one very challenging part in each chapter, 
 or interval, as they are referred to in the game. What makes the game a little bit easier than 
 it normally would be, is the vast availability of Med Kits that can be found, as well as the Slow-Motion 
 ability that your character posesses, which can be done by simply pressing the control button. 
 Med Kits restore a certain amount of health, and are rather easy to find. Needless to say you'll 
 still be using them quite a bit. You can carry a maximum of 10 Med kits in the game, and sometimes 
 you'll find that you have reached the limit on how many you are carrying; and you will undoubtably 
 find certain points in the game where you are out of them. The enemy AI is very challenging, and 
 they will do things such as throw grenades towards your position, find areas to take cover at, 
 instruct their teammates to do certain things, and call for backup. What your enemies say can often 
 give you clues as to what tactics they will use or where they will go next, which can be a big 
 help on your part. They can also do things such as hit you with their gun, and use a small variety 
 of martial arts skills, which you as well have the ability to use. Fortunately, you are able to 
 quicksave whenever necessary, and you can adjust the difficulty in-game if you ever run into a 
 situation that is too challenging for you to handle. Although the enemies you encounter in the 
 game are intelligent, there isn't a very large variety of them. Other than combat troops that use 
 the same weaponry you do, there aren't much more different types of enemies you will run into. 
 Not too far into the game, you will encounter an enemy that has the same abilities as you do, as 
 well as being able to turn invisible. These are usually not too difficult to spot, and they don't 
 take a whole lot of shots to kill, but still add some variety. You will also encounter heavy armor 
 troops, which usually have a very powerful laser gun or rocket launcher, which you yourself can 
 use as well. The heavy armor troops take a fairly long time to kill when not having the best selection 
 of weapons available, and their shots are very powerful too. Turrets can be found in certain areas, 
 and can sometimes take a while to destroy, though they only appear several times in the game.
 
  
  The level design in FEAR isn't amazing, but certainly isn't bad either. Although the game is linear, 
 there are many alternative paths that you can take in each level, and with certain paths, you will 
 find rewards that will help you in the game. Other than Med Kits, you can find very powerful weapons, 
 additional armor, Health Boosters, and Reflex Boosters. Unlike many other shooting games, Health 
 Boosters in FEAR increase your health permanently, rather than temporarily, so it is critically 
 important to find as many of these as possible. Reflex Boosters, on the other hand, increase the 
 timespan for how long you can use your slow motion abilites. These things make levels worth taking 
 time on, and make searching thoroughly in certain areas necessary as well.
  
  The single player campaign usually takes anywhere from ten to fourteen hours to complete, and though 
 at a certain point one might lose interest due to the fact that the game can get rather repetitive, 
 it manages to revive itself towards the ending. After beating it, you might choose to play it through 
 a second time, searching through anything to may have missed. The multiplayer can be fun, but the 
 single player mode is the better of the two. While one could say the multiplayer adds value to 
 the game, it was recently made freely available, so the single player mode remains the ultimate 
 reason to buy the game.
  
  FEAR is an overall fun game, and is well worth buying. It brings some new and interesting things 
 that will add a whole new experience to any shooting game you have played before. It's well worth 
 the money, and is not a game that missed by any fan of horror films or FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enViable
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  WOW
  
  What can I say
  
  I didn't get into this game til very late due to not having a system that could run it at optimal 
 settings but I'm sure glad my girlfriend told me to install it after seeing it in my collection
 
  
  As fear grasped me knowing I was about to have re-occuring dreams about firey little girls and 
 zombie flashbacks I gripped the disk and put it in the drive...
  
  I'm so glad i did though :)
  
  Firstly the shooting system is quite possible the BEST and most 
 realistic feeling system ever in a game, or at least since Counter-Strike or the original Far Cry. 
 The kickback is perfect, the noises are perfect, the accuracy is perfect and the cloud of dust 
 pertruding from the walls behind your fallen enemies is the icing on the cake
  
  Anyone looking for a nice nightmare thriller in between random bullets zinging past your skull 
 can worry no more either. This game WILL have you wanting to get a friend round while playing or 
 having the light on and the bedroom door open ha. Eery lighting, AWESOME shadows, flashbacks, slowmos 
 and the intrusion of phantoms make this all a mind blowing experience.
  
  The difficulty is just about right, the ammo isn't stupidly in excess although the health will 
 be on easy levels. The enemies are damn smart, the puzzles are fun and the levels are complexed 
 and detailed. 
  
  This is the benchmark for all future dark shoot-em-ups.
  
  BUY IT if you aint already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  =Preview=
  
  FEAR it's very impessively game who combine a theatrical horror and familiar gameplay with amazingly 
 slow-motion features. The story make we find out what happened the past of.
  
  =GamePlay=
  
  The gameplay familiar if u has play others sierra games such as SWAT4. U will 
 play as a one of elite team who stand alone to destroy enemy. there are 3 weapons indeed and u 
 can replace the weapon if u needed shoot enemy with others amazingly weapons. slow motion feature 
 very helper to find out way shoot or meele teh enemy. u can shoots, punch and kick ur enemy, but 
 the AI enemy will be make u try harder. the multiplayer game it's very good and impressively.
 
  
  =Graphics=
  
  I don't care about this graphics, with the same engine for SWAT4 or CS, but with the better graphics 
 atmosphere. (why the weapon light almost out of baterai??) it can run with minimum PC requirements, 
 at last pentium 4 or sempron. it's much like better if u have dual core or Athlon FX with mainstream 
 VGA card such as RX 2600XT and 1 gb RAM. but not important if u playing with a good performance 
 who not depend on good graphics quality.
  
  =All features=
  
  i think FEAR it's very best FPS recommended to fanatic of FPS or science fiction with horror thriller 
 gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1hater
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2008 4:39 am PT
Review:  This is probably one of the most terrifying let alone disturbing games in its time 
  and will be for a long time to come.
  The graphics are great, the gun fights are amazing, the 
 slow-mo is an awesome feature and looks amazing.
  In this game you face off against the creepiest, paranormal, little girl Alma.
  what makes the 
 gun fights so amazing, so brutal, is that every bullet destroys the environment and the slow-mo 
 has great special affects.
  The AI is incredibly intelligent, they will take cover, throw frags, flank you, the works.
  every 
 now and then the little girl Alma comes and plagues you and messes with your head, while you face 
 off with endless armies of clones.
  This game is one of the scariest, visually amazing, games on the pc. You have to check this out! 
 
  
  overall my rating is........9.5 why???
  graphics=9
  gameplay=10
  sound=9
  value=10
  tilt=10
  AI 10/10
  story 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuyt19
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  This game has to be one of the scariest game i've ever played, if not the scariest. The atmosphere 
 inside the game is very tense, you'll be on the edge almost all the time. The eerie music to the 
 quiet (sometimes lonely) buildings and the crystal clear sound of every little thing around you 
 will always make you expect the unexpected. Scary theme apart, the game has one of the best AI 
 ever seen in an FPS. The way your enemies try to flank you or get away from your line of fire is 
 pretty realistic. In the hardest mode, you'll be tested to your limit. Though the graphics is definitely 
 not one of it's strong points, it more than make up for it in terms of physics. The game uses the 
 'bullet-time', or slow-mo as some prefer, very brilliantly. Though during those times it was overused 
 by games, FEAR implemented it in such a way that it looked different from others. I'd rather not 
 comment on the expansion packs because they add little to the story and had absolutely no improvements 
 in terms of graphics or gameplay. Besides, Project Origin is coming out this year which looked 
 way better than the two expansion packs did. So, for those who haven't played FEAR, 'Do It', you'll 
 find some surprises waiting for you. Whether it's good enough or not is up to you, but i certainly 
 find it very interesting and enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hayner225
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  So why did I rate the game? My rating says it all. The game is worth $100 and is sold for $30. 
 Or it seems it's worth $100. You were inspecting a problem in a group called F. E. A. R. ,or First 
 Encounter Assault Recon, and yes the game is a horror. I bet you have played it all. Counter Strike, 
 Counter Strike Source, Half Life, Half Life Source, Half Life 2, Half Life 2 Episode 1, Half Life 
 2 Episode 2, Day of Defeat, Day of Defeat Source, and Prey, but nothing beats the scary game of 
 F. E. A. R. This girl is trying to get revenge but you need to find out the addictive story line by 
 buying it and playing it. Alright. I'll give you more. The girl tortures you with the strangest 
 visions possible. The girl is working with someone whos name is Paxton Fettel and is trying to 
 eliminate you. Or help you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkblyth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  FEAR has to be one of the hardest games to review for several reasons. For one, it's almost impossible 
 to describe the pure adrenaline rush of some of the game's most intense firefights, but also because 
 this is a game which is much greater than the sum of its parts. FEAR combines frenzied first-person-shooting 
 sequences with terrifying horror segments to create what must be one of the most nerve-racking 
 and atmospheric games ever. FEAR tells the story of a nameless agent of the First Encounter Assault 
 Recon team, an arm of the military that fights against paranormal enemies. In this case, the team 
 is going up against an army of cones, all controlled by a single super-soldier. Obviously there's 
 more to the story, and the game throws several twists at you which you almost certainly wont see 
 coming. On the downside, the narrative is told mostly through answering machines that you'll activate 
 as you walk through office buildings. Although maybe not the most effective method of storytelling, 
 it gets the job done. In addition there are some cool interactive cut scenes, which are designed 
 almost exclusively for the horror element.
  
  FEAR is scary. In fact it is probably the scariest game I have ever played. Between the firefights 
 you'll get to experience vast stretches of nothing. That is, you'll just walk through empty corridors 
 until you are sucked into some alternate reality which activates one of the aforementioned cut 
 scenes. On great example is early in the game when you drop down to a long white hallway. As you 
 are walking, the hall suddenly erupts into flame and the game goes into slow-motion. Fire surrounds 
 you and the game's freakish antagonist Alma rushes at you, flinging objects towards you with startling 
 ease. Due to your super-reflexes, which I'll discuss more later, you jump through the window just 
 as the entire building goes up in flames. Of course the main reason to play FEAR is the shooting, 
 and oh what shooting it is! FEAR is the epitome of what a shooter should be. The actual act of 
 firing in the game isn't all that complex. The weapons are all pretty standard, and you'll be fighting 
 pretty much the same enemy throughout the entire game. Sounds boring right? Well it may be until 
 the bullets start flying. Enemies in FEAR are smart, possibly the smartest in gaming history. When 
 you enter a room they will immediately open fire. Some will flank you while others pin you down. 
 If you're in a nicely fortified position they'll flush you out. These are enemies that move and 
 act as a squad. They won't charge at you- they'll work to get around and to get a better angle. 
 Because of this, the battles in FEAR stay fun throughout. There are no real scripted fights. You 
 can play through the same battle twenty times and it will always be different.
  
  Speaking of time, you can slow it down in FEAR. Your nameless character happens to have super human 
 reflexes which allow him to get the jump on his enemies. And trust me, you'll need it to beat these 
 highly intelligent and ruthless super-soldiers. There is a limit to how much you can use your slow-mo 
 ability, but the bar charges pretty fast, and you can pick up boosters so that you can slow down 
 time for longer. In addition, you can pick up health boosters that will permanently increase you 
 maximum health; this too is almost required to get through the games tougher late levels. One standout 
 sequence occurs about midway through the game. You are walking through what seems like an abandoned 
 hallway when the wall to your left abruptly slides away to reveal a small army of soldiers all 
 chucking grenades at your horrified face. Within moments the hidden meeting room is a battleground. 
 Chairs are overturned, holes spatter the walls and tables and plants and computers lie in shambles. 
 You switch your reflexes into overdrive and disintegrate the soldiers in a puff of blood with your 
 all powerful shotgun. As the ammo runs dry you switch over to your second weapon (you can only 
 carry two) and finish off the remains. Once the enemy has been dealt with you turn the corner only 
 to be bombarded with another onslaught of grenades, thrown backwards across the hall and met with 
 the game over screen.
  
  FEAR makes use of a standard health system; you pick up health packs to regain health and armor 
 to- you guessed it- gain armor. The main difference here is that you can carry up to ten health 
 packs with you at any time, and use them as you see fit. This may not seem groundbreaking, but 
 when you reach a health pack at 100+ health and you're about to enter a major firefight, it is 
 indescribably helpful to be able to carry your packs with you. In the example above, it would have 
 been helpful to use a couple of health packs to up your health before turning that dreaded corner, 
 thus surviving the grenade barrage that awaited you. Once you decimate a battalion of cloned super 
 soldiers and save the world you have some other options available to you, some of which are exclusive 
 to the of the game. First off, there is a short bonus mission, but it isn't all that exiting and 
 can be beaten in under 15 minutes. More meaty is the instant action mode. Here you can play through 
 several levels sans the story and horror sequences. Once you beat a level your score will be uploaded 
 to an leaderboard. Finally, every single player option has multiple difficulty levels and numerous 
 achievements to get. Now I'm going to admit that I haven't played the multilayer yet, and I will 
 do so and update this review at a later date. For now, know that there is a multilayer component 
 to the game so if you're into that sort of thing then make sure and test that out.
  
  If you haven't seen FEAR in action (i. e. only seen screenshots) then you may wonder at my graphics 
 score. And honestly, out of all the aspects of the game, graphics was the hardest to rate. For 
 one, the actual textures of the levels aren't all that great. And, more importantly, except for 
 the last couple, all of the levels look the same. Of course it doesn't help that since you are 
 fighting an army of clones that all your enemies also look identical. So graphics in the game really 
 boil down to going through the same levels over and over fighting the same enemies. As I said above, 
 the nature of the firefights really makes the tension high regardless of the levels. Then you see 
 the game in motion, and it all changes. When you enter a firefight in FEAR it is incredible. The 
 entire room just erupts in a cloud of dust. Glass shatters everywhere, paper, chunks of wall, desks, 
 phones and pretty much everything that isn't nailed down to the floor flies all over the room. 
 It is impossible to describe how much this adds to the firefights and it is because of this that 
 I scored graphics so highly.
  
  If the graphics enhance the battle, the sound creates it. Weapons in FEAR may look pretty dull 
 but they sound just, in a word, powerful. When you are blasting your way through one of the games 
 levels it just sounds like you are in the middles of a massive war. Again, its impossible to describe 
 the sound of this game expect for by saying, if you were to ever enter a special ops force the 
 battles you went through would most likely sound something like FEAR. The voice overs in the game 
 are well above par, and the enemies are talkative but not annoying. The sound is by far the highlight 
 of this package. FEAR is a great game. Without a doubt it has some major flaws, mostly the repetitive 
 nature of the environments and the enemies. But it would be a great disservice to the game to disregard 
 it merely because it doesn't look as great as Rainbow Six, because its shootouts are in a league 
 of their own when compared to any other shooter in existence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonnyEarthquake
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Does little girls scare you? Well, if they`re dead it`s a completely different deal. Wait, what? 
 What does little [dead] girls doing in an action packed, adrenaline flowing, explosive shooter?
 
  
  Not to mention an army of clones, insane telepath, speechless soldier from a secret government 
 agency what fights supernatural stuff. But that`s the story of F. E. A. R. folks. Yes, an insane telepath/psychopath 
 named Paxton Fettel takes over an entire army of Replica clone soldiers and assaults Armacham Technology 
 Corporation for... oh, god knows what. You, the `Point man` of F. E. A. R. organization, are sent 
 to kill everything that`s hostile and save daughter of an important employee of Ancharm Corp. After 
 unexplaining intro we`re brought into an old warehouse and start seeing things [including the dead 
 girl who`s called Alma BTW] between the extremely satisfying action sequences. Scary? In the beginning 
 - possibly. But in the third - fourth level you understand that the visions are completely unharmful 
 [but near the end they`re starting to get... painful] . Dead people, hospital corridors sinking 
 in blood - what`s so scary about it? Ok, last levels pack a chill or two, but I don`t F. E. A. R darkness 
 [too much] or a pile of dead bodies. Plot is handed pretty much like Doom 3 - but instead of e-mail 
 we listen to messages left into phone. That`s not too good - it`s easy to miss something, difficult 
 to understand an the most disappointing - that`s just plain boring. But don`t be too sore about 
 it - F. E. A. R actually has a deep and complex storyline, good twist and really satisfying ending.
 
  
  Gameplay is what makes F. E. A. R great. Technically it is a standard FPS, but with some extras. Bullet 
 time - sounds familiar? Matrix, Matrix, Matrix. This popculture phenomenon is not just for good 
 looks [however, it really looks good] , BT helps us to get out of tight situations, avoid bullets 
 and overpower the enemy. It has a limited ammount of time which automatically refills and we can 
 find BT time and health boosters what makes the battles easier. And about gunfights - they`re simply 
 amazing. Clones collapse realistically, spraying blood all over the place, bullets make holes into 
 walls, dust [it`s impossible to see through - you have to wait `till it goes down] , hits sparks 
 out of lights and stuff. And the incredible clone soldier AI - wow. They see light from our flashlight, 
 hear us before we do, cooperate, tries to envelope us and really tries to be like real soldiers. 
 There is one BUT however. Just 5-6 types of enemies? WTF? Usual meat, fellas in body armor, samfishers 
 [I can`t come up with a different name] with optical camouflage [like MGS] , turrets, flying turrets 
 and ghosts, who show up near ending. Unfortunately ghosts cause an OMGWTF feeling and doesn`t quite 
 fit in. There are no bosses as well [at least I don`t consider Alma as a boss] . Also a condemnation 
 for poor arsenal of weapons - pistol, shotgun, assault rifle, submachine gun, sniper rifle, `Penetrator 
 [something like nail gun] and a spectacular Plasma rifle. The problem is that common soldiers carry 
 only shotguns and assault rifles and we, god damn it, can carry only three guns, so it is difficult, 
 no, almost impossible to get ammo for, let`s say Plasma gun. A nice addition is CQC [Close Quarters 
 Combat] however it feels overpowered - a single hit with gun stock and one Replica soldier is out 
 cold. And of course I must criticize the level design. Dull environments, straightforward hallways, 
 repeating rooms - no, that`s not working. Basically there are five base locations - abandoned warehouse, 
 abandoned office, abandoned mansion and abandoned secret bunker. all these places are not memorable 
 and unimaginative. That certainly doesn`t help the game much. But overall combat is very satisfying 
 and addictive. In fact it is the only drive what keeps you going if you`re not following the plot.
 
  
  Sound is OK - guns as guns [in bullet time they even sound bit different] , NPC voice acting is 
 quite fine, but it doesn`t really matter. Music - heck, I don`t even remember anything about it! 
 Not spectacular, but good enough for game`s atmosphere.
  
  I mentioned graphics greatness earlier. They are very good, but the programming could have been 
 done better - F. E. A. R. is on hell of a resource hog. I had to play on medium settings, but my machine 
 could rock Domm 3 and Quake IV stable at max. Quite sad that dull environments doesn`t let the 
 engine to prove what is it truly capable of.
  
  F. E. A. R. has a potential. If only developers had put their soul in it, this have could been a masterpiece 
 rather than just a hit. But F. E. A. R. is one helluva hit and I strongly recommend it to any shooter 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabiocs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. es un juego en primera persona con muchos puntos fuertes, vamos a empesar por orden.
 
  En primer lugar una de las cosas que mas destaco es los grandes efectos de sonido, nunca escuche 
 un juego sonar tan bien, disparos muy reales, voces espectaculares, explosiones increibles, sin 
 duda todos muy bien tratados y si usted dispones de un sonido 5.1 realmente sentira que esta dentro 
 del juego, y una experiencia unica.
  En segundo lugar destaco la historia del juego, tipico de terror japones, muy buenas ideas, mucho 
 miedo en muchos casos, como un film de hollywood, efectos especiales ideales para la trama horror 
 paranormales de la que se trata el juego.
  La jugabilidad es muy buena tambien, podria criticarle algun par de teclas de mas que para algunos 
 usuarios podria resultarle algo molesto, pero no quita el gran rendimiento a la hora de jugar, 
 moverse, disparar, seleccionar armas, acciones y demas. 
  Graficamente tiene models muy interesantes, buenas texturas, detalles muy interesante en los disparos 
 ya que.... casi cualquier cosa vuela en mil partes cuando se les dispara, bang bang a la fotocopiadora 
 y vuelan papeles por todo el aire, realmente bien ingeniado, escombros que brotan de las paredes 
 cuando empiesan los disparos, buenos graficos.
  El juego no es ni largo ni corto, esta justo como podria esperarse por como va la historia, de 
 todas formas a algunos les puede parecer un poco largo. Lo que si es largo o mejor dicho repetitivo 
 son algunos personajes que con el paso del juego no varian demasiado.
  En general F. E. A. R. es un juego que no te podes perder la oportunidad de jugarlo, buenos ambientes, 
 mucho suspenso, muchos disparos y accion, todo bajo una historia exelente, y sobre todo mucho miedo, 
 como su titulo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fleetlordavtar
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 12, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  First of all like to point out (w/o vanity) I'm playing in 1920 x 1200 rez on wide screen monitor 
 and graphics look FANTASTIC!!!! I last played it in Sept of last yr on a 1600 x 1200 21" CRT, but 
 when i switched over to new monitor... WOW!!! Can't wait to try Bio shock, crysis, orange box, 
 company of heroes, etc. Appreciate the horror aspects and reminded (a little) of Undying. 
  
  PRO: The GREAT looking graphics, atmosphere and audio.
  Scary (not jaded horror game plyr) , 
 unlike DOOM 3... uses the darkness better.
  Enemy AI... not normal for it to be "human"
  
  
  
  CONS: dumb weapon balance, the weapon that incinerates a person in (most times) one shot 
 takes two shots to break vent grating, rockets can't break the lock, but bullet can?!?!?
  Objectives were drawn out so you can keep shooting for the sake of it (Most FPS) . 
  The contrived 
 method of filling you in parts of the story via answer machines
  Short lasting flashlight... ever hear of energizer??? Expected more for "SOF" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathScape666
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  The beginning of FEAR promises something incredible, but it doesn't live up to that. There storyline 
 is just disappoint, to say the least. This weird guy and freaky girl would always pop up and do 
 something weird or say something that didn't make sense to you. Eventually, this got tiring and 
 was left with no real scares. The main character is basically a Nintendo protagonist. In other 
 words, he doesn't talk. The storyline is played out like Metroid Prime, where you listen to messages 
 throughout game play. The only bad part to it is that the storyline is just plain boring and can't 
 hold anyone's attention. The good thing is that you can skip most of the story if you just want 
 to get the action. You can just avoid picking up the phone or logging into the Computer.
  
  Basically, FEAR has you play the same level over and over again eleven times. The level design 
 is different, but you are pretty much doing the same thing the whole time. Shoot bad guys, then 
 move on to the next. They throw some other objectives to you, but it doesn't really make the feeling 
 of repitition go away. Some levels have some dull moments, and just have you walking around searching 
 for something for long periods of time.
  
  FEAR has some of the best AI I've ever seen in a video game. They know when you turn your flashlight 
 on, and they know when you are about to throw a grenade. This makes the action a lot more exciting 
 and intense.
  
  You have the ability to freeze time, which is pretty cool. While the game is slowed down, you can 
 take your time to aim and take enemies out. I do think that you have too much time in this mode, 
 and the energy for it regenerates quite quickly.
  
  The graphics, at the time, were incredible. However, now, they just look dated. That's what two 
 and a half years does to you. The music, on the other hand, still holds up well. There are some 
 creepy sounds that will make you jump every now and then, and the voice acting is great.
  
  In the end, FEAR is an above average first person shooter that you should definitely pick up. You 
 can find it for ten dollars now, so it's worth checking out. Despite the fact that the game is 
 a little bit on the short side and the game play can get repetitive, it still will provide you 
 with many moments of fun. For replay value, you can always try out the online multiplayer mode. 
 It isn't anything spectactular, but it's a nice distraction from the real game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vravage
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R (or First Encounter Assault Recon) is a game that needs to be accepted by the audience. 
 That also means that you don't have to stop playing this game when you are to afraid. When you 
 keep going, then you will truly see of what this game is made of.
  
  7/10 ::: The storyline in F. E. A. R. can be understand in two ways: those are simple and detailed.
 
  In this review i will try to tell it rather short. You are a part of a F. E. A. R. team. FEAR (from 
 now on) is a squad or a certain unit from the army that eliminates unnatural and psychotic situations 
 and thereby researches or deals with them. (for example Area 51, that is held secret by the government.) 
 You are the new Point Man. Paxton Fettel is a psychotic cannibal that telepathically communicates 
 with the girl in the red dress or her real name Alma. I want to say more but that would be spoilers. 
 Your first assignment with FEAR is to track down and find Paxton. Question him, if he does not 
 comply, eliminate him.
  In FEAR you will get a lot of scares like a dream, or a vision or just when you turn around you 
 will see ghosts whispering at you. Or you will get in a room and -for example- ten bodies will 
 fall down and when you come to the end of the room they will be gone, you can expect things like 
 that.
  
  8/10 ::: The graphics in FEAR are rather good, even for 2008 (my opinion) although friends of mine 
 say it sucks now but was good at the date of release. Anyway, maybe why the graphics are dated 
 is because in FEAR there are numerous horror events as well as fighting. (see the gameplay section 
 for this issue)
  
  8/10 ::: Sound is excellent in FEAR. Not only classic-like doors that crack and night-sounds. But 
 very realistic indoor building sounds like how hollow a chamber is and the sound when you fire 
 a shotgun is just pleasant to hear. Music is also good but from the music you can rather easily 
 (if you have played and watched horror movies or games) tell when it's a scary moment, but that 
 problem is so small it isn't an issue.
  
  8/10 ::: , Don't expect cover then shoot scenario in FEAR like thousands of FPS's do. I am talking 
 about fierce Unreal Tournament-like jumping and shooting away. Toss a grenade or so, go Slo-Mo 
 (But don't expect Matrix) and destroy your enemy. It is excellent gameplay and still semi-realistic. 
 Horror events on itself is good but predictable (see Sound section for this issue) .
  
  78/100 ::: FEAR is a extraordinary game that tells a brilliant but a hard to follow story that 
 is supported by beautiful sound, action and horror events. You will press the F5 button numerous 
 times and at the end of the game you will certainly have a "I did it" moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  Review this game :D .... I consider Monolith & their games the true competitors to VALVE's throne 
 every game they made since Blood , AVP2 , NOLF2 , is a hit a masterpiece whit things that you can't 
 evan imagine ! Personally i belive they are the masters of horrror but not because of FEAR alltough 
 it has its moments it dosen't compare to Condemned when it comes to true fear .... anyway FEAR 
 mixes Jhon Who with the Ring & thats not quite innovative in fact its a pure basic shooter but 
 BUT !!! .... it has managed to blend them like they were twins & not only that it is acompanied 
 by the superb graphics , intense sound effects ( not evan today since 2005 you wont hear better 
 sound effects ) & great mysterios storyline that will keep you n the edge of your seat & probally 
 the most best A. I. in the history of games ... thats the most scariest thing about the game .... 
 they will react the same you wll do they will mess with your mind if they will get close they wiil 
 go BRUCE LEE on your ASS WACCHHA ! i can not describe it words this game has perferct A. I. conmpared 
 to HALF_LIFE 2 but this is the only A. I. present in the game "HUMANOID opponents" compared to the 
 good A. I. in HL2 but to all kinds of aponents stating from zombies - robots - head crabs - antlions 
 - team-troops etc. Anyway i wil never forget this game & i so trully wait for the day PROJECT ORIGIN 
 is released ... the true sequel to FEAR .... not those 2 bit expansion that VIVENDI makes .... at 
 least i'm happy that MONOLITH managed to keep the rights to the universe but not to its name : ( 
 ... but vivendi tryied the same ting with VALVE if you recall .... anyway BUY/TRY/RENT this game 
 play it at least one time or MORE  . MUAHAH ... MUAHAHAHAHH ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j007penz
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  This is one scary game, with evil little girl chasing you and trying to kill you it really makes 
 you jumpy especially right at the beginning when she kills those SWAT guys and all she leaves is 
 Blood and Bones. Personally the two most frightening moments are the ones where you are going down 
 the ladder and she appears out of nowhere and when you go into that big bloody room and shes standing 
 up next to the railing watching you. This game is amazing you get weapons from a pistol to a nail 
 gun and not to mention the slow-mo capabilities that add a whole new demension to the gameplay. 
 The girl can seriously creep you out and your maniac brother good thing you kill him. The ending 
 was pretty good the nuke and then the helicopter were pretty cool, seeing the girls head pop up 
 suddenly gave me the shivers. If you want to play a awesome scary shooter and be challenged play 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chellmit55
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is everything you'll expect in a game in my view! Story, Action, Horror, Adventure, Futuristic, 
 Mystery, everything you'll expect! One of the most superb things in F. E. A. R. is the AMAZING story. 
 I don't want to spoil it for anyone who hasn't played it so ill only say that the story puts you 
 on the edge of seat and you feel like you're the actually character in the game. The action of 
 F. E. A. R. is excellent, your character has superhuman reflexes which means when you're fighting 
 enemies you can choose to go into SlowMo at certain times for a certain amount of time while shooting 
 and fighting. The FPS action is one of the best shooting action I've ever seen. The horror part 
 of F. E. A. R. is the most scary and intense in a game in my view. In this game hearing noises of 
 moaning and breathing, to seeing disturbing images and ghosts, like Alma (a little girl in a red 
 dress) . F. E. A. R. has many partly lit rooms and great scenery. Including abandoned warehouses and 
 hotels, and shut down research labs and office buildings. In F. E. A. R. you always want to shut down 
 the game because you're afraid to go on, but that fear to go on makes you shake until you turn 
 it back on and finish the game. There's even a mystery that you have to solve by listening to old 
 answering machines and getting information from computers. Figure out the mystery to find out what's 
 going on and who YOU are. F. E. A. R. is just an amazing game in all ways which is why I can't wait 
 until they come out with the sequel Project Origin! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edito24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 4:44 am PT
Review:  The story: Clone army of soldiers led by some psycho. Good story, suffice to keep any gamer playing 
 till the end. The little girl is just plain freaky!!! The story isn't FEARs strong point, the gameplay 
 is.
  
  Gameplay: Absolutely awesome!!!! The best fire fights ever seen. Fragments of walls, boxes, papers, 
 computers ... basically everything in the environment gets affected by bullets. Decent melee system 
 incorporated, but you find yourself just slowing down time and taking some good head shots with 
 your trusty nail gun (or at least I do anywayz) .
  
  AI are great, they communicate with eachother & work together to take you down. Damage recieved 
 can easily kill you fast so dont under estimate them. AI with take cover, run, hide, or just hunt 
 you down.
  
  Negatives, environments seem too dull and do not offer much variety. Recycled enemies, I know they 
 are clones but its sometimes frustrating to fight with the same soldiers over and over again
  
  Graphics are top notch, awesome special effects worthy of a hollywood blockbuster. Great charcter 
 models. Good lighting system. System requirements are not so heavy nowdays (my 7900GT max at 1440x900 
 everything on max with no stutter/lag)
  
  Overall, the fire fights must be seen to be believed. Great game & is a must have for any fan of 
 the FPS genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supergodzilla1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a game equal to The Ring and many other horror movies with a great story and great 
 enemy AI. The game speaks for itself throughout. I wasn't into the game at first having played 
 the demo on the 360, but when I got the chance to get it for the PC... I couldn't help but grab 
 it up.
  
  You're the new guy on the F. E. A. R. team. You're given the assignment of point man. You're also 
 supposed to take down an army of super soldiers and a psychic commander without any ally assistance. 
 Let's do this thing.
  
  The first thing that is noticable is the lighting. Shadows and dark corners are plentiful. And 
 the shadows of objects, people, and other various things is just plain good. They've managed to 
 keep a balance of light and dark throughout the game. Offices are generally well lit while industrial 
 areas are mostly dark. Although there isn't much outdoors combat you'll find yourself tearing up 
 the enviroment with grenades, machine guns, rocket launchers, and particle weapons. 
  
  It's incredible to play it at full speed instead of SlowMo and it's more than possible to play 
 through the entire game without it. I found myself forgetting about my ctrl key. But when I did 
 remember it the ragdolls really showed off thier flexibility as enemies were pinned to the wall 
 with the Penetrator and splattered by my Shotgun.
  
  The AI, despite belonging to clones, doesn't fail to keep you busy. They'll always find a way to 
 come around the left or make me scatter for cover at the toss of a grenade. When the difficulty 
 is raised up, thier accuracy will permit them mow you down. The AI is comparable to most popular 
 games. Where the AI is skittish in other shooters the AI is determined in F. E. A. R..
  It's just awesome.
  
  Now as for the main 'FEAR' factor the game (arguably) boasts there are 
 many paranormal events to take advantage of. The dark lightning and silence preluding these sections 
 are more than enough to build up some sort of suspence. Will you be fighting another squad of enemies? 
 Or catch sight of Alma? I'll admit, the paranormal scenes make me jump occasionally, but it won't 
 leave you up at night.
  
  The game just feels right. Fun to play and yet innovative in its approached to inspire FEAR or 
 get you to think before rushing into the next battle.
  
  I might add something more to this review. We'll see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2008 3:24 am PT
Review:  There's a reason why I gave it a nine. For starters, the finale of the game boils down to repetitive 
 shooting. Also pointed out before this review is the identikit baddies and the environments that 
 are very similar to one another. The game requires a mass amount of power to get running to its 
 full potential. Even if you have all the power there are times when it can all go to pot. I've 
 never experience any crashes with it, it's quite stable in that regard, it's just a shame that 
 there is some inherent slow downs.
  
  Yes, F. E. A. R boils down to nothing more than an FPS set in the horror mold. But for what it's worth, 
 it's one hell of a ride. The strong intro and middle section are great, but things slow down considerably 
 towards the finale. This because all of the fancy tricks and nauances such as debris flying everywhere 
 repeat themselves all too frequently. The standout gameplay aspect of F. E. A. R is the enemy A. I. 
 The artificial intelligence is without a shadow of a doubt, the best I have ever encountered in 
 a game. You seriously need skill and luck to overcome the adversaries. They exhibit intelligence 
 unheard of in games before. But the only disappointing side of the enemies is they show little 
 to no variation. But given how they are clones, I can easily over look that. In other words, F. E. A. R 
 hands down has the most exciting gun battles to ever grace the genre and PC.
  
  Eerie. The sound and music are equally creepy, eerie. They really adhere to whole horror genre 
 well, obviously, seeing how the most successful horror games owe just as much to sound as it does 
 the visuals. With that note, the visuals are quite impressive in F. E. A. R. Granted, the character 
 models look like wax models and as I have previously said, the environments and characters show 
 little to no variety. The clear stand out graphical achievement is the particle effects. Bullets 
 in slow down, paper, debris etc all behave in a realistic manner and they just add to the majestic 
 gun battles.
  
  Ten hours easily to beat the whole game. The superb online mutliplayer will keep you for a while, 
 though you do need an exceptional broadband connection I find. There's no hidden extras that I've 
 come across but there's four difficulty levels to keep the interest alive.
  
  F. E. A. R is a fine addition to the FPS genre on the PC. Everyone knows the PC is king for FPS, which 
 is why it takes alot to stand out on the PC. F. E. A. R does with subtle grace through its gun battles 
 and compelling yet tiny bit disappointing storyline. For every flaw it gets sorted out with a positive. 
 It's not a masterpiece in FPS by any standards. What it is though is a fine game that I can seriously 
 recommend for FPS fans and horror fans. F. E. A. R is a true horror game that can be at times emotionally 
 exhausting. Greatness embounds with F. E. A. R. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duffedwaffe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  So, first things first. The graphics, even though this game is a year and a half old, still looks 
 amazing on a decent system. The particle effects are simply amazing, from dust spewing from walls 
 upon impact of a bullet, to the large explosions of blood when an enemy takes a shotgun to the 
 face.
  
  The lighting is absolutely sublime, and enemies act accordingly to the player's visibility in the 
 darkness. As well as this, the player is made fully aware of their body in the world by shadows 
 being cast around them, as well as the ability to see their own legs and torso beneath them.
  
  The sound is also very immersing. The guns sound like you're actually firing a gun, not holding 
 a plastic toy. The enemy's radio chatter is also excellent, as they react directly to your actions. 
 "He's flanking left!" "I see a flashlight!", and the occasional "SH@T!" can be heard when the player 
 reveals themselves. The eerie music at specific parts of the game, combined with the sound of a 
 man whispering in your ear through the dead silence is also a very nice touch.
  
  The gameplay itself is very unique. While the game features standard point + shoot gunfights, it 
 also brings something new to the table; the player can go into a SlowMo mode for a limited time, 
 giving better reaction time, better control over recoil, and simply the feeling of being a super-hero. 
 The game also features various martial arts moves to attack your enemies with, such as bicycle 
 kicks and sliding kicks to subdue your opponents.
  
  On to the story. The story in this game is very limited at first. The player knows very little 
 about what is going on, who they're assuming the role of, or why they are searching for the main 
 antagonist. Throughout the game, the player sees hallucinations and ghostly apparitions of a man, 
 and a little girl in a red dress. I will say one thing about these parts of the game; the are scary 
 as all hell. For instance, there is a point of the game where the player boards an elevator and 
 the power goes out momentarily. The lights flicker, and you can just for a moment see this little 
 girl in the red dress, Alma. After this, the elevator doors open and the lights return, revealing 
 an empty corner where Alma was standing.
  
  Overall, this game is very scary, and very amusing at the same time with the number of possibilities 
 to take down enemies. I give this game a 9.5, and I recommend that you play this game as soon as 
 you possibly can. Just remember to play it in the dark. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddessan91
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  Well, that's one very true, realistic, fun, SCARY and original FPS. I had a lot of fun with it. The story 
 is very well told. It's very interesting and quite sucking-me-in type. The darkness is very scary 
 here, but I don't know why I loved to be in it. I couldn't stop playing it. There were very VERY scary 
 moments, but I still was on the PC, mashing the buttons of the mouse, just to see what's going to 
 happen next, but after 10 hours I saw the credits and I was very sad. I wanted to play more, cuz the 
 action was so ENTERTAINING, so cool, so real. I could predict, where the enemies are coming from (because 
 I see their shadows) . I that whole bullet-time thing was also very useful and makes the game more 
 cool. And there was something I'll never forget... that little girl-Alma, our hero's mother. I thought 
 that the mothers are guarding their children, not trying to kill them, but that's probably for the 
 normal mothers. Alma is here to scare you, to kill you and to make the game more creepy. And what 
 could I say about the graphics. They are not so real anymore, especial after Crysis (I write this 
 review after Crysis's release) . I see the squares, the pixels and that makes me mad, but I think everyone 
 should play that game... ups, sorry... forgot to tell you the game is not for every one. You can be 
 25 years old tough guy and still be scaried from F. E. A. R. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armylad1509
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a very interesting FPS for a variety of reasons. First off, if you truly know games, 
 you'd start by noticing the amount of detail that is put into the game itself; from the graphics, 
 to the sounds that come up at the right moment, and to the noticable sound of shell casings clattering 
 on the floor as you frantically shoot at many enemies. The dreaded A. I. is anouther key feature 
 2 commend about this game. I played the demo and lost 5 times before completing it because the 
 A. I. was like nothing i've ever seen before, this game ain't no joke when it comes to level of 
 difficulty you have to face in the first place. 
  
  In the game, you get to use a variety of weapons at your disposal to dessimate the battle ready 
 enemies that await u. And the enviornment of the game's levels already set your mind on "creepy", 
 not knowing when or where the enemy is gonna strike next, or when anouther wierd event is gonna 
 happen next. Overall, of course, F. E. A. R is a very satisfying that will keep you playing for hours 
 and hours, despite the fact that you already might have crapped your pants already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anti18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R for the PC is one of the scariest games you will ever play. You play as a newly acquired 
 point man in the First Encounter Assault Recon (F. E. A. R) and are trying to hunt down a madman named 
 Paxton Fettel. While simple, it makes for an extremely intriguing and scary story line. F. E. A. R's 
 gameplay is nothing new or innovative, but everything it does it does well. First, there are a 
 variety of different weapons, all of which are needed in certain situations. The enemy A. I is extremely 
 intelligent and will always run for cover and try to flank you. Also, F. E. A. R is very scary. There 
 are many moments in which you will jump out of your pants, and some that will give you goosebumps. 
 Multiplayer is fun and intense, but nothing special. Graphically, F. E. A. R can easily be run on 
 high settings by any middle of the line computer. The graphics are extremely smooth and life like. 
 The audio is always fitting to the mood of the game, also guns and voice acting are great. In conclusion 
 F. E. A. R is a must for any FPS fan, but be prepared for some scares. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEAR_shooter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is about a recon team trying to track down a cannibal by the name of Paxton Fettel. You 
 are an elite soldier trained to deal with unusual and paranormal situations. It is a jumpy, weird 
 and scary game. I reccommed F. E. A. R to gamers who like Horror and great First person shooters. 
 If First encounter assault recon left you wanting more, you'll find what your looking for in Extraction 
 point. So reload your weapons for the first Expansion pack for F. E. A. R. In extraction point, you 
 battle an even more terrifying collection of enemies. And have and upgraded arsenal of weaponry 
 to devastate the enemy. The new guns are the awesome 'Chaingun' (Minigun) , and a total mind blower 
 the laser carbine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esba160
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 14, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  I played this game back in 05 i believe when it came out.. and it was a great game, unfortunately 
 my PC was not up to par. I recently got all the expansion pack and replayed the game from the beginning. 
 i have a better pc now obviously 
  
  I gotta say that this game is probably on of the best fast paste FPS games out there..
  
  The 
 best thing about this game is NO not slow mo.. AI. AI actually cahlanges you, they hide, flang 
 you, throw grenades, call for back up, covering fire, etc.. its great espesially if you play on 
 hard.. 
  
  then we got the visuals which are yes a bit outdated by todays standards, but still very good and 
 mixed with the game play its just great.
  
  we got sound and music.. kick ass... scary as isht ambient sounds... and great electronic music.. 
 kicks in when its time for some action...
  
  weapons.. WOW.. we can, just buck someone in a head.. (head shot) one shot one kill.. or we can 
 nail someone to the wall with a nail gun, or we can cut someone in half with a lazier gun, or blow 
 em up into pieces with nade launcher.. and thats just some of them.. obviously gore is present 
 in all instances.. lots of it. :)
  
  storyline in the first one is really good, the second and third part are not so much
  
  if 
 you are a FPS type person.. FEAR is for you.. no doubt about that.. 
  
  it is a very enjoyable and scary game and i suggest everyone to play it..
  
  e 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfsebastianII
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  FEAR is a genuinely creepy FPS which uses innovative methods of creating creepy cinematic scenes 
 to further the plot (or in some cases just to unsettle you) whilst never leaving you sitting there 
 as in many games.
  
  I played FEAR about 3 years after its release, but I think even if I'd played it at the time I 
 might have found some elements slightly reminiscent of other games, eg office scenes have been 
 used in other games, though not to this much detail.
  
  There were times it reminded me of Devastation and of SOF II, but overall it definitely held the 
 attention and had some creepy music to keep things going.
  
  The main unique elements are the horror-based story line and the ability to slow down the action 
 for short periods. I played the game on the second-hardest level, which meant I rarely had to use 
 the facility, which I preferred  I also didn't want to be in that constant kill-one-person-and-then-save 
 mode one can be in on the hardest setting.
  
  However it meant there was maybe 15 hours gameplay, maybe a tad shorter than I'd have liked.
 
  
  Overall though I'd say this is a game any gamer should play at least once.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShooterSammy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  This is a great game, the scariest shooter i ever played. All shooters will enjoy this game, great 
 graphics, great sound, and a scary gameplay, and this game is quite hard after me and it's very long. It 
 will take time to finish it, but this game need to be played and finished, and this game is great 
 because Monolith studios made it, F. E. A. R. 2 and 3 are poor comparable with this one.
  
  Graphics:9/10: I say that game have a great graphics for year 2005, but some details are poor
  
 
  Gameplay:8/10: This game have a standard gameplay for shooters, but i don't like the idea for just 
 3 weapons to carry. In this game you need more weapons than 3.
  
  Difficulty: After me this game is hard and you will need time to finish it.
  
  Sound:10/10: Here 
 i don't have anything to comment. This game have a great Sound.
  
  That's just my opinion you don't need to trust me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenriH-42
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Ahh, F. E. A. R. People call this game to be really scary, with amazing AI... I disagree.
  
  Gameplay: 5.5/10
  - F. E. A. R. seems to suffer from double personality disorder. The other side 
 of F. E. A. R. tries to be kickass ownage ala Doom. The other side tries to be scary, atmospheric 
 horror. Let me tell you, that won't work. How do you expect me (the player) to be *scared*, if 
 all I do is shoot hundreds of heavily armed enemies? And the worst part is, during the "scary cutscenes", 
 I CAN'T EVEN FRIGGIN DIE. How is that scary? That is equivalent of putting on God Mode and then 
 try to scare you with 10 soldiers. It just does not work. However, if you take the FPS side of 
 F. E. A. R., it's pretty decent for an FPS. But the AI is mostly following scripted orders, so it's 
 not really that good at all.
  
  Atmosphere & Immersion: 4/10
  - I already covered this above, but *sigh*, oh well. It's not scary, it's *trying* to be scary. 
 And fails. IMO, they should've made two games. One would be yet another Doom-copy. The other would 
 be atmospheric horror-adventure game ala Penumbra: Overture. They would've even made more money 
 that way. But noooooo, "hai guyz lets put all diz stuff liek together u nou?! im shur it makes 
 a great game ^_^" Sucks, but there's nothing anyone can do about it anymore.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  - F. E. A. R. does have some quite impressive graphics and effects. Very good for 
 a 2005 game. Especially with soft shadows. The bullet holes look quite good too.
  
  Sound: 8.5/10
  - F. E. A. R. gets this right, too. Especially during the "scary cutscenes". Very 
 atmospheric ambient sounds in some places.
  
  Physics: 7/10
  - Mostly your run-of-the-mill ragdoll. They are decent though.
  
  Replay value: 2/10
  - Really, 
 none. When you know when the "scary cutscenes" occur, you know everything about this game. There 
 isn't really anything more to do since the game is very linear. You could have fun just pwning 
 enemies though, if you like it. But other games have that too.
  
  Value for money: 5/10
  - I wouldn't pay full price for this. Maybe 15-20 . Or if you like all FPS's then it would probably 
 be worth the full 50 .
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 8/10
  - No major bugs. Generally works very well. Nothing to complain here.
  
  Will this game be 
 remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Don't think so. It's "just another FPS".
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - 
 FPS fans. People who like horror and don't get annoyed by mandatory shooting sequences between 
 horror.
  
  Final score (not necessarily an average) : 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samthecyber
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 2:32 am PT
Review:  Before I played it I believed that it was the best game in a long time from it's reviews, but I 
 was dissapointed about the feeling of f. e. a. r. it may just be intense at some points in the game 
 but most of the time I was just saying "So what your a ghost, now go !&%$ off to the afterlife" 
 or "Is that all?"
  
  Now don't get me wrong it's a great game because of graphics and A. I. the graphics lets you see 
 every bullet round or enemy you see. But the most amazing of all is Artificial Intelligence, every 
 enemy conforms to your strategy and gives u a good fight that doesn't last very long.
  
  The multiplayer mode is cool with hand to hand combat but I didn't find the game as fun as other 
 games such as Gears Of War and GTA. 
  
  i'd rate as a good game, worth buying, but not one of the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackhawk96
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  This is one scary game, with evil little girl chasing you and trying to kill you it really makes 
 you jumpy especially right at the beginning when she kills those SWAT guys and all she leaves is 
 Blood and Bones. Personally the two most frightening moments are the ones where you are going down 
 the ladder and she appears out of nowhere and when you go into that big bloody room and shes standing 
 up next to the railing watching you. This game is amazing you get weapons from a pistol to a nail 
 gun and not to mention the slow-mo capabilities that add a whole new demension to the gameplay. 
 The girl can seriously creep you out and your maniac brother good thing you kill him. The ending 
 was pretty good the nuke and then the helicopter were pretty cool, seeing the girls head pop up 
 suddenly gave me the shivers. If you want to play a awesome scary shooter and be challenged play 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I bought F. E. A. R believing that I was in for a real treat. Well what I got was really the same 
 old same old just repackaged a bit. The old saying, "If you've played one FPS, you've played all 
 of the FPS's." is most assuredly true here. This game is just like every other FPS that I have 
 played, say for Farcry and Tribes series. It is heavily scripted, follow this corridor, encounter 
 this bad guy, get into a shoot out here, cut scene here, and so on. The game is really not that 
 much better than any other FPS that I have played over the last few years. I really don't see what 
 all the hype is and why this game scored so high of a review. I have played it now for over eight 
 hours and it is exceptionally disappointing to say the least. It is virtually identical to all 
 of the other FPS games out there. There is now blowing my skirt up unexpected moments that make 
 me go "Wow," nor has there been any event that hasn't been predictable. This game hasn't made me 
 jump, feel spooked, or otherwise excited. It is a sad day when game players need to go back to 
 their old games in order to find one that is fun to play. This game has nothing to offer that hasn't 
 been already offered to death. Same old Same Old as far as I am concerned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesolateGrave
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  In the game FEAR, which is an acronym for First Encounter Assault Recon, you play as the Point 
 Man of the FEAR team, which, according to the game, is a secretive special operations force that 
 specializes in dealing with paranormal threats. Little is revealed about your character in the 
 game, other than the gender. At the beginning of the game, you witness a man named Paxton Fettel, 
 who supposedly holds a threat towards them, and in the game it is ultimately your mission to eliminate 
 him.
  
  As suggested by the opening cinematic, FEAR is intended to be a terrifying game, and it does a 
 good job of presenting itself as such. This is mainly due to the games' atmosphere, which is inspired 
 by many Japenese horror films. Throughout the game, your character encounters many hallucinations, 
 often which involve methods of escaping, or eliminating whatever threats appear. Alma, a girl that 
 you have many visions of in the game, is one of the main characters in FEAR, and little is known 
 about her, until you progress further and draw yourself to the conclusion of who she is. Aside 
 from hallucinations, the dim and creepy environment that you go through also contributes to how 
 scary the game is.
  
  Other than the fact that it can be truely horrific, FEAR also has other things that make it well 
 worth playing. It's weaponry, for example, can play a big role on how well you will do in certain 
 situations. You start off with nothing more than a pistol, which later becomes almost useless, 
 until a certain point you reach, where you are forced to use it. After defeating several enemies, 
 like most games, you will come to find that you can take their weapons and use them as your own. 
 The selection of weapons can range from anything like Sub-Machine Guns (SMG's) to Rocket Launchers. 
 However, it is up to you to decide which weapons would be best for a particular fight, as you can 
 hold a maximum of three weapons at a time. Other than guns, you have grenades, proximity mines, 
 and other explosives at your side as well.
  
  For the most part, FEAR, isn't that difficult of a game. However, you certainly run into some difficult 
 situations. In fact, you usually encounter at least one very challenging part in each chapter, 
 or interval, as they are referred to in the game. What makes the game a little bit easier than 
 it normally would be, is the vast availability of Med Kits that can be found, as well as the Slow-Motion 
 ability that your character posesses, which can be done by simply pressing the control button. 
 Med Kits restore a certain amount of health, and are rather easy to find. Needless to say you'll 
 still be using them quite a bit. You can carry a maximum of 10 Med kits in the game, and sometimes 
 you'll find that you have reached the limit on how many you are carrying; and you will undoubtably 
 find certain points in the game where you are out of them. The enemy AI is very challenging, and 
 they will do things such as throw grenades towards your position, find areas to take cover at, 
 instruct their teammates to do certain things, and call for backup. What your enemies say can often 
 give you clues as to what tactics they will use or where they will go next, which can be a big 
 help on your part. They can also do things such as hit you with their gun, and use a small variety 
 of martial arts skills, which you as well have the ability to use. Fortunately, you are able to 
 quicksave whenever necessary, and you can adjust the difficulty in-game if you ever run into a 
 situation that is too challenging for you to handle. Although the enemies you encounter in the 
 game are intelligent, there isn't a very large variety of them. Other than combat troops that use 
 the same weaponry you do, there aren't much more different types of enemies you will run into. 
 Not too far into the game, you will encounter an enemy that has the same abilities as you do, as 
 well as being able to turn invisible. These are usually not too difficult to spot, and they don't 
 take a whole lot of shots to kill, but still add some variety. You will also encounter heavy armor 
 troops, which usually have a very powerful laser gun or rocket launcher, which you yourself can 
 use as well. The heavy armor troops take a fairly long time to kill when not having the best selection 
 of weapons available, and their shots are very powerful too. Turrets can be found in certain areas, 
 and can sometimes take a while to destroy, though they only appear several times in the game.
 
  
  The level design in FEAR isn't amazing, but certainly isn't bad either. Although the game is linear, 
 there are many alternative paths that you can take in each level, and with certain paths, you will 
 find rewards that will help you in the game. Other than Med Kits, you can find very powerful weapons, 
 additional armor, Health Boosters, and Reflex Boosters. Unlike many other shooting games, Health 
 Boosters in FEAR increase your health permanently, rather than temporarily, so it is critically 
 important to find as many of these as possible. Reflex Boosters, on the other hand, increase the 
 timespan for how long you can use your slow motion abilites. These things make levels worth taking 
 time on, and make searching thoroughly in certain areas necessary as well.
  
  The single player campaign usually takes anywhere from ten to fourteen hours to complete, and though 
 at a certain point one might lose interest due to the fact that the game can get rather repetitive, 
 it manages to revive itself towards the ending. After beating it, you might choose to play it through 
 a second time, searching through anything to may have missed. The multiplayer can be fun, but the 
 single player mode is the better of the two. While one could say the multiplayer adds value to 
 the game, it was recently made freely available, so the single player mode remains the ultimate 
 reason to buy the game.
  
  FEAR is an overall fun game, and is well worth buying. It brings some new and interesting things 
 that will add a whole new experience to any shooting game you have played before. It's well worth 
 the money, and is not a game that missed by any fan of horror films or FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lingo123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Wow! The graphics -- for '05!? It's amazing! I love it! I love the multi-player, too. Good guns and 
 enemies. This is a game that will be remembered for years! You must get this game! I think a game 
 like this is hard to come by.
  My rating chart:
  Graphics: 5\5
  Sound: 5\5
  Storyline: 4\5
  Voice Acting: 4\5
  Overall: 5\5
  It's an amazing game! One of the best games 
 I've played!
  Wow! The graphics -- for '05!? It's amazing! I love it! I love the multi-player, too. Good guns and 
 enemies. This is a game that will be remembered for years! You must get this game! I think a game 
 like this is hard to come by.
  My rating chart:
  Graphics: 5\5
  Sound: 5\5
  Storyline: 4\5
  Voice Acting: 4\5
  Overall: 5\5
  It's an amazing game! One of the best games 
 I've played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sluggo080
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  There were some scary parts which added on to the amount of awsome gameplay because of all the 
 realistic shooting. I recomend this game to anyone who likes first peson shooters. Its only 19.99 
 now so if you just have some leftover change or something you will sooo get your moneys worth out 
 of it. Also, the story line is cool and always look out for the main villian of the game, alma. 
 The evil girl will scare you yet make you want to keep playing. There are also wo other games out 
 for f. ea. r. and they are goingto make a new one called project orgin for xbox 360 and ps3 and pc. 
 I've seen some snapshots and reviews in magazines and stuff so keep your eye out for that too. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalker700
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  2005 wasn't the best year for gaming, except COD2 and maybe some other good games, there wasn't a 
 game that left a mark on the industry.... except for one.
  F. E. A. R puts you in the shoes of the most unluckiest video game character since our lovely prince 
 of persia. Though his name or appearance are not known (HL2? anyone?) , it's pretty obvious that he's 
 in a crapper in every, second, of, the, game.
  Paxton Fettel, a nice sounding name, isn't it?... NOT. He's a psycho with strange eating habits, and 
 he has an obsession to freak you out. Are you bad enough dude to take him out and his.... oh, yeah, I 
 forgot to mention, he has a battalion of intelligent, strong, insanely well trained super soldiers 
 at his disposal, and you might need to take a few thousands of them to get to him^^charming, isn't 
 it?
  But shortly after you start your mission, something dark begins to unravel, and, it has some connection 
 to a freaky girl in a red dress named Alma, to Fettel, and.... to you?
  Graphics - 10
  A true masterpiece to say the least, another amazing engine for it's time in my opinion.
  The 
 true thing about the graphics are how much they can add to the gameplay if set to high, dust flying 
 to your face from the wall, teared down by the intense firefights (I'll get to that later) , everything's 
 being blown to bits, blood spraying like a sprinkle, and if the game is being played on low, all those 
 amazing candies will be taken from you by a mean old grampa named Crappy Computer.
  The characters look amazing, and the effects, water, blood and gore, all look really breathtaking.
 
  Audio - 10
  One of the greatest works I've seen in ANY game. The music is creepy as it was taken from a classic 
 horror movie, and puts you in to the atmosphere immediately. The character's voice actors are doing 
 a great job, especially Fettel's, and the enemies'.
  The audio effects are also great, and everything sounds the way it should be.
  Gameplay - 10
 
  Now to the best part. The story evolves from what looks like the most average action/horror plot, into 
 a complicated, amazing storyline that I've never seen in ANY FPS, that is, if you'll be able to understand 
 even the smallest details about it.
  The gameplay itself is simply groundbreaking. The firefights are probably the best I've seen so 
 far, dust flows into your eyes, walls being torn apart, things being blown into your face, blood covers 
 the walls, and overall, you're eating lead from every possible aspect. The aftermath from the fights 
 always look like a real battle took place, and that is true, after all, and that gives you an amazing 
 feeling, seeing such chaos after a battle you created. There are also some thinking spots, if you'll 
 rush into a combat, you most likely get your ass kicked pretty quickly. Cover, objects, and more vital 
 things will help you achieve victory. Of course, the thing that makes the firefights look even better, is 
 the slow motion effect, not only it looks amazing, it also adds an amazing feeling into the game. If 
 you thought Max Payne was special, think again, because this game will let you see all the battlefield 
 you create in slow motion, and all the action slows down, and lets you catch all of it in front of 
 your eyes, and this, ladies and gentleman, is a treat to see. There's also the melee combat, which kicks 
 ass. You won't be able just to hit with your rifle like in every other FPS, you have the ability 
 to perform a bicycle kick in the air, or do a slide kick, which will both send the enemy flying, and 
 once again, seeing this happen in slow motion, is a treat.
  The AI in the game is also top notch, the enemies will take cover by using desks, walls, and every 
 possible object on the battlefield, they will flank you, call in reinforcements, and act as a team, which 
 makes them a really tough nut to crack sometimes.
  Now, aside from the amazing combat, F. E. A. R, as you guessed by the name, is a scary game, but here, we're 
 not talking about the..."physical" fear that you see in most scary FPS like Doom 3. Here, we have 
 a psychological  voices... you name it, let's just say Alma has 
 what it takes to make you **** bricks. The atmosphere in this game, is simply amazing. The switching 
 between fast paced combat, to a creepy, scary moments is a brilliant idea, and though the location 
 are usually in closed quarters, that adds so much into the amazing atmosphere, a feeling of claustrophobia 
 and really, a psychological fear that stunts you (at least, it did to me) .
  Value - 10
  The game is pretty long, and the multiplayer rocks. And the game is really fun, so it's probably worth 
 another go.
  'nuff said.
  Overall: This is gotta be the most scariest FPS I've ever played, and the stunning combat in it makes 
 this the best FPS ever made in my opinion, and should not be, by any means missed by any FPS veteran, and 
 newcomers alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaykee8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  WOW, what a great game! 
  
  This game kept me on the edge of my seat making me come back for more everytime I found a new part 
 to the game or a part that challenged me, it constantly had me wanting to play it.
  
  This game had a great balance between unbelievable action, fire fights and weird and freaky scenes 
 that would make the hair on the back of your neck stand up. Especially in a scene where you go 
 down a ladder and shes right infront of you.
  
  This is without a doubt one of my favourite games of all time.
  
  The guns, the action, the 
 story, the weird, the freaky and your unbelieveable ability to go into "slow-mo".
  
  However, i found amoungst all the great things, the ending seemed to have a few loose ends. I found 
 that im some instances the game was a little bit confusing, but thats probably just me. Another 
 bad part is that the game actually ends. I was kind of hoping that it would go a little longer. 
 The actual end of the game is what dissapointed me. I didnt want to see the end of the game, i 
 wanted it to go on forever!
  
  All in all, this is a game that you cant go past. This is an amazing game that simply must be played 
 by even the small time gamers with a few spare hours on their hands. I even convinced my dad to 
 play it!
  
  If you havnt played this game or ever seen it. My advice... GO GET IT NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imadmamc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Intensee, absorbing, visceral.. are the 3 words which can best describe the gameplay.
  
  First 
 & foremost the story sucks you in. Going from "why am I even here?" to "What the heck is going 
 on?" to many moments when you will just say'"oh F***!!".. its a great storyline & the game wouldnt 
 be what it is without it.
  
  Throughout the course of the game you will be forced to think on your feet, literally. At every 
 corner you will be in 2 minds, trying to decide whether you should go in with guns blazing (which 
 is always fun) or should you take a more tactical & conscious approach (which is also very satisfying) .
 
  
  It is this duality in the way you approach this game which makes it so absorbing. The game allows 
 you to play the way you want to.
  
  And going by the way you play it the AI of the game responds accordingly. If you go in guns blazing, 
 the AI opponents will take cover, fire blindly & try to manouever you into a corner & then come 
 at you from all sides.
  
  If you take a tactical approach, they will try to pinpoint your location & try to flank you out 
 of your position. It is possible in almost every situation to get flanked by the AI as the maps 
 are designed in an interconnected way.
  
  It is truly amazing to see the AI respond dynamically to your actions & it pushes the immersiveness 
 of the game to another level.
  
  The firefights are intense & the act of firing a weapon in this game has an almost visceral feel 
 to it. Even you as the player will sometimes be amazed at what these weapons can do & how realistic 
 they sound. 
  
  And in my opinion the best way to play this game is in a semi-dark room, with the volume turned 
 up. In my personal experience i have noticed that my heart rate goes up in some of the intense 
 moments & I actually heave a sigh of relief when its over. WOW!!
  
  Graphics:
  
  Much has been said about the graphics & a lot of games have come out after this game with better 
 graphics but even today, the graphics have an inherent creepiness that really influence the overall 
 experience of this game. 
  
  Its like if you put the graphics of UT3 into FEAR, maybe the game wouldnt be as intense as ii was 
 meant to be. And no doubt with todays graphics cards, you can easily max out all the settings & 
 really have a great time.
  
  I do have an issue with the "generic-ness" of the setting in which the game takes place. All the 
 environments look very generic. They look amazingly good, but they are still very generic. A warehouse, 
 An office complex.. they all look very very generic. 
  
  Sound:
  
  Very very realistic.. the guns.. the enemies.. the quietness of some areas punctuated by a gunshot 
 followed by the clank of an empty cartridge, is perhaps one of highlights. It all sounds really 
 good.
  
  Value:
  
  If you consider the single player experience, the ever-changing behaviour of the AI gives it a 
 lot fo replay value. You will know what happens next when you play it again, but the dynamics of 
 the fights keep cjhanging. 
  
  If you consider multi-player, then there is a lot more value. Even today you will find ample number 
 of players & intense competition. 
  
  Tilt
  
  Initially you will have a tough time playing this game, becuse you are just not used to the enemies 
 coming from all sides. 
  
  In true FPS fashion, you expect them to come in a single pre-determined path. So you tend to keep 
 looking in the same direction. But wait, then you start getting fired upon from the sides, & you 
 realize that you have been flanked. Before you know it you are dead!! It takes a little time to 
 figure out that the AI is dynamic & therefore you have to keep your eyes on all sides. Keep changing 
 your position often & keep thinking!!
  
  However you will learn soon enough & then relish the one part fo your body which misses out in 
 a FPS game, your brain!!
  
  In the end I would like to say that if you havnt played this game then you have missed out a pivotal 
 game which changed the standards of FPS forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irve
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  
  This game has basically all the makings of a very good game .. slick visuals , good story , nice 
 level design. it's basically all there. 
  
  F. E. A. R has a nice length single player campaign that is highly entertaining and will keep interested 
 right to the end. It also has a nice selection of weapons including some nice and brutal effects 
 from using them and some well implemented bullet time effects to mix up your play tactics a little. 
 
  
  However, id doesn't bring anything really news or innovative to the table and although a thoroughly 
 solid title it can be substituted for any number of equally good games. 
  
  But that doesn't take anything away from the fact that if you do spend your money on this game 
 you should find it a satisfying experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slimer604
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  If you like the horror genre and love fps, then this is the game for you. Great graphics and original 
 storyline. Nice twist at the ending, especially if you wait after the credits are done, which takes 
 awhile. The only thing wrong is the storyline is hard to follow. You have to really pay attention. 
 This length is great. You cannot beat it in a day and it does not take forever to beat. Difficulty 
 levels are a big jump from on to another. This should be on everyones wish list. Best if played 
 on computer for more control. Cannot wait to play the expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkmetalf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  FEAR. The name of the game is kind of clever. First off, F. E. A. R is an acronym for the military 
 specialist team you are a part of (First Encounter Assault Recon)
  This game may also scare the crap out of you due to its well implemented horror elements and environments. 
 
  
  Premise: A genetically modified commander who, by eating the brains of his victims he can gain 
 their memories, is on the lose and in charge of a balitalon of super soldiers. You star as rookie 
 special ops man with great reflexes sent into a industrial complex to kill this man. But what is 
 with that little girl that looks like she came straight out of ringu?....
  
  Graphics: At the time, this was the system killer. Featuring a fantastic lighting system (the first 
 to feature "soft shadows" shadows that were not straight edged but softened, which makes them far 
 most realistic) The slow mo bullet trails and the bullet ricochet effects are top notch, even to 
 this day. That being said, this game suffers from the "gray world" syndrome. Nothing is bright 
 or colorful here. Which works for this game's horror aspects but does not always make it the most 
 interesting game to look at. 
  
  Gameplay: Awesomely fun. I had blast playing this game. My friend who played this on his mac laptop 
 at minimum settings had a blast. Sure this game is a fps, but it teaches the old dog a few new 
 tricks. First is the effective, nesecerry and balanced use of slow motion. You'll need your slow 
 motion to win and its a huge help but you still need to conserve it. The AI in this game will circle 
 you, set traps and ambush you. They use grenades, will hit you in the face if you get too close 
 and take effective cover. Oh, you'll need your slow mo. Included as a bonus are some great flying 
 jump kicks that are actually useful and easy to execute. 
  
  Story: The story is interesting but is not really necessary to understand completely to enjoy the 
 game. The pacing is a little slow in the beginning and a little too "hit you all at once" at the 
 end but the story is passable. Its safe to say that this game will not induce any strong feelings 
 of emotion. 
  
  Sound: I was lucky to play half of this game while my left ear could still withstand wearing a 
 pair of high quality headphones and the impression it has left me with was "Wow". The sound effects 
 are great. EAX is great in this game, the explosions, gunfire are all great. 
  
  Final words: This is a fps gaming classic. The experience of playing through this game was one 
 that I will not soon forget. The graphics themselves are now outdated, the game play itself is 
 timeless. Once word is that this game is a little demanding, so for older or lower range p. cs may 
 not be able to enable all the cool effects. I did not play the multi player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately for me I have played this game a year or to after its release. Since then I've been 
 playing games like the Orange box half life 2 series and demo-ing crysis as well as having a play 
 at bioshock. 
  With all this in mind it is no wonder that i found the graphical side disappointing as games have 
 moved on quite considerably in such a short space of time. 
  However, the graphics are also lacking in artistic flair as well. Its very much an enclosed game, 
 lots of corridors and offices that have no character at all. A lot of this is because of the destructible 
 environments, which do add a lot of fun to the game. However as a long time fan of the Red Faction 
 games I felt that this has not really moved much further forward than these games had achieved. 
 As you venture through the game very little changes and this leads to the visuals becoming very 
 boring and you find yourself wishing for a change of scenery. On a plus side the shadowing is okay.
 
  
  Next the horror part. While it added a nice twist to the game, again I found myself thinking that 
 this had been done many times before, with certain section looking like they had borrowed heavily 
 from the nightmare sequences seen in the Max Payne games. While it did add to the entertainment, 
 I did not consider it as inventive or ground breaking as some reviewers may lead people to believe. 
 
  
  The game play is where this game did stand out however. For all the misgiving i found, it repaid 
 them all with excellent gameplay. It felt like a FPS that would play different every time you reloaded 
 a level. The enemy AI was neither smart nor stupid, but human. They would some times charge at 
 you gung ho, not noticing the shotgun you were about to empty into their face while other times 
 they would take cover and flush you out with grenades. They are challenging enemies when working 
 in groups and make for very interesting fights. If you are not very good at the FPS however you 
 can use the "Wuss button" (something else stolen from the MAx PAyne games :D) where you can enter 
 slow-mo mode and carefully take em down one me one by offloading with stark precision into their 
 heads. (Just for point of record, I often made good use of the "wuss button", but that was because 
 it was dark, and I'd ran of scooby snacks!) 
  
  Other annoyances was the torch that lasted three seconds before it had to be recharged and the 
 lack of cut scenes to progress the story. 
  
  Overall and enjoyable game that is not as good as what the reviewers say, but going into it without 
 expectation you will have fun and its definitely worth looking at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serious_sam1122
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a creepy FPS that throws non-stop firefights and scary thrills at you at every corner. 
 This game is very action packed, looks great, and has a nice story line.
  
  The game starts out as your character and a special ops group called F. E. A. R. following a man named 
 Paxton Fettel, who is going around with a group of clone soldiers and eating people. Your character, 
 a faceless, speechless soldier known as point man, is sent in to exterminate Paxton with other 
 members of F. E. A. R. Unfortunately, while trying to open a gate, you leave you team for a few minutes 
 before something fries them to bloody skeletons. You are forced to move in alone against a super 
 army of clone soldiers that are very heavily armed. Luckily, point man has some very intense reflexes 
 and is able to slow down time to get his shots in. The slowing down of time slows down point man 
 also, but allows you to aim in real time. He also has some kickass karate moves, such as roundhouse 
 kicks and slide kicks. While going after Paxton, you realize that Paxton is part of a worse threat 
 known as Alma. Alma is a powerful psychic that likes to play with your mind. She appears out of 
 no where sometimes, and will make things very unsettling. Later, she is portrayed as a mangy naked 
 young woman that is very similar to characters from The Ring. The story follows point man uncovering 
 the mysteries behind Alma and why she is always killing everyone but you.
  
  The gameplay is excellent, with intense firefights that are astonishing. Bullets flying everywhere 
 and environments blowing up and smoke everywhere makes every fight intense. The clone soldiers 
 are pretty smart, as they try to flank you and take cover. They throw out funny lines sometimes, 
 such as one saying "Take Cover!" and another shouting out "Where sould I go?!?" Otherwise, they 
 will give you hell and do anyhting to kill you. As a matter of fact, if it weren't for the enhanced 
 reflexes, fighting them may have been next to impossible.
  
  The graphics are also the star of the show. There are very clean environments, and cool special 
 effects. The only set back is that every thing is set in offices environments. Rarely will you 
 step outside and most of the fighting takes place in offices spaces or basement/ basements of office 
 buildings. They get bland after a while. Another strange thing is that bits and pieces of the story 
 are told through answering machines in the offices. Characters calling other characters and leaving 
 messages as to what is going on. While most of the clone army look very good because they are covered 
 in squad iniforms and cannot see their faces are they are well detailed, there are a few whose 
 face you can see make them look plastic and unhuman like.
  
  The sound is also very excellent, and the guns sound authentic and the voice acting is quite good. 
 The different weapons range from basic pistols (which can be dual weilded) , automatic rifles, shotguns, 
 and machine guns. The special weapons include a particle weapon that fries all but the skeleton, 
 a rocket launcher that launches 3 rockets at a time, a penetrator weapon that fires out huge rods 
 that can pin enemies to the wall, and a heavy caliber weapon that tears through armor. There can 
 be a total of 3 weapons carried at all time, 4 if you count dual weilded pistols. There are also 
 basic throwing grenades, land mines, and triggered grenades, all of which can be carried at one 
 time.
  
  The mixture of high paced action and a great story line with creepy moments sets this game apart 
 from the rest. The story is a little long winded with a cliff hanger ending, but it is worth playing 
 through at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ComradeWolf
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. was a truly frightening game. One thing that they managed to hit right on the dot was 
 the little girl, many games and movies have attempted to capture the horror of seeing an innocent 
 little girl turned evil and have failed. F. E. A. R. managed to pull it off, with her frightening 
 appearances in ideal locations made me leap to my feet. While fighting the marines required concentration, 
 skill, and tactics. The A. I. in this game was very well constructed the A. I. were very intelligent 
 and well skilled when fighting, they knew when to try and hit your with their weapon and when to 
 shoot, they knew how to take cover and run from grenades. About the multiplayer, it was also very 
 intense but even though the jumping and sliding melee attacks were very cool and were a nice addition 
 to the game, it did cause some problems. In multiplayer people would tend to spam with a storm 
 of melee, rifle butting fury. Some players though online did co-operate as a team and I was very 
 pleased with that. F. E. A. R. was a excellent game in general (even with it's faults) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neothelid
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 4:33 am PT
Review:  If anyone out there does not yet believe that making good videogames is not unlike filming a good 
 flick or composing a good musical theme, then glue the unlucky sod to a chair and make sure he 
 goes through the whole single-player campaign of F. E. A. R., because this game is a milestone in 
 the fine art of inspiring terror.
  
  The introductory cutscene should become study material for any wannabe director who wants to learn 
 the basics of suspense and horror films. After watching Paxton Fettel take command of his battalion 
 of highly trained and highly equipped clone soldiers and witnessing the ensuing massacre, you will 
 be thrusted into his pursuit - but it will not be long before you notice than there is much, much 
 more waiting to be unearthed. It should suffice to say that the greatest accomplishment of F. E. A. R. 
 is its storyline.
  
  That does not mean it is F. E. A. R.'s only accomplishment, in the least. Next on the list should 
 be the incredibly smart AI you will be pitted against, which is, after Half-Life's, probably the 
 best ever to hit the shelves. Your assailants are alert, sharp-eyed and very attentive, reacting 
 to your footsteps if you run, to your flashlight if they catch a glimpse of it, and to you yourself 
 peeking around corners. If you have a clear shot at an enemy's helmet and visor, it would be a 
 healthy proposition to assume that enemy is seeing you, too. And it would be healthier still to 
 assume that they have sharp instincts: if you peek at them for too long and you are spotted, they 
 will fire on you right away - or try to flush you out with a grenade. It is downright guaranteed 
 you will sometimes cower in shock at the challenges the game will throw at you.
  
  And the worst thing you can do with a smart AI is to equip it with advanced weaponry. This is another 
 area where F. E. A. R. shines out: every weapon you find is well balanced, packs a satisfying punch, 
 and remains useful throughout the whole game, including the -seemingly- puny sidearm you start 
 with, shotguns, SMGs, assault rifles and the more sci-fi toys you will come across later on. Whatever 
 three weapons you are carrying -the game limits you to that amount-, they all can turn an immaculate 
 office into a ruined landscape seemingly taken straight off an action flick. You should choose 
 your gear carefully, however, since cumbersome weapons make you slow and clumsy - a risky proposition 
 in a battlefield as deadly as the ones F. E. A. R. will introduce you to. 
  
  As with previous engines built by Monolith -such as AvP2's-, the graphics technology powering F. E. A. R. 
 is not cutting-edge, but it certainly gets the job done. It is extremely satisfying to let loose 
 a SMG barrage on an office and watch papers fly, monitors and phones burst into so many sparks, 
 pieces of debris fly off the walls, and the dust cloud float for several seconds after the last 
 shot has been fired. While the game does not boast a diverse cast of characters and enemies, they 
 are all are very well rendered -sometimes in frightening detail- and come surprisingly alive. It 
 should be noted in particular how incredibly natural and expressive are the faces of these characters, 
 something that makes up for the lack of variety.
  
  While it would be desirable for F. E. A. R. to have a mind-blowing graphics engine, it never feels 
 the need for it: its fantastic sound department more than compensates for such weaknesses, and 
 goes a long, long way into bringing alive some of the scariest episodes ever featured on a computer 
 game. Radio static, maddening whispers, metallic clanks and bootsteps come together to create a 
 symphony of dread which the game shatters at climactic times to devastating effect. The soundtrack 
 is almost on par with that of a Hollywood blockbuster, and the excellent quality of the voice acting 
 at times surpasses that standard. Simply recalling a couple of voices and sounds will suffice to 
 send a shiver down your spine for a long time after you have finished the game.
  
  It is quite a pity that, with a few notable exceptions, the same cannot be said about the places 
 you will explore in your hunt for Paxton Fettel. One would wish for a greater diversity of locales; 
 among other places, the game is a tour de force through abandoned factories, a water purification 
 plant, a corporate headquarters and a run-down slum, and the game recycles these environs to a 
 point where you will feel you are walking into the same cubicle or office for the umpteenth time. 
 The same applies to the opponents you will encounter; in spite of all their tactical acumen and 
 accuracy, you will eventually get tired of fighting wave after wave of clone soldiers.
  
  As a final note, it should be said that F. E. A. R. should not be played in any way other than on 
 a darkened room, nor without a surround system or, failing that, a set of noise-cancelling headphones. 
 That will reward you with an amazingly intense experience you will not be forgetting anytime soon. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moognus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Who found this boring? The action is repetitive, the enemies are the same all the way through, 
 dull, grey locations all add up to a bit of a snoozefest.
  
  Yes, the AI is good and the 'bullet time' is fun, but it's been done to death in Max Payne 2, which 
 was a much better game. Once you've blown the heads off a couple of baddies with a shotgun and 
 stapled a few to the wall, you just lose interest.
  
  When you compare it to something like Half Life 2, with it's varied scenery and progressing plotline, 
 it just seems a bit flat.
  
  A disappointment after everything I had heard.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is something of an oddball, a fusion of the hardcore FPS and the hardcore horror genre, does 
 this game succeed with either? In terms of gameplay and scary moments, this is what Doom 3 should 
 have been...
  
  After an extremely cinematic and grisly opening cutscene, you are put into the shoes of a FEAR 
 operative, an organization which investigates and battles paranormal activities in cooperation 
 with the United States Delta Force. You sent into an abandoned industrial sector and soon start 
 to uncover clues as to the strange happenings in the area. Clone soldiers created by Armacham corporation 
 have gone rouge and fallen under the command of a telepathic commander named Paxton Fettel. However, 
 almost as soon as you hit the ground, your fellow Delta operatives are shredded by paranormal forces 
 and you're left to accomplish your objectives alone with the remote help of other FEAR operatives. 
 What follows is a lonely trek through several sections of a large city as you try to capture Fettel 
 and find out what else is going on in that place. From time to time, you encounter random, startling 
 events which become more and more revealing and eventually introduce you to the true antagonist 
 of the game, Alma.
  
  After a disconcerting first level, you soon encounter your first patrol of clone soldiers. If this 
 is where you think you're going to deal with these guys just as you have dealt with enemies in 
 other FPSs, you're wrong.
  These guys are different, they're much smarter than other enemies in the genre. Using the crowded 
 environments which are extremely common in FEAR, the soldiers actively patrol their assigned areas 
 and notice if something is out of place, such as if a window breaks or one of their own suddenly 
 disappears. When they do discover you, be prepared for a real fight. They use a huge variety of 
 tactics, from flanking to throwing grenades to flush you out. If they lose sight of you, they'll 
 sometimes send one guy as a scapegoat into an area where you were last sighted, while they attempt 
 to set up firing positions and find another way to you. If they are losing, they call for help 
 and for reinforcements. When there's one left, he retreats, firing blindly down the corridor behind 
 him. It truly feels as if you're fighting well-trained soldiers.
  
  Because of this amazing AI, the game would normally be insanely difficult. However, you have access 
 to an extremely cool slow-mo power. Apparently, your character has really fast reflexes, the reason 
 he was put on the team in the first place. This slow-mo can be activated anytime during combat 
 and allows you to take on many enemies without as large a risk of getting killed. The death animations 
 and bullet animations in this mode are extremely satisfying, as enemies flip over end over end, 
 spilling blood on the floor, or get several limbs amputated as they wander into the visible shockwave 
 of a grenade explosion.
  
  The campaign is of surprisingly long length, probably because of the extended tactical encounters 
 you will face with fighting multiple clone soldiers. However, it is mostly engaging and rarely 
 drags the player into monotony, often presenting randomly dispersed images and startling events 
 which satisfactorily advance the story. However, it is obvious by the campaign's end that FEAR 
 is only the first in a series, as it leaves behind many more questions than it answers, following 
 in Half-life's footsteps. Just like that legendary shooter, FEAR leaves you wanting for more, wondering 
 what happens next to your character or what Alma is going to do. FEAR's only real problem would 
 probably be its lack of varied environments, most of the game taking place in indoor areas such 
 as offices and sewers. However, the designers do make a valiant effort near the end to spice things 
 up.
  
  It's easy to overlook the multiplayer component in FEAR while playing the stellar campaign, and 
 it definitely isn't bad. The game has some varied maps and offers players a modest variety of gametypes, 
 including some slow-mo variations of classics such as deathmatch and capture the flag. It is a 
 very-fast paced mode, and might leave fans of more tactical games such as Battlefield or Halo with 
 a bitter taste. However, it is filled with the same visceral gunplay and death physics found in 
 the campaign, making it extremely satisfying.
  
  In terms of presentation, Monolith did little wrong. The game's sound is highly immersive, defining 
 every single movement or action in the game's environment. The creepy music leaves you in constant 
 fear of turning the next corner, wondering what else you might find. The graphics aren't in the 
 same ballpark as the sound, but they are still great and suffice to bring out a sufficiently scary 
 and cool experience. Lighting is most impressive, with Monolith's designers using shadows often 
 to scare the player. Textures are decidedly low-res, but since the game is quite dark, it's very 
 hard to notice.
  
  Overall, FEAR is a must play game for those who love shooters, are fans of good horror, and don't 
 squeal at a little blood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moriel73
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  This is a fantastic game. I love the play action and the realistic feel of the layout .We have also 
 bought the expansion pack , very highly recommended. If you suspense then this is an extra bonus 
 for people like me. The hair raising experience is awesome around almost every corner - I HIGHLY 
 RECOMMEND THIS GAME , AND THE EXPANSION PACK -- I have no complaints about this game --- I am ready 
 to move on to the next level --- In the online feature there are several options of play. My rating 
 is EXCELLENT for First Encounter Assault Recon --- BEST GAME OF THE YEAR AWARDED IN 2005 --- AND 
 IT HAS MY VOTE AS WELL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalepeace
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  During game not be able to break bulbs, wooden boxes; no secret areas and treasures; no reloading 
 weapon manual its automatic. Enemies always realize where you are and never stop to kill you, they 
 are not doing rutin things like talking, doing something and this is boring me. They set up ambush 
 every level and waiting you all prepare to attack you. I want to sneak around and kill them easly 
 but no knife or rope and silent gun. grafic is very well but not perfect no funny thinks around 
 you. Serious game but little dialogs. Music during playing game is average 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curgamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  Well well ,.. Fear is a great game to play late at night while everyone is asleep and your house 
 is quite and dark!!! it will scare you out of your flesh hehe, but best of all it has alot of features 
 and gameplay,.. this game its not only about running and shooting its about thinking and being on 
 alart all the time, the muliplayer is one of the best i've ever played though, and i'm still playing 
 it today,.. i like the fact that your life expand is very low so you have to be really quick not 
 to get killed ,FEAR is all about quickness and reaction time.. the first one who shoots first most 
 of the time wins the battle except if your a profesional gamer in FEAR you can start dodging bullets 
 like the MATRIX hehehe.. but you'll need alot of hours behind your PC to get there though..
  
  Well a Most have game peeps...
  
  Curgamer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yusijiro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Imagine a scene with 7-or so characters are all independently active, seeing your every move and 
 acting accordingly to whatever suits the situation best, whether it be flanking, coming in from 
 behind, or, if all else fails, a suicide charge (well, kind of) . You throw a grenade at a pack of 
 soldiers, and as they disperse and the grenade explodes, you see the unlucky one, reduced to a 
 cloud of blood with his limbs and severed chunks of meat flying every which-way. His comrade yells 
 the F-werd and is answered with a nail through his head, splattering the wall behind him with gore 
 and brain juice as his body is pinned to the wall. These unforgettable oh-sh... moments are the 
 highlights of FEAR. Superb sound-effects, numbingly gory visuals, and a slick slo-mo feature make 
 this game a real treat to play. The only problem with this game is the monotonous and often BORING 
 level designs. Often times I find myself thinking that this hallway was that, but it looks a lot 
 like the previous hallway, only to find myself in a different hallway, but the only difference 
 between the previous hallway and the one before that is that this one is filled with evil friggin' 
 clone soldiers waiting to shoot you in the face. You also fight the same enemies in the game over 
 and over again. The only difference between most enemies is their attire (mostly helmets) . green 
 helmet... black helmet... all the same. Wow! blue shirt... now that's a new one. Overall, this game 
 is a great choice for those who just want to blow people up, literally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Tweedy
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 5, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  If you just read the list of features on the back of the box, you'd think FEAR was an amazing game, 
 and the reviews have given unjust credence to that perception. The selling points for FEAR are 
 the following: 1.) Great Graphics, 2.) Killer AI, 3.) Slo-Mo, 4.) Creepy. And all of those are 
 true observations, but......
  
  1.) FEAR boasts power engine for graphics, sound and physics. Everything with amazing realism. 
 But what, exactly, is being rendered? For 90% of the game, you're looking at either bland concrete 
 hallways or generic offices. One narrow, featureless gray corridor leads into another, which leads 
 into another, etc, for miles of virtual distance through totally linear levels. Yes, it looks realistic, 
 but walking around my actual basement also looks realistic. The game presents a world that is both 
 totally believable and totally mundane, filled with realistic hammers, staplers and copy machines. 
 Who cares about a powerful graphics engine if there's nothing interesting to look at?
  
  A similar complaint can be made against the enemy design. There are only a half-dozen enemy types 
 in the game, and for 90% of it you're fighting against the same generic foot-soldiers who are differentiated 
 from each other only by slight cosmetic changes in their uniforms. They all look, act and sound 
 the same. This is far inferior to a game like Doom 3, where much of the appeal is simply in seeing 
 all the different kinds of monsters.
  
  2.) This game has the best AI I have ever seen. But the cramped and linear levels provide few opportunities 
 for it to shine. Almost all of the battle are identical: You come across 4 or 5 enemies in a group 
 directly in front of you. You always hear them talking before you see them, so you usually get 
 the drop and are able to waste half of them before they respond. The two or three that survive 
 the initial assault take up tactical positions, but your slo-mo power is so effective that can 
 easily pop them as soon at their heads poke out or else simply charge around the corner, guns blazing. 
 Yes, the AI is smart, but the game is constructed in such a way that it rarely has a chance to 
 be effective. I played the game on Hard and ran into only a handful of battles that I did not win 
 on the first try, using the exact same strategy in 9 out of 10 cases. Ironically, I did better 
 once I learned to not respect the AI and just go for straightforward assaults rather than planning 
 tactics.
  
  To compare this game to the much better Call of Duty: Dumb AI in a complex environment is harder 
 to beat than good AI in a cramped hallway.
  
  3.) Slo-mo is very cool looking, and very fun. At first, but there is no creativity in the way 
 it is implemented. The flashy effects are fun to watch, but it's functionally no different than 
 getting Quad Damage in Quake. You turn it on, and it makes the enemies miss while making them easier 
 targets. The net effect would be the same if your gun was simply more powerful. Slo-mo could have 
 been awesome if the game had been designed around it, for instance, if there had been enemies with 
 weak spots that only appeared momentarily, or if there were portions where the player had to deal 
 with multiple targets coming from many angles. But at it is, it's just a tacked-on feature that 
 doesn't do anything unique.
  
  4.) Yes, this game is creepy as all-get-out... for a few seconds at a time. While some of the horror 
 sequences are very impressive and I did jump out of my seat a few times, the long boring stretches 
 of generic office building that separate them prevent them from have any cumulative effect. You 
 spend two minutes being creeped out by the genuinely scary horror portions (which are, by far, 
 the coolest part of the game) then spend an hour shooting generic soldiers in generic hallways, 
 so that by the time you've reached the next scary part, you've forgotten all about the last one. 
 In addition, the horror sequences are totally unrelated to the plot and to each other. An important 
 part of horror is building and sustaining tension, but these are random, and so in the end they 
 add up to less than the sum of their parts.
  
  FEAR is a game that has a number of very good, original ideas that could have been used to make 
 a truly amazing experience, but these great ideas are superfluously dropped on top of a game that 
 is mundane, disjointed and repetitive. There is great potential, but the potential is squandered. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highwayman2000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  Played twice and I still can not understand why Alma is still TERRIFYING.
  
  To look into the gameplay, it starts off like a simple assignment to find some guy, Pax!, then 
 it gets dark, darker sinister, SCARY. They are moments in the game when you having a whale of a 
 time against the replica soldiers..........
  
  Then Alma appears out of nowhere and you either continue down some corridor and face the fright 
 at that time and that time alone.
  
  Anyway, luv the combat with the replicas and all. I should say - play in the dark - if you dare! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3eloff
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  - And now I have to stick with horrible crap like Path of Neo from a stink-load named Atari...
 
  
  Anyway
  
  Gameplay : 9
  Sets a perfect example how a modern shooter should be. Nice weapon choice. A. I is revolutionary, 
 this guys want your ass in their trophy case! Slow-mo bullettime is a guilty pleasure, beside a 
 very pretty scene! I was disappointed that my crew always dies before I enter the mission, I'd 
 sure love to have some company while going through those creepy environments, chased by a little 
 girl from "The Ring" and some cold-blooded ghost vampire! Graphics : 10
  Best looking PC game up to date. And this was made in 2005... I had to waste some of my precious 
 grenades just to watch them explode in slow motion. Sound : 8
  Some nice track playing from time to time. and who can forget classical little girl's laugh ?
 
  
  Conclusion: F. E. A. R is a nice experience we all some time in our life been waiting for. Game gives 
 you some nice levels, my person favourite one was watching the fat guy die! Multiplayer is also 
 offered, but I never really played it that much. Single player was just enough to scare the soul 
 out of me.
  Also, if you think you're the toughest Internet guy out there, wait till you play this bad boy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geminidevine
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  I never got a chance to play Fear on the PC plus the 360 version looks to shiny making the characters 
 looking greasy lol I hear alot of great comments about Fear on the PC and it is never to late for 
 me to play this game even though i am very late in the game. This game is a must have for my PC. 
 I even took at Fear 2 a. k. a (Project Origin) video that game rocks. My eyes just drooled over the 
 graphics. I have a high end PC to run that game i can't wait for Project Origin to come out on 
 PC. But in the meantime i have to understand what happen in the first game (Fear) in order to get 
 the full effect of the sequel. With all of these good games coming out where will i have time for 
 my girlfriend lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mobbaren
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 2:45 am PT
Review:  I have tried as many as i can get my hands on and so far nothing comes close to FEAR except halflife 
 2. Id still pick FEAR over it tho seeing as the story is nice and imo the gameplay is better due 
 to smart AI and polegun :) I really love the game being scary too and its a big plus to see that 
 it works on many systems out there. Everything from my old comp (2600+ 1gigram 9800pro) to my new 
 system (5600+ 2gigram 8800gt) takes the game flawlessly and the graphics are unrivaled to this 
 day if you ask me :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  This, in my opinion, is easily the goty 2005, and possibly the best shooter to this day. It looks 
 great, the combat is amazing, the plot is engrossing, the list goes on. This is probably the most 
 controversial title i own. when i bought this title, i was a young lad and had to get my parents 
 permission whenever i would buy a game. I showed them the demo, and even with blood turned off, 
 the answer came NO! So i thought to myself, screw that, this game is brilliant and i'm going to 
 buy it. so i did. at the ripe age of 14 a went into futureshop and bought this game. I ran like 
 crap on my computer back then, but regardless i beat the game on med settings at 20fps. I must 
 say, it was hard hiding it from my parents. especially the time me and a friend were playing it 
 at about 2:00 in the morning, and i looked into a half open elevator and alma appeared. i shrieked 
 out at the top of my lungs, AAAAAAAAAAAH EVIL!!! and my entire family came charging into my room. 
 anyways, it's great, but if you get scared easily, you might poop youreself on your first playthrough. 
 this is a must have shooter for anyone who is at least semi resistent to shock horror. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devvy01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Didn't play this when it 1st came out but with the expansion due for release 1st week in November, 
 I thought I might give it ago. With the computer settings cranked upto max, and the 5.1 sound turned 
 up loud, so it began....
  
  After a relatively quick load, your off into a realm I've never experienced before, gorgeous graphics, 
 very atmospheric sound, explosions with lots of fragments, just a really good graphics engine.
 
  
  Your part of a team sent in to discover what has happened at an experimental lab, which by the 
 time you land, you know something is very wrong. There are body parts, blood and various indications 
 that the evil has come out of the walls. Your reminded off this by the character whom you are chasing, 
 and every now and again you'll see his visions. Once your over the initial disorientation, its 
 basically a 1st person shooter where your shot at by everyone. Your range of weapons will start 
 at bullet type , but later special weapons of experimental status will be necessary to take on 
 the bosses. Lots of exploring with usually 1 or 2 ways around. Very detailed rooms, buildings, 
 you'll also need your flashlight handy, BUT watch out, soon as its seen the enemy will know where 
 you are.
  
  Progression in the game can be quick or you can look around for energy/armor boosters, but you'll 
 also need to look around corners for other surprises. After playing this for a good couple of weeks, 
 it has very good lastability and as such looking forward to the next addon which rediscovers the 
 cause of the incident.
  
  Thumbs up for all 1st person game players, play it, and get ready to be amazed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterpinguim
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  Hi. This review it is about the PC F. E. A. R. version. So what can i say? The sound it is awesome 
 with a great sound system, the graphics?? When i played this gem it almost felt that i was in game. 
 It is so real that you can see the pieces of broken glass falling. Almost everything is destructable 
 in this game. It has a great story and great creepy moments that will put your heart into Ultra 
 Speed for a little moment. It is a worth play game. Its not scary but it has its moments. If you 
 are in doubt of playing this game, dont be no more. PLAY IT! ITS AMAZING 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome as a shooter, and for that FPS lovers will just get mad about it. But if you're 
 like me, who likes FPS but also need a nice story behind it and some variety, you may be disappointed
 
  
  This is indeed one of the best FPS of the last three years. It goes back to the true greatness 
 of the FPS games of the 90s while adding special effects and some nice things as the way bullets 
 interact with the environment, which are truly form this century. The havoc, the floating smoke 
 and the overall feeling that a real shooting took place after you finished a strong battle, are 
 unique. The only thing missing is the smell or the heat in your skin, but the rest looks very real. 
 Add to this that the AI enemies are, as Gamespot acknowledged, really smart, and you have a great 
 shooting fun. For example, I still have to find two enemies that behave the same way when hunting 
 you together, and the way they seem to run and abandon the fight while what they're doing is waiting 
 for you in a corner just as you would do- is probably something no other game had done at the 
 time F. E. A. R when out. These guys are smart, really, and sometimes you may think you are playing 
 against a human opponent. Absolutely amazing!
  
  But here is where it ends. The story starts with a bang and plenty of expectations to end on a 
 lukewarm note, a so-so ending that's makes you wonder the intention of the game was not to shoot 
 to get to some point, but just to shoot, shoot and shoot and get in awe by the special effects. 
 There are plenty of missing links, and it's very easy to get lost into the purpose of what you're 
 doing, why are you going through the whole game and what, if any, is the need and meaning of all 
 the shooting. This feeling of going nowhere starts about the middle of the game, and stick to you 
 until the end. Add to that scenarios can be repetitive and that you may go over and over the same 
 cloned stairs and walkways, shooting the same bad guys for a while, and the game, yes, can make 
 you yawn. The "The Ring like" gimmicks also get predictable at this point, and all you're hoping 
 is to finish the game just to get over it. Not good
  
  In addition, to see the effects in full swing and enjoy what makes this FPS different, you will 
 need a somewhat powerful machine. If not, you are just playing another shooter and worse, a boring 
 shooter.
  
  So, if you're into FPS, please play it as you will love it. If you can enjoy FPS sometimes but 
 need a solid story and variety, you may pass this game of buy it at half price or used, just to 
 enjoy seeing a shooting very close to what reality can be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theflashxwmc
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. has a lot going for it, and in most cases it lives up to the expectations. There are moments 
 in this game where you have to just pause for a second and reflect on how cool the battles are. 
 The pace usually achieves this- and there is a superb balance between action and adventure. Here 
 are the strong points of the game:
  
  - Particle effects disperse from almost everything, and most of them with spot-on realism
  
 
  - The in-game hints automatically adjust to custom programmed keys
  
  - Foes have realistic hit detection: if shot in the leg they will stumble, bodies twist in the 
 direction they are shot at, and body parts can be detached if using a more powerful weapon
  
  - Water displaces naturally and subtly (only true reflections in some areas, though)
  
 
  - NPC AI is extremely intelligent- with foes taking cover and knocking over objects to make battles 
 more dynamic
  
  - The variety of melee attacks comes in handy - Levels change dynamically to reveal new routes 
 (ex: explosions cause debris to form a ramp)
  
  -Almost every object you see has realistic physics and doesn't lag the game a bit; even when there 
 are a lot of competing ballistics -Actually has a compelling story and goes about telling it in 
 a meaningful way (usually most fps' are lacking in this area)
  
  - The special ability actual cause a physical change on screen and makes the player feel like they 
 also posses that power (instead of just having a glowing gun or something)
  
  - Gun concepts have cool effects and look feasible - I particularly liked the easter egg room with 
 the J-pop
  
  Here are some things in the game that could be just a little better:
  
  - Can't jump off high places (rooftops usually have invisible barriers
  
  - Default controls 
 are awkward - Distant details are usually too plain - Certain textures are way more high res than 
 others (makes for inconsistent realism)
  
  - Bullet holes are too big - Too many HUD details (with no option to turn off)
  
  - Sometimes 
 there is confusing player direction (hard to tell where to go next)
  
  - Can stay underwater forever (no oxygen meter)
  
  - Inconsistent fall damage - some places 
 don't cause harm (only when you're supposed to drop down)
  
  - Lighting is always stark white- lacks moody environments
  
  - Text decals on objects is too 
 blurry
  
  For the most part, all of the weaknesses are extremely minor and don't affect the overall experience. 
 The game often trades visual complexity for fast paced action, and thus the gameplay is outstanding. 
 There are moments in the game where different strategies are necessary and the fight sequences 
 never feel repetitive. It is no wonder why this game is so popular in the online aspect and deserves 
 all the credit it has received. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skateboardking
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The AI in this game is brilliant. It is stupid enough that you can kill it, but smart 
 enough that it is a lot of fun killing your enemies. It's not much fun just blasting away at mind-dead 
 enemies, so when they flip tables, run for cover, and try to flank, it makes it much more exciting. 
 The graphics are also great. The smoke, debris, and body parts that fill the room in a firefight 
 are great and really add to the experience. Also, the graphics have a certain style that adds to 
 the setting. The game is very stable, too. I never had any problems playing it in Vista.
  The Bad: The plot is not the best, and the levels can get very repetitive. I didn't think I could 
 get tired of shooting an enemy with a shotgun and watching his arm fly off, but eventually, I did. 
 Also, although the weapons you get are really cool, some of them are too specialized to carry around 
 for very long, but the ones that are effective in most situations (g3) , get incredibly boring.
 
  The Ugly: nothing to speak of here.
  
  Overall, this is a great game that is a lot of fun to play. It looks great and the AI really makes 
 a difference. The levels got tedious after a while, but were by no means a major drawback. I would 
 suggest this game to anyone who likes FPS's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martial-law
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  A peramilitary force infiltrates a multi billion dollar aerospace compound taking hostages, but 
 issuing no demands. The goverment responds by sending in it's best special operations teams, only 
 to have them obliterated. Live footage of the massacre is cut short by an unexpected wave of destruction 
 that leaves military leaders stunned and in disbelief.
  With U. S special forces in over their heads, the commander in chief turns to his final option: you. You've 
 been trained to handle the inexplicable, armed with experimental high tech weaponry, and given full 
 executive authority to end the crisis by any means necessary. You have Reflexes which are of the 
 chart you can use them to your advantage and handle difficult situations with ease. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyerok
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  NOTE: don't know how to start all this; It seems so hard to write a review for a game like F. E. A. R 
 cause you have to be a lot more articulate than yours truly to describe this roller coaster ride 
 called 'F. E. A. R'. I could just go on talking crap like 'ingenious' 'intense' 'awesome' etc... which 
 is a good description of the game itself but its really easy to say all those things about any 
 other game that you loved playing. One of the things that I feel weird about when writing a review 
 is that I often find myself saying things that all other websites have already said about a particular 
 game ( mostly in a more professional manner) ; for instance the story elements.... why narrate the 
 story when you people can just go find out on GS review or any other review or even wikipedia. 
 So I'm not going to tell you people what the game is all about; I will only tell you what I think 
 about it i. e my opinion. Hell, I'm not writing a review for a website am I... this is just another 
 'member opinion'
  
  Things I liked about F. E. A. R:
  
  1- the ATMOSPHERE of the game is a mixture of spooky, bone chilling, gritty and it has this raw 
 nagging feeling that a dozen enemies are about to pop out of nowhere to shoot you down and you're 
 always on the edge of your seat concentrating hard and trying to look out for enemies. When they 
 do pop out of nowhere, you find yourself running around and taking cover, gunning, going crazy 
 with the grenades flying and bullets speeding here and there; at those moments you just want nothing 
 more to save you hide and kill those bas****s... hehe...
  
  2- the GRAPHICS are just amazing. Even after the release of games like Bioshock and Darkness, I 
 think FEAR's are pretty good for their own time; supported by the fact that its graphics are used 
 as a benchmark to test a systems power. combined with the awesome physics and the particle effect... Graphics 
 easily grab a 9 for me
  
  3- AI -- state of the art really :P... enemies will try to use surrounding objects, ducking, taking 
 cover, crawling down tables and to top that, the physics engine allows them to move things to create 
 cover for themselves!!! This makes things ore realistic, challenging and fun as you try to outdo 
 your AI controlled opponents.
  
  4. combat -- gritty, fast and smart. One of the things that sweeten up the combat are the especial 
 abilities given to you: using drops kicks, scissor kicks and ground sweep kicks (or whatever they 
 are called) are fun cuz you can kill your enemies in just one hit provided you an get close enough 
 to them. But the best thing that FEAR offers is the bullet time: with the help of your fast reflexes 
 you can slow things down a bit to make things more easier (and fun) for you... this also makes it 
 easy to sneak opponents or rush head on to use your melee moves. The way FEAR incorporates bullet 
 time is just amazing mainly because the combat is high quality and also because of the graphics... its 
 just cool to watch bullets fly with the slow mo on. This bullet time has a gauge though fills back 
 with time... so you cant overuse it
  
  5. Weapons -- The weapons all serve different purposes and unlike alot of shooter, every weapon 
 is useful in its own way. you can wield pistols (dual pistols as well) , submachine gun, assault 
 rifle, shotgun, rocket launcher, a rail gun like weapon that shoots particle (pack a punch... see 
 enemies disintegrate into nothingness :P) form part of the list of tools available that you can 
 use to send your enemies into oblivion. You can only carry 3 weapons though; this turns out to 
 be a good thing cuz its realistic and makes you choose according to different strategies that you 
 use during combat (as I said; every weapon has its own pros and cons) 6. sound -- Sound is one of 
 the most important aspect of a solid video game, especially a sold FPS. Fear not (: P) , FEAR has 
 an awesome sound which brings the whole experience alive. Th whispers, rattling noises and sound 
 o footsteps will often make you look around to see who's there. This and the environment give you 
 this nagging feeling that you're being watched which is really creepy and freaked me out sometimes. 
 Every sound effect, bullets, footsteps, sound of enemies, guns, combats etc add to the atmosphere 
 and makes FEAR one hell of a cinematic experience. In fact I recommend playing it with dim lights 
 or in a dark room and with a very good sound system with the noise level turned up.
  
  
  cons:
  
  repetitiveness
  
  1-- in combat -- fighting the same old enemies and using the same 
 old strategies against them can turn out to be a chore for some (not me though)
  
  2-- in level variety and atmosphere -- same old setting throughout... levels seem to be the same with 
 minimal variety... the reason I've rated it 9 is actually this other wise I would have given it 
 more.
  
  3-- holes in the story -- in the end you feel like you want to know a lot more... the overall story 
 is pretty good but it feels like the writers left some holes in them cuz it feels incomplete. But 
 maybe thats because of the cliffhanger ending. In any case, the story progress is pretty good and 
 you'll be really curious to know more about whats going on throughout the game overall an FPS I 
 can recommend to every FPS genre fan.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shailesh_das
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 4:17 am PT
Review:  FEAR has created a new mix of FPS - SciFi+Horror. Its a new innovation in FPS genre. What makes 
 it so innovative? 1. Its got a John Woo Style Action where smoke, bulletholes, gunshells makes 
 a movie like scene. 2. Its got a Matrix Style Bullet Time which i think is more beautiful than 
 Max Payne Bullet time. If you hit the Replica Soldier with a shotgun very close in bullet time 
 you shall literally see its body organs torn away from body pieces with a burst of blood shower, 
 its looks great in slowmo. 3. Its got a Nice SciFi Story which ties up the game. 4. And the most 
 effective ingredient what makes it unique is Scifi+Horror cocktail. The protagonist is a Girl called 
 Alma which is Similar to girl - Sharon / Alessa in Silent Hill Movie and Game. Her job is to Scare 
 the Players together with another Protagonist Paxton Fettel. they appear in the shadows, they turn 
 into ashes and disappaer in thin air, they even talk with you. Give you Nightmare like Scenes like 
 in the Silent Hill and Maxpayne but in this one are more visually rich with awesome sound effects. 
 5. The Game Visuals and Physics are superb. It feels like you are playing halflife2 in office/factory 
 building without a gravity gun! Physics is done good with enemy bodies. They torn apart if you 
 hit em closely. 6. A new scope based pulse weapon which turns eenemies into Skelletons in a Single 
 Shot is unique too.
  7. AI is nice too. They mostly apears in teams and have a nice team spirit!
  you can hear them 
 talking each other like real SWAT missions.
  8. Sound effects are superb when it comes to gunfights and Horror events. It scares you with sounds 
 when you travel in the dark, creaking of doors, noise of bottles etc.
  
  No game is perfect and what lower it down is primarily the lack of variety. Variety in what? Variety 
 in Enemies - There aint enough types of enemies there are same soldiers with slight variation in 
 strengths and dress. There are Mechs and Stealth Ninjas in some places which are invisible and 
 suddenly appears. One enemy innovation is a Ghost which comes in nigthmare scenes and some end 
 levels. Variety in Environment- Most of the time you play in Closed environment like Factory bldg, 
 offices, research labs no streets/bridges/sewers and other open environments like in halflife 2 
 which makes the game somewhat boring after 3-4 levels. Monolith is coming up with new Sequel to 
 this game (Monolith separated from VU, Game Characters and storylline is with Monolith and the 
 name FEAR is now the property of VU) called Project Origin in 2008 and they will take care of the 
 lowdowns (variety) in the new game. Project origin will have silent hill like effects on the streets 
 where Alma is now free and is changing the world. I expect to see new innovations in Project Origin.
 
  
  Overall its a must play Game if you played FPS like HalfLife2 and FarCry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moonscream
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 8, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  I was very excited when I started playing this game. The introduction impressed me and I thought 
 the creators finally had something that would make my heart beat faster. But as the game progressed 
 the tension diminished and the overall game play did not deliver or lived up to the standard the 
 introduction promised.
  This does not say that the game isn't fun to play for the fan of shooters. But the shooters often 
 have a tendency to make you forget the horror or terror while shooting like a mad man.
  If you have a pc with a more than a decent graphic card, only then you will be treated with the 
 amazing graphics and smooth game play this game can offer.
  F. E. A. R. has some darkish elements and I hoped for more which I didn't get. Especially the ending 
 where you get picked up by a chopper, fly away and that's it. I have never felt as empty when finishing 
 a game as with this game and Darkness (PS3) . Both games I finished playing in two nights in a row. 
 What does make up for fans of shooters is the slow motion ability. Maybe even cooler and better 
 implemented than the Max Payne version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splinterminter
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  First off, to tell you this- it took me so long to get it to work on a constant basis. But after 
 that, I loved the game. It is action packed, awesome graphics, and the atmosphere is pristine and 
 perfect. It has great guns, but not alot of them. At least they pack a punch, because they sound 
 great. Positional audio is awesome, and all the sudden movements and random sounds creep you out 
 sometimes. I start walking through a hallway, hear a noise-all it was is a pop can that fell off 
 a table. It's somewhat funny, but cool. The enemies are not too different, save the last part of 
 the game where you meet people from the paranormal dimension.... they are a pain. The ending was 
 cliche, but I didn't get bothered. You'll get addicted to the game play, because it is fast and 
 furious. The slow-motion effect is done perfectly, and will help you in the tight spots. I personally 
 recommend this game to anyone wanting Hollywood style action at breakneck speeds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FantasticalZom
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I'm a huge fan of horror games and first person shooters, so when 
 I heard about this game, I was really excited about it. As soon as I upgraded my PC, I ran out 
 and bought this game. This is what I think about this game:
  
  STORY:
  I felt like this could have been a little better. You are part of a special forces unit and you 
 are sent to check out some freaky stuff. Naturally, the plot gets more complicated as the story 
 progresses. Unfortunately, the meat of the story is told through answering machines and radios 
 throughout the levels. This is frustrating because it breaks up the action significantly. You can 
 just not listen to them, but if you don't, you won't understand a good majority of the plot. The 
 story, if you choose to pay attention to it, is confusing and requires multiple play throughs to 
 understand it completely, but sets the stage for the horror atmosphere.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  F. E. A. R.'s graphics are amazing if you have the PC to run it. Excellent lighting, shading, and 
 particle effects. Unfortunately, there's not much to be said for the art design, so, years from 
 now, it'll be nothing special. Definitely good for the time being, though.
  
  SOUND:
  The sound in the game is very good. It does well for the horror setting. Sounds will make you jump 
 occasionally. The music is good, but minimal and not very memorable.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The gameplay is fantastic. Firefights are extremely intense. Even when you are fighting a couple 
 of people, or even just one, gunfights are still amazingly fun. This is because of the razor-sharp 
 AI, fantastic level design, and slow-mo feature. This game has the best usage of bullet-time since 
 Max Payne, possibly even better. Another notable feature in the game is the melee combat system. 
 On top of the traditional pistol whip, you are able to do sliding kicks and flying kicks, which 
 are really awesome. Unfortunately, they are hardly useful at any time. The game is only about 14 
 hours, but the combat alone will make you want to replay the game over and over again.
  
  SCARE FACTOR:
  This was, by far, the most disappointing factor of the game. I think this was 
 because the plot and atmosphere set up the game to be decently scary, but it didn't quite hit the 
 mark. The game has creepy bits all the way through it, but the horror doesn't really seem fully 
 utilized until the very end of the game. Another mark against the game's scare factor is the power 
 that the main character has. You always feel like you can take on anything the game throws at you. 
 This lowers the tension, thus lowering the scare factor.
  
  Overall, this game is amazing. The gameplay will keep you busy for hours, even after you beat the 
 game, but if you're wanting a terrifying horror experience, you might want to look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thiefGarrett
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  fear (noun)  an unpleasant emotion caused by the belief that someone or something is dangerous, 
 likely to cause pain, or a threat
  -- The New Oxford American Dictionary
  
  Modern first person shooters have done a really good job of raising the in game tension level compared 
 to their predecessors. It could be the fact that shooters often incorporate stealth tactics, or 
 it could simply be that the first-person perspective puts the character right in the action, making 
 the experience more personal. Whatever the reason is, FEAR has done an exceptional job of providing 
 a strong candidate for most nerve-wracking shooter ever.
  
  The story begins when a man named Paxton Fettel escapes from a maximum security facility, and is 
 convinced by the apparition of a little girl to go on a killing spree. To make matters worse, Fettel 
 is a psychic who had been trained to control genetically engineered soldiers, and now it seems 
 he has quite a number of them at his disposal. Plus he's a cannibal. Your job as the new point 
 man of FEAR, a fictional branch of the United States military specializing in the paranormal, is 
 to lead your group into the facility and eliminate Fettel.
  
  THE PHYSICAL
  
  A key element in the success of FEAR's presentation is the amount of interaction you have with 
 the environment. During the course of a gun fight you can destroy an entire room. Glass can be 
 broken and objects ranging from stationery to shelving can be knocked over. Bullets may damage 
 the walls or floor, and the damage looks quite convincing until you get right up to it, at which 
 point it loses a bit of its depth. Even after you've cleared a room of enemies, objects may still 
 be in motion and, depending on how big the battle was, smoke will hang in the air.
  
  In order to help you blow stuff up you are given a varied arsenal of weapons, including handguns, 
 assault rifles, and grenades. There's even an experimental weapon that takes down most enemies 
 in one shot, leaving nothing but a charred skeleton. The shotgun feels extremely powerful, and 
 unloading it into an enemy soldier at close range will literally blow them to pieces. Grenades 
 also convey a sense of power as their detonation can be seen in the form of a shock wave capable 
 of rending limbs.
  
  This weaponry will prove useful against your foes, who are pretty clever. They frequently take 
 cover, will use grenades to flush you out of position, and often employ squad tactics. However, 
 your character is gifted with extremely good reflexes, which is presented as the ability to slow 
 down time. Not only does this give you an advantage in combat, but it also gives the game a lot 
 of style. It's hard to get tired of taking down an enemy with bullets visibly passing by you while 
 debris and smoke fill the air, all the while hoping your reflex gauge doesn't run out before you've 
 secured the area.
  
  THE PARANORMAL
  
  Instead of trying to startle the player, FEAR instead opts to creep them out. This usually happens 
 by way of what can only be described as hallucinations. Often times these hallucinations involve 
 the apparition of a young girl. Other times the slow motion will kick in by itself as you navigate 
 long, eerie corridors that may or may not be dripping with blood.
  
  Lighting plays a huge part in setting the game's tone. Sometimes shade will be used to keep you 
 on edge, while other times the lighting will be diffuse and washed out, giving an otherworldly 
 look to your surroundings. There are even a couple instances when your flashlight will cease to 
 work, only to have the lights flicker on, revealing an image you probably didn't want to see. The 
 audio also serves the horror side of the game. Your radio will crackle ominously, and ghastly whispering 
 will often be heard. Plus, the ambient music really builds up the tension, which this game has 
 in spades to begin with.
  
  THE AWKWARD
  
  While the game manages to keep you enthralled by way of its combat and eeriness, there are certain 
 qualities that detract from the experience. For instance, the same physics that makes it possible 
 for objects to be flung across the room during a firefight will cause them to shake unrealistically 
 when you get too close to them. Since objects will move by themselves during the course of the 
 game, this tends to set the player on edge. While that might be seen as a credit to the development 
 team, I'm sure their goal wasn't to increase the tension through jittery physics.
  
  The swimming controls are frustratingly sensitive, but this doesn't impact the game very much since 
 there are so few swimming sequences. The close quarters combat is also awkward, but like swimming 
 there are very few chances to incorporate it. Plus, I still don't understand how sliding into the 
 shins of a well armoured, genetically engineered soldier can send them flying across the room. 
 In addition there's the ever present qualm of the FPS flashlight. Why is it that a secret branch 
 of the US military, outfitted with some of the best equipment the world has, hasn't figured out 
 how to make a flashlight last more than a minute, yet they've developed technology to recharge 
 that same flashlight in mere seconds?
  
  Common quibbles with the genre aside, there are several points to the story which go unexplained. 
 You can be injured during hallucinations, yet no one else can see them, so are they real? Also, 
 most scenarios involve trying to kill a target or rescue civilians, and although the story is leaked 
 to the player slowly through way of voice mail and laptops that you come across during the game, 
 the full story could be told verbally in a couple of minutes. Add to that the fact that the fate 
 of one character is ambiguous means players looking for a strong story should look elsewhere, although 
 they probably steer clear of shooters to begin with.
  
  THE END
  
  Even though FEAR is a bit rough in some places its overall presentation and feel are more than 
 enough to balance things out. The combat is chaotic and stylish, and between fights the horror 
 sequences keep you tense and glued to the screen. Horror movies never scared me, but this game 
 actually gave me chills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baron_14
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  For this game i can say without doubt, that is one of the greatest if not the best FPS ever!!! I 
 mean this game really has all: Great Graphics, Gameplay, Creepy Story, and even creepier sound. The 
 only bad thing in this game, thats is really short it can be completed in like 2-3 days max, but 
 it has really fun multyplayer so it makes up for short single player Campaign.
  
  If you hadnt played this game i recomend doing so, because it has all and unlike Half Life 2 it 
 really HAS a story thats creepy and interesting, and its cheap now, a real MUST HAVE!
  
  
  Conclusion: If you want to play a game with Super Natural Story, beatiful graphic, creepy sound and 
 intesive gameplay, you should pick it up.
  
  REAL MASTERPIECE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutcrackr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 6:20 am PT
Review:  FEAR doesnt break ground with story telling, it doesnt take the FPS genre in new and exciting 
 directions, and it doesnt really develop strong characters. What it does do is provide a satisfying 
 gore fest of action that remains entertaining throughout.
  
  Blowing up a mind controlled soldier with a shotgun and walking through the mist of blood he left 
 behind in slow motion and then being greeted by Hes too fast while you let off another shell 
 into the poor guys head doesnt get any better. Graphically its solid, effects are very nice the 
 levels feel damaged after firefights, but this game wouldnt be anything without the good slow 
 motion it implements.
  
  The game dynamic revolves around the use and reuse of the slow motion charge. With it you are an 
 unstoppable maniac with incredible reflexes and can laugh while the poor fools around you struggle 
 to keep up. Once the charge is used up you are at the mercy of soldiers with good aim and plenty 
 of backup. Wait for it to charge up, run out and wreak havoc as you move around rockets and grenades 
 as they move passed you in mid air, again you laugh, ha ha. There is a fairly decent melee system 
 integrated but blasting guys is more fun, watching limbs fly into the air as your grenade detonates 
 on the head of a guy is just lovely. The AI has to be competent to make this work, and it is, the 
 animation (flinching, covering) makes the slow motion come to life.
  
  Of course the game paces scares with the little girl Alma nicely, first time through you should 
 be scared of these things if you are truly immersed, but second time most probably wont make you 
 flinch and youll just want to get back to fighting with your particle cannon and frying bad guys. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlazingEternity
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  one of the best games ever
  FEAR elevates gun battles to a cinematic level Creepy and atmospheric Visually amazing -- you will 
 smell the smoke Sounds incredible Wild and fast-paced multiplayer.
  F. E. A. R. is quite easily one of the most intense and atmospheric games that you'll play, and it's 
 a spectacular blend of horror and action. You can't help but get the feeling that this is a game 
 that's the spiritual successor to the original Half-Life, because it's so obviously inspired by 
 that classic game. Indeed, some of the locations and enemies are highly reminiscent of those in 
 Half-Life. This is a game that will thrill you one moment and scare you the next. F. E. A. R. features 
 some of the greatest gunplay available in a first-person shooter, and it elevates the art of firing 
 a gun to whole new levels. This alone makes it an incredibly intense game that must be experienced. 
 The fact that it's also one of the creepiest games ever made is just icing on the cake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pablo_SL
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  in my opinion this game is really good, but saying that it diserves a 9.1 it exagerated it just 
 tooked the havok engine from hl2 and use it on the game its hans't revolutioned anything thats 
 why i think its overrated. Also saying that its 9.1 its like saying that it is better than doom3 
 and other games that had truely revolutioned the game's industry. The story its not good (for me) 
 and it wont scare a baby when it is supposly pretending to scare the person who plays it, but in 
 games ghosts are not scary monsters are. I also think that it has based to much in hl2 (in the 
 sence of graphics and physics engines) to be rated that way it just takes engines from another 
 truely great game and thats it it hasn't changed anything for the game industry so I've to say 
 its overrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carton_of_milk
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I'm gonna try and make this review short (by my standards) because there's too many things i could 
 gripe about but i don't feel it's worth my time. I really wanted to love this game and thought 
 it seemed great but i was left disappointed. This isn't a bad game by all means but it isn't the 
 instant FPS classic most people would like you to believe. In 2 or 3 years from now, it'll likely 
 be forgotten.
  
  For one the gameplay is rather lame pretty much forcing you to rely solely on the slo-mo/bullet 
 time mode all through the game. Bullet time is always cool to have in games but since it's hard 
 to survive against 2 or 3 enemies in this one WITHOUT using it (or medkits which you'll get to 
 use and find so often that it gets downright ridiculous) then you pretty much have to go through 
 big squads of enemies by using slo-mo, taking 2 or 3 enemies out before ito runs out and then taking 
 pauses behind cover to wait for it to recharge so that you can finish the rest of the enemies.
 
  
  The environment destruction is nicely executed but not as impressive as you'd think and not good 
 enough that i feel it elevates the genre to a new level of intensity as the main gamespot review 
 says. The enemies come in mostly one kind and the shooting somehow lacks something to make it as 
 satisfying as in say Far Cry (which in my mind is the last FPS classic that has been released) .
 
  
  The graphics have a nice polish to it (true mapping) but it's more in the true mapping textures 
 than the 3d modeling itself because some of the background models look rather dated. The levels 
 are generic and forgettable and mainly repetitive.
  
  The story which is supposed to be one of the selling point of this game (unlike Far cry which, 
 yes, had a very lame story but never tried to sell it as being good) is throughouly unsatisfying, 
 first of all you're given next to zero info on your character even at the end (speaking of which, 
 the ending is also short, cliche and unsatisfying) even though he's a keystone in the story. The 
 horror moments are most of the time not as effective as they'd want to be and in some cases they're 
 just downright annoying (particularly the floating ghosts) . The use of the little girl with long 
 hair in her face is as generic as it has become in recent horror movies. The story is modern b 
 horror movie shlock at it's worst (i love this genre but not what it has become) , not that i expect 
 games to wow me with their stories but in the horror genre even in games i can name you a handful 
 of games that have done it better.
  
  As soon as i finished it I uninstalled it and i don't think i'll ever play through it again. I 
 feel it's that kind of game. Entertaining enough, good to kill hours on, well executed but unremarkable 
 and forgettable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: z4kn4f31n
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 5:24 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Weapons, player and enemy animations, movement, physics, rugdoll, everything is just 
 greatly designed and feels real.
  
  Sound: Good sound effects, spooky screams and nice voice overs. Music is not really there but not 
 really needed too.
  
  Gameplay: Slow-motion, headshots, weapon kicks, enemy movement everything has been perfectly designed. 
 Especially AI! Enemies really can think how to flank you or when to use a grenade or get to cover. 
 This part is the strongest attribute of the game i think. It really gets you to think you're playing 
 with real players instead of computer-controlled bots!
  
  Scare: Quality movie-like scares with bloody environments and a dream-plane you enter once in a 
 while where everything seems spooky and mysterious.
  
  Overall: This game is really worth it. Play with lights off, good surround speakers on a good pc 
 so you can get the most out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rex97213
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 1:37 am PT
Review:  I dont know why so many people like it its not scary at all and you do the same thing over and 
 over run into room shot five guys run into the next room and do the same thing again. The graphics 
 are pretty good and the slo motion is fun especialy finding health boosters or slo motion boosters 
 hidden in random spots the ai is kinda stupid were it runs right up to you and out of cover making 
 them easyer to shoot but the story is good and a great ending there is a good choice of weapons 
 but enemys are overly easy to kill because of thier stupidity. its worth your money if you can 
 get it cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiKyung
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  This FPS game is truly great game. Very creepy that can make me scream but there is a lot action 
 too. You are the member of F. E. A. R and your mission is find Fettel and kill him. While you are 
 getting close to him you will find some stories about Alma, origin, Fettel. The story is very interesting 
 and also not expected story and ending. While you are going you will have illusion that you see 
 Alma walking, glaring you, running etc.. making you nervous. Also there is Fettel illusion that 
 he's glaring at you and dissapear then you will hear his talking about Alma and "you diserve to 
 die..." etc making you nervous and knowing more about Alma.
  
  How ever this game feels like a bit short... Half Life 2 is longer than this. But there is massive 
 online multiplay game so you can still enjoy game and also there is free game "F. E. A. R Combat" 
 the online multiplay game. So you can download it anywhere. Play this game to have nice scary night. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siavash_ps3
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2007 11:41 pm PT
Review:  fear takes u as an special agent of an organization known as F. E. A. R. (First Encounter Assualt Recon)
 
  your primary mission is to hunt down Paxton Fettel. When u progress in the game you figure out 
 many things about your past. I don't like to say more about the story so try to discover it by yourself. about 
 the game play i should say that you are going to love it. when u use your reflect ability and kill 
 the enemies with your shotgun, enjoy their flying. if you are looking for a game like fear make sure 
 that u try CONDEMNED. as the last word i say: Life, F. E. A. R and nothing else! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyskenfan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 10:53 am PT
Review:  Okay, I must admit that I'm not the fan of FPS games, yet I've got times where I really need to 
 destroy something. And then, a really good FPS game like FEAR will come in handy. I bought the 
 game because I like Horror games and because it had a fantastic rating. And as always in my reviews, 
 I have good and bad things to tell about the game.
  
  Good: Very creepy. One moment, you want ot climb down a letter and when you turn yourself, this 
 little scarring girl Alma appears right behind you. **** I nearly pissed myself at some points 
 in the game. The end is satisfying and really interesting fiction. Very good story when always 
 finally is explained. Combat is revolutionary and very interesting. I really liked the slow-mo-feature. 
 AI is one of the most intelligent I met in games. Music and enviroment is really well done. Bad: 
 I didn't like the regulary change of the only 2 main things in the game: The fight scenes and the 
 creepy story scenes. Every level in the game is parted in these to things. You start with fighting 
 the clone soldiers, kill them and enter a new room. Suddenly, flashbacks appear and you'll meat 
 Alma again. Then you fight soldiers, after that you find Alma again, soldiers-Alma, soldiers-Alma, 
 soldiers-Alma. That'll continue during the whole game. And it's more than annoying once you replay 
 the game, because then, you don't wanna know about your past and have flashbacks, but to shoot 
 more enemies! That's of course why you have to use the multiplayer, so that's another story. I 
 missed some sort of skirmish mode in the game, that disappointed me a bit. Also I many times, I 
 hated that you only could carry 3 different weapons. Why? I mean, at some points I had saved about 
 500 amunition for the shotgun and then, I had to ditch the shotgun because I found a stronger weapon. 
 Why wasn't it able to carry at least abouy 5 weapons?
  Last but not least I missed the variations of enemies in the game. Most you will fight the same 
 enemies, just with other weapons now and then. And sometimes you fight invisble guys or robot bosses. 
 In the end, some annoying ghosts will come up to disturb you. Otherwise the game is great, but 
 it didn't make me buy the expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demodrus
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. game has at first been to me like a normal FPS, then when I started playing it I almost 
 stopped. Because it was a horror FPS.
  But it grew on me. The ability to destroy everything around you it's just great. Bullet holes in 
 the walls (too bad they don't stay) , boxes flying, etc. It's just great.
  The sound is perfect, it goes with the atmosphere, enemy troops communicating and hearing an enemy 
 soldier scream on his way down adds a little bit more reality to the game plus when he is still 
 firing his weapon on the way down, quite real, huh? Graphics is great, perfect in fact, the bodies, 
 the environment, weapons, bullets blazing in SlowMo, bodies moving when they get shot.
  The game it's perfect for it's way it was made. Paranormal activities, hysteria, etc. Never saw 
 a similar game. The game play is awesome too. Physics in the game, jumps, kicks, close encounters 
 and the speed of the game, the way everyone moves, dies, shoots and stuff. It is more intense that 
 you are always in darkened areas, makes you even more scared and in expectation of what's next 
 or just to get to some light as soon as possible:) Love the thing that you are not able to rescue 
 everyone, in fact you are the only that got out alive.
  Hope the sequel will be as successful as the first part.
  
  Hey, nothings perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kroich
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R.'s storyline is surely one of the finest nowadays, even with its strange ways of self-telling... 
 As for the game's graphics and all, could hardly be better for worldly standards even today.
  The only problem of it, in my opinion, is the way the story rolls. It leaves too much mystery that 
 could easily be brought to light, and what good that would make... Nevertheless a true treasure 
 epic AND a very strong one to be considered for influencing another productions, mostly first-person-shooters, 
 but also anything that deals with psychological terror, as it already HAS influenced other games 
 yet to come... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: y0gi_bear
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  Although this game is 2 yrs old, I just picked up a copy for under $20 and was amazed by the graphics 
 and sound. I just build a new computer with an Intel Core 2 Duo E6600 2.40 Ghz CPU and a Ge Force 
 8800GTs video card and this game looks and runs great with all video options turned up to high. 
 This is an excellent FPS, with excellent cut scenes and a good story line. The game is actually 
 scary. Playing this game at night in a dark room with head phones on is the way to go.
  Only played the single person campaign, so I cannot comment on multi-player. Highly recommended 
 for FPS fans. Can't be beat for under $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giro786
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  excellent game ; very creeeeeeeeeepy from the beginning of the game ; it scares the sh*t out of 
 me the music of the game is very creepy ; the graphics are awesome weapons are wonderful , makes 
 you love to kill somebody ; and this little girl character make you want to go to hell and visit 
 her i would love to see the next game of this series as it is one of the best first peron shooter 
 ever made
  
  i couldn't believe my eyes with the last scene in the game , it was amazing and very creepy
  
 
  one word to everybody : you have to play this game if you like to kill anybody and everybody 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abduls
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 3:19 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is by it's name and gameplay simply unique. It steps away from the herd of typical FPS 
 games and gives birth to a new style of genre. It's got everything from your explosive John Wu 
 style paramiltary action to the creepy horror elements straight out of the Ring. The story also 
 makes sense, for those who GET IT but I'll talk about that later. You start off with an intense 
 opening cinematic where you see an obviously disturbed Paxton Fettel going LOCO along with his 
 soldiers who seem to be controlled by him. It is there where you get the very first vague sighting 
 of a creepy girl named Alma. Such drastic events calls for drastic measures and thats where you 
 come in. You play a nameless, voiceless chracter who has recently joined the F. E. A. R. team and 
 is assigned to check out the situation. But soon, things go rough when your entire sqaud gets vapourized 
 by a mysterious force, leaving you alone to continue your task. After that, you pretty much play 
 in a lone-wolf style which I think is designed much better than Half-life 2 as you get way more 
 action, not mention some scary jolts. Turning to the game impressions. The game is good. I mean 
 GOOOOD... The action is remarkable thanks to it's awesome fire-fights. You can carry upto 3 weapons 
 which means three times the mayhem. You have your standard SMG backed by an assault rifle and pistols. 
 Or if your looking to literally blow away your enemies, you might be interested in the pump action 
 shotgun and the repeating cannon. My point is, the guns are everyting that make this game tear 
 apart your computer screen. The particle system allows you to to feel the firepower. Concrete chunks 
 falls off the wall when you shoot it rather than having a tiny bullet hole. Sparks go fizzing about 
 as the bullets hit metal, paper chunks flying as you hit a box. When you shoot a guy with the shotgun 
 you send him flying back hammering to the wall with blood spraying everywhere. Or if you shoot 
 him with proper aim, you might just manage to send his disjointed limbs or head bouncing around 
 the room. To make the fights more engaging, F. E. A. R. features a really smart AI. You fight an entire 
 squad rather than one enemy alone, and these guys mean business. They are not your typically stupid 
 bad guys who will stand in your face shooting with pauses just waiting for you to kill them, they 
 will react to your actions strategically. If you decide to stay in cover, they'll toss a grenade 
 or send a guy to check you out. If you approach from the left, they'll try to get around you from 
 the right. You can hear them making their strategies and your first impression will be that these 
 guys REALLY know how to fight. Before I forget, you also get the time-slowing ability, reminescent 
 to Max Payne, known as SlowMo. It's totally cool to see a soldier blowing apart into pieces slowly 
 and painfully. In SlowMo, you can also see the realistic effects like the shockwave spreading as 
 a grenade explodes or vortex trails of air from the bullets. It also helps in easing off some tough 
 fights that requires face shoot 'n' run tactics Towards the graphics. Great, but in my opinioun 
 not jaw-dropping. It's nothing new, but it's enough to create the unique atmosphere. Textures look 
 like the could have been much better. Lights and shadows on the other hand are another story. Everything 
 you see produces it's own dynamic shadow, even the bullet brass from your gun and for the first 
 time, you can see your own shadow. The lights from your gun, when you fire them, gives the objects 
 another light source that creates further shadows. This really helps is giving a creepy feeling 
 to the game as no horror flick is complete without a lone man stepping in a silent dark room with 
 a ghost girl staring at him from the end. The game introduces some new high-end features like soft 
 shadows or Antialiasing as far as 16x but they feel somehow like an unnessecary luxury. F. E. A. R. 
 is called by it's name for a reason. It's creepy that will hold you till the bitter end. The Alma 
 girl can pop out when you least expect it. That's the entire point, 'WHEN YOU LEAST EXPECT'. You 
 never know whats gonna happen when you open the door, or what you will see inside the room, or 
 who will be standing at the end of the room when you turn on your flashlight. Everything may seem 
 to be under control but then suddenly a dead guy will be walking in front of you. You also get 
 hallucinations when you enter a wierd area where everything goes blurr. Strange things start happening 
 then such as blood flowing on the cieling or doors that explode when you try to open them. It is 
 also a way of giving you a few chunks of the story. Apart from that, you also feel the scare in 
 the middle of the game. Doors might close in your face when you get close or boxes may fall off 
 the shelves for no aparent reason. You also get some scary sightings where Alma or Fettel walks 
 in front of you. Or sometimes, a voice whispers in your head telling you .. to die or ... it wasn't 
 my fault . It's one hell of a game, but sadly there are some down sides. Story of the game like 
 I said is great but it's too technical and fast paced. Also, it's not conveyed to the player properly 
 as to know the story, you have to unlock it yourself by listening to phone messages or uploading 
 information from laptops. Frankly, you don't get the time to do that and sometimes a player can 
 finish the game knowing only half the story. But on the bright side, the story ends dramatically 
 leaving you WOW'ed, but I'm not gonna spoil it for those who haven't played fear yet. The graphics 
 of the game are good but the problem is, they demand a heavy rig. This doesn't seem to be much 
 of a problem nowadays but it was when the game was released. For old-time gamers, you might want 
 to consider doing some big-buck shopping before you get started on the game. Voice acting is somewhat 
 lack-luster, not very hollywood-like which F. E. A. R. amazing plot could have defenitly used. To 
 make matters worse, the facial animation, well.... sucks. The characters only move thier lips when 
 the talk and faces seem to be expressionless. Apart from that, the game is worth every penny. A 
 trully orginal-in-it's-style action game that I doubt will ever get old. Well done Monolith! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huineng9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  F. E. A. R. simulates combat from a first-person perspective. The protagonist's body is fully present, 
 allowing the player to see his or her character's torso and feet while looking down. Within scripted 
 sequences, when rising from a lying position or fast-roping from a helicopter for example, or climbing 
 ladders, the hands and legs of the protagonist can be seen performing the relevant actions. The 
 game's environments are largely urban-styled and indoor; this element has received criticism.
 
  
  A prominent gameplay element is reflex time, which slows down the game world while allowing the 
 player to aim and react at normal speeds. This effect is used to simulate the character's superhuman 
 reflexes. Reflex time is represented by stylized visual effects, such as bullets in flight that 
 cause air distortion or interact with the game's particle effects. F. E. A. R. lead designer Craig 
 Hubbard stated that Monolith Productions' primary goal was to make combat as intense as the tea 
 house shootout at the beginning of John Woo's Hard-Boiled. He continued on to say that defeat [ing] 
 ... enemies ... with style was crucial to this goal and that reflex time plays a large role in 
 mak [ing] the player feel like an action movie hero. 
  
  The game contains weapons based on non-fictional firearms, such as pistols, assault rifles and 
 submachine guns, as well as entirely fictional armaments like particle beam weapons. Each firearm 
 differs in terms of ammunition type, accuracy, range, fire rate, damage and bulkiness. The latter 
 characteristic affects the player's character, as more cumbersome weapons slow the player's maneuvers. 
 Monolith Productions stated that it aimed for a balanced arsenal where each weapon serves a specific 
 function, rather than just going with a bunch of real-world submachine guns and assault rifles. 
 F. E. A. R.'s heads-up display crosshair's size dynamically shows where shots will fall based on movement, 
 aim and the weapon in use. The player may carry only three firearms at a time; thus, strategy is 
 required when using and selecting weapons. All weapons possess m&ecirc; l&eacute; e attacks, and 
 a hand-to-hand combat system allows unarmed players to attack with maneuvers including punches 
 and kicks.
  
  F. E. A. R.'s artificial intelligence allows computer-controlled characters a large degree of action. 
 Enemies can duck to travel under crawlspaces, jump through windows, vault over railings, climb 
 ladders and push over large objects to create cover. Various opponents may act as a team, taking 
 back routes to surprise the player, using suppressive fire or taking cover if under fire. The game's 
 artificial intelligence is often cited as being highly advanced, and its efficiency helped the 
 game win GameSpot's 2005 Best AI Award. 
  
  Multiplayer
  
  F. E. A. R.'s multiplayer component includes mainstay gameplay modes, such as Deathmatch, Team deathmatch, 
 Capture the flag and Last man standing. Control and Conquer All gametypes were later added through 
 a patch. These new gametypes feature rules similar to Unreal Tournament's Domination gametype. 
 Some gametypes in F. E. A. R.'s multiplayer utilize the reflex time effect: SlowMo Deathmatch, SlowMo 
 Team deathmatch and SlowMo Capture the flag. In multiplayer, a power-up must be collected to enable 
 this ability. As each map contains only one such power-up, acquiring it gives players a large advantage 
 over their opponents.
  
  On August 17, 2006, F. E. A. R.'s multiplayer component was retitled F. E. A. R. Combat and made available 
 for free download. [15] Downloaders of F. E. A. R. Combat and owners of F. E. A. R.'s retail edition may 
 play together online.
  
  Atmosphere
  
  A core element of F. E. A. R. is its horror theme, which was heavily inspired by Japanese horror. 
 The design team attempted to keep [the] psychology of the encounter in the player's mind at all 
 times, in order to get under [the player's] skin , as opposed to the in your face 'monsters jumping 
 out of closets' approach . Lead designer Craig Hubbard stated in an interview that horror is extremely 
 fragile ... you can kill it by spelling things out too clearly and you can undermine it with too 
 much ambiguity . He remarked that he attempted to strike a balance with the narrative elements 
 of F. E. A. R., to give players enough clues so that [they] can form [their] own theories about what's 
 going on, but ideally [they will] be left with some uncertainty . Lead level designer John Mulkey 
 stated, Creating expectation and then messing with that expectation is extremely important, predictability 
 ruins a scary mood . A horror sequence.
  
  The main source of the game's horror is Alma, a ghostly little girl. Craig Hubbard remarked that 
 a guy in a mask chasing co-eds with a meat cleaver can be scary, but on some level you're thinking 
 to yourself you could probably kick his ass if you got the drop on him ... but when a spooky little 
 girl takes out an entire Delta Force squad, how are you supposed to deal with that? While Alma 
 has been compared to the character Samara from The Ring, Craig Hubbard stated that she was born 
 out of a tradition of eerie, faceless female ghosts and not as an answer to any specific movie 
 character . Hubbard acknowledged that Alma admittedly bears some visual resemblance to the ghosts 
 in Dark Water or S&eacute; ance, but creepy little girls have been freaking [him] out since The 
 Shining .
  
  F. E. A. R.'s audio was designed in the style of Japanese horror films, with the sound engineers using 
 inexpensive equipment to create sound effects, utilizing methods including dragging metal across 
 different surfaces and recording pump sounds. Monolith Productions commented, The sound designers 
 had to be concerned with avoiding predictability, since [l] isteners are smart ... they will recognize 
 your formula quickly and then you won't be able to scare them anymore. Silence was also utilized 
 in order to allow players to fill in the space, which lets their imagination create their own personal 
 horror .
  
  Monolith Productions composed F. E. A. R.'s music in reaction to scenes, instead of creating a formula 
 that would consistently produce music throughout the game . The design team called F. E. A. R.'s music 
 structure more cerebral and tailored to each individual event , and continued that sometimes the 
 music is used to ratchet up the tension to toy with players ... [it] will build to a terrifying 
 crescendo before cutting off without a corresponding event, only to later have the silence shattered 
 by Alma, when players least expect it. 
  
  F. E. A. R.'s horror theme was praised by critics. Game Informer claimed that ... the frequent spooky 
 head trips that Monolith has so skillfully woven together make an experience that demands to be 
 played. IGN opined that the environment has been so well-crafted to keep you edgy and watchful 
 ... [that] playing the game for a few hours straight can get a little draining. GameSpot reacted 
 similarly, calling F. E. A. R.'s horror exceedingly effective, and agreeing that it can leave you 
 a bit emotionally exhausted after a while. 
  
  Synopsis
  
  Plot
  
  The story of F. E. A. R. is presented in such a way that only a few minor plot elements are presented 
 in the game's beginning, thus allowing players to experience the adventure as the hero [es] in [their] 
 own spine-tingling epic of action, tension and terror. The manual briefly mentions the player character's 
 recent induction as Point man to the F. E. A. R., a secret special operations group of the U. S. government 
 specialized in dealing with paranormal threats. The character's extraordinarily reactive reflexes 
 are described as well, hinting that the government is interested in his abilities. When the game 
 begins, the player witnesses a man named Paxton Fettel taking command of a battalion of telepathically 
 controlled clone supersoldiers, seizing control of the Armacham Technology Corporation (ATC) structure 
 and killing all its occupants.
  
  Now fully in control of the Point Man, the player attends a briefing held by Commissioner Betters, 
 in the company of his F. E. A. R. team-mates Jankowski and Jin Sun-Kwon. The team's mission consists 
 of eliminating Fettel, operating in conjunction with Delta Force. Fettel is located by means of 
 a satellite tracking device and hunted by F. E. A. R. and Delta Force over several locations. The 
 search for Fettel begins at a water treatment plant and later continues at Armacham headquarters. 
 While the villain evades capture by the special forces, the player witnesses unexplained and occasionally 
 life-threatening paranormal phenomena, including frequent hallucinations, all of which center around 
 a little girl in a red dress named Alma. Laptops found during the course of the mission, hacked 
 by Commissioner Betters, provide details regarding the background story. The player learns that 
 Fettel was raised to become a telepathic military commander as part of ATC project Origin. He is 
 the son of Alma, who is described as being a powerful psychic. The player also learns of the existence 
 of another child of Alma, who was before Fettel.
  
  All clues lead F. E. A. R. to believe Fettel is under control of Alma, who was buried within the Origin 
 facility when ATC closed down the project because of the danger posed by the woman. Now the villain 
 is searching for that same facility to free his mother. The player eventually takes the Point Man 
 to the abandoned structure, fighting back both the clone soldiers and ATC, whose security agents 
 have received orders to cover up the whole affair. When the protagonist finally comes face-to-face 
 with Fettel, he is drawn into a hallucination where the player learns that the Point Man is Alma's 
 first son. After this hallucination, the player is able to kill Fettel. Nonetheless, Alma is freed 
 when her storage chamber is opened by an ATC researcher, Harlan Wade, who feels guilty about the 
 company's treatment of her; eventually, it is revealed Alma shares Wade's name, implying that he 
 is her father. The player is then called upon to sabotage the structure's reactor, [35] to destroy 
 the facility. In the aftermath of the detonation, a Delta Force UH-60 Black Hawk extracts the Point 
 Man from the rubble. While the player and the survivors of the F. E. A. R team survey the results 
 of the explosion from the helicopter, Alma makes one last appearance, preparing to pull herself 
 up into the helicopter's cabin. The destruction of the Origin facility has not stopped her quest 
 for revenge.
  
  After the game's credits, the player can listen to a phone call between a mysterious senator and 
 ATC president Aristide, which offers some further explanation: The president considers the project 
 under control and deems the first prototype (ostensibly the Point Man) a success.
  
  Characters and organizations
  
  During the course of the game, the player interacts with a 
 number of different characters from various organizations. Some of them are allies, such as the 
 F. E. A. R. and Delta Force team members, while others are hostile, such as Fettel's soldiers and 
 some ATC personnel. The player's character never speaks, and instead participates in one-sided 
 discussions with other characters. On occasion, the Point Man is required to hand a communicator 
 to other characters, allowing them to speak over the F. E. A. R. team radio. No artificial  
 characters fight alongside the player in F. E. A. R., except for during some sequences in the expansion 
 Extraction Point.
  
  Development
  
  F. E. A. R. was announced at an E3 2004 pre-show, though its existence as an untitled project was 
 revealed prior to this announcement. The game's first trailer later premiered at E3 2004 and was 
 well-received by critics. During the E3 2004 showing, F. E. A. R.'s lead designer, Craig Hubbard, 
 stated that the game evolved out of a concept we started developing right after Shogo that we've 
 been dying to work on. Monolith Productions' director of technology, Kevin Stephens, later elaborated 
 that this concept was to make an action movie in a first-person shooter, where you really feel 
 like an action star. To this effect, the team focused on immersing the player, utilizing elements 
 like a silent, nameless protagonist with an unknown background, and allowing the player to see 
 the protagonist's body when looking down or sideways.
  
  During 2005, F. E. A. R. made playable appearances at Consumer Electronics Show, Game Developers Conference 
 and E3, all of which were well-received. Its showing at E3 garnered it the Game Critics Award for 
 Best Action Game. [46] After the release of a single-player demo, Vivendi allowed gaming journalists 
 to play through the first four levels of the game, which received even more positive reaction than 
 before. F. E. A. R. eventually released on October 18, 2005. Alongside the basic CD-ROM edition, a 
 Director's Cut DVD version of F. E. A. R. was released with a number of extra features. A Dark Horse 
 Entertainment comic book and a series of live action vignettes help clarify a number of plot elements 
 depicted in the game, while the Making of F. E. A. R. and Developers' commentary documentaries offer 
 several insights and trivia into the game's development through interviews with employees of Monolith 
 Productions and Vivendi. Also included is the exclusive first episode of the F. E. A. R. machinima, 
 P. A. N. I. C. S., created by Rooster Teeth Productions. 
  
  Over the course of the Developer's roundtable commentary, producer Chris Hewitt reveals, We had 
 a whole level in the game where we had this car chase sequence [...] we spent about two months 
 on that thing.... But the car chase sequence didn't work the way we hoped it would, adds designer 
 Craig Hubbard, commenting on the choice to remove that level from the game. [51] Hewitt also comments 
 that, Actually we started off with two villains, and [Fettel] was one of them until we merged them 
 together.... Craig Hubbard also remarks that his jacket actually used to belong to another villain 
 we had in the game named Conrad Krieg, whom we combined with Fettel pretty literally. 
  
  Engine technology
  
  F. E. A. R. is the first game developed using the newest iteration of Monolith's 
 Lithtech engine. Codenamed Jupiter EX, the F. E. A. R. engine is driven by a DirectX 9 renderer and 
 has seen major advancements from its direct precursor, Jupiter. The new engine includes both Havok 
 physics and the Havok Vehicle Kit, which adds support for common vehicle behavior. This latter 
 feature goes mostly unused in F. E. A. R., as no vehicles appear outside of scripted sequences.
  
  Graphically, F. E. A. R. utilizes normal mapping and parallax mapping to give textures a more 
 realistic appearance; the latter is used to give the appearance of depth to flat bullet hole sprites 
 on walls. Volumetric lighting and lightmapping are included with the addition of a per-pixel lighting 
 model, allowing complex lighting effects to be developed. Vertex, pixel and high-level shaders, 
 including a host of additional special effects, are also featured in Jupiter EX.
  
  Reception
  
  Prior to release, F. E. A. R. generated large amounts of hype from computer game 
 journalists. Upon release, F. E. A. R. received critical acclaim, with Computer Gaming World calling 
 it one of the year's top single-player shooters [54] and PC Gamer regarding it as the first game 
 to convincingly channel the kinetic exhilaration of 'John Woo violence' in the FPS format. 
  
  IGN claimed that Monolith forges new shooter territory with some truly freaky elements, challenge, 
 fun, and beauty. GameSpy praised the game's plot, later awarding it their Best Story Game of the 
 Year award. The New York Times thought differently, stating I was never quite clear on what was 
 going on in the game. I knew my goal&amp;#8212; track down a psychic, escort a corporate executive's 
 daughter out of danger&amp;#8212; but I didn't ever care who these people were nor did I understand 
 their motives. The game has also received criticism for its system requirements, which call for 
 an extremely powerful PC.
  
  Maximum PC stated that Monolith did a great job with both the in-game sounds and the soundtrack 
 ... the spooky audio makes exploring deserted ruins creepy, and the positional sound works to great 
 effect; sinister noises like breaking bottles and creaking metal come from your rear channels with 
 just the right frequency to freak you out, but after eight hours of battling the exact same opponents, 
 in a perfectly linear environment, it&amp;#8217; s tough to remain enthusiastic. GameSpot also found 
 the game slightly repetitive, but still called it quite easily one of the most intense and atmospheric 
 games that you'll play and later awarded it their Shooter of the Year prize. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kunnown
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  I just LOVE it!! The story is surprisingly good, it&acute; s catchy and very well explored.
  About the gameplay, the overall system is not revolutionary, but I think the SlowMo mode pretty 
 much pays the game by itself: the EXTREMELY well designed game engine becomes just plain wicked 
 here. You can even see how the clones soldiers get blown away after firing a well placed shotgun 
 shot.
  The graphics are spooktacular, setting the creepy ambient this game needs. Speaking about creepiness, 
 don&acute; t believe what they say: the game is scary, I&acute; ve gotta admit that, but it isn&acute; t 
 THAT scary. Except for some (actually, a good amount) truly stroking moments, the game is mostly 
 composed of sci-fi greatness. However, as you can see in the score I gave, F. E. A. R. is a fine example 
 of how insane and intelligent some videogames designers are these days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jooj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  I loved this game which I picked up in the bargain bucket when I bought bioshock and I have to 
 say I preferred it to that.
  
  Forget the initially interesting but later tedious plasmids, gear manufacturing and a plot that 
 so many people seem to class as 'original' (when, in fact it's a melding of the L2 teams earlier 
 works bioforge and system shock) , this hands out a plot that's just as good (sort of a combination 
 of 'Ringu' and 'Akira' with a smattering of other J-horror and Manga references thrown in and the 
 best gunfights in any game ever. Every weapon is a joy to wield from the lowliest dual wielded 
 pistol to the mighty particle cannon, the nail gun that actually pins targets to the wall, door 
 or whatever else might be behind them, vision warping grenades etc etc. And then there are your 
 reflexes aka 'bullet time' so you can watch your enemies every reflex and convulsion as you take 
 them down in glorious slow motion. Made better by superb AI and rag doll physics, catch a guy in 
 the leg with your shotgun as he vaults over a railing and he'll be thrown off balance, an easy 
 target for subsequent shots.
  
  This is not something one will tire of easily (whereas in the later stages of bioshock I did actually 
 down the difficulty and switch the quest arrow back on just to get it over with) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonobubbles
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Easily the most advanced AI to date, even more advanced than FarCry; enemies are smart and 
 brutally tough, and will work in unison with a sort of hive mind and use advanced tactics to flank 
 you; insanely intense firefights; hand to hand combat is downright cool, and along with slow-mo, 
 gives the game a sort of Matrix feel; basically pretty good from an actual gameplay and control 
 standpoint; somewhat destructible environments; impressive graphics; most people found it scary, 
 I didn't, but very little scares me so that's not a good measure. Cons: weak and underdeveloped 
 storyline (a ripoff of The Ring, combined with nonsense about clone soldiers and a telepathic vampire) 
 that doesn't really come together until about 10 minutes before the game ends; idea of a clone 
 army seems like an all-too-convenient plot device to justify the fact that you only face off against 
 a few enemy character models; extremely repetitive and uninspired warehouse, office, and lab environments, 
 with little to differentiate one room from the last or the next, which seems like a huge letdown 
 after playing games with extremely varied locales, like HL2 and FarCry; unlike HL2, doesn't really 
 do much with its physics engine; many of the weapons are stuck in an irritating semi-auto mode 
 which makes them less effective at getting headshots than they would be otherwise; slowdown on 
 my system unless I took the settings back to medium 1024x768 no AA, 4xAF, but then again my PC 
 is a piece of crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RelXe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 2:30 am PT
Review:  Never have i been so scared of a movie, game or whatever then to this game.
  This game is so rediculously scary.
  The way the game looks, the suspense, the sounds the flashes 
 everything is formed perfectly together it's just amazing :)
  Now the gameplay. Gameplay is also very cool, like the slo-mo, the way the weapons shoot, the jumping 
 everything feels so solid.
  The only bad thing about the game is well... like almost every other game.. it's too short : (
 
  And then there is the multiplayer. And can't really vouch for that either.
  But thank the gamegods for an expansion and fear 2 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolf-Man2006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  I have seen a lot of FPS games that do not have what F. E. A. R showed us. I don't think its scary 
 however, just creepy. I don't see why people jump when Alma appears out of nowhere, but thats them 
 obviously. FEAR does have some great intense shoot-outs (you can go in slow-mo for a brief time, 
 which heats things up) . There's a lot of positive notes I can mention about F. E. A. R, but I will 
 warn you that it can get repetitive in some spots (Since you are fighting the same soldiers and 
 units) . Also, the MP is great ,but you need to be really good because people will mostly use the 
 melee attack (its overpowered) . If you like creepy horror/FPS games, you should check this out 
 (if you can run it) .
  
  P. S Parents, this is not for kids. There's blood/gore and some language (not as bad as GTA, but 
 still a warning) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pavel_nedved_br
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  I just got to know F. E. A. R. some time ago (about a year) and it gained my respect and admiration.
 
  
  There are many awesome first person shooters out there, however F. E. A. R. experience is somewhat 
 different, since it mixes the old-school FPS with the thrilling of survival horrors like Silent 
 Hill.
  
  Graphics - 9,0: By 2005 standards the graphics are impressive, with many details, specially lighting 
 taking a step into the next generation of video gaming.
  
  Sound - 10: Sound is the most impressive part of F. E. A. R.. If you pay close attention to the environment 
 sounds you'll notice what I am talking about.
  F. E. A. R.'s sound provides that mood we're used to on games like Silent Hill, except you don't have 
 time to breath, since you'll find enemies all around.
  
  Gameplay - 9,0: F. E. A. R. is not a difficult game to play, however every time you're not expecting 
 something to happen it happens, and in other situations the sound makes you believe that hell is 
 near, but it's just a false alarm.
  The controls are the same as most FPS, with no difference at all.
  
  F. E. A. R. is a worth buying 
 and exceptional game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiWinston
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 12:21 am PT
Review:  This game has a very spooky storyline. It is one of the scariest and though out of it's genre. 
 You are not fighting aliens or monsters, you are fighting against an enemy who looks like they 
 could be your next door neighbor. The AI is very well done. The enemy doesn't come full bore at 
 you. They will duck for cover and shoot from behind the cover. Kind of wild having a guy hiding 
 behind a box throwing grenades your direction. The hallucinations are very creepy. Who is this 
 girl? Why does she keep appearing and disappearing in thin air? The only thing that distracted 
 me was the slight pause for the auto save. Very well done. This game is a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZylarDream
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  This is one cool game, I am big into FPS and I will have to say this is the best one that has come 
 out in a while. Twists and turns and phantoms make the game play less than ordinary, and the slo-mo 
 option helps in tight situations. This is a must have of any gamer in need of near instantaneous 
 action. I set the surround sound about halfway up and turned out the lights for the best effect 
 possible, caught myself jumping a few times. Wow what a thrill it is to be wary as well as enthralled 
 with this masterful title from Sierra, those guys put out some cool games. Not since Quake have 
 I been into a game with as much vigor as I do with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy2
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  + Slow-motion fighting is always fun.
  + Multi player is a real blast.
  - Single player is around 5 hours long. That's really short.
  - Limited weapons.
  
  Thank 
 the heavens that Max Payne paved a way for slow-motion in gaming, or else, we might not have a 
 game like F. E. A. R.. F. E. A. R. stands out from shooters today for it's ability to slow down time 
 with the click of a button, and because it's really gory, which is a good thing. The graphics are 
 superb and the audio is really amazing. Only downfall of having a high-profile game is it comes 
 at a hardware cost. You'll won't be running this game on low settings with 256MB of memory (which 
 why in the world would you only have that in today's world?) .
  
  The single player portion of the game is alright. There's nothing really exciting about it, especially 
 giving the length in which to beat it. I beat it around 5 hours, which after playing many great 
 first person shooters, such as Half-Life, you really wonder why they decided to make the game this 
 short. Other than that, the levels are extremely linear, which makes the game really easy. I really 
 didn't have any trouble knowing where to go next, which is a good thing and a bad thing. There 
 should have been more puzzles laying around the game. The characters in the game are very limited 
 as well. You'll fight a total of 5 or 6 different style enemies: humans, Robocop robots, flying 
 robots, and some ghosts. There's nothing too special about them, aside from the robots are harder 
 to kill. The good thing about the slow-motion is that you can literally aim better, as well as 
 get a few cool looking shots in at the last moment. The bad thing is that the slow-motion makes 
 the game extremely easy. The last really bad thing about the single player is the lack of an end-game 
 boss. The game just sort of ends, after a short epilogue. Being it's a horror game, I'm really 
 not sure what I was suppose to be scared of. I jumped once or twice, but that was pretty much it. 
 The quality of the story was pretty good though. They have some good twist at the end, leaving 
 you wanting more, which is exactly what happens.
  
  As far as the single player goes, the game was very mediocre, at best. However, the multi player, 
 is where it's at. There's a lot of options in the game types, such as your typical DM/TDM all the 
 way to Slo-Mo DM, which is generally a mix of DM and capture the flag. You run and look for a device 
 to slow down time, all the while fighting off everyone that's following your glow. However, if 
 you happen to charge up your Slo-Mo, you can literally slow down time to your advantage, meaning 
 you'll move slightly faster than everyone and shoot more accurately. There's plenty of really good 
 maps to fight on as well. You'll recognize a lot of the single player areas in the multi player, 
 which is pretty cool.
  
  The only thing that really doesn't do it for me about the weapons is the lack of selection. There's 
 some really unique weapons (the predator, or spike gun, to some) , but overall, the weapons are 
 just pretty boring. However, in the multi player, you won't really mind as much since one of your 
 best weapons is going to be your melee combat.
  
  I recommend this game for someone looking for some amazing multi player, but I really can't recommend 
 the single player to anyone. It really feels like a console first person shooter, meaning it is 
 shorter than normal, and very limited. However, I really don't even recommend buying the game unless 
 you just want to support Sierra and Monolith. You can download F. E. A. R. Combat, which is the full 
 multi player experience of F. E. A. R. for free on their website. Maybe if they release a platinum 
 edition of F. E. A. R. (with both new expansions) , I could recommend it as a purchase, but it's really 
 nothing more than a few hours of fun, aside from the multi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThereIsNoEscape
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  In the game FEAR, which is an acronym for First Encounter Assault Recon, you play as the Point 
 Man of the FEAR team, which, according to the game, is a secretive special operations force that 
 specializes in dealing with paranormal threats. Little is revealed about your character in the 
 game, other than the gender. At the beginning of the game, you witness a man named Paxton Fettel, 
 who supposedly holds a threat towards them, and in the game it is ultimately your mission to eliminate 
 him.
  
  As suggested by the opening cinematic, FEAR is intended to be a terrifying game, and it does a 
 good job of presenting itself as such. This is mainly due to the games' atmosphere, which is inspired 
 by many Japenese horror films. Throughout the game, your character encounters many hallucinations, 
 often which involve methods of escaping, or eliminating whatever threats appear. Alma, a girl that 
 you have many visions of in the game, is one of the main characters in FEAR, and little is known 
 about her, until you progress further and draw yourself to the conclusion of who she is. Aside 
 from hallucinations, the dim and creepy environment that you go through also contributes to how 
 scary the game is.
  
  Other than the fact that it can be truely horrific, FEAR also has other things that make it well 
 worth playing. It's weaponry, for example, can play a big role on how well you will do in certain 
 situations. You start off with nothing more than a pistol, which later becomes almost useless, 
 until a certain point you reach, where you are forced to use it. After defeating several enemies, 
 like most games, you will come to find that you can take their weapons and use them as your own. 
 The selection of weapons can range from anything like Sub-Machine Guns (SMG's) to Rocket Launchers. 
 However, it is up to you to decide which weapons would be best for a particular fight, as you can 
 hold a maximum of three weapons at a time. Other than guns, you have grenades, proximity mines, 
 and other explosives at your side as well.
  
  For the most part, FEAR, isn't that difficult of a game. However, you certainly run into some difficult 
 situations. In fact, you usually encounter at least one very challenging part in each chapter, 
 or interval, as they are referred to in the game. What makes the game a little bit easier than 
 it normally would be, is the vast availability of Med Kits that can be found, as well as the Slow-Motion 
 ability that your character posesses, which can be done by simply pressing the control button. 
 Med Kits restore a certain amount of health, and are rather easy to find. Needless to say you'll 
 still be using them quite a bit. You can carry a maximum of 10 Med kits in the game, and sometimes 
 you'll find that you have reached the limit on how many you are carrying; and you will undoubtably 
 find certain points in the game where you are out of them. The enemy AI is very challenging, and 
 they will do things such as throw grenades towards your position, find areas to take cover at, 
 instruct their teammates to do certain things, and call for backup. What your enemies say can often 
 give you clues as to what tactics they will use or where they will go next, which can be a big 
 help on your part. They can also do things such as hit you with their gun, and use a small variety 
 of martial arts skills, which you as well have the ability to use. Fortunately, you are able to 
 quicksave whenever necessary, and you can adjust the difficulty in-game if you ever run into a 
 situation that is too challenging for you to handle. Although the enemies you encounter in the 
 game are intelligent, there isn't a very large variety of them. Other than combat troops that use 
 the same weaponry you do, there aren't much more different types of enemies you will run into. 
 Not too far into the game, you will encounter an enemy that has the same abilities as you do, as 
 well as being able to turn invisible. These are usually not too difficult to spot, and they don't 
 take a whole lot of shots to kill, but still add some variety. You will also encounter heavy armor 
 troops, which usually have a very powerful laser gun or rocket launcher, which you yourself can 
 use as well. The heavy armor troops take a fairly long time to kill when not having the best selection 
 of weapons available, and their shots are very powerful too. Turrets can be found in certain areas, 
 and can sometimes take a while to destroy, though they only appear several times in the game.
 
  
  The level design in FEAR isn't amazing, but certainly isn't bad either. Although the game is linear, 
 there are many alternative paths that you can take in each level, and with certain paths, you will 
 find rewards that will help you in the game. Other than Med Kits, you can find very powerful weapons, 
 additional armor, Health Boosters, and Reflex Boosters. Unlike many other shooting games, Health 
 Boosters in FEAR increase your health permanently, rather than temporarily, so it is critically 
 important to find as many of these as possible. Reflex Boosters, on the other hand, increase the 
 timespan for how long you can use your slow motion abilites. These things make levels worth taking 
 time on, and make searching thoroughly in certain areas necessary as well.
  
  The single player campaign usually takes anywhere from ten to fourteen hours to complete, and though 
 at a certain point one might lose interest due to the fact that the game can get rather repetitive, 
 it manages to revive itself towards the ending. After beating it, you might choose to play it through 
 a second time, searching through anything to may have missed. The multiplayer can be fun, but the 
 single player mode is the better of the two. While one could say the multiplayer adds value to 
 the game, it was recently made freely available, so the single player mode remains the ultimate 
 reason to buy the game.
  
  FEAR is an overall fun game, and is well worth buying. It brings some new and interesting things 
 that will add a whole new experience to any shooting game you have played before. It's well worth 
 the money, and is not a game that missed by any fan of horror films or FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackBurton
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2008 12:05 am PT
Review:  RobertBowen has articulated my F. E. A. R. game-play experience almost verbatim, so rather than a 
 rehash of his fine review... scroll-down several slots and read it firsthand.
  
  To RobertBowen's comments I'll add...
  You'll find a better implementation of bullet-time, adrenaline-mode, 
 or slo-mo, in the Max Payne series, and in Chaser.
  The horror and paranormal angle has been done as effectively (if not better) in both Clive Barker's 
 Undying, and in System Shock 2.
  The "I" in AI is actually intelligent here, though not as menacing as that which you'll find in 
 Far Cry.
  And lastly, having played most, if not all, of Monolith's games, (IMO) this isn't even their best 
 effort!
  
  That said, FEAR is still quite an enjoyable game that can be recommended to both newcomers & veteran 
 fans of the Horror-Shooter Hybrids... just don't approach it expecting anything revolutionary, 
 and you'll have a great time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. Review by Simon a. k. a. The DevilDweller.
  
  1. Intro
  2. Plot Story
  3. Characters
  4. Graphics
  5. Game-Play
  6. Sound Effects and Music
  7. Life-Span
  8. 
 Over-All Say
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  1. Intro
 
  
  A story of supernatural terror brought to life.
  
  You are an elite soldier trained to handle the most unusual and shocking situations. Called in 
 to confront a murderous force with paranormal abilities, you must contain a crisis spiralling quickly 
 out of control. Discover the true meaning of F. E. A. R. -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  2. Plot Story 8/10
  
  Armacham Technology Corporation has a secret. But it's about to get out. An event is unfolding 
 in Auburn. A hostage situation has erupted at Armacham headquarters, led by a man intelligence 
 has identified as Paxton Fettel. Fettel is not just a mere man, though, he is an instrument of 
 pure destruction. Armacham, a defense contractor with the United States military, has been working 
 on a classified project that has undergone many names: Origin, Icarus and Perseus. The exact meaning 
 of those names is still unknown, but the end result is frightening. Fettel is the psychic commander 
 of a battalion of clone troopers known as Replica. Each trooper has a psychic link to Fettel and 
 will unflaggingly obey his every order, even to the death. The goal of the program is to develop 
 armies of clone troopers that will one day replace the traditional soldier, as well as change the 
 way that intel is gathered during battle. The sights and sounds each trooper experiences in the 
 field are instantly relayed to Fettel, allowing the commander to constantly adapt strategy to deal 
 with ever-changing combat situations. Something has happened to Fettel, though. Fettel may have 
 a psychic link to the clone troopers, but his own mental state has been brought into question. 
 In the blink ot an eye, he has taken control of the Replica battalion for his own murderous purposes, 
 which have not yet been discerned-only witnessed. He has taken over Armacham headquarters and gathered 
 hostages (without issuing demands, which leads F. E. A. R. to assume the worst) , mobilized his battalion 
 into action near the waterfront, and gone in search of a buried secret that deserves to remain 
 buried.
  
  Psychic commanders? Clone armies? That's how F. E. A. R. operators earn their pay. F. E. A. R. Team Coordinator 
 Rowdy Betters has been briefed on the situation at Armacham and has called together his finest 
 operatives, including you. You are to be sent into the field with team-mates Spen Jankowski and 
 Jin Sun-Kwon. Jankowski has his reservations about you-after all, you are a new recruit and the 
 severity of the mission demands experience- but Betters believes there is something about you that 
 makes you perfect for this operation. In fact, you are to serve as point man with orders to determine 
 the extent of the situation and apprehend Fettel. Armacham has revealed that if Fettel is taken 
 out, the replica army will cease operations. With only video footage of Fettel's spree at Armacham, 
 which shows the brutal nature of his attack and the lengths of Fettel's new-found rage to go on, 
 you must head for Auburn and bring him down. While Fettel's motives and ultimate intentions are 
 still unknown, considering the gruesomeness of the video footage, it can be assumed that he means 
 the world ill will.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  3. Characters
 
  
  F. E. A. R. OPERATIVES AND ALLIES.
  
  Rowdy Betters, Team Coordinator: Rowdy Betters is the F. E. A. R. team coordinator. While he is not 
 field-active, Betters maintains constant control of field operatives. From an off-site position, 
 Betters is in constant contact with his operatives, receiving intel and advising his field agents 
 on any situation updates. It is Betters who believes you are the perfect operative for this mission, 
 citing your off-the-charts performance in weapons and reflex tests. Spen Jankowski, F. E. A. R. Point 
 Man: There are two point men for this mission against Paxton Fettel. You are one, and Spen Jankowski 
 is the other. And he doesn't exactly seem too happy about that. Jankowski fully believes in his 
 mission with F. E. A. R., even though he is sometimes incredulous of the encounters that he has on 
 the job. You team up with him during your initial insertion in Auburn. Jin Sun-Kwon, F. E. A. R. Medical 
 Specialist: Jin Sun-Kwon is the F. E. A. R. medical specialist. While she is combat-trained, Sun-Kwon 
 is more of an analyst than a fighter. After point men have cleared the area of enemy targets, she 
 often remains at scenes and investigate the situation. Whenever you get in trouble, you can count 
 on Jin to be there, backing you up and offering any needed medical attention.
  
  Douglas Holiday, SFOD-D Unit Leader: Unit Leader Douglas Holiday is not a F. E. A. R. operative, but 
 rather a member of the elite Special Forces Operational Detachment-Delta. His duty is to assist 
 and protect F. E. A. R. agents while they investigate the situation in Auburn, and he will not let 
 you down. Holiday fancies himself as something of a ladies man, and he won't hesitate to use his 
 silver tongue even in the bleakest situations if he think it will score him a little post-mission 
 action.
  
  
  
  PRIME TARGETS.
  
  Paxton Fettel: Is the psychic commander of the Replica troop's battalion-part of a military program 
 developed by Armcham Technology Corporation in Auburn. Fettel's true origins are unknown. F. E. A. R. 
 has very little background information on him, save for the few scant facts that could be pried 
 from Armacham employees lips and the shocking video footage of his initial assault on the Armacham 
 office complex. Alma: F. E. A. R. has little intel on this mysterious factor. It is believed that 
 she is somehow involved in the program that created the psychic clone battalion, but Armacham has 
 not divulged that Alma is a small girl and that she does not have any eyes. When F. E. A. R. operatives 
 encounter her in the field, they should be extremely cautions, as it is rumoured that she possesses 
 inexplicable power.
  
  
  
  ARMACHAM EMPLOYEES.
  
  Harlan Wade: Harlan Wade, father of Alice Wade, is one of Armacham's most senior employees. He 
 has been with the company for many years and has been involved in several of its most classified 
 projects, including the Replica cloning operation.
  
  Alice Wade: Alice Wade is Harlan Wade's daughter. She is also an Armacham employee, working with 
 Aldus Bishop on a project studying potential environmental hazards in the Auburn area. Alice believes 
 that there is something happening in the area a contamination of sorts that has caused Auburn to 
 fall into decay.
  
  Norton Mapes: The portly Norton Maps is an engineer at Armacham, working closely on the Replica 
 project under the direction of Armacham's president, Genevieve Aristide. Mapes has somehow survived 
 the initial attack on Armacham headquarters by Fettel's Replica army, but he is disinclined to 
 agree with your rescue attempts.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  4. The 
 Graphics 10/10
  
  The graphics in F. E. A. R. are outstanding. Amazing character design and model textures. Fantastic 
 background design and real time lighting effects. Beautifully done slow motion effect and an amazing 
 disturbing and scary look and feel done in the game. -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  5. The Game-Play 10/10
  
  Intense brute force action and an amazing game-play feel. Great enemy A. I. system. A great experience 
 for 1st person shooter fan. You have a whole variety of weapon to chose from, from grenades to 
 remote control mines. Twin pistols, machine guns, rifles, grenade launchers or you can even use 
 a needle gun which uses metal slugs long enough to actually "nail" an enemy to the wall, plus a 
 lot more of other cool weapons. The best thing about the game-play, is not just the crazy intense 
 action, but the feel you get at crazy intense action in slow motion. Shooting enemy's in slow motion 
 is just firkin COOL! Even watching a grenade explode in slow motion is just amazing. The other 
 thing that I thought was really great about the game is the fear. Out of all the horror games I've 
 played in the past, Resident Evil, Silent Hill, Doom3. F. E. A. R. is definitely the scariest game 
 I've ever played. The hairs on the back of you neck will stay up for weeks. You could be walking 
 down a hallway not really expecting anything to happen when suddenly the light go out, or your 
 walking toward a door the it slams in your face. You hear and see lots of weird thing. And the 
 one thing that really gets me is a baby cry. Baby's crying in a horror game really freaks me out.
 
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  6. Sound Effect and Music 9/10
  
  The sound effect are brilliant. Amazing slow motion effect. 
 Very, VERY good voice acting. Very good music soundtrack, just right to set the mood in game-play, 
 not to mention also the fear. Brilliant background sound effect that will totally freak you out. 
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  7. The Life-Span 8/10
  
  The life-span is quite good. It would probably take you about 10 to 
 15 hours to finish. Maybe longer if you can't handle the fear. But it's SO worth it. -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  8. My Over-All Say 9/10
  
  F. E. A. R. truly is an amazing work. Highly recommended to any 1st person shooter fan or to anyone 
 who likes getting the crap scared out of them (Like me) . F. E. A. R. definitely is one of my best 
 1st person shooter games on the pc. Totally looking forward to F. E. A. R 2.
  
  Simon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigbomb2
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  I really hoped to play this game, and it sure was worth the wait. The very long wait. This game 
 sure delivers in more ways than one. Let's start with the most obvious part about it: the shooter 
 element. The action is fast paced and quite the thriller. The bullets whizzing near you and dust 
 and sparks spew around you shows how intense some fights are, although not every encounter is an 
 intense fight. A good deal of the fights are just random-ish encounters, but they're still fun 
 nonetheless. Getting up closing and blasting their heads off is a lot of fun, providing you want 
 literally do outside the game. If you do, you're a psycho. Anyways, you have a few melee attacks 
 that'll own a lot of the Replica soldiers. (The Enemies you fight) The kicks you can do can make 
 for some comic deaths, and thwacking a guy with the butt of your gun is always pleasing. (but knocking 
 a guy off a ledge will give you the giggles) So you now get the point that gunfights are fun and 
 engaging. (I had a ramble moment) The next part is the horror element. This is just the freakiest 
 game I've ever played. This game will send shivers down your spine. The little girl, Alma, really 
 is the highlight in freakiness. You'll wonder who she is and why she haunts you. It's just plain 
 freaky. Also, the hallucinations you experiance are no walk in a field of flowers. They're very 
 creepy, and can downright scare the living crap out of you. This game is all your favorite horror 
 movies wrapped into a violent horror shooter.
  
  Last is the multiplayer. This won't freak you out. It's quite fun and very fast paced. It has all 
 your favorite game modes, as well as even having slomo incorporated into the mix. Overall though, 
 you just die and respawn, kill, die and respawn, like that. It may sound routine, which it is, 
 but it's still quite a lot of fun. Positive-Engaging firefights, freakin scary that'll make you 
 jumpy, pretty graphics on almost any settings, sounds phenomenonal, fun, fast-paced multiplayer
 
  
  Negative- Environments are a bit bland, some fights aren't as intense and feel a bit random, not 
 for horror haters.
  
  If you have a good enough computer, (I'm lucky. Well maybe not.) get this game, if you can muster 
 up the courage to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddurant27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is awesome! The games graphics are very atmospheric and the action is intense. Being in 
 a firefight and having pieces of the walls falling out and debris from everywhere is still unmatched 
 in any game I've played to date. The sound is just as good and helps to scare the hell out of you 
 in surround sound. The gameply is second to none. Guns feel like guns and slow-motion looks awesome 
 plus helps out in frantic firefight. One of the scariest and most intense games I've played. The 
 final 15 mins are truly breathtaking. My only suggestion is make sure you have a pc that is capable 
 of playing the game the way it was meant to be played. Looks like crap any other way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WizengamotX
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Wow. Where to start? F. E. A. R. is unmatched in it's immersive qualities. More immersing than The 
 Godfather, and scarier than your scariest movie, this game will have you jumping out of your seat. 
 Looking around the room to see where that sound came from, I finally realized after ten minutes 
 or so it was coming from my game. Two hours into playing later, I find myself looking around the 
 room again. Was someone just calling my name? Did my living room just explode or was that my sleek, 
 silent and deadly fragmentation grenade blowing my opposition into quarters?
  
  There is no other game that so realistically matches game-for-life. A fully interactive environment, 
 you can destroy anything you can think of - and more. To the end, the chilling photorealistic representation 
 of a world disturbed and warped from the inside out just surprises me at every turn. To the very 
 last second of the game the plot keeps twisting, and the effects keep amazing.
  
  To keep this review quick and concise, the plot is as dramatic as Michael Jackson holding his baby 
 over a crowded city street off the balcony of his high rise apartment. It doesn't get any more 
 dramatic, more entertaining, more controversial, more weird. Better yet? It doesn't get any better 
 than the end of the game. Why? Well, F. E. A. R. starts out revolutionary, is extremely innovative 
 and gets better with every turn. My final classification? F. E. A. R. is a 10/10 classic. An unusual 
 masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Fear is about a genetically altered girl that has a child that can control a sort of clone army 
 with his thoughts. This shooter has one of the most immersive story lines i have encountered. The 
 graphics are amazing, showing the gore of every shot. The sounds just make you jumps and throw 
 your mouse missing shots. Gameplay is mostly you walking around with your gun, but you feel so 
 powerful. This is the first FPS where i have seen more than one type of melee attack. They are 
 great when you first use them, but you dont feel like youd need them considering a butt with the 
 gun is quicker to pull off, and you dont need a jumping kick if you got a gun that is more effective 
 at that range. You also have a max payne style slow mo skill that just allows you to get outta 
 any sticky situation. This game is just great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobertBowen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2007 5:56 am PT
Review:  When I completed this game I was left with mixed feelings tinged with some disappointment.
  
  On the one hand, I feel like I completed an enjoyable game that kept me interested right up 
 to the end. On the other hand, I look back on it and see a very repetitive game that I had to break 
 up into chunks in order to complete it.
  
  First of all, my rig actually managed to run the game with everything maxed out. There was some 
 slow down in some areas, which required some tweaking now and then, but for the most part I enjoyed 
 the game in all it's graphical glory. And the game does have some very nice graphics (mostly in 
 the effects) , although I wouldn't rate them as being any better than Half Life 2. Indeed, I still 
 consider HL2 more impressive due to the sheer variety of aesthetic design.
  
  FEAR has great weapon models, nice enemy models, and really great effects (from chunks exploding 
 from walls to the slow-mo and horror effects) and excellent lighting that really helps to set the 
 mood.
  
  Unfortunately most of the environments are quite bland and stark in their looks, and after a while 
 you feel like you are simply working your way through the same complex for the entire game. While 
 there are some nice areas where the action takes place, for the most part the level design consists 
 of corridors that twist and turn, seemingly for little reason other than to offer you opportunities 
 to lean around corners (which I found myself doing a lot) . Although you are supposed to be visiting 
 different buildings, most of them look very similar, and the rooms are filled with the same desks, 
 phones, shelves, crates, pots of paint and areas under construction. I have to say, FEAR's levels 
 actually became quite repetitive, almost to the same level of deja vu as the Library levels in 
 Halo (and that's saying something) . For the most part they are also very linear.
  
  When it comes to enemies there is some variety (mostly in the second half of the game) , but you 
 spend most of your time fighting a bunch of clone soldiers. The AI is very good, leading to some 
 intense and challenging battles, but after a while you start to think 'I'm fighting the same guys 
 in Chapter 5 that I fought in Chapter 1'. Even when you encounter some different (human) enemies, 
 they exhibit the same tactics. It doesn't take long before you feel you've done it all before, 
 and not just once, but several times.
  
  So when you encounter some of the spooky horror elements of the game (which are very well done 
 imo) you welcome them with open arms as a break from the monotony of the combat.
  
  The combat itself has a few gimmicks like slow-mo, and some nice melee combat moves in first person, 
 which adds some variety and colour to the encounters. But you can only kill the same guys so many 
 ways before it becomes... tiresome.
  
  I'm just left with the feeling that I wanted more of the horror story, more inventive level design, 
 and a greater variety of opponents.
  
  Something that actually intrigued me was that the scene in the demo footage at E3 where you are 
 passenger in a car that turns over was completely absent from the game.
  
  On the plus side, the game also didn't really have any cut scenes; you experience everything from 
 first person view, like the Half Life games, which really helps with immersion.
  
  When I compare this game to Monolith's past efforts like the NOLF games, it simply falls short 
 of the creative design and gameplay they exhibited in the past. Yes, it's great pinning enemies 
 to a wall with the Penetrator gun, but I was doing the same thing in the first NOLF with the harpoon 
 gun, and back then it was awesome. FEAR just didn't have the same level of variety in the environments, 
 the characters, or even the gameplay. On the other hand the horror elements were excellently handled, 
 and I was actually on edge wondering what would happen next. I enjoyed playing FEAR, but frankly 
 it could have been half the length and done the same job. Some of the levels felt like filler, 
 and the health/reflex boosters you find dotted around the levels don't really make a great deal 
 of sense other than being there because the game demands you 'power yourself up' in order to get 
 through some of the encounters. I took my time working through each level, and actually had my 
 weapon raised most of the time to improve the aim, which did contribute to the feeling of a modern-day 
 special forces guy working methodically through the environments checking for hostiles.
  
  The sound was excellent throughout, from weapon sounds to ambient sounds and edgy music.
  
 
  Gameplay: let down by too much repetition and not enough variety, but the AI is excellent and 
 challenging enough to keep you on your toes.
  Graphics: the effects were great, but many of the environments/textures were quite bland.
  Sound 
 - excellent throughout
  Value - replayability of the SP game is marred by that repetition
  
  A very good game, but not 'great'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ksubstanx
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 12, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Verry good
  F. e. a. r. isn't just a stunning technical accomplishment. It's quite possibly the best single-player 
 first-person shooter experience for the PC since Half-Life.
  Verry good
  F. e. a. r. isn't just a stunning technical accomplishment. It's quite possibly the best single-player 
 first-person shooter experience for the PC since Half-Life.
  Verry good
  F. e. a. r. isn't just a stunning technical accomplishment. It's quite possibly the best single-player 
 first-person shooter experience for the PC since Half-Life.
  Verry good
  F. e. a. r. isn't just a stunning technical accomplishment. It's quite possibly the best single-player 
 first-person shooter experience for the PC since Half-Life.
  Verry good
  F. e. a. r. isn't just a stunning technical accomplishment. It's quite possibly the best single-player 
 first-person shooter experience for the PC since Half-Life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriplePlay2425
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 12, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game. Like I said, at nights in my dorm room I would turn the lights out and play this 
 game. It managed to be creepy scary, rather than the just gory Doom 3 where creatures pop out at 
 you. FEAR messes with your mind and creeps you out, making it a crazy enjoyable experience. I am 
 not a fan of horror movies or things of the sort, but this game was great! I managed to get a couple 
 other people around my dorm hooked on it, and they enjoyed playing it as well. Little dead girls 
 with supernatural powers are always creepy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 8, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a great FPS using horror without monsters that don't look that scary. Doom 3 failed 
 miserable in that regard. The hero like in most popular FPS is mute and no one calls him by name. 
 Some huge incident goes down at Armacham (defense contractor) and F. E. A. R. is called to investigate. 
 Soon your squad gets annhilated by a light and you fight alone. F. E. A. R.'s job is to take out Paxton 
 Fettel who has controls an army of clones telepathically. Kill him and the clones are offline, 
 but Paxton managed to get away and eat or tasted flesh of hundreds of people to get the bottom 
 of the truth. Paxton just wanted to find his mother. The levels don't have much variety the three 
 main parts is water treatment plant, building, and abandoned research base all taking place at 
 night. Throught the game the character learns Armachams motives, secret projects through Alienware 
 Laptops. I didn't know that people that work at Water Treatment Plants, Government contractor buildings, 
 and abandoned bases all have Alienware laptops. Progressing through the office levels, the cactuses 
 with the flower on the top are really peyote, the hallcinogen Native Americans smoke. Very funny 
 Monolith.
  
  Spoiler story alert. Well after twists a turns you are the other twin of the Origin project. So 
 you are Paxton Fettel's twin bro. So if the protagonist taken his helmet off, the other F. E. A. R. 
 people would say 'You look like Paxton Fettel . Well twins that are identical are cloned, which 
 explains why identical twins look the same because they have the same genetic DNA. Harlan Wade 
 the CEO of Armacham is your grandpa. His daughter Alice Wade is your aunt and Alma the creepy girl 
 in the red dress is your mom. Your brother kills your Aunt. Then the F. E. A. R. guy shoots his brother 
 in the head, before you can get to your grandpa Harlan relases Alma. Alma kills her father. Then 
 Alma injects or whatever telepathic freaking out she inflicts on her son. So like what any son 
 would do is shoot her crazy mom 30 times in narrow hospital hallways filled with blood to the waist. 
 The hero overloads the power supply and narrowly escapes. While escaping more ghosts appear and 
 try to kill him. Due to fast reflexes the F. E. A. R. point man escapes the Auburn Warehouse District 
 gets leveled and there is not a single scratch. Well on the helicopter ride back home your mom 
 somehow jumps up the air thousands of feet trying to kill you again, and Paxton Fettel resurrects 
 in spirit form. Crazy story.
  
  The AI is very good and can take cover, supress fire, crawl, flank, flip tables, move shelves, 
 and very mobile. The guns fights are very fast paced and helps to have bullet time. In real speed 
 its very tough to get good shots, and after lots of firing there is lots of smoke like a real gun 
 fight. The combo moves are neat doing a bicycle kick, slide kick, and roundhouse behind enemies 
 or really upclose.
  
  F. E. A. R. does the best job so far instilling a scary atmosphere for FPS and should not be missed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GriffinLord602
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 6, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  This game, which has astounded many, really does give you the creeps. Some may say ahhhh its only 
 a game, how could it be scary but trust me when I say its scary. The story mode to this game is 
 where the atmosphere is, with the ghostly dead girl (which really reminds you of samara The Ring) 
 and an evil guy who  well who clones well clones! This game really does deliver the package when 
 it says fear right on it! When I first bought this game the cover was appealing, and the back seemed 
 to show off the in-game play. But nothing prepared my for such a beautiful and atmospheric game 
 that really got me immersed into the story and the multiplayer mode of this amazing FPS. I have 
 rarely heard of anyone who has put this game to shame, because how could you? With a fantastic 
 story mode and a unique multiplayer that feels different to any other multiplayer FPS ive played. 
 Which brings me to the story mode, which if you put it into perspective is the most real and spine 
 chilling experience that ive had to date on a game in this day and age. You are in a team, which 
 is called F. E. A. R (First Encounter Assault Recon) and your dealing with this mad guy who is cloning 
 expert soldiers, I couldnt tell you more because that would spoil some stuff. But there is a girl, 
 who follows you, and she appears to be in spirit, and yet again I cant tell you more cause that 
 ruins it. But I can tell you about the multiplayer, which is one of the best multiplayer FPS experiences 
 ive had. The action is flaring and never seizes to amaze you, and if your in a full 16/16 game, 
 then prepare your skills cause there can be some real pros that you have to test yourself against 
 but playing online in this game gives you an almost real experience of killing and blowing up your 
 enemies and never stops your adrenaline from rushing with excitement.
  I will now review the gameplay:
  The gameplay is a very real experience thatlike ive said well 
 never stop to amaze you, with the story mode gameplay can be extremely easy and eventful but online, 
 some players can be extremely hard and skilful so thats why ive put the difficulty at hard.
  Graphics:
  The graphics are very sharp and cutting edge, even though this game was released in 
 2005. Which in fact really shocked me because this game had so much detail and the physics were 
 amazing. Down to surroundings to explosions the graphics were extremely impressive.
  Sound:
  The sound was good I wouldnt say it was amazing but the gun and explosion sounds were 
 probably the most impressive sound that was in the game, it brought you right into the action. 
 The acting sound (single play) was also goodbut it didnt really amaze me.
  Value: Well now this game is cheap back when it was released it was around &pound;40 but if you 
 buy it now you can get away with &pound;12, which is extremely good value for money.
  Reviewers Tilt:
  Over all this game was a Fantastic experience to play and I will continue playing 
 till the next in the series is released, which I believe will be next year (2008)
  This game is well worth the time of playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crzycespy
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 3, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  OK, this game is scary. The only scarier game, in my opinion was Silent Hill 2. I am not a huge 
 F. P. S. fan myself, but F. E. A. R. did win me over with it's storyline and avid online gamers; let's 
 face it, sometimes it is just fun to kill people who spend a couple thousand hours gaming online 
 in the game, when you have only logged 95 or so including the S. P..
  
  Big detracter for me was the lack of mapping out of the box. I found it tedious to have to sketch 
 maps of levels out of the box, or follow the left wall through each level. I only logged 5 hour 
 sessions during the S. P., but yeah, it peeved me, as it was an extra 5 minutes or so per area.
 
  
  Graphics? Top notch, even on a sub-par P. C. now (3.0 p4, 2 gigs old ddr1 3200, ATi x1650 512) which 
 delivers frames faster than my eye can pick them up with maxed out settings. Sound? Again, fantastic.
 
  
  Ease of play? In my opinion, not-so-good. The lack of such a common thing like a shaded map (Call 
 it a fog of war map) was a really annoying oversite, and made a game with a decent storyline, great 
 graphics, and an A. I. that was silly good seem cumbersome.
  
  Ahh well, that's all from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pirogeoth
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 2, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the scarest games i have ever played combined with amazing graphics and 
 excellent gameplay this game really presents itself impressivly. The game starts out with a psycic 
 commander going crazy and sending an army of clones to kill everyone, reasons for this remain a 
 mystery as not to spoil the story. When I first began the game the area was reletivly boring with 
 a linear path to my objective. As it progressed I found myself always rather wary of any creepy 
 visions. This atomosphere made it reletivly longer to progress through as I never really ran ahead. 
 The game has an amazing highlight and that is the firefights, they are absolutly amazing in nearly 
 every respect fast, brutal, and realistic. This is combined with the bots AI which in every respect 
 is almost human providing support within each of there groups supressive fire, flanking co-ordination 
 they have it all. One of the most fun features in the fights is the slow-mo u are capable of doing 
 not only is it visually grand it also helps u out of tight spots making it easier to aim. Despite 
 this the graphics sometimes seem to be a little disappointing using a rather large amount of sprites 
 in some instances. The story also leaves a few unaswered questions. But despite this it is one 
 game destined to be a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t3t3t3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 1, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  9 of 10 enemy AI extremely effective on normal difficulty and after. Easy they stand still. They'll 
 commuicate and flank and pin you down do whatever they need to get ya killed. Slo-Mo makes for 
 some great kills (TIP: Slo-Mo Shotgun to the waist splits your enemies in 2) . The scares in the 
 begginning are very scary but you do get used to it after a while.
  Graphics:
  9 of 10 Game looks very nice on max settings. Wish there was a little light so you can actully 
 enjoy the nice graphics but then hat would ruin the mood. Gun fights look great bullets and sparks 
 flying everywhere.
  Sound:
  Guns sound real sparks sound real. Sounds play with your head in the game.
  Value: 9 of 10 Besides 
 the single player campaign the multiplayer i basically run and gun not really that fun. But just 
 the single makes it worth every dollar.
  Comments:
  Very fun and scary game. To play the game to unspoiled fullness. Buy it. Don't play it. Get up 
 at 3am in the morning turn off all lights in the house turn on the game and your bass to the max 
 and play with surround sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gear60
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 1, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  While other games give you bullets FEAR gives your AI and scares.
  
  I'll start off by saying this game looks fantastic. I know how you need a great PC to run it at 
 Max but I can tell you that with my old laptop you dont need to have a great pc to see how good 
 the game looks even on lower graphics. Bullets leave decals on walls. Shell casings fall on the 
 ground. All the textures look real which brings up the fact...
  
  The scares here are genuine. It's not BAM i jump out a window and surprise you there are some real 
 scares here. If not a creepy little girl in a room filled with blood.
  
  The AI in this game is fantastic. Enemy's flank you so your cover spot isn't always safe and if 
 they can't flank they flush you out with a grenade so you have to stay mobile. They really coordinate 
 as a team. If you take out there main leader or heavier armored men they give real responses and 
 start to stink due to lack of leadship. You can hear radio chatter of there tactics.
  
  There's not alot to explain on the sound except it sounds and play's like a nextgen game should. 
 Shell's fall. Bullet's hitting metal richochet with a zing. Creepy music where it belongs.
  
  The story is alright for an FPS especially for originality. You're an elite soldier of the 
 FEAR unit sent to fight off a supernatural enemy that has taken control of a science facility. 
 Blah blah shoot some stuff. Then you get this creepy little girl who floats around and disappears. 
 Room's filled with blood ghostly images. Kill some more guys. Then you understand your character 
 has amnesia and has trouble rememebering his past which can explain why you have superhuman powers. 
 The story unravels as memory flashbacks come back.
  
  The weapons in the game are pretty innovative and interesting but on one particular note the Penetrator 
 nailgun is particulary overpowered. Even with full hp and armor it only takes 3 shots of it to 
 kill you. The weapon itself has 25 bullets to a magazine and has superior accuracy. the firing rate 
 is pretty fast so it basically is hogged for all the rounds in multiplayer. Also the unarmed attacks 
 are also a bit too powerful. A pointblank shotgun hit should be more powerful than a kick in the 
 face. But in the universe of FEAR it's not. In fact it's the exact opposite.
  
  The multiplayer in the game is standard stuff except the slow-mo death match and team death match. 
 You still have to work as a team sometimes.
  
  Also on the note the levels i nthe game are boring and uninspiring. All the multiplayer maps are 
 also extremely lazily done. You been to this room once you've been to them all.
  
  It's a basic FPS that's just plain fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenscott14
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 24, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  The most creepy thing about my experience with F. E. A. R. wasn't even the silence, the atmosphere, 
 or the spooky little girl that turns out to be much, much more than a Samara ripoff (The Ring, 
 anyone?) The creepy thing was that I actually enjoyed the moments where there wasn't a thousand 
 clones to shoot the hell out of; I relished these moments even more than the gratuitous fighting 
 that splattered most areas of the game.
  
  Don't get me wrong, though; that's not to say that F. E. A. R. seriously takes a beating when you're 
 comparing to the most memorable set piece gun battles of, say, Half Life 2, or even Halo - F. E. A. R. 
 doesn't need vehicles; hell, it doesn't even need crowbars. F. E. A. R. compensates for that by including 
 slow motion into a game that is extraordinarily fast paced in nature. Using slow motion takes advantage 
 of your character's superior reflexes to, for lack of a better description, kick the living crap 
 out of any clone soldier that wanders into your path. This tool is quite useful in a couple of 
 the game's larger scale battles, where there might be, say, a full squad of enemies positioned 
 strategically ahead of you at different points. Not only will you be significantly quicker than 
 them, enabling you to peek your head out of your hiding place and sneak in a few shots at a soldier 
 who didn't have the luxury of returning fire quick enough to ensure his survival; but you'll also 
 be able to dodge any slower-moving projectiles coming towards you, which comes in very handy when 
 the game starts throwing heavily armored robots and such at you in the later stages of the campaign.
 
  
  Slow motion isn't just fun to use, though - at some parts of the game it is positively essential 
 to your survival. Put simply, the AI in F. E. A. R. is some of the best in any first person shooter 
 I've ever played, and I've played a lot of first person shooters. When you hit enemies enough they 
 will retreat back to their insertion point and they'll usually stay there, recuperating while they 
 wait for you to make the first move. They'll also utilize cover far more effectively than in most 
 games - at some points you'll see them duck behind a stack of boxes or something and they'll secretly 
 move to another point of cover and surprise you from springing out from an unexpected place.
  
  And that's not all - slow motion also holds a lot of amusement value. The game uses a brilliant 
 physics engine AND has destructible environments, and these two elements, slowed down, just surmounts 
 to some really beautiful-looking scenes. At many points in the game you'll get to witness flying 
 shards of glass, bullets tearing holes out of walls, exploding bodies, decapitations, random paranormal 
 effects such as swinging lights, hallucinations, and other such like, all in slow motion. I tell 
 you, watching a soldier's body being buffeted with a close range machine gun spurt and then flying 
 down a corridor with the impact is something you've got to experience at least once throughout 
 the course of the game - especially since the game's rather limited arsenal of weapons manage to 
 be extremely satisfying.
  
  Despite all the above elements, its still the parts without all the overblown fight scenes that 
 captivated me in F. E. A. R. The storyline and the few-and-far-between cinematic scenes, for one thing. 
 At the beginning of the game you're just expecting a mildly convoluted psychological-themed ride 
 through a relatively dark facility, much like transplanting Doom 3 with Half Life 2 and then throwing 
 a Samara-esque little girl in there, too. Turns out that F. E. A. R.'s storyline is much more captivating 
 than at first sight - it involves the little girl quite heavily, and the revelations over the course 
 of the game, combined with many intriguingly gruesome hallucination scenes, all build up to an 
 absolutely amazing ending; one of the best endings in videogaming ever, in my opinion, and that 
 alone is enough for me to justify buying its expansion Extraction Point, possibly soon.
  
  The portions of the game without dozens of soldiers to shoot at are even better. The game's atmosphere 
 is literally perfect and for many people, F. E. A. R. will be a game that they will be reluctant to, 
 and eventually refuse to play in the dark. Dimly lit corridors are soaked with silence and the 
 ambient noises that permeate the quiet are usually enough to make you feel genuinely uneasy, and 
 in the sections with no light you'll be telling yourself that you don't want to go down there, 
 you're not going down there... This adds to the game's unpredictability, really. On almost every 
 section where you expect something to happen, it doesn't, and you'll be left with a mingled feeling 
 of relief, disappointment, and shock. On the contrary, many of the lighter sections greet you with 
 a nicely unexpected hallucination, whose stark imagery and intriguing climaxes will have you writhing 
 on your seat. But of course, there are moments that involve the two major creeps of the game - 
 the little girl herself, and the psychic cannibal Paxton Fettel, who is linked to every single 
 clone in the entire game. The little girl isn't just some cheap thrill, though - she ends up being 
 more creepy than The Ring's star spook, and she's also got a fair bit of history behind her, and 
 I won't ruin it, but she's also a very central part of the game's amazing ending. Many dark sequences 
 of the game end up being shook up by a skull-crushing ringing sound (this sound precedes every 
 major scare scene in the entire game, and it ends up being a telltale sound of complete utter inescapable 
 dread) and then bang, right after that shock of white noise, the girl will appear... or the cannibal... 
 or some innocent guy will be dragged through a ventilation shaft, or a TV will suddenly greet you 
 with a live feed of an antagonist, and various other phenomena along those lines.
  
  The silence and the ambience alone are enough to conjure the best atmosphere I've ever experienced 
 in a videogame, and they alone account for the 10 the game earns in the Sound department. The graphics, 
 too, are stunningly well realized - the slow motion is enough to justify that, as the assorted 
 physics-related deaths, the special effects, the explosions... they're all wondrous to behold. 
 The lighting is also used extremely effectively and it works in perfect pairing with the brilliantly 
 freaky audio.
  
  All in all, I think I've mentioned everything that makes F. E. A. R. memorable, and if you really 
 read all the above review, you should be salivating and straight after recommending this, you'll 
 be off to amazon or eBay to buy the game and then play it over the course of a weekend or so, and 
 spend the entire two days shivering in despair and shock. It's difficult to sleep in the dark after 
 playing this game in pitch black and with headphones equipped, I'll tell you that much - and if 
 you're not in it for the psychological fright, then despite the fact that you're missing the point 
 slightly, you won't be disappointed with the overblown gunfighting you'll trawl through over the 
 game's rather short 9 or 10 hours. Definitely one of the most memorable FPS's of recent times. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 30, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:9
  Graphic:10
  Sound:9
  Value:9
  Reviewer`s Tilt: 9
  
  The game got one of the best things I ever seen. The story is so powerful, that I can`t even imagine 
 it. Other games are different than this. That game got perfect game play, story and graphic. I mean, if 
 you just look at the guns. They look so realistic and the sounds of a guns-number one. It`s true 
 that game got some bugs, but that doesn`t change gameplay. I`m impressed about soldiers in the game. Theirs 
 AI is definitely perfect. And that girl-Alma (she gives me a creeps) .
  The end is perfect too, because you don`t know what happened after Alma jumped in to the chopper. I 
 put hand on my heart and loudly say: Masterpiece. The game got a scary play, because you`ll never 
 know what is gonna happened. For example the part, where Alma jumps out of the corner, I always forget 
 that she is there. The story is so good, that can (suck) a player into a game. For me is one of the 
 best game I ever play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amcomwrks
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 18, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  Got the directors cut with extraction point included. Programed my Saitek Pro Gamer, and off I 
 went. Game play is quite adsorbing. Not exactly Half Life 2 but what is?? Graphics were very good. 
 Learning curve was about ten minutes. Some may consider the game one dimensional in characters, 
 but given the time frame in which it takes place IMO it is more realistic than continually spawning 
 monsters. Neat maze puzzles to solve, and the unpredictability programed into AI was very nice 
 indeed.
  The cut scenes and the unpredictability of the Girl showing up made it horror movie creepy. One 
 of the few games I played that I wanted to play over again as soon as I got through it the first 
 time.
  Being a 60 ish year old gamer, I rate it among my top 5 in FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 17, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 clone, Half-life 2 rip-off, whatever you call it, but F. E. A. R is a true original classic 
 to behold in its own right. What gamers commonly look out for in any FPS game title is the level 
 of A. I. and F. E. A. R takes this aspect to a whole new level by introducing the most life-like simulation 
 of any A. I. you've seen in a game, to the point it's freaky sometimes. When you think that you 
 can camp in a corner and plan your next shot, bam! One of the enemies fragged you from behind. 
 What the!? I'm supposed to be the one doing that! Therefore, I salute the developers of F. E. A. R 
 for pushing the boundaries of computer intelligence to the next level.
  
  Well, it's not that the A. I becomes unpredictable much like real human beings, but that it is more 
 natural. Most paths in F. E. A. R's level designs are multiple takes, thus allowing flanking, not 
 just for you, but for the enemies as well and almost all of the enemies can do that if they know 
 you're trying to hide and think, and they know. Their movement measures are also smart and tactical 
 for they will try to shoot-n-run while scrambling to the next cover, and they can also raise their 
 hand out (with weapon) from cover and shoot in your general direction while protecting their vitals. 
 Man! And your character can't do that!
  
  Most of the time, you will see yourself knocking your brains out during challenging battles while 
 admiring the A. I. The sound is fantastic all round but the visuals tend to cause lags in even high-end 
 systems, just make sure you have 2GB ram and at least a 128mb video card to comfortably enjoy this. 
 Last but not least, if you're a fan of The Ring, The Grudge (Ju On) or any of the Jap horror stuff, 
 F. E. A. R has a little something for you.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sl4y3rx69
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 11, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  I know this game has been out for awhile now, but it is a massive achievement for the PC. The graphics 
 are absolutely stunning. The games atmosphere makes for a very eerie and original feel, though 
 the levels and enemies do tend to get repetitive. The horror is very well blended with the action. 
 As I played through, I often found the hair standing up on the back of my neck and constantly wondering 
 when I was going to be harassed by the little girl again. Great variety of weapons and the SlowMo 
 feature is interesting, and is direly needed to cope with the AI on high difficulty levels. The 
 multiplayer is very fun as well, adding numerous hours to the game. The game is executed very well 
 and I would recommend it to FPS veterans and newcomers alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: centruroides
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 10, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Today, find a FPS that fill all our needings is imposible
  this game could be perfect, has everything!, but:
  
  - The enemies are the same, over and over 
 again, ull c mainly the kinda SWAT soldier, sometimes a armored guy, n once or twice a rare kind 
 of invisible enemies.
  - Lack of weaponry, but still, acceptable, some never-seen weapons are there.
  - Is a shorty 
 game.
  - No that scary (doom 3 in another context but is scarier)
  - U find bulletproof clothes and health every corner, so, make the game a bit easy to beat.
  
 
  the game is more than AIM-SHOOT so ull enjoy it, even the melee atacks here r well enough; u have 
 a slo-motion option that make... actually, AMAZING graphics, u can even c the hot air behind the 
 bullets.
  
  the game is a must play
  but i think is overrated 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nitronith
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  Sierra and Monolith have certainly created the most intense, highly immersive game of the year. The 
 gripping storyline with the occasional scary scenes will certainly send the chill down your spine. Get 
 ready to jump of your seats and scream because of 'FEAR'! You start out as a new recruit in the 
 F. e. a. r (First Encounter Assault Recon) team to find and neutralise Paxton Fettel the flesh eating 
 'evil' commander who mind controls a military clones known as the Origin. You are special too. with 
 your slow-mo power you can pull out some cool moves that will help you progress throuh the game. 
 You and your team must get to Fettel before he sets out a genetically engineered girl known as 
 Alma. As you progress through the game you will find out who she really is and your connection 
 with her. The graphics are simply awesome especially when the slow-mo is turned on. There are some 
 great lighting effects too. The game physics are in par or more than those in Half Life2. Another 
 notable feature is the A. I of the game. Sometimes you even think the clones are real persons. The 
 slow mo feature is also aptly implemented. Overall this game is a must play for every hard core 
 gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monco59
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  Monolith has long been regarded as one of the premier developers when it comes to first person 
 shooters. Who could forget classics like Blood, Shogo or the beloved NOLF-series? While most of 
 these games were unfortunately overshadowed or otherwise under appreciated, they clearly showed 
 what Monolith is capable of. And now, just to hammer home the point, they have given us F. E. A. R.
 
  
  First Encounter Assault Recon, or F. E. A. R. for short, tells the story of a secret government agency 
 tasked with handling various supernatural phenomena, much to the ridicule of more serious organizations. 
 As such, youre assaulted by freaky apparitions of all sorts and haunted by some truly terrifying 
 and unsettling visions. The gameplay itself is really a revolution for the genre, even though newcomers 
 might mistake it for a traditional runngun experience. Granted, theres not really anything new 
 about bullet time (or slow mo) per se, but in an FPS, its unheard of. But thats not all. In typical 
 Monolith fashion, F. E. A. R. is a very cinematic and story-driven game, that successfully mixes shooter 
 elements with Japanese horror.
  
  The gameplay is a well crafted experience, featuring extremely intense and visceral gunfights interspersed 
 with eerie and calm moments that abruptly explode into chilling supernatural encounters. Whilst 
 in slow mo, the game winds down a la Max Payne, with the player retaining normal reaction and aiming 
 speeds. Its a cool feature that you will be forced to use quite often, thanks to the brutal nature 
 of the AI. It doesnt hurt that the effect is also extremely cool, with bullets leaving distorted 
 trails in the air, awesome environmental damage that spews insane amounts of particles and tears 
 the scenery apart. Speaking of AI, F. E. A. R. has the best one Ive seen in a shooter so far. It 
 responds intelligently to various situations, flanks you and doesnt mindlessly rush into certain 
 death.
  
  What really lifts F. E. A. R. above its competitors is the successful inclusion of horror elements 
 into a first person shooter setting. Such a thing would be easy to ruin by going overboard or being 
 too ambiguous. Thankfully, Monolith pulls it off perfectly. The game is way scarier than Doom 3 
 could ever hope to be, and thats because F. E. A. R. doesnt taunt you with monsters jumping out 
 of closets, but messes with your mind with the notion of a little girl slaughtering hordes of trained 
 soldiers. Add to this both extravagant and subtle notions of supernatural terror and youll most 
 likely find yourself exhausted after a few hours of play.
  
  Graphically F. E. A. R. is a masterpiece and an unbridled success. Detractors will mention the sometimes 
 identical looking corridors and bland environment, but in the end it all serves the setting and 
 storyline. Sure enough, the game boasts a wide assortment of graphical bells and whistles, most 
 noteworthy being the dynamic lighting and parallax mapping which gives decals a 3D look. The Lithtech 
 Jupiter EX engine is very capable of displaying a full spectrum of action, from furious and massive 
 gunfights to meticulously detailed blood effects. Its a pure orgasm of death and destruction, 
 and understandably the game requires a hefty system to run.
  
  Whats scarier than a supernatural little girl bearing down on you in an air shaft? The SOUND of 
 a supernatural little girl bearing down on you in an air shaft! Monolith knew that without a proper 
 sound world, the horror would amount to nothing. They used a decidedly low-tech approach, mimicking 
 Japanese horror movies by creating sounds by dragging metal across different surfaces and recording 
 pump sounds, among other things. The end result is a creepy and atmospheric experience that draws 
 the player in and leaves them gasping for air at the sound of a bottle tipping over or a rat scurrying 
 on the floor. This is all beautifully contrasted with the weapon sounds and other effects, that 
 feature heavy bass and ear-shattering proportions. Thanks to the exceptional graphics and sounds, 
 each firefight feels like a Hollywood summer blockbuster, which is exactly what the developers 
 where going for.
  
  Even though Monolith has a long tradition of creating superb and gripping FPS games, theyve flown 
 under the radar a bit, thanks to some stiff competition at the time of their various game releases. 
 No longer. Even if God himself would release a game time and date with F. E. A. R., no one could possibly 
 overlook it. Its such a meticulously crafted game from start to finish with great production values, 
 an insane amount of detail and revolutionary gameplay, that everyone everywhere owes it to themselves 
 to give F. E. A. R. at least a try. Trust me, youll be hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_59
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 10, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  The Good: EVERYTHING
  The Bad: OPPOSITE OF EVERYTHING
  
  F. E. A. R is by far one of the greatest shooters made in recent years. If this game doesn't set the 
 standard for future shooters then I don't know what will. F. E. A. R (First Encounter Assault Recon) 
 is much too laboring to type with it being an acronym and all, so from now on the game will be 
 referred to as this/the game, or just FEAR. The game revolves around an elite army team called 
 FEAR, and they are tasked with the investigation of an unseen force possessing paranormal abilities. 
 In an attempt to contain a situation that is quickly spiraling out of control you eventually discover 
 the real story for yourself. The game seamlessly blends very intense combat and an equally intense 
 horror-survival experience. Keeping you on the edge of your seat for the entire time. There is 
 no way that you won't get scared playing this.
  
  Graphics: From the bullets hitting the wall to the reflections in the water, FEAR, delivers on 
 all fronts with a dark and haunting environment from start to finish. The highly rich environments 
 in the game are truly a sight to see if your PC can run it at the higher settings; you'd be out 
 of luck if youre not able to. Incredible attention to detail on all of the character models from 
 the clones to the ghosts that show themselves from time to time. However even with a powerful computer 
 you will still experience some slow down in frame rate when theres a lot of action onscreen. Gameplay: 
 For all intents and purposes FEAR is by all means a standard PC FPS. What sets it apart from the 
 others out there are the enemy A. I and the many ways that you have to go about each gunfight. The 
 enemies in this game are smart and they will look for cover if not make some when they are under 
 fire. You must equally do the same as the emeny will try to pin you down and flank you if your 
 not careful. There is a SlowMO feature in the game which is very reminiscing to max Payne's Bullet 
 Time. This allows you to slow down the action making it easier for you for however short a period 
 to gain the advantage on your foe. Playing this game on the higher difficulties will definitly 
 ramp up the challenges that you will face in these fights; however if your brave enough to try 
 you will often find yourself running for cover and constantly on the move. As you progress through 
 the game you will pick up your standard rocket launchers and assault rifles, the paranormal experiences 
 will also ramp up in intensity. On occasion you will find yourself in a long deserted hallway with 
 the sprinklers raining blood on you among many other grusome occurances. Both the combat and these 
 random experiences will constanly give that eerie chill up and down your spine. Mutiplayer is just 
 as fun and gripping as the single player mode and is twice as intense. You no longer need to worry 
 about ghosts appearing the only thing you need to do is kill or be killed. Fast, intense and brutal, 
 are words that hit the very core of what this game is about.
  
  Sound: Sound in FEAR gets a 5/5, 100%... etc. Impeccable sounds effects, ranging from the mysterious 
 whispers that you will hear from time to time, to the sounds of bullets hitting the wall behind 
 you as your foe shouts out directions to their squad. The eerie quite will sometimes have you look 
 over your shoulder to see if anyone is there (if you have surround sound) I know I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idiom
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is an excellent game so don't read this review just go out and get the game... What are you 
 waiting for, GO! :-)
  
  Pros: The graphics in this game need to be mentioned, with the possible exception of Oblivion FEAR 
 has the best DX9 graphics available. Cool bullet-time effect similar to Max Payne - when you get 
 used to it you can run into a room with a squad of clone soldiers and kill them all with head shots 
 from a pistol before they've even raised their guns!
  The plot is good and its worth checking the many answer phone messages you'll come across to fill 
 in background.
  As the name might suggest the game is scary, there are frequent supernatural events that range 
 from voices to vivid and disturbing hallucination style experiences. A. I. of the enemy soldiers 
 is superb, unsurpassed infact, the soldiers will try to flush you out with grenades, they will 
 vault over or slide under obstacles, take cover (even knocking over things to make cover) and all 
 sorts of other stuff. The quality of the A. I. of the main grunt enemy may go some way to explaining 
 why there are so many of them in the game - the developers obviously went to town to get it right.
 
  The game just oozes quality and polish, everything is very well done and very detailed, from environments 
 to the plot to graphics and A. I., this is an example of produced gaming at its best.
  
  Cons:
  Items and d&eacute; cor are over used some what, could of done with a bit more variety. 
 I loose count of the number of identical spanners, toolboxes, telephones, computers etc.
  There isn't much variety in foes, the intro sequence mentions a battalion of super soldiers and 
 you pretty much get to kill every member of that battalion. There are a handful of foes other then 
 the default grunt but they are rare.
  The plots is a little disjointed in places and leaves you wondering what you missed.
  Needs to 
 be played on at least a mid-range PC with a reasonably good graphics Card. I would recommend no 
 less than a 7800GS.
  
  That may seem like a big list of cons but its just nit picking really, none of the items i've listed 
 constitute a fault in the game, just small details that stop the game from being a prefect 10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1337-Hitman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  This is a top three game for me. I was so addicted to it so i was up until 07.30 and woke up two 
 hours later just to continue.
  
  The first impression is just like the first Half-Life With a very long start.
  But after the 
 'Start' and the game really starts, there ain't especially much more movies and long talking scenes 
 Just great :D
  
  And the SlowMo were super, just the thought of running with my shotgun at the solider in SlowMo 
 and when i'm close enough just to tackle at him
  
  The ONLY minus is because....... ITS TOO SHORT!
  (this ain't including extraction point) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CSXLoser
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 3, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is one of the best FPS games for the PC. Basically you are a newcomer in a special police 
 group known as FEAR and your job is to find a psyhotic that is sending clone soldiers to kill everyone. 
 Along the search, you will encounter the creepiest liitle girl you ever seen in your life...
  
  Gameplay- Great and intense. The fact that your opponments are extremely smart keeps you on 
 your toes. You have your standard pistol, smg, and shotgun but once a while find a particle gun 
 (that turns your enemies to skeletons) and a rocket launcher and much more. What makes the gameplay 
 diffucult is the enemy. they are the smartest ememies you have ever seen. If you dont watch carefully, 
 dont be susprised that you get flanked and taking massive damage. Enemies will throw nades at you 
 to get you out of your hiding spot and even provide covering fire so that his friends can flank 
 you. However you have one thing that can help you. Your reflexes... when you press CTRL, you enter 
 slow-mo and thus rush and blow the crap out of the enemy. However it is limited of course
  
  Graphics- a masterpiece...... even if it is not on max settings, the graphics are realistic 
 enough to give you the scare that it wants you to have. However, most of the game you are inside 
 a building, which happens to look like the rest of the buildings you entered. Thus, the environments 
 are repetive
  
  Sound- amazing voicework and the music fits the mood of the game. Its like watching a movie
  
 
  CON- this game is hardware demanding........ you need more than just 1 gb of RAM to enjoy the game. 
 you will also need a powerful graphics card to get all max settings (or most on max) . If you dont 
 have any of these, your framerate can kill your experience if you try to go above and beyond. Also, 
 this game will make some people pee in their pants. If you are easily scared, please do not play 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hutapamo
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  First of all I will start off by saying this game is way too scary, I played just now, it makes 
 ur heart too fast fo rur own good and u are always in action there is always something keeping 
 u awake in the life of FEAR, the girl that u see, see is sooooo scary..... I hate seeing her, the 
 think I wonder is that what is the final stage and am I pretty far, if only it told u the percentage 
 u were on that would be amazing. I love playing with slow mo it helps u alot if there werent slow 
 motion I dont think I would be as far as I am now. The graphics are awesome in this game, especially 
 with my graphics card I play it at everything maximum with no lags really!!! There is a robot in 
 that game and that robot takes so long to die that is probably the strongest robot in the game, 
 if this makes sense its white and blue. This game is more scary than action 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwarfan2929
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R IS Top Of The Charts! No Doubt About It
  The Difficulty Is Hard The A. I Is Smart And Hard To Get Past (This Is What I Wanted)
  I Spent 
 100 Or More Hours On This Extremely Exciting Game.
  The Controls You'll learn When You've Played It For At Least 1-2 Hours.
  The Gameplay Is Absolutely 
 Terrific, Nothing Wrong Here.
  The Graphics Are Okay Not 2007 Graphics Though.
  The soundtrack Fits Right In Too The Game. Perfect.
  The Value Is Definitely Worth It And I Mean 
 It!!!
  This Game Is The Best Game Ever Made To Mankind People Should Know About This Game!!
  Great Job, 
 VU Games And Monolith!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahamut450
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 24, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a great game which i would highly recommend to any fan of shooters for gameplay i give 
 it a 9 because the A. I is very impressive and very human like because of there ability to make 
 cover, shout commands, use outstanding teamwork, show of some general emotion also the weaponry 
 is balanced finely. But at times since its an army of clones it gets somewhat repetitive sometimes 
 they will through that extra unit in there but not to often. I gave the graphics a 10 because its 
 a very pretty game with good detail. The sound is my personal favorite because i feel it was very 
 well put the crackling of your rifle, the screams of the enemy, the sound of a bottle rattling 
 from falling over, and the music setting the high paced or spine chilling mood make the game feel 
 much more alive. The value is a 9 because I think this story mode can last quiet a bit but the 
 multi-player can last quiet some time because of its addictive and competitive gameplay. The reviewer's 
 tilt was probably the hardest thing for me to rate because i felt that the story was great but 
 that the system they used to tell it could be a liability because a person can go the whole game 
 skipping all the phone calls and laptops and not find out much of the story and the game feels 
 very incomplete.
  that was my review i hope you enjoyed it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougie497
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 24, 2007 3:41 am PT
Review:  this is not the greatest but one of th greatest games to grace the computer in at least a few years. 
 the graphics are well balanced so it's not one of those game that have an excellent view of your 
 character and your weapon but then everything else is a square, this game evens them out so you 
 don't look like a model but the rest of the game doesn't look like it was from doom 2. their isn't 
 a wide variety of weapons to choose from but what weapons you can wield are very weird and will 
 leave you wondering what the developers where smoking for days. the campaign is slightly repetitive 
 and terrifyingly good. the A. I in this game is genius but you can always beat them by simply charging 
 them. to have an actual challenge you must set it to the hardest difficulty in which you have next 
 to no health which stops you from being able to charge them but then they will almost always manage 
 to outmaneuver you unless you hid and wait which requires all lot of patience which i don't have 
 and it is still a challenge and a half to kill them, usually you will end up running or dieing. 
 all in all First Encounter Assault Recon is a great game truly worthy of the hype it was born into. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFVIIROCKS
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 23, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is flat out cool. The graphics are very decent and the suspense and action make this game 
 what it is. The biggest let down of this entire game is the length. Its an easy run through. and 
 the story line is a little choppy but yet kinda ties it all up in the end, but it leaves a few 
 things unsolved.
  
  Another let down is the Enemy's... oh don't get me wrong, this is the best A. I. system I've ever 
 seen, they are like real humans and they react to almost anything you do... they just don't just 
 sit there while you run away for cover... they track you down and bust you up, but the problem is 
 its the exact same enemy over and over and over. And on occasion you will come across a little 
 harder enemy that looks different then the rest. If i counted correctly there are only 4 maybe 
 5 different types of enemy's, it tends to get a little old when you pumping the same one full of 
 lead over and over again. The sound track of this game is amazing, but like the enemy's you tend 
 to keep hearing the same music loop. They will change it to a different type of music for different 
 areas, but you will tend to recognize the same music from a few minutes before. The sounds that 
 you hear through out the game add to the intenseness of the game, you will hear things crashing 
 in the next room, reminding you that your not alone... the weapons of the game also sound really 
 close to the real thing. The ambiance of the game also makes the game a lot more intense and that 
 much more chilling. One of the coolest feature of F. E. A. R is the Slo-mo Reflex feature you are 
 given in the game... it allows for some serious precision in your gun play... sad part is, is that 
 it allows the game to be so damn easy. Once you run out of your Reflex.. it refills itself , and 
 fairly quickly. I only wish that you'd have to pick something up to be able to refill it or that 
 there were other variables that allow that reflex to drain... such as if you take damage it only 
 lets you use it for a shorter time... but thats not how it goes in this game. The intense action 
 makes the game, but slowing it down kinda drains the whole fun outta the game... but sometimes 
 you can get though a battle without it...
  Watching you enemy's head get torn off from a shot gun blast, or having his body ripped in half 
 from a rocket is so much better in slow motion... so i guess it evens itself out.
  
  The levels are huge... but there are only 3 of them : (.....
  
  F. E. A. R is an all around awesome 
 shooter, with its chilling game play that will keep you up in the night, to its flawless A. I. system, 
 it is well worthy of a few replays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icepop4who
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 23, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the first FPS that I actually enjoyed in a long time. Its excellent AI, beautiful 
 graphics, engaging music score, and plain creepiness makes FEAR a game to be remembered. The AI 
 is the sharpest out of all the game I've seen so far as they can flank you in open ended levels, 
 communicate intelligently to teamates (even to point out that you're trying to flank them) , recognize 
 situations, and just fight and react what a real human being would. The graphics is top of the 
 line with beautiful dynamic shadow and lights. The effects are convincing as dust and paper shreddings 
 flew up in your face in a firefight. Enemies limbs break apart or the entire body exploded in the 
 face of a grenade, making a kill just that much more satisfying. However, the level design is not 
 as sharp because you'll find yourself fighting through endless gloomy levels of factory or office. 
 There is no daylight or outdoor fighting, but it is due to create a creepy atmosphere. I, however, 
 got bored with the level design until level 8, where a new template took place. The multiplaying 
 is extremely fast paced and well executed, but nothing impressive in terms of levels or features. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  Blood, blood, and more blood! Is what this game offers. F. E. A. R. stands for First Encountered Assault 
 Recon. You are a soldier that is in a sense built for paranormal affairs. You battle your way through 
 small groups of soldiers that are very smart. This game offers great AI and puts up a great challenge 
 for players. You can carry around three weapons and a few grenades and the weapon placement is 
 great, you won't have to worry about running out of ammo. The main thing that people are wondering 
 about is that little girl who leaves bloody footprints around. Nobody really knows what shes up 
 to. For most gamers, they want to find out what shes up to. And of course in this game your by 
 yourself. Some parts of this game are pretty scary. Sometimes i didn't want to go to the next room. 
 Then there are parts in the game where their maybe three battles in a row and you want to move 
 to the next room. What people mainly are concerned about this game are the very steep requirements. 
 You mainly have to have a good video card to get the best performance. The game takes roughly five 
 gigs and most PC's today can handle that. RAM is another issue with 512mb you might experience 
 some slow downs but anything 1gb+ your fine. The enemies in this game are either regular soldiers, 
 a soldier yet with heavier armor, assassins which creep up and beat the crap out of you, or a walker 
 with rocket launcher attachments. For first person shooter fans out there, this game is a must 
 have. It's a very innovative game that players will enjoy and the multiplayer is great too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lysluk
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  I played this game back in 2005 when it came out. Not sure why I didnt write a review of this game 
 because it was killer. I have both FEAR and the Expansion Extraction point. The regular version, 
 the GOTY version are all the same. The game is awesome.
  
  To talk about FEAR first. I was following this game in its early development and from its screenshots. 
 I knew that the last FPS game Monolith made was NoOneLivesForever 2. My initial reaction for FEAR 
 was that it looked cool, and the graphics seemed really advanced. But what about the AI, the gameplay? 
 .... I feared that it would play like NOLF2 becuz I was slightly disappointed in that. FEAR is to 
 combine innnovative gameplay, storyline, and a creepy little girl resembling of that from the The 
 Ring . Fast forward to 2005, and I am shocked because FEAR plays like no other FPS out there. Go 
 to today, 2007, the game still plays like no other FPS out there.
  
  If you havent tried or played FEAR yet, give it a shot if you enjoy FPS. From games like Doom, 
 HL2, Quake, COD, FarCry, Prey, etc... I still rank FEAR as the top because of its creativeness 
 and uniqueness of combining matrix slow motion, a great story, smart AI, great sound, amazing looking 
 graphics, and a creepy and sometimes more scary environment to play in than Doom did. Thats pretty 
 much a summary right there.
  
  The way the game starts out, the introduction to the characters and your hero, the reason for you 
 doing what you do, the way the game gives you moments of chill throughout, even the end fight and 
 all is really cool. The best fun part of this game, is the gunfights. Slo-motion or not, bullets, 
 debris, body parts, have never looked so pretty. They impressed me with the Matrix effect, and 
 I have to say that they did a better job at it, then any Matrix game out there. The levels do play 
 out very linear at times, since theres usually only one way to finish it, all the missions take 
 place in the buildings...... so get use to corridors, offices, parkade, warehouses, etc. But what 
 works so well is that they designed the entire game experience like you're immersed into part movie/realistic 
 feel while your playing. You dont just blast through door to door, theres no closet zombie monsters..... because 
 really, what is more scarier that going against spirits and ghosts? There are times when I am completely 
 in the game. The atmosphere, lighting are very believable, given that you have a decent sound card, 
 the music and fx is quite good.... I sometimes get goosebumps in certain levels, or even.... I admit, 
 get jumped.
  
  There are a few difficulty options for the game. I started with Hard and found it alright. I am 
 now doing the hardest option and so far its not bad. The enemy is clever and reacts like they should. 
 They talk to eachother and take cover, and would flank you. When you encounter a bigger enemy that 
 crushed through a wall for example, the screen would freeze to slow-mo for 5 or 10 seconds, giving 
 you a cool introduction to the enemy and time to act.... which is neat because it adds to the overall 
 experience. There are only about a handful of different types of enemies to encounter, but put 
 them in groups and you gotta pray that your slo-mo abiltiy is well charged and sufficient since 
 thats one of the features you will use a lot to survive in this game. The end fight isnt really 
 a boss fight, but... I wont spoil that fun now.
  
  Graphically, this game uses lots of pc resources. It looks great, but only if you have a very good 
 card, cpu, memory to run it. Using a P4 3ghz, X800 Pro before, I was able to run at 800 by 600 
 with medium settings on. The game still looked good and playable. Now, with same Cpu, Im using 
 a X1950 and Im running at 1024 with mostly Max settings. FEAR allows for a lot of user customizations 
 in the settings, which is nice. Heck, its one of the reasons im playing this game again because 
 of the better eyecandy, and the fact that the game still gives a new experience. I noticed that 
 with the most current game patch, FEAR is more optimized to run and I can turn up more settings.
 
  
  Extraction Point (expansion) is a continuation mostly. I dont think it adds much to the storyline, 
 but it answers some of the questions from the first. Since this is not really a suprise, FEAR 2 
 is in works so the ending of ExP is obviously not the end of it all. Not to say that its not worth 
 playing the expansion, becuz I enjoyed it and its a decent length. Its not really an improvement 
 but more of an excuse to play more, although some parts are still creepy.
  
  To top is off, FEAR became popular for a reason, for its singleplayer. It contains a multiplayer 
 but I dont find it that good so I stick with what the game was made for. Its exciting and creepy 
 gameplay, clever AI, interesting story and how they presented it in the game, the visual aspects 
 and sound, the weapons that actually sound powerful and are useful, the slow-motion effect, the 
 details/environment, the fact that this game has a replay value, the fact that FEAR 2 will exceed 
 our expectations again, just makes an awesome package altogether. I was skeptical at first with 
 FEAR and now I really like this game. If you look forward to getting a copy of FEAR, I recommend 
 the GOTY since its a DVD of both the Director's Cut of FEAR, and the Expansion in one.
  
  P. A. N. I. C. S. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurnThisCity
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 19, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  ------------------------- MY Thoughts -------------------------
  Difficulty: Easy (With SlowMo you can easily take down enemies even at Extreme Difficulty level)
 
  Time Spent: 20 to 40 Hours (4 Run-throughs)
  Learning Curve: 0 to 30 Minutes
  
  Gameplay: 8 / 10
  Graphics: 8 / 10
  Sound: 9 / 10
  Value: 9 / 10
  My Tilt: 8 / 10
  
 
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  *Gameplay: For most players, especially those who are really underaged for playing computer games 
 to begin with and those who don't usually play FPS and are just in for the hype and to jump onto 
 the bandwagon, this game can be very scary on the first couple run-throughs.
  
  Frankly speaking, as a shooter it's really not bad. The guns feel realistic in your hands and the 
 environments DO make the perfect battlegrounds for a decent FPS game. I gave it only a 8 / 10 because 
 I think there's really not that much shooting in this relatively short campaign (only takes about 
 6~7 for veteran players and about 12 hours for newbie players who are scaredy cats) Secondly, with 
 Slow Mo you can get an almost-perfect precision whenever you encounter an enemy; thusly, when you're 
 shooting at an super-rate-of-fire while the enemies are still trying to react to your presence 
 you can headshot them easily in a matter of seconds. Literally. Even on Extreme Difficulty I found 
 myself having a lot of spare Health Pads that I found no use of.
  
  *Will my computer run this?: Although the official Gamespot review states that the game is a system 
 hog, I find it to not be completely true. On a mid-end computer, you will encounter lagginess (though 
 you can still run this game with GF FX series AGP/PCI cards) . On the other hand, if you have a 
 relatively high-end machine, you can run this game with no graphics or computer lag even if you're 
 downloading stuff on Bitcomet. My computer is not completely top-notch and I am only running on 
 a P4 2.6GHz machine with 2GB RAM and I have no problem playing while downloading. If you have a 
 GF6 Series card with 1GB RAM you should play without lag if you don't have any downloader on.
 
  
  *Graphics: On the first couple runs, when you're overwhelmed by the fear-factors of this game, 
 you might think that the graphics is all that. But if you really look around at the environments 
 throughout the game, you will realize that your surroundings really repeat a lot and there's not 
 that much objects in the world to look super-realistic. The colors are dimmed throughout, and I'm 
 not talking about the darkness, but the colors of the objects around you. Slow-Mo does look really 
 cool, as you can really ZOOM into the enemies and as you are trading fires with them you can see 
 the bullets traveling in-between like in Matrix. REALLY COOL!
  
  *Sound: The sound is fantastic, most notably when you are firing the weapons. The guns sound like 
 real weapons and they sound powerful. The reason I took a point off is because you can't really 
 hear clearly all the voice messages in the game. It would help if you turn on the Subtitles.
  
  *Buy... or no Buy? - $30 is pretty good. Get yourself a great fright at night without zombies 
 constantly jumping at you like in most other games. You will find yourself being inside a J-horror 
 film while you're playing this. It's definitely a innovative yet classic FPS game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 19, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  I've had this game for a long time now. I just realized that I never wrote a review for it. I should, 
 considering that F. E. A. R. is my favorite first person shooter for the PC.
  
  What immediately jumped out at me was THIS FREAKY LITTLE GIRL WEARING BLACK . . . Seriously, I 
 realized right away after starting the game how this game was not just a shooter, but a horror/survival 
 type of game. The enemy A. I. was good enough to make me actually worry at times. Last time that 
 happened was when I play Half-Life. The very realistic graphics combined with excellent story make 
 this shooter stand above the rest, and that isn't even talking about the multiplayer.
  
  The graphics are excellent. I was always wondering what was waiting for me around a dark corner. 
 I think the lighting is my favorite part of the game for me. It really set the mood.
  
  Sound is great. The weapons all sound authentic. The muddled voices of your enemy will freak you 
 out sometimes. Tiny giggles, harsh screams, ghostly moans all help to immerse you in what sometimes 
 seems to be a horror movie (if not for all the shooting) .
  
  Gameplay is solid. The controls are excellent and can be re-mapped. What I found interesting about 
 F. E. A. R. is the way health pickups work. The health kits were applied with the tap of s keypad, 
 not when you ran over it on the ground. There was some cooldown from when you activated the health 
 kit, but if you were quick and timed it right, you could stay alive for quite some time while getting 
 blasted. I was often accused of cheating because I would horde the kits and then get into a firefight, 
 staying alive longer than my opponent, even though we were both shooting eachother.
  
  The levels are constructed well. I never really got lost or stuck. The game flows nicely and the 
 action/horror blends into the overall storyline, which is more prominent in F. E. A. R. than in some 
 other shooters of the past.
  
  Multiplayer is my favorite part of the game, with deathmatch and CTF being my favorites. The MP 
 maps are fun, and the community (when I was actively playing online) was very sporting.
  
  F. E. A. R. is my favorite FPS. The action and horror, with a storyline that backs up your actions 
 made it the most immersive and most fun shooter I've played in a long while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_webster_87
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  The FPS Horror genre has just been taken to the next step with, what is easily one of my favourite 
 games of all time. Being both a fan of the horror & the FPS genre, there cannot be a better game 
 for people like me than F. E. A. R.
  
  Graphically the game is very appealing with fantastic effects in terms of firefights, explosions 
 and the general look of the levels though a lot of levels can begin look the same as you go along 
 in the story.
  
  Gameplay wise F. E. A. R is one of the best games in the FPS genre today and you can get to play in 
 some of the best firefights you will ever find. Despite being a standard run and shoot, you have 
 to be a little more tactical at times using cover and outflanking maneuvers. Also the slow time 
 can get you out of some tight situations and does it really well just like in the Max Payne series. 
 What really makes the game stand out is how it tries to get under your skin and play tricks on 
 your mind, which is a totally different kind of way to attack the player and that makes it a really 
 unique experience.
  
  Soundwise is pretty impressive though the gun battles are nothing special but the sounds you hear 
 behind you or around the corner, can really creep you out. Listening to the enemy communicate with 
 each other over there radio comms, gives the game a really authentic feel to it.
  
  The AI is another major strong point of the game as they work together really well and will always 
 try to outflank you. Also you can actually get under the AI's skin and at times you will hear them 
 refuse an order to move forward as they don't want to walk into your bullets.
  
  While the single player probably doesn't offer any great replay value apart from the joy of enjoying 
 all over again, online wise does keep you playing once single player is done. However online play 
 is the weakest aspect of F. E. A. R as it does nothing out of the already standard box of online shooters 
 and just put online play in the game to give you something to do after single player. However kudos 
 to the developer behind the game as you can actually play F. E. A. R online for free by downloading 
 it.
  
  Overall a good length single player with plenty of scary moments and a unique style of gameplay 
 and story gives you plenty of happy hours with the game but online play does fall pretty short 
 and it also can be a serious system hog with its requirements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psycho_ford
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 17, 2007 1:36 am PT
Review:  I really can't say something bad for this game... it has  
 your are a fiste person shooter fan then this is your game... A lot of action combined with a twisted 
 terror.......
  The characters and the textures are very good... the sound is good and makes the game atmospheric 
 but i believe that you must have a good sound card and 5.1 sound system to enjoy it. gameplay is 
 good but what makes it special is the story and the suddenly scenes inside the game (ghosts, voices 
 e. t. c) . The only bad that i can say is that you need a high end pc to run this game right (everything 
 full) .. My advice... Play this game in the dark 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boris1988Boris
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 16, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  I'm afraid from bathrooms and any dark place now &amp; special thanks for Alma
  
  The game is just FEAR that's what i can tell it's not the afraid from the people of the game it's 
 the horror from the afraid from been beaten any time or from Alma when she or any other ghost just 
 passing by or just stand steel watching you coming to them and that damn thing that jumped into 
 the water and dive then when i came it was about 1 feat depth and at the end of the game the **** 
 Alma climbing the helicopter i just wanted to jump off the helicopter Just Wow . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . : - O 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeavittKiD9008
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 15, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is by far, my all time favorite game. The use of the first person shooter combined with 
 a horror twist makes the game all the more enjoyable. At times, I literally jumped out of my seat 
 at certain parts of the game. The graphics are unbelievable and very realistic. I think the best 
 part of the Single Player aspect is the AI of your enemies, as they use different tactics to adapt 
 to your playing style, move objects for cover, and even yell out commands to each other. Any great 
 feature in the game are the video sequences that seamlessly blend into the game. The video sequences 
 add great suspense to the game, almost making it feel like you're playing in your own movie thriller. 
 As on-line multiplayer games go, this is just another amazing game for it. There are classic battle 
 game types such as CTF, Deathmatch, and Team Deathmatch. But F. E. A. R. also throws in a few original 
 game types such with a feature called 'Slow-Mo'. In this type of game, players battle it out in 
 normal battle types, such as CTF or Deathmatch, but with a new tool that allows you to activate 
 a sort of Matrix moment when you are faster than your opponents and can cause more damage to them 
 as well. This 'Slow-Mo' feature is in a couple of game types, such as CTF, Deathmatch, and Team 
 Deathmatch.
  
  All in all, this a great game. I recommend this game to anyone and everyone who loves first-person 
 shooter games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norton158
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. The A. I. as mentioned before, is a great attractive for enthsiasts of gameplay. 
 The graphics, back to that time (05's) are just amazing. Well done textures, well coded shaders, 
 and I give this a 9 due to the final work. Sounds are ok, not the very best in the weapons, but 
 the atmosphere works out for it. Gameplay is a superb point in this game. it is quite easy to control 
 your character thru out the story, with essentials controls like flashlight, reloading, using, 
 etc. being well placed by default in good points of the keyboard, making you immerse in the game 
 due to this easyness. Reviewer's tilt is up to the player, I would not play this all again, but 
 it still packs good scaring, spine chilling moments with Alma, which you'll find out later if you 
 did not play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattisgod01
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  From the Very Start you get a sense of the epic game that F. E. A. R is. FPS is my favorite game genre 
 and i have played pretty much every decent FPS in the last 4 year ( Quake 4, S. T. A. L. K. E. R, FarCry, 
 Doom 3, Halo 2 HalfLife 2 ect.) and F. E. A. R is my favorite. Everything from the sound of the bullet 
 leaving the chamber in an Incendiary explosion of gases to the explosion of concrete and plaster 
 as the bullets impact into the walls around you.
  
  The graphics in F. E. A. R are just incredible, everything from the textures used on the floor to 
 the lighting helps make F. E. A. R a great game. The best aspect of F. E. A. R is the great shootouts 
 that every confrontation leads to, When you get into a shootout with the enemy the room literally 
 explodes around you as chunks of concrete and plaster fragment from the walls and explode into 
 clouds of dust.
  
  The A. I in F. E. A. R is easily on of the best, The intelligence of the A. I is incredible giving them 
 the ability to work as a team to try to flank you, take cover and fire from behind object, dive 
 through windows or crawl under things meaning you can guarantee that they will do anything to try 
 and get the edge on you. They also Swear alot and give you hints of their situation ( eg. if you 
 kill enough of their squad they will fall back and radio for backup)
  
  F. E. A. R has a good storyline and a great single player campaign which is both fun and at time scary. 
 during the single player campaign you will constantly see shadows or people walking by who suddenly 
 disappear as well as constantly come in contact with Alma.
  
  F. E. A. R the best FPS ever made and know one should miss this great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TicTac8745
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 5, 2007 5:01 am PT
Review:  In the time I have been gaming, there hasn't been a lot of games that have impressed me or keeps 
 me wanting to keep playing. That was until F. E. A. R. arrived, and blew me away!
  
  If you don't know, F. E. A. R. stands for First Encounter Assault Recon. What that basically means 
 is that when things go from bad to worst, these guys are the first guys in to check out what is 
 going on, and in this case, something has gone completely wrong.
  
  The story is based on this factory building or manufacturer named Armacham. One day, the building 
 is invaded unexpected by these clone soldiers and the person behind this is Paxton Fettel, a gruesome 
 man that eat people! (gross) and supposedly can control the soldiers via telekinesis (or a similar 
 power) . But as you are deployed in to track down and kill Fettel, weird things start to happen 
 all around you, a mystery girl in red appears randomly, taunting you along the way. Who is that 
 girl? and why is she targeting you?
  
  OK, the story isn't the main focus, as the story isn't fleshed out as well through the game. As 
 time to time, there will be cutscenes to help you understand the back story more, but for some 
 people, this can cause even more confusion.
  
  Enough with the story, time for positives. There are a lot of positives in this game, starting 
 with:
  
  Graphics - Half Life 2 and Far Cry were graphical beasts that show what graphics can be - F. E. A. R. 
 is now on that list. F. E. A. R. boasts the new Jupiter EX engine, that although most of the game 
 darkness doesn't show, it still can stand out. The lighting effects are spectular, textures are 
 crisp, the partical effects are the best seen and all contribute to building the dark and spooky 
 atmosphere in the game.
  
  Sound - another standing out feature. The sound throughout the game is perfect, shooting a gun 
 feels satisfying as it ejects out of the gun's barrel, walking around and hearing the ambiance, 
 and the sharp tingling sounds of when the little girl passes by surely brings goosebumps. Voicing 
 on the characters ain't that spiffy, but the speech among A. I soldiers is great as you can hear 
 the random chatter among them, giving out orders and yelling out commands and status to their team.
 
  
  Gameplay - this game takes a lot of features from other game, one noticeably is the Slow Mo. This 
 is no different to the focus in Enter the Matrix or Max Payne, but it executed perfectly, thanks 
 to the physics, as you shoot a soldier in Slow Mo, the rag doll physic interacts according to the 
 collision, you'll see slow flying bodies, heads flying off bodies and even the shockwave from a 
 detonated grenade. Slow Mo is meant to be used to give an advantage in battle so use it in the 
 thick of heavy battles, you'll thank it.
  
  Value - the game is only around 10 hours long, and doesn't leave much to replay the whole campaign 
 again. The problem is how the campaign is set out. The campaign follows the suit of a linear path 
 of 'go here then go there', throughout the campaign, it just going from point to point with battles 
 along the way. More variety would have helped. However multiplayer is included in the now called 
 F. E. A. R. Combat - which is also free. Multiplayer consist of the usuals such as deathmatch, team 
 deathmatch and capture the flag, but what makes it interesting that it includes all single player 
 weapons - even the Slow Mo. Yes, players who retrieve the Slow Mo device can slow down the enemy 
 to the point where it will be an easy kill for your team. Problem is now that multiplayer games 
 like Battlefield 2142 and now Halo 3, there isn't any playing multiplayer anymore (and since Sierra 
 seperated the multiplayer community, its been on its own since then) and the gameplay in multiplayer 
 is really quite similar to UT, and UT does it much better.
  
  Overall, F. E. A. R. is still a great game to play, even with these shortfalls. Fans that love FPS 
 and is waiting for something as scary as Doom 3 was, then F. E. A. R. will not disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elosolipa
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 5, 2007 1:51 am PT
Review:  Are you looking for a Terror-Suspense experience and the Adventure games make you bored? Are you 
 looking for a brutality violence game where you shoot and shoot and you never have enough dead 
 bodies all around? Are you looking for an all-time fun game without imposible obstacles that makes 
 you loose 10 hours gaming? Ok... I have no words to describe this game. Always come better games 
 and always come new addictive stories. But no one can say that this game will be a classic. I just 
 can&acute; t have enough fun playing old classics and I&acute; ll never will have enough playing 
 this game. The graphics, sound, ambient, suspense and action in the most perfect quantities. Far 
 Cry makes me crazy. But this... this is for going nuts. Have it all. Try it and you never will 
 be the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtreme_chief
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  FEAR is a creepy and immersive game. It is one of more memborable titles for the first person shooter 
 genre. You are a soldier recruited to investigate stange happenings within a multi billion dollar 
 corporation along with the help of the F. E. A. R team. You encounter a large amount of supernatural 
 happenings that do creep you out in the first few levels but after the middle of the game it does 
 wear a bit too fin and repetitive, for example in the beggining levels you see multiple sightings 
 of the lttle girl and Paxton Fetel but in the late sightings you will find yourself just walking 
 through it without jumping out of your seat. FEAR has it's moments of blood and gore and they are 
 the parts that don't wear fin. FEAR has a strong graphics engine that is attractive but I've seen 
 better from Doom 3 and Quake 4. It has pretty shadow effects and reflections on the blood which 
 looks fantastic. The game's storyline is alright but could of surpassed what it is which is a storyline 
 similar to horror films that get bad raitings from movie critics. Gameplay is really basic just 
 like other first person shooters and could of used some more interesting mechanics, but the one 
 good part of gameplay is the hand to hand up close combat that eliminates enemies quicker than 
 guns. FEAR's selection of weapons is good and features the shotgun which you see from most classic 
 shooters etc. The most interesting weapon is the gun that fries enemies into ash skeletons and 
 can also blow enemies into bits if you are close enough.
  
  Enemy AI has never been better featuring the smartes AI I have seen in ages in the hostile soldiers 
 and that makes FEAR more challenging than most other FPS games. So overall I say that FEAR is a 
 must buy for fans of computer FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shalashaska88
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 5, 2007 12:13 am PT
Review:  Ah, FEAR, a game that has eluded me for the past two years since it was released, mostly i didnt 
 have the guts to install this game on my weaker pc back then. But after playing it, i must say, 
 i am very impressed. Monolith has done what few other horror shooters have done. Giving players 
 one of the most intense firefights ever seen in a video game while offering some nice scares (thanks 
 to the ever oh-so-charming Alma and Fettel himself.
  
  I must say the firefights are done extremely well, with the physics giving a good credibilty to 
 the game's graphics. The enemies react superbly to each shots that you fire, or kicks that you 
 deliver, with the ragdoll physics implemented incredibly well to the enemies motions and movements.
 
  
  The scares part are no slouch either. Alma, the child (not giving you any spoilers here) appears 
 on screen when you least expect it, although after awhile you can actually guess where or when 
 she might appear, if you're familliar with the scare tactics used in Asian horror movies like Ringu. 
 You know, dark places, dark corridors, dark rooms... get the pattern?
  
  However, the game's level designs are highly repetitive, and looks dull at times, with you looking 
 the colors of grey, black, and more black. Some nice effects though, like the particles, wall marks, and 
 the impressive lighting effects.
  
  The plot, while intriguing, can be quite confusing, given the fact that most of the time if you 
 wanna get the plot, you have to understand the phone messages that are acquired from phones and 
 laptops. But the story unravels just nicely at the end. Verry cliffhanger, but clever ending.
 
  
  Overall, this game deserves to be installed on your pc, and enjoyed thoroughly for its strengths, 
 and the weaknesses be forgotten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  FEAR is a highly anticipated shooter that combines awesome gunplay with interesting features and 
 storyline, with its creepy outcast shell this game is a mustplay for any PC gamer.
  
  Gameplay/AI:
  Standard weapons, the weapons really give you that 'UGH!' that you need in a FPS 
 while firing a gun, another ability in the game is somekind of fast-reflexes which is basicly bullettime, 
 its a cool feature but you'll use it alot to kill big hordes of enemies.
  
  Theres also some close combat moves which are one-hit-kills or big damage dealers, you will use 
 them once or twice becauase they look cool, but missing oppononents with them is rather easy.
 
  
  Enemies are a plenty, their all pretty repetive but are hard to kill, they'll take cover or knock 
 over objects for shelter, they'll try to flank you or smoke you out with high pressure gunfire.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Overdone levels, great effects, if you hit envoriment you'll see either chunks of concrete hit 
 the floor, or clouds of dust fly in the air, this can lead out to fantastic moments while running 
 up to somebody with bullettime, grab a shotgun and shoot him full in the face, seeing big bloody 
 prints hit the walls is really satisfying.
  
  From checking the minimum system specs, almost every computer can run this game, but low-end computers 
 should have problems running the games epic moments.
  
  Theirs also the creepy aspect of the game, their are loads of creepy moments, like the girl you'll 
 encounter alot that will appear somewhere un-noticed on the screen, or just random figures floating 
 around, and turns out to be illusions of shadows on the wall, the creepy aspect is great and makes 
 the game really stand out, without it this game would be just another FPS.
  
  Story:
  You're a new recruit of the FEAR squad, you guys are called in to investigate this place because 
 their are so mishaps with some professor who made a legion of clones, but after a while everybody 
 is dead, and you are left out to kill everything that comes in you're way, and having the physical 
 improved girl messing around with you're mind isn't a good sign either.
  
  Is it a good FPS:
  This game is creepy and does alot of stuff right, this game should be a mustplay 
 because it breathes fresh air for its genre, and the multiplayer is also good for a few hours every 
 day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LemonAid
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 15, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Because of my lacking FPS experience, I chose F. E. A. R to step into the world of FPS. Something 
 totally new for me! Since almost everyone was boasting about F. E. A. R, I decidet to check it out, 
 my first adventure in FPS starded in this game! Probably why this review is going to be quite... 
 personal ... :|
  
  You are to control an elite soldier of F. E. A. R, First Encounter Assult Recon, a military force 
 dealing with paranormal missions. With excellent reflexes and reactions, you are to wander around 
 in office buildnings to hunt down a certain man or a certain something. Be prepared for supernatural 
 visions and horrors of the now and present. Alma dares you.
  
  To be completely honest with the story, it sucks. Too typical, predictable and boring. The allmighty 
 scary little girl, Alma, isn't scary, she's just your average long black haired vengeful soul that 
 appears in too many movies nowdays. If I were to write a little bit more about the story, I would 
 probably spoil the whole plot, so I won't!
  
  Controls took a little while to get used too (being the first FPS and all for me) , the movements 
 are very smooth and the graphics are quite nice. You are free to customize your crontrol and hotkeys 
 to your own liking (like in many games, duh) which is very handy, for sucky beginners like me! 
 After some torture and dizzy-attacks I eventually got used to it.
  
  The slow-mo effect is something quite awesome and a great help when you're being overwhelmed by 
 triggerhappy foes. If it gets to difficult, you can always set the game's difficulty whenever and 
 whenever during playing.
  
  There are may weapons to choose from and I think most people will stick to their favourite weapon 
 through the game, as long there's enough ammo to find! (In my case... shotgun *muhahaha*) Alas, 
 you can only hold 3 weapons at once, but you can equip two handguns at once. You are also able 
 to execute meele attacks like kicking and hitting, which is very useful in certain cases. I don't 
 really have too much to say about this game, I think it's mainly about running around, being scared 
 and shoot those who get in your way.
  
  I'm not really sure if this game was a good game to start venturing into the FPS world, because 
 the story wasn't interesting and it's quite overused. I got more scared of the enemies who shot 
 at me rather than Alma. I was told by a friend that alma means spirit in some language, so... What 
 is it to be scared of? Overall it's a decent game and probably a treat for experienced FPS gamers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kristel13
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  Not a lot to say about this game. You either like it or you don't ;)
  
  I liked this game a lot, because I tend to lean towards games with a bit of a paranormal theme. 
 It scared me in many ways no doubt, but that wasn't what made it good. I was excited to be a part 
 of an intricate storyline where I was slowly putting together the pieces of a big puzzle to figure 
 out where I fit in. The graphics were excellent. I loved how some of the soldiers you would kill 
 would sometimes get their heads stuck in the ceilings and just dangle there jiggling until they 
 despawned. There were also certain weapons you could use to nail your enemies to the wall literally, 
 which is also a plus. The sound was also really good, I have no complaints there. And the value 
 is pretty accurate. :)
  
  I loved it, but I was disappointed in the ending because I expected a bit more than what happened. 
 I dunno, maybe more of an epilogue? And the final battle seemed a bit too easy. But that is all 
 I will say for now as you will have to find out for yourself! Good luck ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrbongos
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 25, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  Greetings. As you may notice in the past, with my previous reviews, mine have a rather bizzare 
 writing method. If you hadn't seen my others (there aren't that many at the moment) feel free to 
 begin scratching your head now: It'll save you some time.
  
  (Oh and don't worry about spoilers! I keep things semi-vague so as not to spoil too many things 
 for those whom have not played) Many a time we find ourselves in a deja vu. See game, shriek in 
 joy. Pee pants. Pick up game. Skip merrily to counter while singing 'You're Out Of The Woods' from 
 Wizard of Oz. Throw money at cashier, giggle all the way home. At least I do, especially when I 
 got F. E. A. R.
  
  One thing I'll say for Sierra too, God damn are they increasing the number of disks their games 
 come on. FIVE... sweet mother of crap. But in contrast, the install is rather fast for a five disk 
 game, which at least makes things less frustrating. Now I knew this was going to be a good game 
 when the autoplay splash screen phased into existence on my desktop with the weird creaky 'you're 
 in trouble' sound familiar in gads of horror films. I love horror, I hate zombies (see Doom 3 review) , 
 the game loads up, creepy sounds, dark screens... most excellent. Already my horror-dar is pinging 
 like crazy and I am ready to feel horror that excells Doom 3. Once past the opening movie introducing 
 you to what in the hell is going on, and the initial This is how you move around sections of the 
 tutorial level, you get to discover just how F. E. A. R. is designed to scare you.
  
  Little things rattling, lights swaying... Oh... and lets not forget. THE BIG FRIGGAN BLACK AMORPHOUS 
 BALL O' DEATH that engulphs your partner, and leaves you in some bizzare grayed out world with 
 someone blathering in creepy whispering tones at you. Only to find a corpse, and then be sent out 
 alone to be smashed in the face with a two-by-four when you get to the roof. Proving that the enemy 
 of this game is not just a cannibalistic psycho-bastard. But a jerk too. No pistol whipping, gun 
 butts to the stomach... or even a proper baseball bat. No. Two-By-Four. Face. Wham. Creepy line 
 of echoey dialogue. Now understandably when you get back downstairs to report in, your ever silent 
 character seems to leave that bit of information out. Hey, if you're a member of a supreme bad 
 ass government assault team formed to kick the crap out of ghosts, ghouls, goblins, and monsters... 
 would you admit you got your ass kicked with a two by four to the kisser? But once things progress 
 from there, it only gets creepier, and more vicious. Fights where the enemy will try to pin you 
 down so they can move to flank, and who respond when you introduce them to your friend Mr. HE Grenade. 
 With a slow-mo that actually puts Max Payne 1 and 2 to shame, with the air rippling around the 
 projectiles, casings flying, and stuff exploding all around you. That damn little girl Alma, and 
 a general absence of music being used to set the mood. Instead? They make you're characters' breathing 
 kick up, and a audible heartbeat, SOMETIMES a musical sting, but otherwise they use ambiance... 
 and shadows agains walls that have nothing making them when you whip around, making you want to 
 get the hell out of wherever you are, and back to someplace more safe and sane.
  
  Overall: Awesome. With pants destroying terror powers... because if you're not carefull, you'll 
 dook in 'em repeatedly before you have a moment to notice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9/10
  With its creepy, terror-laden atmosphere, F. E. A. R. reminds me somewhat of System Shock 2, although 
 the setting and gameplay details do differ. The utter sense of loneliness while creeping through 
 dark, deserted labs and offices, combined with a strong story-telling aspect thanks to frequent 
 radio logs, phone messages and computer terminals really creates a wonderfully visceral world for 
 a first-person shooter. A lot of recent shooters seem to be going for a traipsing through shadows 
 style of play, but few do it as well as F. E. A. R. The combat is tight and interesting with enemies 
 that are smart and actually work together, resulting in a significant challenge throughout.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Its a very dark game with more shadows than you can shake a stick at. But 
 whereas in some games darkness is a tool used by lazy developers to cover up boring level design, 
 F. E. A. R. is an incredibly detailed and well-presented game. The effects and textures are fantastic 
 and every tiny detail adds to the immersion factor that is so strong in F. E. A. R. While in a few 
 places certain set-pieces do feel rather static (crates, furniture and the like) , thats probably 
 just a result of being spoilt by the physics free-for-alls in the most recent games.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Games like this creep me out, and I suppose the main reason for that is the sound 
 effects. As you are walking down a quiet, deserted corridor the silence is suddenly broken by a 
 ghostly comm signal. Or a voice from nowhere. Or a scream. Or just some of the token bad guys round 
 the next corner. A perfect example of where restraint has worked wonders.
  
  Value: 9/10
  While not as long as some story-based shooters, its still a hefty campaign to go through in single-player 
 mode. A variety of difficulty levels ensure a challenge for all skill levels, and since its such 
 a well-crafted game Im sure it will be one to return to several times at least. Theres also a 
 multiplayer mode, and although I havent personally tried it out yet Ive heard great things about 
 it; and frankly I cant see any reason why it wont be a shedload of fun.
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  Superb.
  
  Pros:
  An immersive atmosphere, an interesting story, genuinely scary scripted 
 sections, well-planned levels and strong action result in one of the best first-person shooters 
 to hit the PC in recent years. Love the slight J-horror taste to the terror. And those frequent 
 hallucinogenic sequences are downright trippy.
  
  Cons:
  Although the enemies could have used a bit more variety, theres no real bad points to get worked 
 up about. Maybe creeping through darkened rooms for a few hours wont appeal to some people, or 
 maybe it will scare the pants off some people, or maybe some people just dont like playing great 
 games.
  
  Conclusion:
  If you like action games and are tired of the same-old shoot first, shoot later approach, get 
 this one and play it in a darkened room. You will not be disappointed. Not for the faint of heart, 
 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaca_42
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 22, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. like i writed before is probably 1 of the best shooters out there to be released.
  what makes the game so grea?
  whell what makes this game so great is the fantastic firefightes 
 and the scary atmosphere and the incredebely good AI.
  1 of the things i whas hearing a lot about F. E. A. R. whas the awsme AI it had and the gameplay my 
 friends tryed to convince me to play F. E. A. R. for arround a week since i knew F. E. A. R. whas a scary 
 game but i finaly decided to try and i can say this i didnt regret it! the firefights are realy 
 intense it feels so real hearing the bullets flying near your ears seing the clouds of dust coming 
 out of the walls and guns.
  the AI whas another thing wich i whas realy suprised i never saw such a good AI in quite a while 
 and thanks to that you cant run like a crazy arround if you do that you wont last 1 minute in a 
 firefight you either use cover and tactics or your dead if the AI noticest any kind of weakness 
 on you believe me they will charge you with everything they got and it will be very hard to turn 
 arround from that 1.
  if they see you flanking them they will change position and fire back at you.
  an example while 
 trying the demo i whas taking cover behind a whall and i saw 2 guys coming out of a corner i picked 
 up my smg and fired at them they runned at the closest whall 1 of them pullin something to the 
 ground and taking cover behind it, i killed the other guy that whas out in the open and i noticest 
 that the other one got pinned so i jumped the whall and tryed to flank him but when i reached his 
 poisition he crawled under a pile of metal or what ever it whas and tooked cover in the poistion 
 i whas.
  this is just one of the things they can do.
  now this game is very scary and i admit it i had a hard time finishing the demo because of that 
 and when i say this isnt for the weak hearted i realy mean that from what i readed a kid had an 
 heart atack playing this game and yes hes alive.
  whell thats all i can say for now if i can il give more info when i buy the full version 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 18, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  When I first read about FEAR I was about skeptical. Yeah, the basis of the game sounded good but 
 I was thinking it was gonna be all great visuals with a corny (not scary) plot. I'm sure glad I 
 was wrong. When I first tried the FEAR demo I was blown away! The sound, visuals, and story all 
 seemed to fantastic!! I played the demo late at night with the lights off and just seeing the shadows 
 of the little girl running around and the distorted staticy laugher sent chills up my spine. The 
 gameplay was extremely good as well and a great plot. I immediately bought this game when it was 
 released (something I typically don't do) . Great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sangu1ne
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2007 1:54 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is one of those games you dont see very often, a game that isnt so much frightening 
 as it is intimidating.
  
  You are the member of a rapid response team that investigates the paranormal, there are some strange 
 things happening in the local area, a battalion of cloned soldiers has been commandeered by its 
 former commander, and this is where the game starts you off.
  
  A dramatic air of suspense is well kept by the game, images of tortured victims of the commanders 
 attempts to expunge information from them abruptly flash up on your screen as you approach their 
 bodies, a little girl chases you around or beckons you closer and just when you thought it was 
 safe to open that door, your flung into an unhallowed vision, of a blood bathed corridor, in a 
 dark forbidding hospital and the ominous moans of a woman in painful labour, and the screams of 
 a little girl in agony! This happens to you a lot and keeps the blood pumping I can assure you!
 
  
  This level of emotion is consistently applied to the game and very well integrated into the action, 
 large parts can actually be spent just moving through dishevelled locales and dank environments, 
 only to find no enemies but a string of corpses and mottled blood.
  
  It is however my opinion that this makes the game as good as it is, you are always on the edge 
 of your seat, and much like the GS review says, it is indeed emotionally tiring. For me the remainder 
 of the game was a well polished shooter, but with some interesting additions. Most notably is the 
 ability to slow down time matrix style. Although this may seem a bit tired and old, it is in fact 
 done extremely well and some encounters are close to impossible without using it. The classic matrix 
 bullet vortex and the encumbered cycle of the weapons firing mechanism all add to the experience, 
 especially when you hit an enemy solider in the head and he buckles and reels, still firing off 
 a few fleeting rounds of full automatic machine gun fire as he tumbles to the floor. Brilliant!!
 
  
  Although I rarely use the melee attacks, drop kick and sliding tackle are a nice addition for those 
 who choose the stealthier path through the game, and the ability to crack the but or pistol whip 
 an opponent on the back of the skull rounds of your combat moves nicely, but I dont think the 
 control mechanism is design to do this optimally, and the AI on the enemy is such that the slightest 
 mistake will cause a gun battle!
  
  In fact the AI is a cohesive team, they are good at what they do (attempt to kill you!) and arent 
 conceited about it either. However it is usually the same soldiers you will be facing armed with 
 the same array of weaponry from sub-machines guns, assault rifles and the trusty shotgun. This 
 can get samey, and I would imagine it would leave little replay value unless it was on the higher 
 difficulties, where the AI really gives you a tough time.
  
  Bearing in mind this game is 2 years old, the graphics are very good, if seemingly bland and robust 
 in areas. In fact some of the environments do seem empty, the classic cant see the wood for the 
 trees idiom. Also some environs are seem to be set up so much for a cut scene you get the sense 
 its a little contrived, but then this is a video game! This game relies on shadows and dark areas 
 for its effects, and the darkness is indeed contiguous, and consuming ---- and very quickly surrounds 
 you. The shadows arent as articulated as well as you might expect, but during play you will seldom 
 be studying your shadow with all the bizarre happenings! The effects of spend shell casings, chipped 
 concreted and shattered windows are rendered very well, and the physics on the falling debris is 
 believable, unfortunately it doesnt hang around, but that is probably good as it would not complement 
 the environment.
  
  What does compliment the environment is the harrowing sound. The music is maudlin and clings to 
 the setting and really does create an oppressive atmosphere, combined with the objects noise, which 
 if you have Creatives EAX enabled really is truly a surround sound experience, makes the world 
 feel real. The radio can be somewhat quiet, Im not sure if this is intentional, but it is eerily 
 spooky when it crackles and then moments later, you hear a childs disembodied voice through it!
 
  
  Although I have not finished the game yet, I am thoroughly looking forward to finishing and then 
 hopefully buying extraction point. If you enjoy tense emotional thrillers with a reasonably good 
 storyline this game is most certainly for you, the sound graphics and gameplay are all what you 
 would expect from a 9 rated game!
  
  Sangu1ne 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaTmAn101DK
Rating: 9
Date: May 15, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  GOOD
  pretty good game play (smooth, but bland)
  awesome semantics (like, feeling as if ur in your own movie, and not wanting to play the game at 
 the scary parts)
  and a fun multilayer (kicki'n Ace with the scissor kick!!!)
  
  BAD
  repetitive (same dudes, just different rooms and stuff)
  unknown plot (they make you make up 
 the story)
  bad ending. FEAR 2!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  well i love this game, probably because this is the first game i've played that has actual in game 
 semantics, and good graphics, plus a somewhat realistic game play... but the main thing is, is that 
 you won't find a game that has bad guys that put your head under the covers, you won't find a game 
 that scares you more than fear (maybe silent hill... if your a **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psydrone
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 8, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is an absolutely thrilling experience- I'll come right out and say it. The shootouts in 
 this game are among the most visceral, kinetic, and adrenaline-induced blasts I've had in gaming. 
 It starts out with a bang- creating a very mysterious background for your main character. You immediately 
 become sucked into the beautifully rendered urban environments, fleshed out with smooth animations 
 and a non-intrusive interface.
  
  The story carries the action *remarkably* well, and it is peppered with dozens of very tense moments, 
 where you actually may have a hard time pushing forward. (If you weren't armed to the teeth with 
 armor and assault rifles, it may be near impossible) The enemies are well designed enough that 
 their repetition can usually overlooked- and that is actually the largest flaw in this game- its 
 repetition. Levels are mostly claustrophobic, and enemies virtually never vary. But as I said, 
 the shooting and the thick, moody atmosphere certainly eclipse any lack of variation. Guns are 
 very well designed and quite varied. The *feeling* of shooting in this game, as gruesome as it 
 may sound, really is just so much fun. No game that I've played can quite compare. The single player 
 campaign is fun, albeit short. The multiplayer is where you will find excellent replayability, 
 however. Tons of different game modes, great stability and quite balanced gameplay make multiplayer 
 just as fun as its single counterpart.
  
  I could continue about how much fun I've had with this game for a long time, however I will just 
 finish by saying that it is a remarkable achievement, an immensely fun FPS and a real blast to 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pehota
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 5, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  At the first, i thought that this game blows, but i have corrected my video options, and it become 
 much nicer and smoother. First of all, this game not that scary as many thinks, and second of all 
 its new addons like SLOW MOTION is realy cool! Without slow mo, i would definately had many problems 
 with killing bad guys. Well, graphics is not as good as in half-life (i dont think that there is 
 better graphics in any shooter than HalfLife but anyway) AI is smart even on Medium level, so watch 
 out! Weapons are good and shout gun is my favorite!
  
  in General, game is cool, and walk through should be nice, for me it took 4 days! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdechert
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 3, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is by far the most fun I've had at a first person shooter since the original Doom. The 
 interactive environments and great shadow rendering make moving through the levels exciting just 
 because of the anticipation. There are some moments when I truly jumped in my chair - something 
 I haven't done in a LONG time. The blend of action and psychology was done masterfully. Even though 
 there isn't a great variety of AI foes, the AI intelligence is superb. I wish every shooter had 
 AI this intuitive. Trying to outsmart the CPU at every turn made this a truly immersive experience. 
 Can't wait to play the expansion pack. Hope there's more where this came from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonziter1
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 2, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  Well, there are lots of FPS out there. This one is well worth the buy. Its has been a long time 
 since a game had me at hello. Doom3 did this, but fear has a whole element that most FPS's don't. 
 FEAR! The graphics are so smooth and crisp it should be everyones benchmark game to check out their 
 computer performance. The controls are wonderful. The lean in perfect. The weapons are fun and 
 precise. The fact that you can not carry 5 different weapons is great. I have no real complaints 
 about the game except that I wish it had harder bosses throughout the game. Otherwise the medium 
 difficulty setting is just right to keep you doing the appropriate number or reloads. Great stuff 
 Monolith. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SIKID406
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 29, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  This game is a really fun and also scares you at the same time!
  In fear you get a large powerefull choice of weapons, from dual handed pistols to large desinigrators 
 and many more.
  And its got cool graphics with a game card or a basic one.
  Also i gets really scary from time to time, you get freaky visions kinda like the suffering for 
 ps2, theres also a little ghost girl that stalks you along the game wich gets preatty freaky after 
 a while.
  The enemies in this game are pretty smart wich means they will run for cover after theyve heard 
 a gunshot, but with bosses its you who should run for cover because theyre huge and very very powerfull.
 
  You should try playing this game in the dark with the sound up to make it really fun and scary.
 
  
  I also recomend the suffering 1 and 2 for ps2 cause its simply good and scary game like this one.
 
  
  sometimes its fun to get scared...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sangman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 28, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  As with every single thing in the universe, F. E. A. R. is a love/hate thing. Maybe you hate medium-paced 
 action with a lot of blood and horror, but, myself, I loved the hell out of it. FEAR really isn't 
 all that big what gameplay time is concerned. I completed it in about 8 hours, but close to none 
 of those hours felt boring. The game is fun for almost all of the time - except in the beginning 
 where you still have to break it in , you don't have a clue what's going on, and it feels like 
 just another on-a-rails shooter. It feels pointless. However, after a couple of levels I got more 
 and more into it and I started to really enjoy the game, up until the end.
  
  There are a few reasons why it's so enjoyable. The pacing is well done, there is a lot of action 
 in the game without it feeling like a shooting galore. I feel the AI is often overrated, they certainly 
 can pose a challenge but I've had times where they'd just run up to me and my shotgun in a suicidal 
 manner. Apart from the action bits, there's also horror. You'll see visions of the main bad guy 
 - Paxton Fettel - as well as a little girl and several others. Even after I've played the game 
 a couple of times, these parts still scare me (or at least freak me out) which is exactly what 
 they're supposed to do.
  
  I only meet the bare minimum system requirements to play this, but that doesn't matter to me, I 
 still like it. I suppose that means top-notch graphics aren't THAT important in a game like this, 
 many other factors (the ones I told you about just now) make up for it.
  
  As mentioned, the game is only 8 hours long. At the end, it all feels nicely wrapped up but I still 
 wanted to play it on (so I started a new game pretty much immediately after) . There's an expansion 
 for it, Extraction Point, which might offer pretty much the same but I've only played the demo 
 for it (which I didn't find all too interesting) so I don't know how well that plays.
  
  In any case, if you meet the system requirements and you're fond of action, horror, storytelling, 
 slow-motion, melee moves,... this is certainly a game you should get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8erboi796
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  this is a great game and its different from many other first person shooters because this is very 
 challenging and it's a horror/first person shooter it has great multiplayer and it has some great 
 sound and graphics and you can play it online with 16 people which makes it fun and interactive 
 and its more fun where you play it alone in the dark and at night because this game will give you 
 the chills and its one of my favorite first person shooters of all time
  
  But overall I would recommend F. E. A. R. its a great game and youll like it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easyvoice
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 25, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a highly intense FPS and a game that must be played, both experience FPS and new players 
 will come to appreciate the complex and stunning technical style. The game brilliantly grabs both 
 the horror and the science fiction elements in a new, unique and non-linear way. With incredible 
 graphics and sounds, fresh storyline and quite challenging sequences at times; it is undisputedly 
 the best first person shooter of the year and one of the scariest games ever. The slow motion aspect 
 takes the visual style of F. E. A. R. to a spectacular new level and provides enormous fun gameplay
 
  So very highly recommended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  This game provides an eerie atmosphere which is extremly effective as u blast ur way through intense 
 fire fights to suddenly find ur self in a soundless world. Everything makes u be on ur edge of 
 ur seat as unexpecting things happen taking u by shock. I have just shat my pants -Lee Evans, is 
 exactly what this game does. U turn around a corridor and all u c is fire with a girl standing 
 in the middle (think of samara from the Ring) . And they aren't cutscenes either it is all in game. 
 The effects r extremly satisfying as u go full auto on the enemy with smoke everywhere and then 
 huge bullet holes. F. E. A. R really does give u FEAR!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aerebia
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  Well let's see... I'm not one that buys games all the time (although I wish I did) due to money 
 issues and such but after I played the single player demo for this a couple of months before it 
 came out I knew I had to have it. I definitely never have enough money to buy games whenever they 
 first come out but it just so happened that I had a LAN over at my house and the day after we went 
 to Wal-Mart and checked out stuff. I saw FEAR and so I borrowed some money from my friend and bought 
 it that day.
  
  Now right from opening the box I knew i had made a great choice, five beautiful discs which meant 
 length and graphics! Soon after I started playing the game I knew that it was well worth the money.
 
  
  The thing about this game is that the player is constantly on edge not knowing if something is 
 going to pop out or not. I will tell you this, even if you're not playing the game it's still just 
 as fun watching someone else play it so it's really for fun for LANs waiting for your best friend 
 to jump and scream like a little girl, it's awesome!
  
  In addition to being able to use weapons the player can actually do a few kicks and punches which 
 really came in handy when ammo was low. Sneaking up on the enemy and bicycle kicking them was tons 
 of fun, well that was until i was out numbered which is where bullet time (reflexes) came in handy. 
 It was definitely a good feature to have in the game, unlike other games that have it only so that 
 it boosts the cool of the game this game actually had use for it.
  
  The story line was a bit iffy, just the idea of basically going on a wild goose chase is kind of 
 a let-down but at the end of the game the seems come together and it all makes sense which is why 
 I rated it so highly. It's quite the cliff hanger too. Like I said I never buy games because I 
 never have money which is why I have yet to buy the expansion Extraction Point but I'm sure I will 
 within the next week or so. =)
  
  If you are a fan of FPS you should definitely give this game a shot, go ahead and play the demo 
 because unlike some demos the demo for this game never appears in the game, it was a bunch of bits 
 from random parts of the game so it never comes together in it's entirety and even when you see 
 something from the demo, its not what you would expect because they changed the parts.
  
  It's a must have for any FPS gamer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visi0naries
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 16, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  WHAT'S RIGHT - superb A. I.; Slow Motion is done and used in wonderful fashion; intense battles 
 and creepy atmosphere
  WHAT'S WRONG - small arsenal of weaponry; little to do upon completion of game; boring and duplicate 
 enemy models; weak multiplayer
  
  When you look at the boxart for F. E. A. R., you see a little girl. This girl has the full illustration 
 to look spooky. Well, this is one of the main executions for the game known as F. E. A. R. Why would 
 the game bear the name 'F. E. A. R.' if it didn't have anything to do with the word? Either way, F. E. A. R. 
 goes for a little something different from the standard fare of first person shooters. While you 
 have all the necessary guts of FPS's, F. E. A. R. adds some more spice along with the usual. More 
 detail on those specific things as the review moves along, but you have to applaud F. E. A. R. for 
 working on something different. Sure, it is in no way unprecedented, but going on a different road 
 than other games is both bold and smart.
  
  If you don't know yet, F. E. A. R. stands for First Encounter Assault Recon, and even I was surprised 
 the people at Monolith could think up of something as such. The story plays out like a big budget 
 Hollywood movie, where you're sent to take out a telepathic person and his super soldiers. You 
 play as a nameless person named the 'Point-man'. Upon arriving at your first location, you have 
 no clues about the little girl in the red dress. This girl is named Alma, and she is unsurprisingly 
 the female on the boxart. If you are looking for more non-surprises, after checking out your surroundings, 
 the area becomes more spooky, and thus, this is where the game really starts.
  
  F. E. A. R. blends both horror and action elements, then wraps it up with a mix of fast and slow paced 
 firefights (you'll see why later) . There will be plenty of gun battles with supersoldiers, taped 
 up with some Alma sightings. The first couple of Alma sightings will scare you a bit, although 
 it may not be a jump up scare if you can brace yourself. The supersoldiers you will be fighting 
 prefer to arrive and attack in groups. This makes for some intense battling, but the thing is, 
 they keep coming at you predictably. Nonetheless, these firefights are intense and sometimes they 
 keep you on the edge of your seat. For something that tries to work up as a Hollywood movie, I 
 don't really see any problems here.
  
  While fighting all these supersoldiers, you do have some attacks and advantages at your disposal. 
 F. E. A. R. has its share of pistols and rifles. Unfortunately, there aren't very many weapons available, 
 especially compared to competing games. Most of the weaker weapons, such as the dual handguns, 
 look and sound ugly at best. It's not until the more powerful weapons where F. E. A. R. has some admiring 
 weapons. You can carry up to 3 weapons at once, so switching through weapons shouldn't be a hassle. 
 Each weapon has some advantages and disadvantages that sometimes makes the game crucial, meaning 
 one weapon will do terrible, while another can breeze through that section. The balance serves 
 well, and it is executed without much problem. If guns aren't your thing, you can punch and kick 
 your way through, but I don't recommend that, and neither should anyone else.
  
  Nowadays, everyone can familiarize themselves with a technique called Slow Motion (or Slo-Mo) . 
 In F. E. A. R., this little technique will work to your advantage and will be useful, no doubt. Activating 
 this technique does as the name suggests, it slows down time to your advantage. Every little effect 
 is demonstrated, and you'll even see the air distortion from flying bullets. Slow Motion is measured 
 by a meter, so it decreases as you focus, then you have to recharge it to full power again. However, 
 it's best used in short bursts rather than used through long periods. This mechanic works very 
 well with F. E. A. R., and it feels like F. E. A. R. would not be F. E. A. R. without Slow Motion.
  
  F. E. A. R.'s artificial intelligence proves itself to be really intelligent at times. Aside from 
 attacking in groups while issuing commands, they can sneak up on you, climb ladders, flank you, 
 and even hide and surprise you at the wrong times. It is agreeable that they are quite advanced, 
 but at times they may not attack you unless you attack them first. They also have a tendency to 
 rush at you, almost as if suicidal. Slow Motion helps, but the advanced A. I. still won't be as 
 simple. As far as conquering these tactics, you'll have to combine Slow Motion with your own bottle 
 of wine. Taking cover is essential as usual, and even if you do take cover, the A. I. will point 
 in your direction and then attack you, leaving you little time to take a break. The A. I. only has 
 some minor problems, but those problems are overridden by their intelligence on the rest of the 
 fronts.
  
  F. E. A. R. comes with a multiplayer component, but the multiplayer itself is very lacking. You have 
 the usual Deathmatch and Capture the Flag, along with the two newer modes, Control, and Capture 
 All. Some of the gametypes make use of the Slow Motion technique from the single player. Using 
 this basically puts you in control of the match because of its capabilities. F. E. A. R. Combat is 
 a free download for all that allows you to play with anyone who has the retail package of the original 
 F. E. A. R. With its thin multiplayer, it doesn't sound antic that Monolith would put it up for free. 
 If you have either version of the multiplayer, it won't hold your attention for long because of 
 the limited options that don't stick out.
  
  Working your way through the single player, you'll notice that the visuals are all that they are 
 cracked up to be. The environment looks dazzling, but after a while, it may feel like you're running 
 through the same halls. The biggest plus with the graphics is the sheer amount of effort that went 
 in when Slow Motion is activated. I'm no masochist in any way, but the detail gone through from 
 firing your weapon and seeing the blood spirt out from an enemy is terrific, hands down. The environment 
 around you reacts just like it should. The enemy models are a big let down, because frankly, they 
 all look exactly the same. Despite there being some of those enhanced soldiers, the regular supersoldiers 
 look the same and react in the same way. As for the framerate, there have been little problems, 
 so the game can handle the action really well.
  
  The ambient screams and noises bring the atmosphere above the standard. Echoes from an abandoned 
 environment sound amazing. This should come as expected, as sound is probably one of the more important 
 features into bringing a horror game to life. The weapon sounds aren't exciting at all, and this 
 goes for the weaker weapons. If anything, they sound like firecracker noises. However, the more 
 powerful weapons like the shotgun are much more pleasing. The music is creepy, but near the end 
 you get the feeling that the music should of been omitted, as it could have done much better without 
 any wacky music. The ambient noises are more than enough to get chills up your spine.
  
  F. E. A. R.'s single player will last you from 8-10 hours, which is a decent amount of time. Sadly, 
 you don't really get anything for it, except a pat on the back. You can try your hand at multiplayer, 
 but the limited options and mediocre gameplay aren't enough to keep the egg from cracking. On top 
 of that, there's not much interest heading through the single player again, unless you are willing 
 to try a higher difficulty setting, but there isn't much of an improvement because the A. I. is 
 smart enough as it is. For that, the game ends up dry too quickly. There isn't much you can do 
 to keep yourself coming back, so you'll stack this away for some time after completing it.
  
  F. E. A. R.'s high intensity and eerie atmosphere proves to be quite gratifying, although its 
 shortcomings are inevitable. The environment is stale when you keep walking through the same areas 
 again, and a weak multiplayer component adds to the bundle. F. E. A. R. isn't that bad of a game, 
 though. Its Slow Motion feature is used in a unique manner and gets the job done right without 
 any major dilemmas. The intelligent A. I. has only a few problems, but it's some of the better A. I. 
 to come along in some time. The best part of F. E. A. R. is its intense firefights and creepy atmosphere 
 that keep the game flowing the way it should. Action and horror is the center of attention for 
 F. E. A. R., and if those two genres have you excited, then you know what to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigerballer
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 14, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  f. e. a. r is flat out the best first person shooter you will be able to play until crysis which doesnt 
 come out for a while. gamespot says that f. e. a. r is really demanding on performance, but my processor 
 is single core, my graphics card is average (7600 GT) , but i do have 3 gb of ram. Game runs fine 
 for me, at like 40 fps or so. with maximum AA, lighting, shadows, all that good stuff. the game 
 is simply awesome to play, and you will get your share of scares too. multiplayer is the only downside, 
 as it is fun, but is basically shoot em up and kind of bland. single player is unforgettable though, 
 so go buy it cuz its only like 30 bucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyw1988
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 13, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  I decided to re-review this game because I felt my judgement was swayed by the hype the game was 
 getting when it was first released. Alrighty, I shouldn't waste anymore time and get down into 
 the review.
  
  Story:
  F. E. A. R. has a unique storyline, combining terrorism with a touch of supernatural. You play as 
 a member of the First Encounter Assault Reacon otherwise known as F. E. A. R.. And despite being a 
 rookie on the team, you are given the task of stopping a madman, Paxton Fettel, who has talepathically 
 taken control of an entire group of clone soldiers. That is all you know for now. The story will 
 eventually unfold to you through bits and pieces of notes that can be found in computers scattered 
 throughout the game.
  
  Gameplay:
  Yes I know everyone has heard about how action-packed the gunfights in F. E. A. R. are. And yes I 
 don't deny that. The AI in this game is trully amazing. They're smart and they'll give you the 
 fight of your life. However, apart from the action you get from these battles, the rest of the 
 game is just spent walking around and completing your objectives. To sum it up, you'll be given 
 an objective, you kill all those who oppose you and you complete your objective and proceed to 
 the next level. And most of the time I might add, these objectives give no sense of achievement 
 at all. The objectives all center around catching Fattel but in the end he just gets away every 
 single time. Sure you have that freaky ghost girl Alma around but all she does is give you a freaky 
 feeling to keep you awake so you wouldn't fall asleep while trying to finish your repeating objectives.
 
  
  Graphics:
  The most hyped factor of the game but in my opinion it was nothing spectacular. Sure the light 
 and particle effects are all really well done. However, is not the only factor that contributes 
 to the game's graphics. The Environment in F. E. A. R. is really bland. You go through almost the 
 same grey corridors over and over again. And the outdoor maps aren't any better. Throwing in a 
 few boxes and containers don't really make a difference.
  
  Sound:
  Anyone who has already read till here will probably know what I want to say. Repetitive. The shots 
 fired from the guns, the enemies screaming, the impact noises are all monotonous. Ya sure, the 
 music does come on during firefights or creepy encounters but it ain't that great either. At the 
 end of the day you'll probably turn off the sound and blast your own music.
  
  Value:
  Well if you're still reading this then you'll probably know how I'll rate this. No prices for getting 
 it correct. But yes the value of this game is low. You'll probably take about 10-15 hours to complete 
 the game, after which you'll probably be sick of the repetition and stop playing anymore of it.
 
  
  Overall:
  My advice? Stay away from the collectors edition and get this game if and only if you''re bored 
 AND its going on sale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hebri
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 9, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  Before I got the game, I didnt really think it will be good and fun -- I was so wrong. The moment 
 I started playing the game.. I was astonished, this game provides fun, action, horror and the best 
 thing in the game: EXCITEMENT. Ive never seen a more exciting game. I played a lot of First Person 
 Shooter game like Halflife, Halflife2, Call of duty, etc but all these games I have played did not 
 give as much excitement as this game gives.. this doesnt mean that F. E. A. R is better than HL2. Just 
 to warn: this game should not be played by people who hate blood and horror, becasue the game is 
 reeeeally SCARY sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:43 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a professional mixture of FUN and FEAR. The good scenario will keep you just hung, waiting 
 for something scary happen on your way. You'll always have to be on the alert, sticking your weapon 
 to your shoulder. The very great acting of the enemies is just what you need in an action game 
 like this. You'll really feel that you're fighting with professional commandos on your way. Sound 
 and visual effects are artistic too and they really come together with scenario. I believe that 
 you'll enjoy the system that you'll have to choose between weapons. You'll get used to having limited 
 guns and ammunition easily and it's fun testing several weapons and choosing which one to carry. 
 In my opinion G2A2 rifle works great against soldiers. The only thing that I really had trouble 
 with during the game was the KICK action. Because it uses a complicated key combination that takes 
 long to get used to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nae_X
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 4, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  grafica fff buna... un sound care te face sa tremuri... (de frica) ... cel mai tare joc pe care am 
 reusit sa pun si eu mana... dupa far cry.. nu te lasa pur si simplu sa pleci din fata calculatorului.. nu 
 ca ai vrea..:) ... astept si alta parte...: D daca ar fi si alte jocuri la fel de bine facute... cred 
 ca as dormi cu pc in brate... as manca (daca as mai manca) in fata la calc.. dar sa revenim la joc.... pur 
 si simplu extraordinar... poate putin suparatoare devine lupta aceea (pt a cate-a oara ) in spatii 
  e un mic minus la cate plusuri a adunat... jocul dispune si de 
 un AI bunicel... nu multi inamici trag si se ascund.... astia chiar m-au terminat la propriu pe la 
 inceputul jocului.. poate o parte 2.. care sa contina si leveluri prin lume... ca sa zic asa.... si 
 cu siguranta. o sa fie cel mai tare shooter pe piata... oricum sa speram ca le vine idee si ne ajuta 
 si pe noi.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnarchySolider
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  1 word describes the game.. actually 2 amazing.. and pants wetting.. ok so 3!.. enough scenes to make 
 you cringe and make you scream HOLY ****!!!... but mostly its the horror part that makes it a great 
 game... over all the best game i have ever expericend so far... the part that surprised me though 
 is that Alma, the girl ghost, is your mother the most freaky part though is when she crawls at you 
 really fast!.... a game that you can prank your freind swith if they have no idea of the game &amp; 
 you might not wanna be alone in a dark room while playing this game... you might have hallucinate 
 yourself... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chris_53
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 31, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is basically a game that combines first person shooter action and creepy horror that creates 
 a very unsettling and terrifying gaming experience. You are part of a Special Forces group that 
 is sent in to investigate paranormal situations. Here you are sent in to investigate murders that 
 are taking place in three environments such as a dark gritty industrial district, an abandoned 
 office complex and a condemned urban district. As you explore these areas, you reel that you are 
 alone, but at the same time, you know that you arent. The reason is that this mysterious little 
 girl called Alma pops up here and there and has the ability to mess around with your head in many 
 ways. This provides a very nerve-racking experience for players and can make exploring a dark deserted 
 hallway a terrifying and unsettling experience. Alma isn't your main enemy in this game, here you 
 fight an army of clone soldiers that are armed to the teeth and can be difficult to take down as 
 the A. I in this game is superb. These soldiers will attempt to flank you and use cover; they will 
 also call in for reinforcements. The visuals in this game are impressive as the whole game uses 
 excellent lighting effects and gorgeous high resolution textures. Also pretty much every object 
 can be shot and blown to pieces which looks fantastic during combat as you see dust and pieces 
 of glass flying everywhere. The sound is also top notch as it adds to the atmosphere with great 
 effect, from the musical score, to the sinister laughter of Alma, to the sound of fire fights. 
 This is a very enjoyable experience and should not be missed. The only negative points with this 
 game are that the game can reel a tad repetitive in places and the environments are all very similar 
 and you battle the same soldiers over and over. The other point is that you need a good system 
 to play this game. If you want to play this game on highest settings at high resolutions then you 
 may want to upgrade to a high end video card as the games frame-rate can suffer otherwise and you 
 want about 2GB memory if you want maximum settings. Dont let this put you off as this is a very 
 enjoyable game even at medium settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdGen
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is quite a different beast from what I expected. It is not as dark (literally) as the 
 likes of Doom 3 - but you sure as heck get a few scares out it - even early on.
  
  The visuals are very good even by todays standards (it is 2 years old now) . The action is over 
 the top, visceral - a blast really. The bad guys are sneaky and show real intelligence. The weapons 
 are good without being un-realistic. The story is bloody weird but who cares. This game is fun. 
 Scary. Entertaining. You should be able to pick up the game for less than $30 (second hand despite 
 my sticker saying it was new - yeah right) . You will love it if you have a decent enough machine 
 (if you can run Doom 3 or Prey, F. E. A. R should run fine) .
  
  Recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_zone
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 21, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a game full of action that covers almost every part of the game.. But like i've said.. almost.. means.. there 
 are some part which really don't contain actions at all...
  
  Gameplay:
  
  A great action game, filled with nice bullet time and ragdoll physics. The enemy reacts on where 
 u shoot on them.. and their A. I level of intelligence is pretty solid.. This is not just a run and 
 gun game, sometimes u need to take cover behind crates and objects to kill the enemy especially 
 when they are quite a number of em. But the game is not long enough... it' covers almost about 8-10 
 hrs of gameplay.. the last part is quite disappointing though becoz it lacks of actions.. u just 
 wonder around the place thinking of where to go.. And the storyline is not that good.. If u've played 
 this game once, u won't be doing it twice, cuz the story is linear. It contains some suspense scenes 
 but there's isn't much of it. And the bad part of the suspense thing is that most of the times 
 u need to look around you to find the spot where the ghost will appear.. so if u miss it.. u won't 
 see it again.. Controls are good.. no bugs or anything.. There quite a number of guns.. some are futuristic 
 ones.. it's cool that u can carry many guns at a time just like Half life.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are quite beautiful especially during bullet time... U can see the blurry effects.. particles 
 and the hit points that u shoot onto the enemy.. The textures on the envirionment arent bad afterall 
 if u play it on a high end PC... but the bad part is.. the level design isn't that impressive... the 
 way monolith design the walls aren't very detail in shapes and sizes.. They look like a Square Block.. and 
 didn't add much different to each levels u play it on.. Also.. there arent much skin for the enemy.. most 
 of the enemie wear a helmet and a white army uniform..
  
  Sound:
  
  Quite impressive the first time u hear it.. but it gets repetive after some time of hearing it.. the 
 words that the A. I use will remain the same after 3 hours of gameplay.. the gun shots are quite 
 well done with the futuristic guns producing electrifying sounds!!
  
  Conclusion:
  
  So what i can i say about F. E. A. R? To keep it short.. its a good game when it comes to shooting 
 and A. I.. but it is too linear... u won't be shocked playing it the second time if u got all thru 
 the suspense part. Overall it's a good game... but u need quite a high ram, a fast hard disk speed 
 and a good graphi card to see the beauty.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abridgers71
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  -- this game lives up to every review of 'GREAT' ever written! I haven't been sucked into a game 
 at this level since the days of playing Half Life. It's so far BEYOND incredible that I can't really 
 explain how far it goes. The horror aspects of the game (advice: use a good soundcard! the ambient 
 noises will have your skin crawling...) mess with your head so bad that I won't play it in the 
 dark! It's just weird and creepy enough to not be over-the-top and unrealistic (like having bizarro 
 demons or 3 headed mutants) , but to seep into your brain and stick there like peanutbutter to the 
 roof of your mouth. It really, really gets under your skin and will have you jittery after playing 
 for a while. The developers have got some very, very serious mental problems to have come up with 
 some of this stuff!
  -- in terms of gameplay , this is NOT your father's FPS! The visuals are stunning and smooth as 
 glass. The environment takes blood and gore splatters all in stride and very convincingly. The 
 weaponry is probably the coolest I've ever played with. You really FEEL like you're shooting a 
 machinegun or a shotgun! And I absolutely LOVE the way that the guns generate volumetric smoke 
 from the gunfire (you have to move or wait b/c you can't see through the fog of war ) . The enemy's 
 squad based AI tactics are fantastic! They will pin you down, flank you, and toss grenades.... 
 all acting as a single squad . These are not moron cannon-fodder , they are very, very smart and 
 sometimes tough to beat.
  -- the action/kills are sometimes plain out gruesome. Alot of development time was spend figuring 
 out how to use the shotgun to blow people's limbs off (or in half!) or tack guys to a wall with 
 the nail gun 
  ---- From the first scene through the entire game, you will be sucked in 110%. It's got a great 
 story line that you shouldn't ruin by reading any FAQs. This is really a hardcore FPS with very 
 realistic blood/guts. This is also NOT a game for kids!!!!! The enemy has called me a Motherf***r 
 so many times I can't count and you definitely don't want your 12 year old nailgunning someone 
 through the head and sticking them to the wall.
  ---- I can't say enough good things about this game. It hits the mark on every level and will alternately 
 freak you out and gross you out on a regular basis. I'm completely addicted :o) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snfonseka
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 10, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  This is a outstanding game with full of shooting and combined with horror added environment. Game 
 play is great U can have a excellent FPS experience when playing this game. The enemies in the 
 game are very intelligence. So if U are planning to do traditional RUN and GUN U have to good at 
 that. Because in the game enemies react as a team with different strategies. The boss fights are 
 good too. But there is a really bad thing in this game play, that is the flash light that won't 
 last long more than one minute. Other than that game play is great. Graphics are great too, U must 
 have a higher performance VGA if U want to enable high graphics and play the game smoothly (Specially 
 for soft shadows) . Sounds are great too which gives a horror feeling to the player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 7, 2007 6:23 am PT
Review:  I don't have a clue why this game is soooo highly rated, my only guess would be because people 
 are suckers for graphics and it's all the care about. However i found the AI to be crap and tit 
 got boring fighting the same NPC's over and over again till the end. Then you got a expansion that 
 did the same thing over and over again!!!!!!!!! If that wasn't bad enough you in the same styled 
 levels throughout the whole game! Sure it was great at first but after 4 friggin levels you started 
 to get tired of it lol.
  
  The sound was great and the guns were kool but generic and the graphics were kinds the same there. 
 I can't really say anything about this game is special :\ However it might be cheap and if its 
 &pound;10-15 it's worth that price.
  
  The multiplayer aswel wasn't good.
  
  Overall your getting a short small package full of the doing the same thing in the same places 
 throughout the game. I couldn't call this game special or a masterpeice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inqsolarus
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 6, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Fear is a great game and is unlike many other FPS games in many ways. Monolith have gone out of 
 their way to raise areas of this genre above and beyond anything that anyone has acheived before.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  One of Fears great assets is its gameplay. The controls are well laid out and once you get used 
 to them you should have no trouble leaning round corners, aiming and shooting dudes. I found the 
 aiming idea really useful and suited my style well. Leaning is a must and unless you get good at 
 it you will find yourself taking a fair amount of avoidable damage.
  
  Fear creates a creepy atmosphere throughout and will make you jump as all sorts of wierd stuuf 
 happens. This is a realy interesting part of fear and the story starts with you trying to eliminate 
 the leader of a mind controled army of replica soliders. The story will keep you guessing and on 
 your toes for the horror themed visions and whatnot.
  
  Fear has a nice selection of weaponry, inculding the usual assualt rifle, smg, shotgun and pistol 
 plus some more exotic stuff like a very cool rocket launcher, the skeleton making particle rifle 
 and the nail gun which sticks your enemies to the walls after their demise. On top of this there 
 are three types of grenades to use as well.
  
  The AI of Fear is probably the best i've ever seen. The enemies will chat away with each other 
 co-ordinating way to put you down. They will readily flank you, hide, lean round corners, make 
 cover for themselves and are very good at grenades to flush ou out of your position. Their is a 
 slight lack of enemies though and mostly you will be fighting the same replica soliders over and 
 over albeit with them wielding different weapons. Despite this they are good enough for you to 
 not really mind so much.
  
  Some gameplay downers were an absolute abundance of medkits. I rarely found myself without a full 
 supply of medkits. This makes the game somewhat easier though i was only on normal difficultly. 
 Also i found the story very watered down and not really explored to its full extent. You leave 
 the game with many many question and not really a clear idea of why you did all that. Many of the 
 level objective are the same. Mostly its a case of go here, whoops the easy way is not an option, 
 ill have to take the hard way. A bit more variety in purpose would have been nice. The slowmo ability 
 is cool but i found myself rarely using it and often forgeting a even could use it as most firefights 
 weren't too hard with it anyway.
  
  Graphics:
  Fear has awesome graphics. The enviroments look great except for sometimes that they are a little 
 sparse. While the enviroments do look great soon you will find yourself wondering when will the 
 seemingly endless offices or warehouses finish. More variety in location would have been greatly 
 appreciated. The enemies and your allies all look awesome and are a joy to watch get blown to bits. 
 All of the guns look good and all having look great in action, especially the particle rifle that 
 reduces your emenies to skeletons. The grenade/explosion effects deserve special mention and are 
 the best ive seen. These graphics do come at a cost however. This game is EXTREMELY demanding on 
 your system. To play this game smoothly you may well have to turn some of the graphical options 
 down. One thing that helps greatly with this is the fact that it has a built in test run for your 
 settings so it doesnt take too long to find a combination of settings that will work for your system.
 
  
  Sound:
  The sound is great, the music is spooky to go with the themes of the games and really get you in 
 the mood for a bit of a scare. The guns and grenades sound great to. It would have been nice if 
 the radio communications made to you were a little louder as often they were hard to hear.
  
  Value:
  This game is good value. It's singleplayer campaign is reasonably long for FPS standard 
 and now with the multlplayer released for all to download you should never struggle to find people 
 across the globe to put some hurt on. Although the game has a number of difficulties i didnt find 
 myself want to try again on hard after finishing it the first time on normal as the story did nothing 
 to make me want to try again.
  
  Overall:
  Fear is an awesome game with all areas excelling except for storytelling. This game could have 
 ben my favourite game if it had more substance and variety. To me it currently stands as a some 
 great ideas and innovations in a shallow shell. Despite this this game is a must try for FPS fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WNxUSA
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 5, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  ONE of the best FPS ever to grace the PC. When i had first picked up FEAR i didn't know what to 
 expect. The back of the box made the game look to good to be true but once installed it blew me 
 away even on this pretty outdated computer hardware. The fight scenes between you, The Point Man 
 and the Paranormal Phanomina that happens around you when you least expect it. The battles fought 
 in sometimes close situations pushes your Adrenalin up and when you least expect it the paranormal 
 you face will raise the hair on your neck and back and make it stand on edge. The gore level is 
 exactly what most FPS games of today are missing and well needed to get a sense of realism. The 
 storyline of pursuing Paxton Fettle through the game as he seems to eluding you from you capturing 
 him/killing him Kept it good and the waves of replica soilders who has a scary sense of real people 
 who take cover from fire. This game is what i expected it to be if not more! A MUST HAVE for the 
 PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killswitch910
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 5, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is one of the most addicting, immersive, visually stunning games I have ever played.
  
  The gameplay is very fun and coordinated. The sequences of shots, melee attacks is endless, 
 therefor, the gameplay never get's old or boring.
  
  Now the graphics in this game are a particularity, they are stunning at times, but the're not all 
 good, when looking upon the city, which you do from time to time, they aren't well skinned, but 
 where you actually go is very good.
  
  Weapon and character physics are extremely well detailed and engineered, The enemy AI isin't completely 
 stupid either. For example, you can see all the sparks and bullets ricochets of the surfaces of 
 objects, the blood and gore of the characters is also very well implemented.
  
  All in all, this game is a must buy, and most definitely, a must keep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacksonfdam
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  I&acute; m talking about the phisics, the lights, the shadows, the wonderfull engine and graphics.
 
  Not a simply game A. I., the music, the history, the flashbacks, envolve the player and make fell 
 F. E. A. R....
  I not play the multiplayer, but everybody says that it&acute; s perfect, too good as Farcry or Unreal 
 Tournament 2004.
  
  As ghurish said:
  
  Story aside without giving away any spoilers, FEAR's scenario is a hybrid between X-Files, Ring, 
 Predator and the Matrix which is quite a interesting mix.
  In this day and age we've seen all there's to fps games and this won't revolutionize or anything. 
 It's just that what it does it does good, it's like it fills the gaps of other games and makes 
 itself a game knowing what should be there and what shouldn't be. Like vehicles and spacecrafts 
 and uber realistic weapons. In fact, the weapons in FEAR are almost what makes it a winner. All 
 the weapons are pretty well balanced and have quite a level of depth in realism cause all of em 
 affect something and add something. You've got a decent variety and most of the time you'll end 
 up using the same weapons over and over but you've got each one you should ask for and what lacks 
 in variety of let's say shotguns, at least the shotgun you have is the best shotgun ever period. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tenakakhan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 4, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  It's a sunday and the sun is shining, there's not a cloud in the sky and the birds are tweeting. 
 Happily I sigh and unwrap the cellophane covering F. E. A. R., basking in that new game feeling and 
 with mouse-finger twitching.
  
  First mission, kinda cool. Immersive insertion into the level via chopper, suitably chilling surroundings 
 and some firepower with which to shoot possible nasties. Lots of emphasis on story here. Orders 
 : find out what happened to so-and-so, ok fine, off I jog. Open this door, go through that door, 
 dah-dah-dah. nice warehouse and......... hold on a minute what was that noise? I'm sure I heard 
 someth...... OH MY GOD WHAT WAS THAT? WAS THAT A PERSON????!!! BUT-BUT-BUT, WHAT WAS THAT T-T-T-TOO 
 ARRRRGHHHHH.
  
  And much more of the same in F. E. A. R. This game was invented to grip you by the short and curlies 
 and make sure you play on, and also to make sure you're terrifyingly entertained while doing so. 
 You play the newest addition to the government funded F. E. A. R. team, formed to deal with various 
 paranormal and ghostly shenanigans. Which is handy in this case, because shenanigans is exactly 
 what you get in this game.
  
  Thrown in at the deep end you're tasked with establishing the meaning behind a number of nasty 
 goings on at a warehouse in the middle of a city - and the game proceeds at a pace that quickly 
 establishes that this is more than a case of voices from the telly. You're up against a team of 
 extremely menacing super-soldiers telepathically linked to a Hannibal Lecter-esque commander, who 
 has a passing fancy for human quisine. You're not defenceless. In fact you're remarkably well-equipped 
 to respond to this sort of threat, ably assisted by a plethora of super-soldier dispatching weaponry 
 and some very cool super-fast reflexes, manifested in the game as slow mo with real-time aiming. 
 Very cool. What stands out most in this game is the intensity - the graphical and sound effects 
 surrounding firefights has seldom been accurately represented in a FPS, but here you're right in 
 the middle of it. Your ordinance (not to mention that of the enemy's) throw up a veritable confetti 
 of debris and bullet holes - interacting real-time with the environment to accurantly render the 
 experience of shooting someplace to pieces. Add to this your slow-mo, with corresponding slow mo 
 blurring and added effects, and you have a recipe for a super-cool looking video game. And oh boy 
 does it deliver.
  
  This is not without it's costs however. F. E. A. R. is a hungry beast, and top of it's nosh list is 
 RAM, GHz and more RAM. Your system will need to be reasonably beefy to cope with full settings, 
 though to be honest it will look sweet even on the lower notches. Finding a balance is made easier 
 by a short graphical testing scene, from which you can tweak to your hearts content. The sound 
 in F. E. A. R. is something that will chill you. Something as simple as static on the radio in a suitable 
 dark section will have stomach tightening effects, and the developers have made sure that each 
 area of atmospheric ghostliness is relatively unique and entertaining. What you have here girls 
 and boys, is a game that successfully blends the super fast hedonism of a souped up firefight with 
 the atmospheric immersiveness of an adventure game. It is a rare blend, and one well worth adding 
 to your particular broth. By all means play with the lights off, just make sure you've moved your 
 PC into the bathroom before you do so.
  
  Tenaka 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nonamemax
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 3, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  We start with a strange story about a cannibal who escape from a prison . That guy has strange 
 powers to control fighters. Those fighters are the main enemies. I liked the weird felling we get 
 when we first see our teammate disappears, but this is not the scariest thing of all. Of course 
 you start with a simple handgun, but slowly you'll get all the heavy guns you want. Through the 
 story you learn things which will greatly make you go insane. Great story also and easy to learn 
 how to play. A good game length but absolutely no replay value. A great game which I recommend 
 to all shooter fans and to all gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghurish
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  Okay, where to start? At it's core it's one if not the best fps out there, end of discussion. You 
 won't find a fps on the market with this degree of polish anywhere. Maybe Half-Life2 but Half-Life2 
 didn't have one of the best stories in a fps ever, or the havoc you cause with a barrage of bullets 
 which results in a Crisis Zone, John Woo kinda of kinetic fest, or the kicks in the face, or the 
 graphics at some point, or even the feeling of dread that permeates the whole game the first time 
 through... and you might even get scared after some replays while playing in the dark with a good 
 sound set or some headphones cranked up to the max. Cause that's how it should be played. FEAR 
 is everything Doom3 set out to be and wasn't, without any mythology behind it, what makes it cool 
 for a really surprising story. And even if there's games more suitable for mp i wouldn't waste 
 my time playing any other fps games with vehicles and powernodes and off the wall scenarios when 
 FEAR does the core shooting so much cooler compared to other games. And in a fps what really matters 
 is shooting, right?
  
  Story aside without giving away any spoilers, FEAR's scenario is a hybrid between X-Files, Ring, 
 Predator and the Matrix which is quite a interesting mix.
  In this day and age we've seen all there's to fps games and this won't revolutionize or anything. 
 It's just that what it does it does good, it's like it fills the gaps of other games and makes 
 itself a game knowing what should be there and what shouldn't be. Like vehicles and spacecrafts 
 and uber realistic weapons. In fact, the weapons in FEAR are almost what makes it a winner. All 
 the weapons are pretty well balanced and have quite a level of depth in realism cause all of em 
 affect something and add something. You've got a decent variety and most of the time you'll end 
 up using the same weapons over and over but you've got each one you should ask for and what lacks 
 in variety of let's say shotguns, at least the shotgun you have is the best shotgun ever period. 
 You have then 2 different rifles, one for close combat and other suited better for long distance 
 combat, a sniper, dual gun pistols, a shotgun, a rocket launcher and a railgun which makes enemy's 
 flesh seer into a cloud of entrails and blood only leaving a charred skeleton behind. Also, FEAR 
 has got to have the best AI ever put into a fps. Enemy variety isn't big with FEAR, you've got 
 drones in a couple of different suits, all of em carry the same weapons you carry, you've got ninja 
 like enemies, mechs, some bulky drones (which have a pretty cool detail - armored shoulder pads 
 which prevent them to get shot in the head) and some flying buzzy annoying things. Still these 
 military clone drones always put up a fight using a lot of tactics like peeking, using grenades, 
 dodging out of grenades, crashing into windows, going under boxes, jumping in and out of rails 
 and so on. And they're quite scary in the way they sound to boot. Only thing I don't like is that 
 these guys have pinpoint accuracy on a medium difficulty. And sometimes they need more than a headshot 
 so they can die. After all they're military super-clones, even so I never liked such accurate aim 
 bots. Luckily the level design is great and there's always plenty of cover. You can even hide at 
 times. You when you don't you can always lean and exchange bullets like in the movies while behind 
 a desk or something. FEAR's gameplay is compromised mostly of this, when is the right time to peek, 
 or when it's the right time to leave cover and find another place to hide and so on. It's almost 
 like a Gears of War or a Rainbow Six Las Vegas. Leaning in this game is completely fundamental. 
 And sometimes so is Slo-Mo. We've seen slow motion being done to death in games since the matrix 
 phenomenon but here it really helps when these guys outnumber you since they're quite smart. You 
 can still not use it if you don't want to and it wouldn't be needed if these guys, like I said, 
 didn't have the precision of a robot when they fire at you, but it helps and other than that, it 
 looks cool and it makes sense in here cause you don't only see enemies and such slow down, you 
 see glass splinters, keys of a keyboard, a stapler, a lamp waltzing in the ceiling, sparks, blood, 
 pieces of torn paper and all kinds of debris flying around while you hear distorted rippled blood 
 curling screams and Heee'sss taaaakeeeen theeee whoooole squaaaaaaad when soldiers start fleeing. 
 It's visceral, and it's kinetic, and it's cool paying attention to these little things even when 
 not on battle. Sometimes i put slow mo on and start shooting all sorts of crap up just to see it 
 shatter. Oh yea. When you're not in battle. See, FEAR has quite a balance between exploration and 
 gunfights. It scares you when you least expect it at times and it throws enemies at you when least 
 expect it as well, and this is not a bad thing mind you. And when it scares you, well... it uses 
 a lot of scare tactics you see in movies but experiencing it yourself in front of a monitor is 
 something else. Just the mere visage of blood splattered around in this game is kinda creepy. It's 
 the way it is splattered. It's just to bad it is still a decal with no bumpmapping or rippling 
 fx of any kind like you see in the opening cinematic. Remember how classic the textures in Doom 
 were? How recognizable? I couldn't say every single texture in FEAR is like that but it does what 
 it does extremely well, which are desert suburbs and office complexes. Most of the office areas 
 in the game look great with lots of rooms full of stuff scattered around and shaders for each different 
 material may it be metal or wood. I think that the game has a good variety of sets though people 
 say i doesn't but it does have. Only thing is that FEAR has quite a unique and proper look and 
 set of colors which for some might drag the experience visually. It does look kinda plastic too 
 unlike Doom3 or HL2 but HL2 looks just dusty and that's because of just plain flat walls. Everything 
 in FEAR is shaded including the characters which could look a bit better a less plastic too. Luckily 
 most em have masks and helmets so you won't notice it that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOCCERBALLS
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 4:45 am PT
Review:  ok, well if ya want to get scared out of your panties, this is the game. ANYONE, yes, ANYONE that 
 is into this kind of gaming will LOVE fear. i really dont like this kind of creepy gameplay, but 
 fear has got me into it. the weps are awsome, so are the enemyes and much more. and of course, 
 the graphics on this thing are un-f'en-belebable. this is one of the best looken games of the year. 
 on top of it all the slow motion thing in the game is very well done and is an exsample of what 
 slow mo in games should be. and just sayen, there are some nice cheats to the game (not that i used 
 them) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon6786
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 26, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Great shotgun because it blows off body parts/rips the person in half.. YAY!!
  
  The game itself is pretty fun, the whole OH MY GOD ITS A CREEPY A** LITTLE GIRL thing is pretty 
 cool, but its not original. The enemies you fight are pretty cool but maybe a different model would 
 be nice. Creepy images flash on your screen from time to time, and occasionally youre pulled out 
 of your happy look i have shotgun mood and plopped right into a hallway thats ALWAYS on fire and 
 you run slow... Or youre swimming ALWAYS in blood and that girl is always there.
  
  The guy that talks to you can get really annoying, youre sitting there blasting enemies with your 
 faithful shotty and he pops up, oh yeah and blah blah blah stfu and lemme shoot you idiot! Then 
 the characters are like, Oh ive heard your one badass dude, i hope its true, and youre like, DUH 
 im on badass dude ill kick your *** right now you stupid *****.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ob1lego
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  This is a great game based on what i wrote in my runescape reveiw this game is like the best you 
 can get for 360 or pc. (this is on pc version) alma is a crazy girl set on killing you, simple 
 plot. only shes got an army of mutant mind ninja zombies bent on trying to help alma kill you. 
 and you are a lonely soilder who just got a kick ass mission to investigate a supernatural case 
 that has been everywhere. if this was a movie it would be scary as hell and bloody as **** with 
 6,000,000$ dollar effects, = this game rocks. of course this is me you might want to rent it first 
 if you hate not my prob. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathread
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 24, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  Never seen anything like this. As I classified, it is hard to describe. Anyone who is an addictive 
 gamer or plays games just for fun, must try this. This game contains everything good game must 
 contain. First of all it is a first person shooter, and it is boiling over with blood, decomposed 
 bodies, weapons, targets, screams, perfect graphics, perfect sound and masterpiece story line with 
 an incredible futuristic atmosphere (claustrophobia guarantee) . Really unique first person shooter. 
 But one thing about this game, it is kind of an easy, if you are first person shooter kick ass 
 maniac, play it in a hard mode. Really fearful ambient, after all, you are fighting the ultimate 
 evil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 82ndRmilkman
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 21, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a great game multi and single player wise
  
  a game to play with the lights off and the door closed a very paranoiac game where you feel as 
 if your being watched or stalked at all times (at least thats what it felt like for me)
  
  even right at the beginning i walked into the building and felt as if i was being watched by someone 
 or something and thought to myself im gonna need a bigger gun.
  
  if your a big fan of thrillers or horror genres this a good game for you
  
  the multiplayer 
 while not as creepy as the single player, but holds its own its counterstrike like gameplay with 
 out the gun buying and the long wating for the round to end ( I think)
  
  to me it felt very team based like if you didn't have a wing man to follow you, you were dead or 
 stuck in a bad situation
  
  all in all a great game with a thrilling story and good multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lorondo-
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  WARNING: If you do not like horror, or it bothers you, don't bother reading this review. You should 
 NOT play FEAR if horror bothers you because it has a ton of it in the game.
  
  FEAR is a fps game realesed in 2005. I got it a few weeks ago and I was extremlly pleased. It has 
 an engaging story, creepy horror, and a whole lot of awsome and fun firefights. GAMEPLAY: The gameplay 
 plays out great. Although later in the game there will be different looking guards, it's hardly 
 a different experience when fighting them so it dose get slightly repetitive, but the fun easly 
 overtakes that. Fear has a horrific atmosphere and it makes you feel like you'r the man you are 
 in the game, and this is only found on the PC version, it is much more immersive then the XBOX 
 360's FEAR .It should definetly be noted that the AI is superb in this game, some of the best since 
 Far Cry - The fights are never really the same because of this. Graphics: The graphics are over 
 the top amazing. You will need a high end system and graphics card to appreiciate this though, 
 if you'r PC dosent meet the recommended system requirments then either upgrade you'r computer, 
 or don't get this game. Fantastic physics, high deatailed models, and great looking enviorments 
 come together to create one of the best looking games ever made. Another cool thing about the enviorments 
 is their highly damagable, for example if you shoot the wall chunks of it will fly out and it will 
 leave a gash in the wall. The lighting and shadows are very good looking as well.
  
  Sound: The sound in FEAR is just perfect for what kind of game it is. The horific music fits the 
 enviorment perfectly. All the gun's sound great and the voiceovers are good as well.
  
  Value: FEAR is a deciently sized game, one of the longer FPS games. Usually you can run through 
 an average lengthed FPS in about 8 hours. This will probobly take you 10-14 hours with the difficulty 
 on the normal setting, on easy you could probobly finish in 8 if you'v already played before.
 
  It is a high valued game for an FPS.
  
  Overall FEAR is totally worthwhile to buy and to play through. I highly reccomend this to FPS fans 
 who don't mind horror and have beaten, Quake 4, Doom 3, Half-life 2 and so on. This is not just 
 an average FPS, it's an incredibly good game overall and you should definetly try the demo at the 
 very least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PG213
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 9, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  I do like FEAR, but it is not wht I had hoped it was. The game is good shooter, and looks good, 
 but as mentioned by other people it is more of a all glitter, less content kind of experience for 
 me so far. The AI is great, but the enemies are not much varied, and the environments are just 
 too much recycled throughout the game. The game play doesn't feel very innovating either, though 
 it has very good, fast action, and the fast reflex feature allows for some cool sequences, that 
 resemble Max Payne type of play. I did like the story, and the thrill it gave me when something 
 creepy popped up, but this game isn't all as immersive as I was fooled to believe by the media.
 
  
  If you like FPS games it is certainly something you have to check out, but its not just the better 
 graphics (which are slightly overrated as well) and the horror aspect that will save it from getting 
 neglected by me. After playing FEAR I started doubting to get Condemned, for it deems to be similar 
 in recycling environments and opponents.
  
  Don't get me wrong, FEAR is a good, even great game, and if your into FPS a lot it will probably 
 be enormously rewarding, but I just find it to be slightly overrated. I am not a hardcore FPS fan 
 though, and do not feel much for the cinematic John Woo style of feel to it, but maybe I should 
 give it another try and play it a bit longer for it to become interesting enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akivaria
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 25, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about F. E. A. R.? With a good set of headphones and a dark night outside, this game 
 will have you flicking on every light in your house before going to bed. It's that creepy.
  
  To start, the game play and difficulty worked very well together. With the impressive A. I. 
 that was built into this game, you have enemies that, once they know your location, will bark orders 
 to their comrades to converge upon your location for splinter attacks... or they may just decide 
 to lob some grenades at you. (Though I had one moment where a guard threw a grenade and it hit 
 the environment in front of him, at which time he lamented: Sh**,' before exploding into 237253082135708 
 pieces.) But, with the trumpeted slow-mo mode, you have a Matrix-style ability to speed your butt 
 up and get the drop on them. The interesting plethora of weaponry also added a nice element to 
 the game play, especially with the repeating cannon and the particle beam. (my personal favorite) 
 But this game is not a cakewalk. The graphics are delightfully gory, though you may have to turn 
 a few of the graphical features off to ensure smooth running. I found the decals and level design 
 to be a bit repetitive at times, but the surprises that await distract very well from this flaw. 
 And... trust me... you may need to bring along a few spare changes of underwear. The weapons effects 
 are also part of the ten-point count in this category. (In particular, the reaction of the enemy 
 bodies to the particle beam)
  
  Sound gets good ranks from me, especially with the superb voice overs. I also enjoyed the element 
 of using the office voice mails to add the the story... kind of wish they'd pushed that a little 
 further. The only flaw here is that the enemy squad voices will likely start to bug the hell out 
 of you before the end of the game. The major flaw in this game is its short duration... clocking 
 in at around twelve hours total. (and that was my first run) Knowing what I know now, it probably 
 clock in at a time much faster than that. This is the reason why the game doesn't get a ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Dice
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This 
 Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  I'll Say it again.... This Game was A Gift From Heaven To ManKind ! 
  
  
  
  
  Thank You 
 Monolith 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 9, 2007 5:17 am PT
Review:  Firstly, FEAR is packed with some great graphics, but not as great as the ones from Call of Duty 
 2 or Half Life 2. But it has very big system requirements,&amp; not everyone can play it. The sound 
 is simply superb, the music is horrifying, the voice acting is very good,&amp; the 3D sonds are very 
 convincing. It contributes a lot to the game atmosphere. The gameplay is very good, but the pathfinding 
 is a little tricky &amp; annoying. It's not very original though. Not too many weapons,&amp; just 
 a slow motion mode that is very usefull &amp; pleasant to use. The combat scenes alternate with 
 horror ones, extreamly nice implemented.&amp; the great atmosphere makes them even better. The story 
 is nice,&amp; it gets completed by finding information in laptops, phone messages, etc. The combat 
 is mostly inside offices, storehouses, but I feel the absence of teammates, although it makes the 
 game more scary. So, FEAR is a great game; not original, but I consider it the best FPS of 2005! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockmanneo12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 7, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  My friend introduced me to this game at college one day so I had to get it. I was tempted to play 
 multiplayer right away but couldn't pass up a good story line.
  
  Gotta love the story! I'm not going to reveal anything but I will say i was surprised from start 
 to finish in more ways than one. Muliplayer is everything but easy. slow mo won't save you even 
 if its active! I find sanctuary holstering my weapon and punching my way through hallways! Of course 
 that only works 10% of the time.
  
  This game is one of those Must Haves , that will keep you playing and playing. You'll even want 
 the expansion to finish the tale. FEAR is worth buying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhatFarm99
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  I think that this is a really good game The effects are terrific and the story is really well thought 
 out even though they used that lame little girl from the Ring but yea I liked it and so did my 
 cousin and my friends I recommend it to anyone looking for a game for a high performance PC Because 
 this game is just that much better on a good PC AND I HATE THAT FAT GUY IN THE GAME I HATE HIM 
 WITH A PASSION (to you who do not know who that is YOU WILL HATE ALSO)
  
  Thank you for your time and I hope you like my reviews!
  
  BADSEED 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S0mEGuY12
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 4, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Lets start it off early with gameplay, This game is... a random first person shooter that 
 was made out of nowhere... and it became successful! You start off as a F. E. A. R operative and you 
 go investigate the abnormal activity in a city.. some weird guy named Paxton Fettel or something 
 is seen on the camera screen at camp and... he is eating a corpse of a fallen human... So basically 
 he is a cannibal and he leads a group of Replica Soldiers.. You also see a creepy girl in red that 
 always seems to be around where you are and always leaves a path of death behind her.. (i dont want 
 to say any spoilers) .. She too is scary and she surprises you when she shows up.. She will kill anyone 
 but except you.. You will get knocked out often and you will get flashbacks from your infancy when 
 getting knocked out... these illusions and flashbacks are very creepy and you get an unknown transmission 
 whenever you enter a room that is abnormal... All right no more story and how the game is like now 
 gameplay! The Ai, is what i have heard very very intelligent and hard!! These squads interact with 
 each other a lot, for example you will hear a member saying SQUAD TAKE COVER!! and saying IM TAKING 
 FIRE!!! they use the environment to their advantage!! and almost everything in the game is destructible! 
 and since most things are destructible, A replica may hide behind a box then knock it down and lay 
 down suppression fire on you! The Ai is something not to be underestimated even on the easiest 
 difficulty! Then, Weapons... There arent as many weapons in the game as other First person shooters 
 like Halo but there is still a substantial amount of weapons you can get in the game. Most FPS allow 
 you to carry only 2 weapons but this game lets you carry 3!! There is also a feature called: Slow-mo! 
 this feature does not last long when used (unless you find a lot of items that increase the maximum 
 time of how long it lasts) but it can be used to your advantage by giving you more time to go up 
 the the enemy and shoot them down! This also makes the action in the game more satisfying! And there 
 is a thing called Armor... your health is not alone! Armor is like health but the more armor you 
 have, the less damage your health will take!! My favorite weapon is the ASP Rifle... the Equivalent 
 of the Master Cheif's Deadly Battle Rifle... although this weapon shoots 2 bullets only sometimes, it 
 mostly shoots 3 like the battle rifle... but its actually a good thing if it shoots only 2 because 
 it saves ammo! Overall Gameplay: Truly a Masterpiece First Person Shooter...
  
  Graphics: (This review is slightly late) Even in 2007 currently, these graphics are soooo awesome!! 
 Highly detailed lights, shadows, models of enemy and allied soldiers, cool looking weapons, and everything 
 else is highly detailed and even in 2007 these graphics are still stunningly perfect!! In its time, (2005) 
 these graphics were prolly considered godly!! Sound: The sound... both satisfies you when killing 
 replica soldiers and scares you... you may hear paranormal activity and the music matches the Creepy 
 rooms and hallways in the game.. Weapons sound cool and a gun shooting fully automatic at full blast 
 sound is truly a thing to behold!
  
  Value: Like every other first person shooter, most people play the single player first to get used 
 to the game, then multiplayer!! Although after beating singleplayer and after doing match after 
 match of online play.. it gets boring after awhile, yet still fun and the fun lasts pretty long!
 
  
  Tilt: A must buy for lovers of the genre and a must buy for someone who thinks that he/she is brave 
 and wants a challenge! BUY THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thigeic
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2007 4:12 am PT
Review:  Firtst i have to say, this game is creapy, not to scary but just creapy, you sit with this feeling 
 something is going to happend all the time, and waiting for it to happend,. but that makes it alot 
 better when something acctaily happends. I think the way thay have contrurcted the game is amazing. 
 Since thay have made everything thay have worked for, to make a game that is action packed, with 
 action all the time. With some creapy element all the freaking time. It also makes the game very 
 special, since IMO this is the first FPS that has acctualy achived this. I also like the multiuplayer 
 but that could been made a little better tho. Since it gets a little old after a month or two of 
 intene playing. But sitll very good game, that is a must have for all gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris41687
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 31, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a creepy, bloody, exciting FPS that really seizes your senses and toys with your imagination. 
 Unlike other FPS games, it employs tactics that make you jump out of your seat. From the wonderful 
 graphics and creepy interlude-like hallucinations the character experiences to the very spooky 
 and captivating sound effects and music, this game is one hell of a ride.
  
  I'll start with the story. When I first started playing F. E. A. R., I thought that it might have 
 some sequences where it's more than just the F. E. A. R. operative playing, that there would be some 
 help from the rest of the F. E. A. R. squad or the Delta squad.
  
  I was wrong.
  
  The fact that there is no one to assist you (except for periodic radio transmissions from the team 
 coordinator and the female character, Jin) , greatly adds to the suspense of exploring abandoned 
 labs and corporate office buildings solo. It really gets to you at some points, where the gamer 
 might feel compelled to pause, take a break for 5 or 10 minutes, grab a drink or sandwich and head 
 back to the game with a clear, open mind. Oh yeah, the villain? This old guy who's possessed by 
 this little girl (who is a dead ringer for that crazy pale girl from the Ring movies) and his huge 
 Special Ops robot army (Replicas, I think they're called) .
  
  The playing environment just adds to the story. Close hallways, numerous offices and rooms, blind 
 spots, and a lack of many spacious, comfortable rooms lead to a lot of crossfire and close quarters 
 combat. Lights flicker on and off, smoke from shotgun blasts hangs in the air until it dissipates, 
 pop cans scatter when bumped, and the environments destruct with explosions.
  
  The Replicas are very smart, probably the smartest A. I. that I have seen in any FPS games. They 
 adjust to where you are shooting from, throw grenades, climb down and up stair to take cover, and 
 use tactics that WILL get you shot.
  
  The sound effects and music in the game is perfect. The one thing that really gets into your head 
 is the pop cans. You might be walking down a hallway, with total silence (which does wonders for 
 the psychological effects on the player) and then you bump into an unseen pop can. The shattered 
 silence tweaks with the player so much that I often found myself checking my surroundings in the 
 game. The radio static that is added by encounters with the little girl or the creepy guy interacts 
 with the environments with such skill that you really begin to get frightened.
  
  F. E. A. R. is a FPS masterpiece and is a definite must-have for any FPS enthusiast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bjorgo
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  This Is one of the best games i have ever played. the Graphics are stunning, the Dark hallways 
 are full of suspence, and the fire fights are intence. The physics in this game make it feal like 
 you are in a action movie and the enviroments are compleatly descructible. If a explosion goes 
 off, the lights flicker, chunks of the wall fly off, it makes you feel like you where their. Adding 
 to the detail, the A. I is one of the best ever created. They react to what ever you do, you make 
 a sound, they plan how to attack you. But when you are not in a fire fight, it can still be as 
 intence becouse of the scares. you may think that a little girl poping up is not creepy, this game 
 makes it that eventuly you would prefer having to fight a robat then seeing that girl pop up and 
 scare you. i would recomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cowbie
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 26, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  This game was a very big surprise. I got more out of it than I anticipated. The graphics are great, 
 and the game play is actually riveting -- almost as if being in a scary movie. The levels are detailed 
 and fast-paced, and I really love how you can interact with most anything in the game. If you see 
 a picture, you can break it, a can on a ledge, you can knock it over. It's the little things like 
 that, that can bring depth to a game. The timing of everything is well articulated, which can really 
 scare the crap out of ya at times. It is the first game I've played where I was so immersed it 
 was like watching a scary movie at the theaters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackBart2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 26, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  FEARs intriguing combat, awesome visuals and frequent scares make for an exciting experience for 
 the first half of the game. However, the intensity tapers off towards the middle before coming 
 to a climax during the last hour of play. The story is somewhat interesting and at least a little 
 original but still not as compelling as something like the Half Life series. The game accomplishes 
 a pretty tense atmosphere for most of its duration so that when the jump out at you moments arrive, 
 they really make an impact. However, I didnt find it as unsettling and frightening as Doom 3.
 
  
  The slow motion feature definitely makes for some interesting moments whether its your bullets 
 catching an enemy in mid-air as he hops over a barrel, knocking him to the ground or hearing one 
 shout an obscenity as you are moving in on his position to put an end to his miserable life! The 
 AI is very smart and the levels are designed so that you cant leave your back uncovered for long. 
 Another thing I wanted to mention was the way enemies reacted upon getting shot. At one point in 
 the game, I came to one area of the game where I witnessed a fire fight between two enemy factions. 
 One of the guys was shot in the foot and proceeded to hop around on one foot like he was in pain. 
 This is just an example of the many ways the enemies react. It really adds to the realism of the 
 characters. The graphics in the game are outstanding for the most part. The lighting and shadows 
 in the game are awesome; some of the best Ive seen. I like the way the walls spit particles in 
 the air when shot and the character and weapon models are highly detailed and look great. The only 
 thing I think is a little lacking are the textures of the environments. The walls and environments 
 in general are kind of bland compared to some other recent games.
  
  My biggest complaint with the game comes between the middle and the last hour of play where it 
 seems that youre just trudging from one fire fight to the next. Shooting the same enemies over 
 and over can only be interesting for so long. I would like to have seen something shake up the 
 game play a little. Honestly, if I had of bought the game when it was at full price, I may have 
 been a little disappointed. In conclusion, FEAR has a lot of stuff working for it but the action 
 gets a little mundane towards the middle. While I wouldnt play through the single player campaign 
 again, it was worth playing through at least once. Furthermore, the multi-player seems fun enough 
 to add some play time to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heedoy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 24, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  It was a great game, loved the way you fight the enemies in slo motion. If it lags a little on 
 higher settings its worth it because it looks amazing when you hit slow motion and bullets are 
 flying, blood is everywhere, and the walls are being destroyed. The puzzles are pretty simple, 
 a lot of little stuff that makes the game more fun like tps reports and RTFM, multi player is fun 
 too. And your buddies can download it FEAR Combat for free. The guns are pretty unique too, and 
 the me lee combat makes it more interesting, but the slo motion is prob one the best parts about 
 it. Only beef was that it seemed like the 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gothdemon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 25, 2007 1:35 am PT
Review:  Pros: Original story; Scares and chilling moments are many; Enemy A. I. is one of the best seen 
 yet in a shooter; Plenty of blood and gore if you enjoy that sort of thing (I do!) ; Excellent arsenal 
 of weapons; Great voice acting.
  
  Cons: Hardware requirements may be a bit steep for some; Not as scary or chilling after about the 
 first quarter of the game.
  
  Conclusion: The team at Monolith really did a great job revitalizing the shooter with their work 
 on F. E. A. R. Not only does the game deliver intense action but it adds a true level of fright and 
 gloom during the process. It's a lot of fun to play and never lacks for challenges while making 
 you jump in your seat many times. The slow-motion effects were a bit overdone during certain portions 
 of the game. I also wish the level of scariness had been more balanced through the story. That 
 being said this was one of the most original and refreshing titles to come along in a long time. 
 It is a worthy and welcomed addition to any collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaz-420
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 24, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  Besides the enemies being of a limited type, this game is the bomb. Graphics and sound are top 
 notch, especially on a high end system. I actually found myself creeped out a few times. This game 
 really takes advantage of SLI. It has good puzzles to solve, and the AI of the enemy seems very 
 adequate. Now, that the price has dropped, there is no excuse not to have it in your library. My 
 next step is the expansion pack. I don't know if I would spend the time to play through it again, 
 so re-playability is lacking, but it is definately worth a once-through!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whtddusy517
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 22, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Note: In the graphics department, I'm going off of what I've seen. My current set up has a temporary 
 graphics card which I must push it down to 800x600 with little settings on, but it still looks 
 fantastic.
  
  I had gone to my friends house to play this and after playing I bought it right when I got home. 
 This game looks amazing, and plays amazing to. During fire fights I find myself laughing about 
 what the enemy is saying as I mow them down in slow mo. Also the intelligence of the A. I is top 
 notch. They flip over things, take cover, jump over railings, anything they can do to find cover 
 and destroy you. The story [so far] is very good, combining all of those creepy Japanese horror 
 movies into an action game. At first I thought it sounded weird but it works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surfer_1844
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 18, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  A long long time ago... games used to have personality... they used to have innovation.... they used 
 to mean something when you played them.... but none of those games PLAYED YOU!!!! Fear fills this 
 role. For your money you get some of the most intense shoot-outs ever, on and off line, the scariest 
 moments in anything, including t. v. and movies... even with the lights on, and some pretty nice 
 lookin graphics to boot.
  
  You start off with the pretty standard story line, your part of an elite team... blah blah bleh..... blah 
 PYSCHO KILLER MANIAC PYSHIC blah. Then you discover the creepiest little girl eva. and she makes 
 some scary S H I T go down. i have never been so terrified in my life, i am now afraid to drive 
 by playgrounds because of her.
  
  on a lighter note, online is fricken amazafuntastical due to unique innovations, fast paced battles, 
 a the coolest nailgun ever. The nailgun is the highlight of the game; it shoots 10mm nails through 
 people and pins them to the walls, where they hang. oh yeah... it also decapitates foos.
  
  short thing short.... get it... or at least get Fear Combat... its free online portion... then go get 
 it when you have the money... or the ballz..... to play the single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zanityz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 17, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  The best FPS game, that I have ever played plus it has horror in the FPS game. A game that appeals 
 different then other games, which is great. The thing ih like about the game is that you can different 
 things then other games. Has some good guns, I must admit. Like a nice machine gun and other guns 
 that do some serious damange to your enemy's. I like the guns, graphics. The bad thing thing is 
 that the game engine isn't the best in the world. Although it still a good game engine and good 
 graphics, sound. The value is pretty good for when I brought it was 40 dollars. But it has gone 
 down in price which is even better, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whacy_Mac
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 15, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  FEAR is an action packed, horror style, kung fu game that is exhilarating and great fun to play. 
 The story is typical bad guy material, evil psychic commander awakens and uses a clone army to 
 take over places. As you get furthur into the game, the story unfolds more if you listen to the 
 phone messages, TV broad castings and radio which with the general setting of the game, make you 
 realise something is definetly not right in your area.
  
  What does make this a master piece is the Maz Payne style bullet time which can give you a massive 
 advantage over the hordes of enemies you face. Another factor that also works surprisingly well 
 is the melee combat that allows you to perform flying kicks, round house kicks and sliding kicks. 
 When these moves connect it is usually instant death for your opponent, although the sliding kick 
 can be a little difficult to aim it right, but hitting your opponent is satisfying due to the rag 
 doll physics where they go flying.
  
  You can only carry three weapons but towards the end you get some truly devestating weaponry, such 
 as the gun that rips the skin off your targets, a massive nail gun and a cannon that shoots powerful 
 sound waves to blow your enemies apart. The Shotgun in this game is also amazing, as is the fact 
 you can blow loads of your ememies apart.
  
  The main problems with this game is that you need a really good PC to run it, it is impossible 
 on the final difficulty and that once you finished they could of included a bit more weapons and 
 more melee moves to master.
  
  But except for the faults this is a fantastic game and well worth buying and playing if you need 
 an action filled game thats a little different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EntwineX
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 15, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  Fear does great on the technical side, the graphics are impressive and weapons really feel like 
 they do damage. During combat theres plenty of dust in the air and blood on the walls. Despite 
 all this it managed to disappoint me.
  
  My main issue with Fear was that it didnt offer any variety in enemies or surroundings. I quickly 
 became bored to the same office surroundings and grey hallways that haunted me throughout the game. 
 So even though the graphics are very good, they arent really utilized fully in the game, the level 
 design is very bland and the same goes with the enemies. Weapons on the other hand are quite successful, 
 only the shotgun feels a bit underpowered, and due to poor environments there isnt much use for 
 a sniper rifle either, but spraying around with assault rifle is very fun. I also disliked the 
 slow-motion effect, well not the effect it self, but the idea of adding slo-mo to this kind of 
 game, that is all about thetactical combat. It only manages to make the otherwise so fun combat 
 too easy, and thus predictable and boring.
  
  There is some sort of story hidden in Fear, but its not really carried out well. Reading some 
 text from a laptop screen in the game or listening to phone messages is a very tedious way to involve 
 the player in the story. Despite its name Fear didnt manage to scare me much, except in few occasions 
 when a truck ran towards me in an alley, or enemy suddenly fell through the ceiling in front of 
 me. But Alma, the little girl which I guess was supposed to be the scariest thing in the game never 
 really creeped me out.
  
  The multiplayer aspect of Fear was quite disappointing as well, it suffers from the same issues 
 as the single player campaign; boring maps.
  
  With some improvements this could have been a great game, but the lack of variety ruins it. Combat 
 is good, but there are too many pauses between the action scenes for it to carry through the whole 
 game. And since neither the story, nor the scare effects impressed me, it just lacked the forward 
 thriving force that most first person shooters should have.
  
  But still the fact remains that Fear delivers a solid gameplay, graphics and sounds, and is at 
 least worth a shot to all FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glass_flame
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 13, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  I first must say, there's melee in a shooter. Good thing: not if it's weak, like in many shooters 
 with rifle-butts and the like. Thankfully, this melee is strong. there are various different moves, 
 like a scissor-kick and a Castlevania-esque slide. I can't help feeling like Chuck Norris as I 
 kill an enemy with a single roundhouse. If you want, you can even holster your weapon and punch 
 a guy straight in the face.
  
  Enough about the crazy awesome melee. This game is SCARY!!! You see visions of dead guys, a scary 
 little red-dressed girl who melts skin, and at at least one point in the game there should be a 
 sign: Beware Of Low-Flying Corpses. As the official review says, the tension is mounted by the 
 fact that enemies don't appear that often.
  
  The actual shooting in the game is very strong. I especially enjoy how well the game works with 
 my joystick. The joystick options are very helpful and easily customizable. The guns also feel 
 very strong, as in another certain PC/360 horror game that I'll leave unnamed. *cough*Condemned*cough* 
 The slo-mo is very well made, as it not only slows down the action but changes the various sounds 
 as well.
  
  All in all, this is a wonderful game, an instant classic. Buy it. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wscottcoates
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 13, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  Amazing Graphics, Creepy Feel make this game one of my favorites. This game can easily send chills 
 down your spine. One of my favorite shooters. I love the look and feel of this game. Stunning Graphics, 
 with a fun factor that will never disappoint you. The game itself is a tad bit easy, but it will 
 not take away from the game as a whole. With a frightening storyline that keeps you on the edge 
 of your seat, you can not help but wonder what is around the next corner. Whether the lights are 
 on or off, this game will certainly put the FEAR in you with its creepy cast of characters and 
 eerie locations. The barrage of new weapons help keep those creatures away, giving you a new take 
 on the next generation of first person shooters. Definitely one of the best games on the market, 
 and truly earning a top spot on my list of all time favorites. Have fun with this one ladies and 
 gentlemen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DTbikerider9
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  FEAR for the PC is a must have for every fps fan. But this game combines both shooter action and 
 creepy horror. The games AI is amazing and while the creepy aspect gets worn out after beating 
 it a couple times the shooter action never dies! However the scary little girl that you come to 
 know and love can get rather predictable at tims but most times she is just a little creepy girl 
 ghost walking around the action packed maps that contain your squad plus hundreds of cloned super 
 soldiers. You'll be suprised scared and feel like this is one hell of a game by the time you beat 
 it. Cutscenes are probrably the creepiest part usaully they have you walking in slow motion and 
 by the time you get to the end of the long dark hallway you'll be suprised with stunning graphics 
 and sound. There are various weapons in the game such as a personal favorite the shotgun also dually 
 pistols, smgs, assault rifles and also a some what replica of a 3shot burst sniper rifle. The game 
 also has some great multiplayer that will keep you going for a long time just like the campaign. 
 The servers hold a large amount of people and include a various selection of maps and weapons. 
 Thats FEAR for the PC that gets a 9.3 out of 10 for a plain and simple also somwhat creepy game. 
 I hope you enjoyed the review and check out my other ones at my profile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake_6483
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 9, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is a unique game from start to finish. The darkness of the rooms and the strange paranormal 
 happenings make this one of my favorite games.
  The guns are great! Each gun has its own good points and bad points, for example the G2A2 rifle 
 has good range and damage, but when your up close the sub-machine gun tears it to shreds because 
 of its high rate of fire.
  The slow-mo effects are very cool when you use explosives and its awesome to hear someone scream 
 in slow-mo. Its also great to see the room after the fight is done. Bodies lay everywhere, blood 
 is all over and pieces of the walls, ceiling and floor are torn out by bullets. The story is also 
 superb. All the phone messages and cut scenes, as well as the creepy appearances of Paxton Fetel 
 and Alma, make the story move nice and slow, but quick enough to not bore you to death.
  The graphics are almost teh best I've ever seen! The detail in everything brings out more realness 
 to this game.
  This game has the BEST AI I've ever had to face in a game. They'll flank, use grenades, surround 
 you, lay traps with the dang shotgun guy, and do MUCH more to bring you down. They communicate 
 and interact like real soldiers and i think thats awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sebastian_Kim
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 8, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is essentially the best close-quarters first person shooter I've played this year, and 
 thats no overstatement.
  
  I'll start with the least important categories, and move up from there.
  
  Graphics and Sound 
 Yes, I'm categorizing them both in the same section.
  The graphics are great, but really scalable.
  If you have a low-level PC, this game is a cinch 
 to set up on lower (not even minimum) settings, and get a really decent 40+frame rate at that, while 
 if you're playing on a powerhouse PC you can get some really amazing visuals to complement your 
 budget.
  
  The gore is great.
  Its not so much sickening bloodfests, well, not in most cases ;) however it is just satisfying 
 for you to unload a shotgun blast on an armored soldier and see his head spinning, literally.
 
  And when the occasional gore hits your screen, its nice. Very nice.
  
  There is a bit too much gray and brown, and the diversity of your surroundings could use some work, 
 at least until the last level, yet overall, the visuals are very nice.
  
  The sound is good to get you tense, and often times, you may feel like your in a movie, however 
 if your looking for some creepy sounds, look somewhere else.
  Gameplay Yea, its good, scratch that its great.
  The gameplay is amazingly addictive, and its 
 all owed to the AI.
  
  If I ever met the AI team, I'd shake all of their hands individually.
  To give you an idea of 
 the AI, its like duking it out with a real life squad, and thats only on easy.
  Once you hit hard, its like playing top rankers in Counter Strike: Source; thats how hard the AI 
 is.
  I've seen the AI in this game flank, sneak behind me, rush me while strafing, actually play dead, 
 push over objects, flush me with a grenade or two, and more.
  
  The weapon setup is pretty nice, with the fair play sniper rifles, shotguns, pistols, machine and 
 submachine guns, etc. etc., except it only lets you keep two weapons at a time, and this can be 
 stressful for when your lazer machine of death is low on ammo, and this shotgun is presenting itself 
 in earnest to you, but you'll basically find a setup your happy with and just go through the game 
 with that.
  
  In closing, the game is a must buy for anyone. Those with too much time will be able to wither 
 away months on acing the hard-level AI, while the person with too little time, will be able to 
 just boot the badboy up for a firefight or two before going on with life.
  The game has its bad points, but its keeping factor is the jaw-dropping AI and satisfying death 
 sequences.
  
  This game gets an 8.8 / 10 from me, and I'm a hard reviewer.
  Buy or Rent?
  B U Y
  
  --Have fun fragging clones, I did 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heaveyness
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Finally I got a new graphics card ( ati radeon x1300 iceq ) and now I can play games like this 
 masterpiece! :)
  
  So your part of this organisation called First Encounter Assault Recon (F. E. A. R.) and your dropped 
 out of a helicopter around and in some research facility, where they create genetic super soldiers. 
 But, something went wrong and now some guy mobilised all the soldiers to kill everyone. On top 
 of that, there is one very freaky psychic the ring-like-girl in the building, killing people by 
 just looking at them.
  
  The gameplay in F. E. A. R is really anything you would like to get in a first person shooter of this 
 kind. It is fast and really intens. The slowmo-bullet time feature adds perfectly to this and really 
 help's in difficult situations. You have a lot of weapons with their own specialities, either accurate 
 or very powerfull. Another thing in the game are the 'another world' parts, where you travel to 
 some dark location, filled with fire, blood or strange ghost like creatures. You need to kill some 
 ghosts or walk to an operating room to get back to the real world, which seems really wierd, because 
 you stayed at the same place in the real world after walking to the room or such. The fact you 
 can quick save is great to, takes away a lot of frustrating points. The storygame is also pretty 
 long so you will not be finished that fast. The graphics are of course amazing. The enviorement 
 suites very well to the gameplay and it's often just really scary (I really got spooked several 
 times) . Characters are well made, there are not that many models, but that didn't bother me that 
 much. Sound is very intens. Love the fact that slowmo also lows down the sound. Explosions and 
 gun fire sonds awesome. The bad guys also have added pretty many voice acting, so you will hear 
 them die, call for backup or swear in many ways :)
  
  You can chose your own path a little bit in certain points so you can play the game again in a 
 different path, but you will get the same idea, no tremendous difference. But still, I would play 
 it again. :) (Don't ask me about multiplayer, haven't got their yet and I'm not a bit fan of it.)
 
  
  F. E. A. R. is a game you just can't miss if you have the right pc to play it. Fans of horror who 
 really want to get frightening moments and fans of good shooters just need this masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Ice11
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 7, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a hard to beat game in a lot of the first person shooter aspect areas. For gameplay 
 and ease of use, FEAR instantly like few other shooter games out there, fits you like a glove. 
 It is not hard at all to get used to and customize your controls to where it feels comfortable 
 for you. The game has many control options to use, like with the slo-mo, being able to use three 
 different types of grenades, a wide selection of weapons to choose from as well, and the ability 
 to holster your weapon and do hand to hand combat as well.
  
  With the graphics aspect of the game. FEAR is totally amazing! If you have a good graphics card, 
 this game will really impress you. The effects to each gun are unique and provide different severity 
 of damage to each body part and limb of your enemy. The effects of the weapon doing the damage 
 are amazing to see and experience. The blood dripping off the corpse onto the floor is rather spooky 
 and can give you the creeps. I just dont see any other game that could live up to FEAR's graphical 
 standard. The graphics are just flat out awesome!!
  
  FEAR's storyline is although rather complex, confusing at times, and somewhat short, it's good 
 enough to provide a very tense environment and keeps you on the edge of your seat with it's unexpectable 
 jumps and scares. The game leaves you guessing pretty much until the end to figure out why everything 
 is happening the way it is. With a feature like that in a game, it's just so hard to put it down 
 and not want to play it all day long. FEAR when it first arrived to the shelves had a very poor 
 multiplayer replay value. But now that Combat has been released along with a lot more gameplay 
 types and events, FEAR's online multiplayer experience is now one to enjoy. It may get rather reptitive 
 at times though. There is still much work needed on adding new modications and possibly weapons 
 to each gameplay mode. All in all, FEAR is a great game. Especially if your looking for a good 
 single player with a pretty good storyline. You won't be disappointed in this game. It puts DOOM, 
 Quake, and Prey to shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 3, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to 2005. Not as big a year for FPS games as 2004, but the arrival of the XBOX 360 and games 
 like this keep the competition burning like fire. F. E. A. R. is actually one of those dark shooters 
 that requires your flashlight increasingly and puts you in most indoor levels. Most FPS games of 
 this type are rather bad. F. E. A. R. manages to pull off this style and at once become one of the 
 bets FPS games available. The story of F. E. A. R. is simply mind boggling. It carries various huge 
 elements and characters that will make you think several different happenings are going on, but 
 the ending of the game will tie it all together to bring together one brilliant ending that you 
 never expected to see. Not even from what you were most likely assuming would happen throughout 
 the entire game. The last minutes of the game bring a tightening story together and give it a perfect 
 finish. F. E. A. R.'s gameplay is great. The first game to make the action in an FPS game look like 
 a movie was BLACK. F. E. A. R. does it with better style and more fun. The enemy A. I. is pretty incredible. 
 These aren't the enemies who will stay and fire until you kill them. They will run wherever they 
 can to hide when they need to. They can see the light from your flashlight and go into combat mode. 
 Watching them bleed and explode from your gunshots is an addiction. The slow motion effect is pretty 
 creative. Making the blood effects look even more satisfying. Unfortunately, if you're not one 
 of the brightest gamers, you will often get lost in the levels of F. E. A. R. this will slow down 
 your experience greatly and give you massive headaches. The game is kind of short as well. Terrific 
 visuals never looked so terrific until F. E. A. R. Just about everything, models, weapons, props, 
 everything looks great in F. E. A. R. With decent shining, shade, and color changes during light effects. 
 Sadly, F. E. A. R.'s visuals are so good, that only the highest of high PCS can run F. E. A. R. on its 
 highest settings with perfect frame rate. The game isn't even optimized for the 1280x1024 resolution. 
 If you want a pc that will run the game with perfect frame rate over 1024.768 resolution, you're 
 going to spend a lot of money on a decent video card.
  
  The voice acting is great. Music is a bit annoying. Weapon sounds are good. Enemies call some pretty 
 decent catch phrases. Creepy background sounds get you moving.
  
  F. E. A. R. is a stunning piece that does take brains and money, but is still a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmace
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  This game will definitely make the best games of all time list. It combines certain traits of Doom 
 3 and it's own personalized way of not going to far, but still going to the edge. I've played this 
 game too many time and I love it ever time. I can not say the same for many other games.
  
  Anyway, intense gameplay and a great plot line that could easily lead into 3 sequles; is a must 
 play in my book. This game will put you in another world so to say and you will not want to turn 
 it off like you don't like putting down a good book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armalite1016
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is SCARY. and when i say that this game is scary let me tell you, never in any game for 
 the rest of your life will you want to stop playing because you dont want to walk down a halway 
 or go into a vent. seriously. if you saw the ring and though that joke of a little girl was scary 
 dont even play this game, becuase the little girl in this one is like the devil compared to the 
 girl in the ring. it is extremely creepy. heed my warning.
  
  gameplay-
  
  would be a 10, but controls can be rather clunky at times, other wise top notch, the slo mo feature 
 is pretty cool, but when i played it seemed like i slowed down almost just as much as my enemies 
 did, so i didnt see the point to it really other than having more time to think. the firefights 
 are really cool, due to some really good AI that will make you mad because youll realize that in 
 other games its not you who are good, but the AI who is bad. graphics- if you have a high end computer 
 then the graphics will not dissapoint you especially when you get in super crazy firefights and 
 the smoke comes out to play. the lighting does a lot too, and that could be one downfall which 
 makes it really scary, especially when your flashlight starts to run out and you are in a pitch 
 black area. now when this happens, and total darkness shrouds the room, and then you hear the dreadful 
 laughter of the girl (ahhh cant remember her name now) this will make you wish you had not bought 
 the game, beleive me, but truly dont go by that because how strait do you really think you are 
 thinking when you are scared sh*tless? infact dont even pay attention to my last remark it is worth 
 buying.
  
  sound-
  
  if not for this excellent sound the game would not be as creepy, infact the sound does such a good 
 job of scaring you that its almsot too good. for instance when the music kicks in and you think 
 somethings gonna happen, but then nothing does. (a lot of these moments are in the game, where 
 at the most obvious times you think something is going to happen it doesnt and then when youd least 
 expect it BAM! alma appears and just sends you out of your seat (hey i remembered her name)
  
  value-
  
  its ok single player really is only worth playing once because after that you 
 will know when all the scripted scary parts are coming. multiplayer if pretty fun, if you ask me 
 it has a cool SWAT feeling to it when teammates stick together, but its pretty hard if you dont 
 play it a lot, because if you dont then you will die a lot from people who do, and there are lots 
 of those people, also if you dont want the single player portion of the game, the multiplayer is 
 free via download, and its totally worth it for free.
  
  overall this is a really scary game, but thats a good thing. and seriously if you arent scared 
 easy at all, then this probably wont be quite as scary as i have been saying, i mean seriously 
 i thought the flood was scary when halo first came out, but honest to god this one is truly creepy 
 and scary. and a great shooter with awesome firefights to top it off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazyman4444
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 2, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- This game is like a lot of other action FPS. Lots of running and gunning, plenty of enemies 
 to take on with a few simple puzzles on the way. But while your running and gunning, there are 
 elements of a horror movie added to really make this game more exciting then a lot of those other 
 FPS's. The games physics are done well even though a sometimes the bodies of enemies will twitch 
 repeatedly or get stuck in a wall. There is variety in the weapons and you will definatly have 
 a favorite after trying them all out. I personally like the shotgun, decapitating people and ripping 
 them in half with the powerful bursts of the shotgun is just so rewarding. The story in this game 
 too, though very mysterious and deep, is awesome.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are very nice, they really draw you into the experience that your actually 
 in this supernatural world. But towards the end of the game you will start to notice that there 
 are a lot of reused enemy models and environments. Sound- The sound is absolutely fantastic, its 
 what draws you into the game the most. So many times have I heard a sound behind and turned just 
 to see nothing there. The sound is the best part of this game.
  
  Value- Though rather short I still enjoy replaying the game through and it still creeps me out 
 more then any other game. But first time through I beat the game in somewhere around 8 hours, but 
 that 8 hours was certainly a blast.
  
  Reviewers Tilt- 10...
  
  By far the creepiest game I have ever played and probably ever will play, never before has a game 
 scared me so bad that I am afraid to play it without someone by my side or during daylight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 29, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Starting to scare the hell out of people on October 17th, 2005, F. E. A. R, First Encounter Assualt 
 Recon, burst onto store shelves and into the homes of thousands to portray an extremely twisted 
 story that will leave you hanging from the opening levels leading up to the cliffhanger ending. 
 Monolith took the idea of Japanese horror and just multiplied it times ten to give the player a 
 horrifying experience as they battle their way through hundreds of intelligent drone soldiers on 
 their way to uncovering the mystery of the ghost-like girl roaming the halls known as Alma.
  
  The story that you are entertained throughout the games ten to twelve hour campaign is well 
 written in the fact that it keeps you guessing who the little girl is till the very end and the 
 fact that most of the story of whats actually happening is told through these strange phone messages 
 left throughout the different levels in peoples offices and cubicles doesnt truly help either. 
 Although this may seem like a drab, having to find these different answering machines, which are 
 no more visible than a blinking red light, just to detail the story, it does add a bit of mystery 
 to the fold of the actual tale as youre shooting your way through the different floors of these 
 lavish office buildings. In the beginning of the game, youre called to check out a disturbance 
 thats taking place in an unnamed American City. A commander named Paxton has gone insane and has 
 taken control of hundreds of these drone soldiers and he appears to be searching for something 
 within these buildings, but what hes searching for is the mystery youll have to solve as you 
 progress through the game and even then, when youve come to the end, youll still find yourself 
 having many questions left unanswered, but theres already an expansion pack out for the game to 
 help explain some of the answers that youre wanting to find out. As you go from level, youll 
 find out that you have a telepathic connection with Paxton and from time to time, out of nowhere, 
 youll have these blurred images of past times in your life, some involving Alma, which makes the 
 games story that much more intriguing and interesting to learn about to keep you progressing through 
 the different levels. In the beginning dialogue of the game, youre given the hint that youre 
 special, that something about you is different from everyone else on the FEAR team. And youll 
 be told about some special power you have that allows you to slow down time. This becomes extremely 
 useful when battling the multiple enemies throughout the different environments of the game. Especially 
 because the artificial intelligence in this game is superb. Youll find that your enemies will 
 find and use cover throughout the game, whether they have to dive through a window to get behind 
 a wall, or just to get out of the way of your gunfire. Theyll talk to each other and tell each 
 other to flank you from different sides or use different weapons and grenades against you, but 
 in a smarter way than most games A. I. s these days. Back to the special power though; its quite 
 helpful in the sense of evading the gunfire of your opponents, but one really nice trick you can 
 do while in this slowed down motion is that you have the ability to jump and dropkick your opponents 
 where they stand. This a nice and cool feature to act out, but you have to remember that even though 
 there are quite a lot of cool tricks to do with different weapons and everything, that there probably 
 are a few more soldiers in the room, along with the crazy girl always keeping one step in front 
 of you.
  
  Monolith took a page right out of the Japanese horror handbook with the little girl named Alma. 
 Shes your classic small little girl with long black hair that hides her face. And youll see her 
 throughout the games many different levels, but when I say see her, well, you might and you might 
 not. There are quite a few instances in the game where youre running through a corridor and there 
 you see a shadow off in the distance run across the hallway but when you get up to the spot, no 
 ones there. Or there is one time when walking to climb down a ladder, when you turn around to 
 climb down, shes right in your face, but then disappears. There are many of these unsuspecting 
 scenes that pop up out of nowhere to scare the crap out of you if youre not paying attention or 
 if youre paying too much attention to the scene. It also doesnt help that whenever you see the 
 girl, youll hear the classic scare music sequence in the way of a high-pitched whine that normally 
 follows a scary scene in a movie nowadays, so if you scare easy, you might want to turn the volume 
 down a little to help your heart rate out.
  
  The graphics in fear look great in some ways and not some much in others. The part in the graphics 
 department that FEAR lacks in is the level design. In the beginning sequences when you get inside 
 your first office building, youll be amazed at how life-like everything looks and feels. The physics 
 and the particles in the game add a whole other side to the game, but after the first hour or so, 
 youll soon get tired of the same old looking office building. Sure, there are some sequences when 
 youll be in an outside area, or underground in some sewer tunnels, but youll be spending at least 
 three quarters of your time in the nifty office buildings that you saw in the beginning. And although 
 the artificial intelligence in the game is superb, youll be seeing the same enemy over and over 
 in the game. There are hundreds and hundreds of enemies within the game, and the groups of enemies 
 that youll be able to disperse throughout the many areas of the game, but most of your enemies 
 will be the soldier drones that you find in the beginning. Sure, there are a couple different types 
 of enemies such as these robots that will remind you of the walker in Robocop, but there are also 
 these stealth ninjas that have the ability to be almost near invisible to your naked eye. But do 
 remember that these gun battles with the enemies will be different each time because theyre not 
 scripted like other first person shooters enemies, and that the environments and their physics 
 only help add to the replayability in the game. The sound in the game takes another nod from Japanese 
 horror films like what was stated before. The music knows when to get you to jump; thats for sure. 
 The gun battles in the game sound fantastic, especially when you slow down time and see and hear 
 bullets whip past your head as you hopefully dodge away from them. The commands and yells that 
 the soldiers yell to each other can be quite comical at times and even when you come upon a group 
 of them unexpectedly, the banter thats shared between them will give you a few chuckles. The weapons 
 all sound different and are unique in their own respect. Even though there are quite a few guns 
 to blow through your enemies with throughout the different levels, youll only be allowed to carry 
 three at a time to give some more realism to the game. A nicely implemented weapon would be the 
 frag grenades that explode in great realism, shattering glass and blowing the bodies of your enemies 
 this way and that. The voice acting within the games short dialogue sequences are nicely done, 
 but the answering machine messages can get annoying sometimes just having to wait for them to end 
 so that you dont miss any of the story, but you dont have to listen to them if you dont want 
 to, you just wont get all of the story in as much detail or as many questions as youd like answered.
 
  
  There is a great multiplayer component to the game that has a few different types of playing modes 
 to spice everything up that are different from your regular multiplayer excursions which include 
 the great time slow down thats in the single player campaign and Monolith has introduced a large 
 multiplayer component download since launch entitled FEAR Combat which has added a lot of content 
 and brought new and exciting life to the multiplayer side extending the life of this game.
  
  The game shipped quite solidly with minor patches being released later on to improve not only 
 small and minor bugs that were in the initial release, but also to add some great multiplayer additives 
 to the mix. On first playing through the single player campaign, I didnt come across any show 
 stopping bugs, nor did I have any crash to desktops, but there were minor bugs when Id hear soldier 
 drones still yelling orders when all of them were dead, or some bodies hanging a little bit in 
 the air after they were shot back by a grenade, but nothing that took away from the great gameplay 
 that was introduced in this game. The multiplayer that shipped with the game was fun, but not as 
 fun as Monolith made it seem to be, but with the download of FEAR Combat and all of the new components 
 that it added, the multiplayer mode has been rejuvenated since launch.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Story/Plot: 9
  Replay Value: 8
  Stability: 9
  Multiplayer: 8
 
  
  Overall: 8.96 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  YAYS
  Incredible, freaky atmosphere; psychologically disturbing; unbelievably smart AI; intense gunfights; 
 lots and lots of sparks; did I mention spooky?!
  
  NAYS
  Really tests your hardware; often too disturbing to play in long sittings; lots of office levels 
 become repetitive.
  
  Are you a fan of Japanese-type horror films? Anyone who watched The Ring and The Grudge would probably 
 know the drill - an often way-too-tortured woman or child unleashes netherwordly revenge on hapless 
 beings.
  
  And so is the case with F. E. A. R. - a little girl has been too wronged and now it is payback time. 
 From the title itself, and the premise, you'd know that this is not your run of the mill FPS, on 
 the contrary, the unique, often disturbing, experience you would have playing F. E. A. R. surpasses 
 any other FPS to date, and, certainly, can even be more disturbing than well-established survival 
 horror games.
  
  This is your first day on the job (cough cough Leon Kennedy cough) and you're going to investigate 
 some paranormal activities in some offices. Apparently, some vampiric being has been having his 
 share of feasts on the security guards and the late-night employees, and it is up to you to stop 
 him. Unfortunately for you though, it turns out that he really isn't the man of the show, rather, 
 it is the one and only anger-filled, psychologically disturbed child, Alma.
  
  For your part as a player, knowing subconsciously that you can eventually kill the bad guy eliminates 
 half the sense of fear or danger. You know the objective - kill everything between you and the 
 bad guy and finish him off. This isn't the case in F. E. A. R., and this is exactly what frightens 
 you the most - Alma is on angry girl who can pulverize everyone she comes in contact with. She's 
 too disturbing, and knowing that you can't kill her will make you always on your toes as you turn 
 on each and every corner. Will she be there? Did she flicker those lights? Elevators in blood - 
 will she come out when it opens?
  
  You'll often be surprised at how often your sense of prediction fails you. Learning from scary 
 movies, the creators of the game know exactly how you would think - as the music tension heightens, 
 you'd expect her to appear. She doesn't. In a long, dark corridor, you expect her to appear. She 
 doesn't. Lights went out - you expect her to appear. She doesn't. They fool you a lot, and with 
 all that heightened tension, and only when you're about to collapse from being emotionally drained, 
 Alma appears. She doesn't attack you - you'd see her scurry towards you and then disappear, you'll 
 see her just standing there, or worse, she'll come to you in a bizarre flashback and totally freak 
 you out. In fact, most often than not, you'd be so tense that when she appears for that brief second 
 you'd probably fire half your magazine into the thin air she appeared in.
  
  This is F. E. A. R., my friend.
  
  Alma and her psychological traumas aside, you'd be exchanging 
 gunfire with a whole lot of Replicas , soldiers and gunmen who are psychologically controlled by 
 the above-mentioned vampire in question. This is probably the true highlight of the game, aside 
 from Alma - the gunfights are nothing short of spectacular.
  
  Remember in other FPS where you have a large selection of guns, most of which become useless by 
 the end of the game? This isn't the case in F. E. A. R. - you can carry up to 3 weapons at a single 
 time, and even the weakest weapon has superb damage infliction, depending on how you aim. A point-blank 
 shot in the head from any weapon would instantly kill your enemies. Missing the head would result 
 in other bodily dysfunctions. They will fall, stagger, crawl and limp to hide from you after being 
 shot.
  
  But that's not all - the Replicas are intelligent, perhaps too intelligent even. They would literally 
 do anything to make sure you're dead. They literally leap above drawers, use everything for cover; 
 they can bring down a cabinet and hide behind it - hell, some will even distract you while others 
 crawl and give you a surprise from behind you.
  
  Added to that incredible AI is some of the finest effects you'd see. While not particularly high 
 on the polygon count, expect a lot of flashes, papers flying all over, debris, shattered glass 
 and office supplies flying into the air. Without second thoughts, the effects and the AI make you 
 want to continually engage in gunfights all the time.
  
  Enemies often would outnumber you immensely, and this is where your ability to go into bullet-time 
 comes in. Called SloMo, for a limited period of time you can move reasonably faster than your enemies 
 (but not your normal speed) and get some good, clean head shots to eliminate most, if not all, 
 of them. This certainly makes gunfights easier, although mostly you'd be using it when you're faced 
 with a swarm of Replicas or when dealing with the stealthy, superfast assassins.
  
  Of course, you'd be asking yourself how does everything sound like now? . F. E. A. R. sounds totally 
 awesome. The sound effects are superb, the Replicas do a lot of trash talking, and you'd be constantly 
 receiving instructions via telecom. The ambient music, however, is the true highlight, since mostly 
 you'd be traveling in often poorly lit places, the music becomes disturbing to prepare you for 
 the arrival of Alma. But since Alma does not usually appear when you expect her to, you'd probably 
 be spending a lot of the time over-stressed from the spooky music, and, when it does quiet down 
 and you think it is safe, BAM, Alma appears with her own, Silent Hill-like psychologically insane 
 music and effects.
  
  This is one of the best games to embrace the PC, and it would be a real shame to miss it. Note 
 though, it certainly is not intended for the faint of heart, so if you want to practice on seeing 
 little disturbed girls, watch The Ring first. If you feel too uncomfortable with the movie, then 
 it is best you'd stay away from this game - since the last levels are perhaps too disturbing and 
 scary, and bloody, for a person who's looking for a no-brainer FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomdogg
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  I waited for so long to play FEAR. Since my PC was a piece of junk at the time FEAR came out, I 
 was forced to wait. I was going to buy the Xbox 360 version when it was released, but my new PC 
 came along, and I settled for the PC version. I loved the game instantly. First Person Shooters 
 have always been my favorite genre in gaming, and FEAR is no exception. FAER is basically unlike 
 any FPS I have ever played, with really creepy moments and fast paced, kinetic firefights. FEAR 
 combines the action, and horror into one perfect blend, making for a perfect package.
  
  In 2002, the US army formed a special organization to counter paranormal threats. The organization 
 was called First Encounter Assault Recon or FEAR. The game takes place in modern times where a 
 psychic commander has taken over a multi billion dollar aerospace complex with an army of clone 
 soldiers. They take hostages but issue no demands. You play as a nameless, faceless new recruit 
 who is sent in with the rest of the FEAR team to capture the commander and put the whole incident 
 to rest. Sound easy? I dont think so!!! The commander (Faxton Pettle) has a demon like girl named 
 Alma on his side, who can tear apart soldiers and mess with your head big time.
  
  Graphics- 9/10
  When FEAR came out, its graphics engine was top of the line and its still an 
 awesome engine today. FEAR simply looks incredible from head to toe. Everything from the character 
 models, to the environments, to the special effects look incredibly lifelike, and the atmospheric 
 feel they give off make the game look even better. When players fire a gun, it feels as if theyre 
 firing a gun, and it looks just as good too. The fighting even damages the environment, such as 
 putting bullet holes in walls, blowing holes in floors, and setting fires. Even the minor details, 
 such as dust, smoke and particles look incredible too. However, that doesnt mean that the visuals 
 dont have their problems. Some of the environments feel a bit too recycled at time, and the textures 
 are mostly the same for every single level. FEAR is also a system hog. In order, to appreciate 
 this game with all graphical settings maxed out an extremely powerful PC is required. Otherwise, 
 FEAR will run extremely sluggish. Even with the absolute latest PC hardware, FEAR still lags somewhat. 
 Overall however, the graphics are awesome.
  
  Sound- 10/10
  As I said before, FEAR gives off an incredibly amazing atmospheric feel, not just in graphics, 
 but in sound too. As players progress through the level, there will be situations where you must 
 deal with Alma. Thats when the sound truly shines out above the rest. The sound effects make the 
 scenarios seem so lifelike, its hard to tell whats real and what is not. Thats how good the 
 sound is. From the voice acting, to the individual sound effects, the sound is astonishing. Even 
 when players arent dealing with Alma, FEAR still manages to hold up. Its possible to hear footsteps 
 of enemy soldiers from far away, hear objects dropping, even wading through water sounds incredibly 
 realistic. Players must hear it to believe it.
  
  Gameplay- 9/10
  FEAR gets even better when it boils down to gameplay. There are two types of scenarios. The 1st 
 is the encounters with Alma. The scary moments and atmospheric sounds make for a very creepy scene 
 and may even scare some people. On the other hand, theres the kinetic, intense firefights with 
 the clone soldiers. Not only are these firefights fun, but challenging too. Monolith must have 
 done a heap load of work on the AI, because these guys are good. There will be a scenario where 
 multiple soldiers will lay down covering fire from all sides, just so a fourth one can come up 
 and either flank your position or toss a grenade your way. Other times include the soldiers taking 
 over all key points of the battlefield, throwing a grenade at you, forcing you to move, then hammer 
 you with a megaton of gunfire. This may seem like a real challenge, but players have a few tricks 
 of their own. Theres the slow motion ability which allows players to move much faster than their 
 enemies. By the way, the death animations look so much cooler in slow motion. There also a variety 
 of weapons, such as the regular pistol, machine gun, assault rifle, even a special gun that fires 
 huge titanium projectiles which can pin soldiers to the walls. The guns themselves also give a 
 great feel to the game. As I said before when it looks like you are firing a gun, it feels the 
 same way. With the perfect blend of action and horror, FEAR could easily appeal to any FPS shooter 
 fan.
  
  The multiplayer aspect of FEAR is also awesome. While players can only carry one weapon at a time, 
 the pace of the matches themselves are intense. You will die very quickly, respawn and die quickly 
 again. Thats how fast paced the matches are. Theres hardly a dull moment in multiplayer. All 
 the standard modes such as deatmatch and capture the flag are there, so players should have a great 
 time with multiplayers.
  
  Problems are minor. As I said before, FEAR is a system hog, and the level design is boring, repetitive 
 and uninspired. In the end, if you are a FPS fan of any kind, this is the game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigerbball2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Well, F. E. A. R in a word is fun. Just plain fun. I'm no hardcore gamer at all, but this game addicted 
 me for at least 4 hours a day for a week. The thing that makes this game so fun is it's single 
 player. It's multiplayer flat out sucks. the single player on normal difficulty could be beaten 
 in as little as 10-12 hours if you are good. usually in games when u bump it up to extreme difficulty 
 it takes a lot longer but in truth extreme difficulty isnt much harder than normal and takes maybe 
 an hour or two longer, if that. The fact that the game is easy actually makes you want to play 
 more. Your enemies dont vary all that much, but with an AI this smart, it doesnt have too. the 
 enemies on all difficulties flank you and chuck grendades at you, and if it wasnt for your slo 
 mo, this game would be impossible. with the slowmo, however, it is very very easy. u move like 
 7 times fasater than the enemies and its real easy to mow down enemies. the guns are awesome, the 
 mp5 just feels really cool to shoot, and dual pistols never dissapoint. The value on this game 
 is not great though. Multiplayer is bland and unoriginal, most servers only do Deathmatch or Team 
 Deathmatch, and slomo is optional to be included, but hardly any one does include it in the game. 
 Graphics are extremely good, even by today's standards, and for the current price of i believe 
 30 bucks, this is one of the best games you can buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mackattacka
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 27, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This game, was quite a damn good one. I played it at first, expecting nothing more than an average 
 first person shooter, with a small horror mix. What I got was that, on a much greater scale. For 
 the first part, the gun game for this, is amazing. The enemy AI is awesome, and will leave you 
 in many areas with challenging, awesome gun battles. The weapons, really all have a nice kick, 
 and a great edge of using. Very interactive to the environment also. The enemies will use different 
 strategies just to take you out.
  
  They may send two one way, and have two come up behind you trying to eliminate you. Always watch 
 your back, and keep your eyes out for anything in this game. Anything.
  
  For the most part, the levels are dark, and mysterious. You will always be wondering what is around 
 the next corner, or in that pitch black room with the red blinking light of the phone. It's very 
 creepy, and it usually just brings the game up to an intense suspense feeling. It's a great, unusual 
 feeling.
  
  I'm sure you all recognize that little girl on the cover. Yeah, you'll encounter her quite a few 
 times, and none of them are pretty. She could pop up anywhere, and make you excrete your lungs 
 from your rectum. Whether it be on a ladder, or a dark vent, or on a hall monitor. She will find 
 you, and you better make sure she doesn't get you.
  
  Now for the multiplayer, it's pretty damn fun. With a mixture of guns, and melee combat, and fun 
 levels. The multi player will give you a nice kick of fun to have when you either feel like playing 
 just that, or you finish the single player campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_mario_128
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 27, 2006 6:04 am PT
Review:  FEAR described in one word, is amazing. Unlike most shooters, FEAR takes on horrific elements that 
 seem to be mimicked from Japanese horror movies like the grudge or the Ring. The next-gen graphics 
 immerse you in a truly creepy environment where another 'jump out of your seat' moment is waiting 
 around the corner.
  The AI in FEAR are very intelligent and will make life very difficult for you when in an intense 
 situation. There is an option in the game to turn on slow-motion mode, this feature enhances the 
 fun you can get from this game when in a gun-fight with enemies. Whenever something 'unnatural' 
 occurs, the music changes and you get a message on your monitor saying Incoming : Unknown. This 
 is sort of a heads up for you to hide behind a pillow. The game is long enough for a lengthy FPS 
 experience and when you come to the stunning conclusion, you will want to play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadskies
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 26, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a huge FPS fan, i'm more of a action/rpg gamer, because honsetly FPS's have too much repetation 
 in my opinion, but this game: you will love even if you hate the genre.
  
  Graphics: Perfect. I cannot find a flaw, except that if you dont have the hardware to run the game 
 then it may vary, but on a high end PC this game runs nicely, smoothly and most importantly insane. 
 10/10
  
  Sound: Its good, the voice acting is great, the sound effects are amazing too, there is not much 
 music, but thats not a problem because silence really helps the mood, the music is in the right 
 place too, I cant find a single flaw 10/10
  
  Gameplay: As stated before, i'm not a die hard shooter fan, I find them too repetatious, and this 
 game shines really. Pretty much even on the easiest difficulty you will feel challenged, the AI 
 is very intelligent, they will hunt you down if you hide. They will do anything to kill you, but 
 the fights are not too impossible. They are stylish and slightly matrix influenced. The only drawback 
 here is the designs feel a bit over-used at times and repetitive, the level design could use work 
 too. 8/10
  
  Story: Its confusing but good, i'll give it that. It has enough twists to keep on playing 9/10
 
  
  Bottom line: If you are a FPS fan and have a good PC, buy it. Even if you dont like the genre give 
 it a shot. It's one of those games everyone should play if you have a slight tolerance for the 
 genre and like a good plot with amazing action.
  I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Einhanderkiller
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 26, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Mini-review:
  
  F. E. A. R. is an incredible shooter through and through. It doesn't necessarily bring much new to 
 the genre apart from its spooky atmosphere, but it does what has been done before very well. Every 
 moment of the game is intense. Every corner you turn, you don't know whether you'll see Alma or 
 a group of soldiers prepared to take you down. The gameplay is fairly straightforward run and gun, 
 but the graphics, sound, and atmosphere make what could have been just another shooter into something 
 special.
  
  The graphics in F. E. A. R. are nothing short of outstanding. The game is composed primarily of warehouse 
 facilities, and the look of the game can get a little stale at times, but technically, F. E. A. R. 
 looks magnificent. The lighting effects, especially the shadows, showcase the true power of PCs; 
 and the textures, although not the absolute best ever seen, are still quite impressive.
  
  F. E. A. R. boasts a marvelous sound design -- the creaks in the floor as you walk, the tatter and booms 
 of the guns as you and your enemy fire, and the music that sets the mood perfectly make this game 
 one of the best sounding, well, ever. Everything about the sound is about as close to perfection 
 as possible -- even the voice acting. The developers at Monolith have done an outstanding job with 
 F. E. A. R., from the graphics and sound to the gameplay and story. It doesn't reinvent the genre, 
 but it sure does raise the standard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teodriel
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 25, 2006 12:31 am PT
Review:  Well... I think that this is the best game I've played ever... Monolith really puts away a masterpiece 
 with FEAR... The action is amazing it cannot be described with words... you have to play it to 
 know...
  I'm just shocked with almost everything in this game, from the graphics to the actual gameplay... 
 This is not your typical FPS, is a lot more viceral, heart pounding, fast, gory... And the plot 
 is immersive has hell. Very interesting by the way, creepy, scary even more than Doom 3 or anything 
 really. FEAR put you playing has a super es que- GOD hyper trooper genetically improved... but, 
 is not in a stupid way like Doom 3, actually you have some incredible skills, like the slow motion, 
 and the powerful melee attacks.
  The gameplay is so inmersive, you will smell the smoke, and hear the empty shells fall into the 
 ground when you fighting against some of the most inteligent enemies...
  
  The Good: Best sound in a FPS, incredible atmosphere, creepy storyline, powerful and inventive 
 weapons make you kill your opponents in some gory ways, satisfying combat, multiplayer is a blast 
 without lag, the kills are awesome; head chopping, arms and leg mutilations, etc... just WHOA!!!
 
  
  The Bad: The requirements are insane... You need a powerhouse of a PC to play it at max... Gameplay: 
 The best ever in a FPS even better than HALO, viceral, fast, alot of tricks to kill foes, great 
 fights against everything they trow to you, excellent AI even better than Far Cry... I'm saying 
 alot...
  
  Graphics: They are amazing, but the requirements are a real let down...
  
  Sound: Totally stunning, from the special effects of the weapons to the creepy soundtrack... The 
 voices are well done, but the spanish translation is a joke...
  
  Value: Besides the single player campaigning is short the multiplayer will keep you playing for 
 decades. In my opinion this is a game that everyone will continue to play for years and years... 
 Just like Halo did...
  
  Tilt: I don't know.... this is probably the best game I've played, but maybe is because I just 
 finished and I'm shocked with it... I recommend this masterpiece of a game to everyone, to they 
 can see the best FPS ever made... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junk56
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 25, 2006 12:11 am PT
Review:  If you have a medium to high end computer, buy this game right now. it's extremely cheap and you 
 will not regret it..
  
  However, for those who want me to go in-depth about this game, here it is.
  
  F. E. A. R is a 
 horror, action FPS game developed by Monolith. It combines the scariness and creepiness of japanese 
 horror movies and the action from matrix movies. One thing is for certain though, there are a hell 
 of a lot of crazy gunfights that are unseen in any FPS game especially the sheer intensity and 
 the AI of the opponents.
  
  The action in this game is intense. and when i mean intense, not like motors and bombs intense, 
 i mean bullets and 5 inch nails intense. Everything in this game creates debris when hit, even 
 tables and chairs. Every bullet affects everything in the environment causing crazy gunfights and 
 total messes of offices and such. The only problem with this though is that each gun is in burst 
 and lets say all you have to do in this game is spray, spray and spray like mad. Cover is essentially 
 useless if you use your slow-mo right so don't expect to take cover, pop, shoot and take cover 
 again. More like take cover, rush out, slow-mo, shoot, grenade, heal up. The physics in this game 
 are decent, they're nothing outstanding but the bodies and objects and this game fall properly 
 although you see the occasional leg and arm stuck to the wall kinda stuff. The ragdoll is great 
 in this game but after a while of messing around with them, there really isn't any crazy physics 
 to take a note of. Except for the nail gun, which nails any enemy when killed to the wall (excluding 
 corpses) and man is that fun to watch.
  
  The sound in this game is very VERY good, although the lack of music is gone, all the weapons sound 
 very satisfying to use and the bullets whizzing by your head to the freaky sound effects and screams 
 really fill up the sound quality bar in this game. One minor thing however is that enemies seem 
 to shout out VERY obvious things on what they'er going to do like, I'M GONNA FLANK HIM etc but 
 you end up using this as an advantage and doesn't ruin the experience a bitl
  
  Horror. This game is full of it. And i''m not saying the gory, twisted, chucky type of horror but 
 more of the little girl in red dress flying around horror. If you're a horror veteran, you will 
 NOT find this game scary, more of a little chilly but not scary. The game mixes psychological effects 
 to sudden effects so that sooner or later, you DO NOT want to climb up a ladder and you DO NOT 
 want to go into a vent, all because you anticipate something scary is going to happen. And man 
 does this game catch you off guard. Usually in some games you predict when something scary is going 
 to happen, but in this game there are parts where they appear out of nowhere. However, there are 
 parts in this game which are intended to be scary but just aren't. For example, there are parts 
 where your radio starts to crack and says UNKNOWN ENTITY at the top left corner and the majority 
 of the time, you just see a shadow walk past the corner and when you get there, nobody's there. 
 It's overdone and shouldn't be placed as much. There are also parts in the game where you just 
 feel the horror coming. It's a pattern. Scary stufff comes first, then the action, then scary stuff 
 ends it. The occasional scary stuff in the middle is pretty neat and that is the real stuff that 
 make you crap your pants. However, if you played Fatal Frame or Silent Hill then this game will 
 not really scary you that much and won't make you scared of the dark. But this game does make you 
 want to hear the voice chatter of enemies when the environment goes silent though.
  
  Multiplayer is intense as hell and is very fast paced. However, most of this multiplayer does get 
 a bit repetitive and boring after a while since this game isn't made for multiplayer. Also, the 
 melee attacks really test your patience for they kill you in one hit and those people are very 
 hard to kill. If you play for around a month or less than that however, you will enjoy the multiplayer 
 for sure. You thought i was done? Time for the flaws.
  
  This game is full of dark corridors and bloody rooms but thats basically all there is. There's 
 a factory, an office and an abandoned apartment. That's all the environments there are. They have 
 around 3 outdoors levels but they don't feel outdoor since it's very limited and the sky is ultra 
 dark making you feel like you're just in an open room. Oh yea, there is no daytime in this game, 
 there's only night and overcast. They could've worked more on the environments because it sure 
 does get repetitive after a while, but I guess this isn't a game focused on environments so it 
 is usually overlooked during the game
  
  The storyline. If you do research it's very deep. If you play the game, there really isn't any. 
 The story stuff is scattered through answer machines and laptops but most of the time you don't 
 even bother with them. To make matters worse, the loading screens show only 1 objective. FIND AND 
 KILL PAXTON FETTLE. It would've been cooler if you got to do more stuff than just look for him 
 and kill him. The storyline does get pretty deep later on though, but for the most part, it's not 
 really there to fill you up. You really don't care about your partners or anybody else in the game 
 but you kicking ass.
  
  Finally, the last flaw would be lack of enemy variety and length. I beat this game in 2 sittings, 
 and frankly, I only encountered 4 types of enemies. The genetically deformed humans, ATC robots, 
 mech deformed humans, and a fat guy. The AI in this game is the best in any game though. So that 
 compensates for the lack of enemies. It would; ve been great to see more variety but hey, not bad.
 
  
  Overall, F. E. A. R is an amazing game with crazy firefights and chilling pyschological effects on 
 you. It has the best AI in any game and insane graphics and lighting. However, this game does get 
 boring after a while and the value in this game isn't as great especially the ever too linear campaign 
 and somewhat repetitive multiplayer. However, if you haven't played thsi game and like FPS games, 
 get this now, it will make you crap your pants while you laugh at the goriness and bloodshed. Off 
 topic, but If you think this game looks too scary or too graphically/gory intense, then go next 
 door and pick up Half Life 2 - The best FPS i've played (next to Half Life) In my entire life. 
 That game is just simply amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CWD-Brazil
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 24, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the most anticipated games for me this year. I was looking very forward to playing 
 this game, seeing how it would look on my 300$ gfx card. The time finally came and i got my hands 
 on it only to be somewhat dissapointed. I cant say i was severly dissapointed because the graphics 
 were amazing. The rag-doll physics were intense, and i certainly got a kick out of impaling enemies 
 on the wall with a nail gun, but FEAR just didnt cut it for me. I guess it was all it was cracked 
 up to be graphically speaking. The gameplay, on the other hand, wasnt much at all. I got the feleing 
 that the story was repeating over and over again, in the sense the enemies were the same, save 
 a few exceptions. As was expected though, it sure as hell did give me a scare. The AI was also 
 a nice touch, even though i still found the game wasnt hard enough on its highest difficulty. All 
 In All, this game has very nice things to offer but the gameplay just isnt one of them. Great graphics 
 and slow-motion effects does not excuse crappy, or sub-optimal gameplay in any way shape of form. 
 If your gonna go big on the graphics, you need a storyline and gameplay to match, or else it is 
 a waste of money. Dont get me wrong, it was worth the money, but after a couple hours of play it 
 just gets stale, like old grahamm crackers from the 4th grade after-school center. You know what 
 i mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  First person shooters are without a doubt the most popular genre, and once in a while a big hit 
 comes out. Often or not the hit is pretty mediocre (like Halo) but people eat it up, anyway. F. E. A. R. 
 fortunately presents excellent enemy AI, and fun gunfights with outstanding graphics. Unfortunately 
 the outstanding graphics are responsible for one of FEARs biggest problems.
  
  The storyline is pretty average. It takes inspiration from Japanese horror films, and gives us 
 a psychological horror plot. Unfortunately for people hoping to get a scare out of the game, you'll 
 be disappointed. You play as the ambiguous new guy also known as the new point man, who is also 
 referred to by his brilliant nickname buddy . FEAR features a solid story, but it's not at all 
 scary or even disturbing. Most of the scares are fairly predictable, and they're few and far between 
 so by the time you reach the ending of the game you'll probably only see about five minutes worth 
 of scares over the course of the ten or so hour single player story.
  
  The gameplay is where FEAR mostly shines. The gunfights are very entertaining, as the AI doesn't 
 simply stand there shooting at you mindlessly. They flank, they run for cover, they use their surroundings 
 to their advantage (and even occasionally interact with them) unfortunately there is very little 
 variety in what enemies you face. 80% if the enemies are several different types of soldiers, with 
 the occasional large\flying robot and one type of supernatural... thing. FEARs biggest gameplay 
 fault, however; is its lack of creative level design. In FEAR you spend nearly all of your time 
 in buildings, and corridors. There's only really three types of environments in FEAR, so over the 
 course of the ten hours I spent going through the campaign I was greeted by the same type of environment 
 level after level. Fortunately Monolith did not go the root of Bungie and copy and paste the same 
 room over and over again like in another overrated game that I will not name at the moment.
  
  The graphics in FEAR are superb. There is smoke after a gunfight, an advanced physics system 
 so corpses don't look as awkward as in some games, and the textures and character models are very 
 detailed. Unfortunately you need a very high end system to handle them, so I held off on reviewing 
 FEAR until I upgraded my computer.
  
  The audio is so-so. The music is fairly bland, and forgettable. The voice acting for the most part 
 is great as far as shooters are concerned, and the sounds are excellent. Guns sound as they should, 
 and being near explosions causes a very nice effect where your [characters] hearing will diminish 
 temporarily.
  
  For a shooter, FEAR is hit and miss. It has great AI and gunfights which are important in a shooter. 
 It also has excellent graphics which are less important. And you have bland and claustrophobic 
 level design, which is a negative aspect of the game. Still, shooter fans should play it if they're 
 looking for some great gunfights, but those of you who appreciate great level design like myself 
 should look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgyuri
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 23, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. brings a lot of change in the FPS genre!
  first of all, FEAR is change the tactical movements in the game, because the AI is the best since 
 the world is live.
  You have to fall back to a defensive place if you are in trouble (2-3 or more enemies easily makes 
 a trouble for you)
  The story, the game-play is very very good.
  
  the graphic is not too good, but the effect is fantastic and makes the overall graphic to 9 
 
  
  the game gives you about 7-9 hours of game-play, but you only carry 3 weapons and 3 types of explosive 
 (Grenade, mine)
  
  the game-play is good, but repetitive and we fight only soldiers and ghosts.
  
  F. E. A. R. is 
 good, and the best shooter os 2006, and we wait for the second installment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frithead92
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 23, 2006 4:07 am PT
Review:  This game redefines the entire FPS genre. The visuals in this game rival and in some cases surpass 
 some of the brand new games coming out. With great textures and perfect realism on the lighting 
 effects. The sound quality is absolutely amazing, most of the fright comes from hearing the eerie 
 noises of some unexplained voice or even something as common as a falling soft drink can. If you 
 care at all about your mental health you wont play this game for more than one hour at a time And 
 for the love of god DO NOT play this game before bed. Night-time play = Nightmares
  
  For anybody who has played F. E. A. R Combat, and is considering buying F. E. A. R, Let me tell you, 
 The single player is A LOT better than the multi-player 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcro55
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 21, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  If you're into story, you'll get the creeps and the chills playing this game. Excellent engine, 
 story and phenominal graphics and AI behaviour.
  
  You'll need FEAR Extraction Point to finish the story though.
  
  The only other downside is 
 the time it takes to load the next section of the game. I also felt slightly miffed at the controlled 
 path you have to take, but they developers did a reasonable job at hiding this: you will have some 
 freedom in buildings or on the docks, but eventually you need to go through a specific door or 
 or a specific ledge to move on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greyfoxsnake
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  this game rocks. d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d 
 d d dd d d d dfner f3 jf 3f 4 fh h h h h h h h fh4 fh4 fh4 fh4 fh4 fh fh h h hh h h h h h h4 h 
 4h hhhrh rh rh rh rh rh rh rh rh rh rh rh rh r h rh rh rh rh rh rh rh r 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazook
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game plays perfectly like any other action game but you get crazy stuff like Slow-Mo 
 and Kung-Fu even if there isn't that much of it but they're kl to have in clos-combat battles and 
 there's alot of that. Plus you just got excellent like the Rail-Gun and the Spas-12 Shotgun. Graphics: 
 This game looks like an even shadowier and slicker version of the Doom 3 engine so it's so much 
 better and it's great to look at and there have been issues with the graphics like you need a really 
 good computer to run it properly but if you do have a really good PC then it isn't bad at all. 
 Sound: The game has the most atmospheric, frightening, realistic and Futuristic High Tech sounding 
 through out the whole package. The game is really frightening so just like a game like Condemned 
 who were made by the same developer as FEAR have tried to make everything sound great. Value: I 
 beat the game just over the 12 hour mark and I think that's a **** load of time. Plus multiplayer 
 is great as long as you are running with a great PC. Tilt: This game is definitely the equivalent 
 of something like Matrix with all the Slow-Mo weapons and scary crap. Only this story has nothing 
 to do with the Matrixes. But that's good it trys to do things better and new + satisfying by 100% 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvs1270
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 17, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  I was waiting for F. E. A. R. to hit the bargin bin. I mistakenly formed an opinion based on the demo, 
 &amp; also my poor graphics card that was not up to playing specs.
  This is one of the best games I have played period. The graphics &amp; EAX enhanced sound are perfect 
 for setting an awsome playing atmosphere. I recently upgraded my computer. Wow!!! The AI is again 
 among the best, I rank it just above Far Cry, my old benchmark. The replica army have excellent 
 military movement, &amp; having been in the Army I appreciate that. I also like their reactions 
 to being hit by rounds, they limp, take knees, pretty much act like someone who's been shot. The 
 don't run around full speed until the 3rd fatal round like most other fps games. I 'am ready to 
 dive into extraction point &amp; get a little further into the story. Definitely a buy. It is a 
 system hogg!! But if you have a pretty up to date machine &amp; can crank up the settings, it is 
 beautiful &amp; a truly great gaming experience. My only gripe which is minor, is the lack of a 
 variety of settings. But again the dark, corner by corner levels &amp; the creepy little girl kept 
 me on seats edge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amathyne
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 17, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  A really rock solid game! I really can't come up with any negatives. An excellent FPS with elements 
 from such horror movies as The Ring. The thing I really love is that the combat situations go on 
 just long enough for you to forget all about the horror-movie sub-plot -- than, WHAM, you walk 
 around the corner and there SHE is!! It looks fantastic on my decent-quality desktop, but will 
 run well on my hand-me-down laptop. Doesn't look as good on the laptop, of course, but the fact 
 that it can run at all on it is nothing short of a miracle. It is very rare that I can find nothing 
 to complain about in a game, but I really cannot find anything to change in F. E. A. R. I took off 
 one point for gameplay because I got lost a couple of times in some corridors - but maybe that 
 was just because I had been playing for way too long. Great, great job!! Someone finaly took the 
 time to actually FINISH a game before asking me to shell out bucks for it. What a nice change! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: O-ZoneX
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  The first person, survival horror genre has taken its way along a very bumpy trail. Not many FPS 
 survival horror are very much scary. More boos than Fear itself. But FPS Survival horror games 
 have been brought back thanks to F. E. A. R. You cannot say that this game doesn't look exciting and 
 thrill ful when u look at the back of the box. Looking is one thing. Experiencing is another. Once 
 you're dropped into the game of F. E. A. R., it will have you on the edge of your seat every time 
 you launch the game. This game's graphics for one are amazing. One look at it will blow you way. 
 The sound is very impressive. The gunshots sound realistic, blowing holes in the wall sound realistic, 
 blowing heads into a big thing of blood sounds awesome two! The gameplay it self is immensful. 
 With enemies at every turn, and fear crawling up your back, this is a game thats worth every cent! 
 Even the mutiplayer is good! Loading times might sometimes take a while when ur trying to connect 
 to servers, but the multiplayer still allows you to use every action from the story mode even the 
 slo mo ability. And with all the game types on multi player, this is a game that you'll be hooked 
 on for a while. And like I said before, this game is worth EVERY cent! It will not be a waist of 
 time! Trust me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slunks
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 16, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Certain games come out sometimes, and when they intend to be the scary type they are usually both 
 overlooked and forgotten. They're usually too built up on horror and usually come off pretty cheesy. 
 This seems to be the case for new games that try and enter the genre. However, there are only a 
 handful of games that have entered the genre over the last few years successfully. Obviously, F. E. A. R 
 is one of those games, as it has entered the genre with a great story, along with a sleek style 
 of action and horror alike.
  
  To start off, First Encounter Assault Recon is the name of a special team used for paranormal investigations. 
 You'll be playing the unnamed soldier who just happens to be the point man of this team. And considering 
 you know practically nothing about yourself, it makes it really feel as if you were in the game, 
 instead of you playing a character. Although you will be learning more about yourself as you continue 
 along a well written story line, one thing that does seem to stick out about yourself is the lovely 
 slow motion effects that are ready to use at your will.
  
  At the push of a key you can enter a matrix like slow motion effect for a limited amount of time. 
 Although there seems to be a mystery behind this feature other than the fact that you have extremely 
 fast reflexes, it does a great job and serves well throughout the game. You may even feel like 
 it's necessary to charge that slowmo meter back up by waiting a little while before jumping back 
 out into the intense action that F. E. A. R seems to bring. That is because this game brings some 
 outstanding A. I along for the ride.
  
  If I stated that this game had the best A. I showcased in a FPS, I wouldn't be over exaggerating 
 by the slightest bit. It really has showed us how well things can be done in this category. In 
 a shooter all it takes is some dumb A. I to mess up the entire game. And even with average A. I the 
 game can feel very repetitive which usually results into relying on its guns. Yes, Im looking 
 at you Doom 3. However, this is certainly not the case for F. E. A. R. Your enemies will be laying 
 down cover for their friends; they'll toss a grenade to flush you out of cover and dive through 
 windows just to gain an advantage point.
  
  Not to mention they'll take extreme advantages in a situation where they outnumber you. As they'll 
 keep each other covered and move up on you faster then you can even react. All while keeping contact 
 between each other, while they shout orders on your position and other things. There's simply just 
 a lot to talk about when it comes to the A. I in F. E. A. R. and to list every detail about this would 
 be almost overwhelming. But with that said, it's good that this makes the fights so fun. Because 
 unfortunately, the game doesn't offer the widest range of enemies, as you'll be fighting these 
 same replica soldiers almost too often throughout the entire game.
  
  Although you'll only meet a few new enemies throughout your experience, F. E. A. R. just has too little 
 downfalls in comparison to its good side. Another thing that sticks out is just the entire feel 
 of the game. While you're emerged into the story you're fighting your way through just to figure 
 out what's going to happen next. The game just throws a whole new spin on trying to scare the hell 
 out of you. Without spoiling too much of the story, there is a man named Paxton Fettel who has 
 been mysteriously broken out from an ATC holding cell. He also seems to be telepathically controlling 
 all of the replica soldiers, as well.
  
  The reason this game will make you check over your shoulder every so often is just because of the 
 overall feel to the game. The ambience, setting, noises and the thought of previous scare tactics 
 will just make you cringe. Although its full of what you may call cheap scares and tricks, you 
 always have a feeling that the next corner you turn youre going to see the face of a little girl 
 named Alma at any given moment. But while its setting is one of its scary points, its also one 
 of its down sides. Youll find yourself running through the same empty offices, abandoned houses, 
 apartments and other areas a little too much and maybe a little too long.
  
  Although it does rather get tiresome seeing the same surroundings a little too much. If you want 
 to dish that anger out on the interiors, you can! One thing thats certainly noticeable about this 
 game is that aftermath of a large gun battle in a tight corridor. Whether its parts of the wall 
 practically falling off, or the shreds of paper gently floating down. It definitely brings that 
 experience that you could only see in a movie into the game.
  
  However its not always mandatory to shoot every single bad guy you see. Not only do you have badass 
 weaponry and a slowmo effect on the go, but apparently you are also an ancestor of Liu Kang. As 
 you can enter in a quick button combination and perform martial arts moves such as bicycle kicks, 
 sweep kicks and just plain knocks a foo out. All of these moves will end in a one hit kill. So 
 its not necessary to shoot their limp bodies on the floor, unless you know you wanted to.
  
  There is another strongpoint worth mentioning here in this lovely shooter. That being its 
 sound of things. All of the voice acting is crisp and fit for each character. But it gets down 
 even to the nitty gritty. It seems that apparently youll be telling your wife that you cant come 
 to bed. Why? Because simply put, bullet shells hitting a wooden floor in this game is much better 
 then whatever your wife can put out. With that said, the sound in this game is phenomenal. Whether 
 its the sound of a gun blasting holes through the bodys of your enemies or the whisper of a little 
 girl behind you. Its just all well put together and sounds nearly perfect.
  
  After your pants go through the washer a few times, youll really appreciate what F. E. A. R. has 
 to offer. Both as a shooter and as a horror game. It does an extremely wonderful job of switching 
 between the two. However, with that said, dont expect for it to last for long. Youll probably 
 clock in just over ten hours on a medium difficulty. And you may want to play through more than 
 once just to figure out what the heck is going on. Yes, certain parts of the story arent clearly 
 explained as well as they could be and it may leave you hanging on some of the backstory.
  
  However there is a multiplayer side of things. Its generally pretty well done, as theyre 
 plenty of different modes to play on. Usually intense, it all feels extremely fast paced. Although 
 there is a mode where you can grab a slowmo power up and you will be able to slow time down and 
 be faster then everyone else for a limited amount of time. Its a pretty unique mode considering 
 it really hasnt been done before. And its all fun, especially when you think about the melee 
 combat that gets involved. Not to mention that the multiplayer is also free, even to those who 
 dont even own the game.
  
  Overall, F. E. A. R. offers a lot to the shooter genre alone and the horror sense to it really feels 
 just right. With its great A. I, weapons, graphics, destructible environments, sounds, story, addicting 
 multiplayer and overall gameplay. The game really pulls through and we can expect a lot more F. E. A. R. 
 to come. The game may a have a few faults, but it shouldnt stop any one who appreciates outstanding 
 shooters from purchasing this game. Its simply a must have for those who are looking for a scary 
 shootin good time and you shouldnt let fear get in the way of playing F. E. A. R.
  
  The Pros
  +entertaining story
  +extremely impressive A. I
  +slow motion works great
  +weapons 
 feel like weapons
  +melee combat is awesome
  +scares dont come off cheesy &amp; work rather effectively
  +good, free multipayer regardless 
 if you own the game
  +destructible environments
  +sounds nearly perfect
  
  The Cons
  -feels a little too repetitive late game
  -selection of enemies is rather limited
  -certain 
 parts of the backstory arent explained as well as it could be
  -same level design used too much
  -the amount of jeans you may go through
  
  Recommended 
 as: Like FPS? Why havent you bought this game yet, using fear would be a poor excuse not to play 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agentdan868
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 5:40 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is game questions your skills under pressure, either by suspense or even by the horde 
 of enemies being faced. The game visuals are stunning, while the graphics and gameplay are intense. 
 The game graphics as well as mechanics are rendered skillfully, and the physics of the game are 
 incredible. The storyline keeps you playing and understanding the plot. The only aspect I felt 
 that was duplicated from another game, Max Payne, was the idea of slowing the gameplay, where in 
 this case it was stimulants versus bullet time meter. All in all, this is a FPS that should be 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockmasteR-_-
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  It's really amazing
  the best game ever guys
  this game combines action with suspense with fear.
  it also combines the Ring style (the little 
 creepy girl) with John Woo Style
  (the 2 guns, everything flying in the air while shooting wall breaks.... etc)
  plus the Matrix 
 style with the SlowMo (slow motion) and bullets
  plus the horror .
  all this combines together and create a super great game called F. E. A. R
  so I called it Fun Extraordinary 
 Amazing Rough game.
  so if you are still wondering about buying the game YES BUY IT
  and...... for who have a weak heart please please please don't buy this game
  if u really care 
 about your life :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendissimo35
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I really have to say, I had high hopes for F. E. A. R. I mean, looked just like the scary sort of 
 shooter I needed. In fact, it was nothing of the sort. Gameplay- The game is nearly entirely played 
 in cramped urban environments that are both dark and dull. They completely lack creativity and 
 basically recycle the same buildings over and over. The enemies, with the exception of a few boss 
 creatures, are really quite similar and boring. Not to mention the AI, which is of the run out 
 and shoot variety. While the weapons are decent and do provide the appropriate feel to them, the 
 game simply gets nowhere. The story is completely uninspired, vague, and not scary at all. Thats 
 where the game REALLY runs into the trouble. It packages itself as a thriller shooter, but its 
 really not much of a thriller, and its not much of a shooter either. Whats left? A mediocre high 
 tech version of whack-a-mole. Graphics- The graphics are pretty good, I really liked the little 
 things, like the fake 3d scarring on walls and the way you can see your legs. The explosions and 
 smoke are top notch, and the player models are really nice. But the engine is partially wasted 
 on the weak environments, as I said before. Sound- the music and ambient noises are creepy enough, 
 and the voice acting really ads to atmosphere, but the game is simply not visually or intellectually 
 scary. The bodies add nothing too, and neither does the little girl. overall, sound is wasted on 
 a bad game design. Value- Single and multiplayer are both amply sized
  
  The game is a waste... and it's rather unfortunate 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morei
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  This game is by far one of the most amazing games I have ever played! I randomly picked it off 
 the store shelf after being intrigued by the front cover &amp; as soon as I had loaded it on my 
 PC &amp; started playing, I knew I had found some thing special! Your not thrown into any major 
 fire fights at the beginning, instead, the emphasise is on experiencing the jumpy atmosphere that 
 is apparent throughout the game, &amp; because of this, it keeps you on edge throughout the game 
 as your never quite sure what to expect or whats lurking around the next corner. The story line 
 is simple yet very effective, the soundtrack is pure genius &amp; gives the game even more of an 
 edge but the best part of the whole game is the A. I behind your enemies &amp; how you can blow 
 them to bits with a variety of weapons! If that wasn't enough, the ability to go into slow mo as 
 your gun sling your way through on coming baddies will leave anyone in complete amazement &amp; 
 wanting more!
  Another plus point that I have to point out is the online-multiplayer, it has various game options 
 that will keep any gamer happy no matter what their skill level.
  I really can't stress how great this game is! Its definitely one you have to play if its the last 
 thing you do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JFenix
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 8, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  Pros: Amazing visuals, dynamic and fluid A. I., scripted sequences are appropriately spooky and 
 generally well-timed, great save system, very immersive overall
  
  Cons: Enemy voices can get repetitive in battle, melee attacks seem impractical
  
  First Encounter 
 Assault Recon is one of those games that you don't see coming, maybe even dismiss by the acronym 
 alone, yet it's well worth playing. You're a nameless, voiceless, yet highly-skilled pointman of 
 an elite military unit called, you guessed it, F. E. A. R. Initially, your mission is to investigate 
 a facility where a military commander named Paxton Fettel - who has apparently gone insane - is 
 using a battalion of clones to kill everyone in sight. Like Half-Life before it, even though your 
 character never speaks, it simply doesn't matter. The story and dialogue are well crafted for the 
 most part, despite a few loose ends here and there, and it all adds up for a gaming experience 
 like no other - an immersive one.
  
  You begin the game learning the ropes of the controls, which are very intuitive to use - hence 
 the 0-30 minute learning curve I noted. The introductory level doubles as a tutorial, and has you 
 crouching under a fence, opening doors, etc. As previously noted, your character is a part of a 
 team, and your allies are interesting enough, though not necessarily fleshed out. Betters, your 
 team coordinator, guides you via radio communication throughout the campaign, giving out orders, 
 commenting on various laptop data that is uploaded as well as the status of your teammates, Jankowski 
 and Jin. The former is a bald, skeptical soldier who seems to wear his ego on his sleeve, while 
 the latter is the resident team medic and technical officer. Despite the fact that F. E. A. R. is 
 a suspense-filled shooter, there is actually some humor to be found in the exchanges that these 
 characters have, and it is yet another appealing aspect of the game. It's certainly nothing exaggerated 
 or common to see as you play through the story, but what is there feels natural and nicely complements 
 the otherwise spooky nature of the locales and the story itself.
  
  The main attraction in F. E. A. R. is most certainly the gunplay. Firefights in this game are amazing 
 and intensely kinetic. This is due to a couple of very well-designed factors: the A. I. and the 
 myriad of weapons available. First, the A. I. is incredibly dynamic in F. E. A. R. To be specific, 
 enemies will not hold back and basically wait for you to kill them. More often than not, they will 
 attempt to flank you, shoot you from behind cover (ie. a shelf that they can pushed over) , throw 
 a grenade to draw you out, or a number of different actions that are, quite simply put, welcome 
 and refreshing. The animation is also very well done: from as early as the opening cinematic, the 
 attention to detail in the way that legs move, the way bullets are fired, etc., it can be said 
 that this game isn't just texture flair , if you will. In other words, while the F. E. A. R. looks 
 great, it's just as good in motion.
  
  The variety of weapons is probably less than, say, Unreal Tournament, but what's here is tuned 
 to near-perfection. Take the G2A2 assault rifle, for instance: the hollow-thump of bullets spraying 
 to the detail in the weapon model itself is impressive, and it's actually useful. That said, however, 
 you might find yourself relying on the same one or two weapons throughout most of the campaign. 
 The shotgun is devastating when used in conjunction with the slow-motion feature. In addition to 
 the standard gun types listed above, there are also some unique additions to F. E. A. R.'s roster: 
 the perforator, a gun that is basically a stapler or nail gun, pins enemies to walls or at least 
 sends them vaulting backwards most of the time. Another gun that comes to mind is the Type-7 Particle 
 Beam weapon, which is like an electric sniper rifle that superheats enemies to such an extent that 
 only their skeleton remains. Guns such as the Type-7 and the rocket launcher typically have very 
 limited ammo, which is why you might tend to rely on the more standard weapon types. Fortunately, 
 you are able to carry up to 3 different weapons, meaning little time is spent standing around debating 
 the value of having or not having any one gun (there are different grenade types as well, but their 
 capacity system is separate from your main 3 weapon slots) .
  
  Complementing the solid weapon selection is the slow-motion feature, which allows you to slow down 
 time for enemies, explosions, etc., while allowing you to move at a slightly-less-than-normal pace. 
 Being able to target and move faster than your enemies whenever activated translates into numerous 
 instances where you'll want to tell somebody about it, as soon as possible. Slow-Mo appears as 
 a bar at the bottom of the player's screen at all times (with the exception of some story sequences 
 such as the Interval introduction scenes) . In addition, there are small, glowing syringes hidden 
 throughout the game called boosters. When acquired, a yellow booster will increase the length of 
 the Slow-Mo bar (allowing you to use it longer) , while a blue booster will add 5 hit points to 
 your total health. Simply put, Slow-Mo isn't just a gimmick in F. E. A. R. - it has been implemented 
 with a clear focus on intense action, and it succeeds with style.
  
  The game ends quite well, in my opinion, though there are a few loose ends (but nothing game-breaking) . 
 The creepy moments in F. E. A. R. are something of note as well: when they occur, I found myself wondering 
 what the outcome would be while simultaneously trying to figure it out - this is not to say that 
 these scenes are difficult, rather, they are quite engaging. They break up the action nicely, complementing 
 it along with the dialogue exchanges noted previously. The music is, in a word, minimalist, but 
 not to the point that it is noticeably absent. The weapon sound effects, scripted music sequences, 
 along the the radio chatter of enemies and allies alike, are actually enough to sustain - rather 
 than interfere with - the campaign and gameplay itself.
  
  F. E. A. R. is a game that caters to fans of the first-person shooter genre, giving them the gameplay 
 that they crave, with a story that is full of spine-tingling moments as even more of an incentive. 
 The save system is comprised of three different save types: quick-save, auto-save, and manual-save. 
 A system such as this means less headaches when the action gets tough. To further round out the 
 package, there is a multiplayer component to the game, and it can be quite fun, as the action translates 
 well (with the slow-motion ability condensed into a single pick-up for players to battle over) . 
 Overall, I highly recommend F. E. A. R. and it ranks among my favorite games of all-time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir-Dark-Raiden
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  The best game in 2005. What can someone say about a game that was by far the best game in 2005? 
 Many say that F. E. A. R has won this title because of the graphics, but what really made this game 
 such a great game is the A. I ( Artificial Intelligence) . The way the A. I reacts in this game is 
 totally great. the graphics also help this game a lot and also the feeling of the game. the music 
 and the atmosphere is exceptional and totally are well designed for this game, so if you enter 
 the world of F. E. A. R you wont be disapointed. Everything is well deisgned, so i have to say that 
 really keeps you interested once you start this game. As for the story, it is pretty nice, wepons 
 very nice created and a gameplay that brings joy on the players face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mailbox2112
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 6, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  pretty scary. lots of fun very suprising. O. K. graphics. gameplay is good, but could be better. 
 the storyline is good. the creepy cutscenes and halucinations are a nucance. overall i gave it a 
 9.6. thanks to the stupid 100 word minimum, i have to keep typing words i don't wanna. thanks a 
 lot for reading this but i doubt anyone will. i thank you again ha ha ha ha ha ha ha next time 
 actually play the game instead of reading my useless reveiws. ha .ha . stupid hundred word limit. 
 i like pie. a lot. the limit has me typing stupid and random things 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gridoo
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  I thought shooting the assault teams was boring; it has been done to death in other games. But 
 I did like the guys the moved invisible, they really had me on edge. With a title like F. E. A. R. 
 I expected it to keep me on edge all the way through, like Doom 3. I expected the graphics to be 
 better. The standard has been set pretty high with games like half life 2 and Doom 3 and this did 
 not take it to the next level. No real outdoor levels.
  
  The story line had some real potential to be like half life but in the end you are just shooting 
 assault team and never really did anything different.
  
  I think games like this need to add in problem solving scenarios to challenge the user in different 
 situations. I had high hopes for this game but in the end I thought F. E. A. R. was a disappointment. 
 Dont believe the hype. Gridoo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_scorpion_kn
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  when i played the game i was amazed by the graphic and AI soldiers who were so inteligent and fast 
 . even the horor was so good. and when i finished the game i was so hapy {and} so angry. the game 
 is ended and i dont know what was the story. it was all in that stupid telephones and laptops. can 
 any one emagine that . i couldnt keep up with these things during the game because there were soldier 
 around and the noise of fighting . beside there were names of people that i {i didnt seen } during 
 the hole game were talking in the phones in some random way and there were some places i didnt 
 use the phone or the laptop. and when i came to the finishing i found that i dont understand the 
 story for the first time in my life. this was the only game that i didnt understand . one thing 
 else bad about this phones [ they talk fast , random , mistriouse ways , some words arent clear 
 and they dont wait any one to listen once u open the answer machine beside u cant hear the massege 
 agian] there were no seens to even to explain 10% of the hole story like any game it just encourage 
 u to fight and kill and have some fun with horor and just leave the story in aside and kill some 
 enemies, and that what made me angry of this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgt-slaughter61
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 5, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is kinda like mixing the greatest first person shooter in the world with a tiny little 
 girl that stalks you throughout the game. The gameplay is spectacular and the enemys are probably 
 that smartest enemies ever created in a game to date, they flip over tables crawl underneath trailers 
 and they arnt to easy to just take down either. What makes it harder is that you know at any minute 
 a girl might pop up and scare you until you s*** your pants. To help you out a bit when things 
 go out of control, They added on a reflex thingy ( SLO MO ) . Yep thats right you'll be able to 
 go in slo-mo and watch the bullet vortexes fly past your head or watch the enemy you just disposed 
 with your shot gun go flying through a window. The story-line is stable and you will enjoy the 
 firefights you get into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonicBH
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 3, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. was one of the most heavily-hyped and must-have first-person shooters of 2005. Made by 
 Monolith, this game shows off some of the new features of their game engine, LithTech, and tries 
 to put a cohesive storyline and fun gameplay around this engine.
  
  You play as a new recruit into this group entitled F. E. A. R, which stands for First Encounter Assault 
 Recon. You try to find this cannibalistic criminal by the name of Paxton Fettel, and while you're 
 trying to find him, you're somewhat haunted by this small little girl named Alma. Your character 
 will see a lot of confusing images frequently throughout the game, which it does well and as it 
 gives off several spooky moments, it doesn't go for surprise scare tactics like Resident Evil games 
 do.
  
  The new recruit has reflexes that are off the charts and give the player an advantage during combat 
 situations. You get slow motion, which refills every few seconds, but depletes pretty quickly. 
 This has been done before countless times before this game, and it's not really unique. Your player 
 can also do some simple combat moves such as hitting the enemy with the butt of the weapon, or 
 bicycle kicking. Some of these moves are a bit complex to do, and sometimes require multiple key 
 presses to get what you want to do. The recruit can also improve their maximum health and reflex 
 time with boosters strewn throughout the game. Some are them are hidden, others are more obvious. 
 It gives the game rewards for people who observe, but tends to penalize players who just run and 
 gun as playing with default health and reflex times make the game much harder as you progress.
 
  
  In terms of where you go around the game, most of the game takes place in night areas through warehouses, 
 an office building, a technological base, a dilapidated apartment complex, among others. Sadly 
 the game lacks variety in locations, and certain areas such as the office areas take way too long, 
 and hurts pacing a bit. Also the default graphic settings make the game too dark, giving off bad 
 vibes of games like Doom 3. You'll either need to rely heavily on your flashlight or use the brightness 
 settings in the game to see.
  
  F. E. A. R.'s engine boasts a pretty good particle system, and parts of the walls come off when you 
 shoot at them, leaving dust everywhere, which looks real good. It also has some physics, but nothing 
 as interactive as something like Half-Life 2. The enemy A. I. doesn't slouch either, it does a lot 
 of flanking and surprise hits to flush you out, and since the levels are made for multiple paths, 
 this gives the player, and the enemy, different ways to tackle the same areas. However, enemy variety 
 is very slim, you will tend to fight the same enemies a lot, with little variety except in weaponry, 
 with a major enemy that takes more hits to kill. It's a grunt-fest, and it gets tiring halfway 
 in.
  
  Audibly the game sounds okay. Since you tend to fight the same enemies frequently, you tend to 
 hear the same voices of Target sighted! among other things. Also, this game's a bit on the offensive 
 side, these marines tend to shoot off s-words and f-words like nobody's business. In terms of the 
 other characters, most of them fit for the character, and even characters like Alma bring an eerie, 
 creepy experience that adds to the atmosphere. Music is a bit on the mixed side. While some tracks 
 work in certain areas, in other places, they do not. Like later on in the game you're supposed 
 to move certain items to progress, and when these effects happen, they do this uplifting track 
 that really, really sounded out of place. It's as if Monolith had this track, but had no good place 
 to put it.
  
  F. E. A. R. has large amounts of weaponry, looking similar to real-life weapons, and a few strange 
 futuristic weapons like a particle beam weapon, which is the game's sniper rifle, and a three-round 
 rocket launcher. There are also grenades, proximity mines and remote mines, which are easy to use, 
 but remote mines can't be quickly thrown and exploded, it has its own detonator, which can complicate 
 matters. You can also use health packs at your own leisure, which means you can save them for those 
 aftermath situations, or use them during a firefight with reflexes on.
  
  F. E. A. R. likes taking homages to many different films and games. For instance, Alma could look 
 like one of the cousins of Sadako from The Ring, Paxton Fettel is reminiscent of Hannibal Lector, 
 and if you look hard enough, you can find red staplers. These are a bit on the humorous side, and 
 they don't detract from the game's plot or make it look like a caricature.
  
  The single player takes about 6-7 hours to complete, and then there's multiplayer. It has your 
 standard deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, and Last Man Standing. Plus it has two 
 new game modes reminiscent of Unreal Tournament: Conquer All and Capture, where you capture command 
 points. Some of these game modes give the option to also play with slow motion on, where there's 
 a powerup in the map and you get the opportunity to use it. In addition, F. E. A. R.'s multiplayer 
 scoring is done in a way where the points do matter: You receive five points for a frag, lose one 
 if you die, and lose three if you kill yourself or a teammate. It breaks up the monotony of other 
 shooters, and is fun to play on all counts.
  
  Does this game live up to the hype? Kind of. The plot's a little uninspiring, the enemy variety 
 is low, and the game is too dark, but fun gameplay and a great multiplayer redeem it. It's a good 
 game, but it's not made for low-end PCs. You're gonna need a good processor and video card to run 
 at a decent framerate, and a few gigabytes of hard drive space to spare. F. E. A. R.'s multiplayer 
 is available for free on the PC as F. E. A. R. Combat , but the single player is good enough to warrant 
 a purchase.
  
  Pros: Exceptional particle effects and A. I., Boosters to enhance the game, great weapon variety, 
 good multiplayer variety.
  Cons: Uninspired plot, levels are a bit monotonous, game is too dark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilkillaz89
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 2, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  First off i received the game late, like about a week ago, and from the start it had me on my toes 
 wanting and anticipating the next scary image to give me a heart stopper!!!! I have been a gamers 
 for about 4 years now and i can say i am actually satisfied with this game, it could be better. 
 un-less F. e. a. r two comes out.
  
  Im all about GRAPHICAL BEAUTY so i love intense details in my games and this game hits the spot. 
 and this game is a triple threat, with un-believable in-game battles with sweet graphics and of 
 course the a horror story that leaves you scared to go in your basement alone.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themanofsteel99
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 2, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is the much acclaimed First Person Shooter from Vivendi Universal, putting you in the 
 shoes of an operative who is giving the job of the F. E. A. R. point man. Set in modern time, the 
 player is tasked to hunt down a man responsible for several deaths. During that time, the plot 
 begins to reveal itself, and likewise, objectives change. All along the way, he is visited by the 
 spirits, most notably a little girl dressed in red who seems to be focal point of plot. This is 
 a great FPS that does all the little things right, and gives an atmospheric experience that will 
 leave you emotionally exhausted.
  
  Inspired by the movie, The Ring, F. E. A. R. gives the player a different type of horror experience. 
 This is nothing like Doom, which in itself can become predictable, but rather the silence and emptiness, 
 meaning the game is mostly void of life, except for few encounters, and the usual enemy, let's 
 your mind warp the surroundings into a hell. There will always be something in the corner of your 
 eye, because of that, the game puts you on edge from start to beginning, seeing as there are few 
 moments where your mind totally forgets about everything.
  
  With that being said, the Gameplay, is fantastic, having one of the most advanced AI around. Enemies 
 will knock over tables, duck for cover, and attempt to flank you, they will move if a grenade is 
 thrown at them, and work very well with each other, making this game a tough one. You will often 
 find yourself doing a section over again to save precious health and armour, just because the next 
 fight will be much more intense. Going into a hostile sector is suicide, players have to plan out 
 how they are going to approach the enemy. If that sounds too hard for you, then do not fret, as 
 the game has SlowMo, or for others, Bullet Time. This can very useful, specially during parts where 
 you are in confined space with the enemy very close to you.
  
  The physics engine used for this game is stellar, not surprising that it is coupled with some of 
 the best Graphics around. If you have ever seen a John Woo movie, then this what you are getting, 
 dust floating after a fire fight, dismemberment, chunks of concrete getting blown apart, this realism, 
 gives the game an edge, and after an intense fight, you are feeling pumped up. Taking cover is 
 essential, as bullets can ricochet, enemies will pour it on, overall the presentation in this game 
 is marvelous.
  
  The games high point, is it's sound. The ambiance that is created is finished with the sound, it's 
 almost imperative, as those creepy and spooky cracks and noises will put you on edge, hearing the 
 little girl speak just out of the blue will freak you, and most importantly, will do what it the 
 developers want, put you on edge. There is a saying that goes, you know its there, you just don't 
 know were.
  
  From the beginning of the game, the player is dropped into a situation, knowing nothing of whom 
 he is or what has transpired in the past. However as you keep going, little bits of info will pop 
 out, and you will be pleasantly surprised with the story. At first, I thought that this would be 
 something rather generic, but at the end, you are surprised at how, even though it developed slowly, 
 it was done just right. From a technical standpoint, this a hog, a real system hog, even today, 
 you will top of the line parts to be able to run this game at maximum. I was able to, and must 
 say that it was awsome. The frame rate is stable, and would only flicker once in a while, but to 
 my surprised, never during a fire fight. Multiplayer was also done admirably well, on par with 
 that of Half Life 2's Deathmatch. Meaning that the over all value of this game is exponential, 
 purchasing this game is like a whole package, an awsome single player and a great multiplayer.
 
  
  This a definite pickup, if you enjoy a frightening, yet intense experience, then look no further. 
 F. E. A. R. is quite possibly the best game of it's genre, the best horror FPS ever to be honest. 
 Considering it won best shooter of the year, and was runner up for Game of Year, even today, this 
 is something you have to get for yourself, because in the end, although being an emotionally intense 
 experience, you wont be disappointed one bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 2, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 9: The action on fear is pretty much basic first person shooter gameplay with a few cool 
 things in it. The slo mo affect is really awesome and allows you to aim better while the bullets 
 tear up the environment. I also like the way you can lean around the corner to check to see if 
 there are any enemies nearby. Dispite the gameplay being somewhat repetative and not offering a 
 whole lot of different enemies, the action is very intense, and the enemies you face are incredibly 
 smart. Graphics 10: Fear's presentation, and enviroenemnst look simply amazing. The way the guns 
 fire also look breathtaking, and all the other visuals in this game simply look super. Sound 10: 
 Fear's voice acting and sound are also excellent. The scary sounds and the sounds of bullets destorying 
 the enviornment are also really good. Your team's voice acting is also very well done. Value 9: 
 Fear's fun campaign mode should take you 10-12 hours to beat, then offers highly addictive multiplayer 
 after that, which will keep you busy for a while. Tilt 9: Fear also has an excellent story that 
 is actually somewhat scary. The events that happen to you in the game may freak you out, and the 
 little girl appears when you least expect. Without question, Fear will suprise you alot when you 
 play the single player mode. Overall 9.3/10 Overall Fear is an excellent FPS that anyone should 
 experience. It is a lot of fun, and scary at the same time. If you like FPS's Fear is a must have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariomusicmaker
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 1, 2006 9:06 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is the best pc game. There is no better. Last year probly was a bad year for its relese because 
 top of the line computers would struggle to play it maxed out. This year is a diffrent story. I 
 have beaten it on the 3 difficulties and sugest easy. it is simply to intence and down right hard 
 to kill any thing on the hardest diffculty. Where I live it is still $49.99 witch I know you don't 
 want to spend on a pc game in fear that your pc wont handle it but with fear you can turn down 
 the graphics a lot but may still have fps drops on older systems but 1gig of ram fixed all my problems.
 
  
  over all
  
  Buy no matter if you dont like 1st person shooters because it will change your mind on the genure. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reino6
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2006 2:14 am PT
Review:  At first, you can`t play this game in a dark room with no lights. It will truly get under your 
 skin. I had several times shivers. I think that if you have not seen the Ring, have no clue about 
 the elements of the Ring and then you play it alone in the dark room with no lights, then your 
 mind will go crazy i think.
  Your own shadow and to be able to see your body in the game is very nice touch. If compared to 
 Doom3 &amp; Half-Life2 then it`s middle of them. I liked HL2 the most. Doom3 has this Monsters 
 in EVERY ROOM thing. Or even more. FEAR as i said before will get under your skin and play a mind 
 game with you.
  But what i did`nt like was how the other characters looked in the game. I mean the enemies were 
 good but the friendly characters were a bit ugly . Compared to Half-Life2 it`s badder. In FEAR 
 the mouth was`nt moving so good while speaking and the eyes were a bit glassy. It was not a fallback 
 for me but i noticed it. In Half-Life2 this was a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kgb1234
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 29, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. should be considered one of the best FPS's to come out in the passed few years. The game 
 at it's release was the best looking on PC or any console, and still looks like a great game even 
 when held up to Gears of War a year later. With an engrossing story full of twists, it will always 
 leave you wanting more.
  
  The sound was astounding, you really felt like you were shooting a gun in this one. The sound reminded 
 me of Michael Mann's movies like Vice City and Collateral, where he gets real gun sounds from real 
 guns, not the fake noises made on a synthesizer like so many other movies or games. Everything 
 else sounded great, even down to the slow motion voices, from hearing an enemy panic as you run 
 into the room to the sound of a helicopter overhead, this game had it all.
  
  Gameplay was also another stellar point in the game. I liked the fact that it wasn't easy to shoot 
 while running since you have legs (or else you feel like a floating head like in Half Life 2) . 
 I also enjoyed the slow motion feature, adding maybe not a completely original feature to the genre 
 but making it work really well with every part of the gameplay. Physics were amazing in this game 
 and the A. I. is some of the best you will encounter in a game. Trust me, when you up the level 
 of difficulty the game goes from run-and-gun to Rainbow Six.
  
  After praising this game so much, it does have its shortcomings. It isn't a very long game (single 
 player takes around 8 hours) , multiplayer was okay but nothing special. If your looking for multiplayer 
 gaming I wouldn't come here, try the Call of Duty series or Unreal Tournament series. The biggest 
 issue was the variety of location. You climb all the way up a building level by level and you fall 
 to the bottom just to have to climb it all over again.
  
  Overall, this game deserves all the praise it received a year ago, not with the elite FPS's ever 
 made, but definetly one of the best released in the passed few years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scruffysack
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 29, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a big fan FPS's but I have to admit that this game was pretty cool.
  First and foremost are the graphics.. the particle effects are top notch and really add to the 
 fun of a classic fire fight. The sound is also one of the games high points. Hearing your gun fire 
 and also the sound of your enemies communicating to each other is pretty impressive.
  
  However....
  The game it's old. The maps are all the same. Hallway after hallway.. room after 
 room are all alike and it's too bad.. because this game could have been great.
  
  So if your looking for something to pass a few hours away this is it.. but it wont last long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vampiredust99
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 28, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a FPS that casts you in the role of a member of the First Encounter and Assault Recon 
 team, a US Army division specialising in encounters with the paranormal. You're sent to investigate 
 a cloned army and its telepathic leader. The story is weak and includes a creepy little girl called 
 Alma, who is straight out of films like The Ring. I won't spoil it for you but it is pretty predictable.
 
  
  Unlike most other shooters, you come equipped with superhuman powers. Pressing CTRL gives a cool 
 looking slow motion ability, with effects straight out of the Matrix. There is the usual assortment 
 of weapons to kill your enemies with, but these are dull and repetitive to use, much like the environments 
 and enemies.
  
  The game looks pretty but is very dull. There is very liitle change of scenery and the enemies 
 design is bland and unispiring. Physics is a little weak compared to games like Half Life 2. The 
 game has good sound and a suitably eerie soundtrack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bankisa
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 27, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  First Person Shooters seem to be a dime-a-dozen these days, and so its little surprise that developers 
 are turning to gimmicks in order to make their product stand out from the crowd. Weve had super-realistic 
 physics, cell-shaded cartoon shooters and even alien gravity games, and now we have SlowMo as 
 Monolith like to call it. In essence, it is nothing more than Bullet-Time as used in Max Pain 
 and various other titles from around the height of the Matrix phenomena. However, all being said, 
 FEAR makes very good use of this feature, and there is defiantly something cool about bursting 
 into a room, flicking on the SlowMo and gunning down half a dozen soldiers before they know whats 
 hit them.
  
  Visually FEAR is a bit of a mixed bag. Some of the animation is very cool, especially the way the 
 camera follows your moves as you get out of cars, or climb onto ladders. It may only be a small 
 detail but it adds to the immersion a great deal. The effects in the game are very nice; especially 
 the lighting and partials, which give FEAR a very nice atmosphere. On the other hand, the textures 
 leave something to be desired, guns and character models are not bad, but they are far from the 
 most detailed to be seen in a FPS. At best, they are about on par with games like Far Cry, which 
 given that game is nearly four years old is less than impressive. In addition to the lack of detail, 
 the environments are very similar. The entire game takes place in an office block come industrial 
 unit, and so grey walls and rusty iron floors are the staple throughout. Sound wise FEAR excels, 
 with brilliant use of surround sound to help you locate your targets, and some very well executed 
 bits of dialogue between the squads youre fighting. In addition there are some nice voice-overs 
 from members of the FEAR team keeping you filled in on whats happening and why, the only downside 
 to this is that if you happen to be in combat, guns ablaze then trying to hear what is being said 
 can be somewhat of a challenge. The game play in FEAR is very solid, and as aforementioned, the 
 combat feels very cool. The guns do lack variety, with pistols, an SMG, an assault rifle, a shotgun 
 a sniper rifle and then a couple of odd weapons that seem somewhat useless (One fires funny darts 
 that dont really do much and the other one looks like a rocket launcher but shoots purple beams 
 of energy) but that is more than made up for by the cool SlowMo. All of the weapons feel meaty 
 when fired and the soldiers movements when hit are second to none, never before has firing a shotgun 
 felt so satisfying. For the most part the game is nothing more than encounters with ever-increasing 
 amounts of soldiers, with a few distractions in the form of heavily armored robots or stealth neo-ninjas. 
 The story in FEAR is something of an oddball. The basic idea is that you are a member of the F. E. A. R. 
 Special Forces team and have gone in to deal with an army of drone soldiers controlled by a psychic 
 commander. Throw in some very odd visions of hellish creatures, a creepy child and the odd answerphone 
 message and you have a somewhat confused tale. The story isnt bad, but the way it is told is far 
 from clear and well explained. For the most part you pick up bits from your command team after 
 you download information from computers or you listen to answer phone messages. On one level this 
 is a nice touch as it adds to the immersion of the play, but the price is a tale that often feels 
 vague at best and often plain confused. In addition, the horror aspect of the game is somewhat 
 killed from the outset seeing as you, powered with your SlowMo reflexes are by far the most dangerous 
 thing in the building. Never do you feel in any real danger, rather you feel pity for the poor 
 fools whom your about to dispose. Its not a bad thing but one has to wonder if this was the feeling 
 the script writers were intending. In conclusion, FEAR offers a solid and fun, if not revolutionary 
 game. It should hold your attention until the end and its gimmicks do add to the game. Sadly, its 
 lack of variety combined with its slightly confusing plot line detract from what could have been 
 an amazing game. If youre looking for a fun shooter and youve already done Half-Life 2 and Quake 
 4 then FEAR may well be just what your looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pilsener
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  Now this is a good first person shoote, with a nice story good weapons, and incredible looks, it 
 is also very good inspiration, the AI is very very good, the way its suppose to be in all FPS's. 
 Dont like the fact that little girl is being used as a scary character again, but its quite fun, 
 u get a couple of scarry moments now and then, which u never expect and that makes it scary. The 
 weapons respond the way they should and the sounds are just superb, if you like FPS's and havent 
 played FEAR and have a computer that runs it nicely, then u should check it out, its more than 
 worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 23, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I have to say the first time I played through FEAR, when it first arrived on the shelves, I hated 
 the corridor crawl, and thought the enemy AI was decent, but not wickedly smart .. this was of 
 course on the easy setting . I played it over again this time on normal, and loved it more.. with 
 each increase in difficulty, the game got more fun.. and found myself not enjoying the end level.. 
 the whole take away my weps away and use a pistol deal. The atmosphere is top notch. The AI is 
 great at higher difficulties, and it adds a bit more blood pumping moments. The Sound is great 
 and yes the guns do have a more powerful kick to them. Although the chance of USING a variety of 
 weps is a bit lacking in the game, I had loads of fun with the standard SMG, Assault, Pistol loadout. 
 The best weapons based on available ammo are the Assault, Nailgun, and shotgun, with pistol being 
 around as well. I sometimes shifted between these weps but mostly stayed with the loadout I gave 
 you. The gfx are good but not OMG great.. I found HL2's gfx a tad bit better looking.. the bullettime 
 using slowmo.. enhanced the graphical effect, and made it seem a lot more cool looking. The Value 
 is great for a single player game and there is a multiplayer component, which I didn't really give 
 it a chance yet.. But the standard TDM, DM, etc is there.. Not as gripping to me than say UT1 - 
 04. The game definately excels in single player though. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T00HuMaN
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Overall- The games graphics are amazing but the story just doesnt live up. You seem to be doing 
 the same thing throughout the entire game. Most of the missons are Locate and kill paxton fettal. 
 The level are all basically the same. Empty warehouses and office buildings. Nothign else. Plus 
 the multiplayer that comes with the game is avalible for free downlaod from many differnt websites. 
 So Basically you get a half-ass story with good graphics. I wouldnt recomend buying this at all. 
 I know many people will disagree but if you really think its not worth it. The game is also frighting 
 at times but you kinda get used to it after a while because the same thing happens..... a little 
 girl walks out a guy comes thru the window... sameold stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ValiantDarkness
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 22, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  When I first learned about FEAR, I was quite excited. Mixing the ideas of true horror and fps sounded 
 good. I know there are games like Doom 3 and all, but this I thought was going to really make its 
 mark on the gaming world for fps. I was right. This game is exciting and thrilling. I enjoyed the 
 smart AI, which has to be the smartest AI in a fps to date. I really liked the thrill of the ghosts 
 and parnormal activities throughout the game. If you want the maximum effect, you have to play 
 it at night, with surround sound. There is truely no other way to play this game and find it great. 
 The guns were cool and the slow-mo effect was an interesting additive. I'm not too sure about it, 
 I think it may have made the game too easy. Nontheless, this game turned out very well. Bravo. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveslayerv1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 22, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  fps meets horror, a chilling combination.
  
  a chilling combination indeed, if you are looking for a game with action, a chilling storyline 
 and nasty surprises you have come to the right place,
  i heard about this game through freind's and then tryed the demo, i have to say i don't scare very 
 easily, but this game made me deficate at every turn, it's very suttle at first. but then when 
 your walking down a dark corridor with little lighting and a body fly's straight through a window, 
 and violently smashes into a wall, not a foot away from you, then the fear kicks in. and to top 
 it off a dark shadow runs across the corridor into another room, now the adrenaline kick's in. 
 you cant hold the gun steady through shaking, you decide to confront the shadow with a shotgun, 
 but when you reach the room it advanced into, there is noting, nothing but the fear that knowing 
 it's still somewhere, somewhere near you...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcinkonys
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I have just finished playing this game, and I have to say  FEARs easily one of the most spectacular 
 games I have ever played. If you think youve seen everything first person shooters can offer, 
 youre wrong. Although the games pretty short, it offers great both singleplayer and multiplayer 
 experiences. F. E. A. R., or First Encounter Assault Recon, is the militarys top-secret task force, 
 assigned to deal with paranormal situations. Think Mulder and Sculy, only with a lot, lot more 
 fire-power. The mission your squads sent to is a very important one, as it may require many civilian 
 deaths. Your main target in the game  a military commander Paxton Fettel, takes command of a huge 
 number of clone soldiers. Since theyre linked with him, Paxtons death means the death of the 
 clones.
  
  I wont tell any more of the story, since you really dont want it spoiled. Its awesome and keeps 
 you sucked in throughout the whole game. The first and last intervals arent about brain blasting; 
 theyre more focused on story telling. Although there arent too many firefights in them, there 
 are lots of creepy moments. Heck, they appear every once in a while, and it gives FEAR a very cool 
 atmosphere  light bulbs going out, rats smurfing around, doors closing as you walk by  the first 
 time I played this game I almost jumped outta my chair. If youve seen media on this game, youll 
 notice a little girl in quite some pics. She appears in every single interval of the game  sometimes 
 you cant avoid confronting her, sometimes you can see her by accident, for example, by looking 
 at a TV screen. According to the cinematics of the game, no one has survived after confronting 
 the girl. Will you?
  
  Since the game is a first person shooter, firefights play the main role in the game. And oh boy, 
 firing a weapon has never been so fun before. Every shot you fire leaves traces everywhere. During 
 large firefights, it looks like the environments flying apart  windows crashing, lights going 
 out, holes appearing everywhere. It looks really realistic, hence it makes the game really fun 
 to play. Not to mention theres Slow Motion, which gives the game even a more cinematic feel. Theres 
 loads of gore in the game, not to mention the impact of fragmentation grenades. Gore can be disabled 
 via the options, though. So can all the swear words, but youve to DL a third-party mod for that.
 
  
  Youll get to choose from quite some weapons. There are pistols, SMGs, rifles, even a multi-rocket 
 launcher. If you master the pros and cons of every weapon, you shouldnt have a hard time dealing 
 with specific enemies throughout the game. Most of the enemies are clones, but youll meet some 
 security guards, turrets, and huge robot foes as well. The latter ones appear like 3 times. Although 
 theyre pretty tough, most of the time you can avoid them simply by slipping past them. Weapons 
 arent the only way of taking down NPCs, youve close combat skills, as well. Using a specific 
 button combination, you can perform a so-called bicycle kick, a slide kick, and many more. Theyre 
 really good when setting up an ambush, or when youre simply out of ammo. It shouldnt happen too 
 often, though, unless you spray lots of bullets from far range, since theres quite some recoil 
 with some weapons.
  
  Creepy and mysterious music makes the game even better. The theme changes as you enter new areas. 
 For example, if you enter a building, and spot a dead civilians body, the music changes to an 
 intense one. The voice of the little girl greets your ears often, as well. During the short in-game 
 moments where nasty things happen, like light bulbs going out, or shadows appearing, the sounds 
 make you even more cautious.
  
  As Ive mentioned before, FEAR isnt really long. It took me around 7 hours to pass the game on 
 moderate difficulty. I wouldve passed it faster, but since Im a sissy, I had to quick-save a 
 lot. After passing the game, it left me wanting more. If youve the stones for it, youll find 
 the game very enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dangerous112233
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. This game has many very cool parts, great graphics and sounds. Some parts 
 will scare the living crap out of you. The programmers really did a great job with this game and 
 where the girl should be placed in this game. The enemies in this game arent as stupid as some 
 of those 2 hit kill ones. These enemies you really have to take time and try and actually shoot 
 them to death and take cover because unlike 90% of other bots in games, they have good aim. You 
 get great weapons and health packs along with trying to reach a health pack and having a girl scare 
 the living s*** out of you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrLaskowski
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 15, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  This is really a special game. The graphics on this game are absolutely awesome. The heavy requirements 
 are simply because the detail in this game is unlike previous first person shooters. What made 
 this game so special for me though was when you play this game in the dark, it will scare you a 
 little bit. I enjoyed the A. I. of the enemies in this game. They would tell other soldiers where 
 I was hiding at and things like that. Not your traditional duck and shoot enemies. One of the coolest 
 parts is when an enemy will actually try and shoot you without looking. They just reach their gun 
 around a box or wall or whatever and they hope for the best. Really a fun game. Besides half life 
 2, it is the first FPS I have enjoyed in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lwright38
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 14, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  I've been hearing alot about FEAR for the past year now no matter what the platform so I decided 
 to finally go ahead and check this game and I can't say I'm disappointed in even the least way, 
 I'd always thought the game looked good from videos and shots that'd I had seen in the past, but 
 it exceeded the expectations I previously had for it.
  
  The first thing you will notice is the fact that the graphics are absolutely great equipped comlete 
 with a fully 3D setting and the high level of detail it's quite the wonder to look at it.
  
  The next thing that definately makes this game shine is probably one it's best qualities is 
 the sound, the sound and sound effects is such a great part of this game it's unbelievable and 
 it espically comes into play with setting up the intense eerieness this game utilizes.
  
  The story in FEAR starts out as what seems to be an usual find'em and kill'em type of game but 
 as the game continues it's always hinted that there's more to it and there is, I wouldn't spoil 
 it for you, but all I can say is that I was immersed from beginning to end of the story, it only 
 makes me wished I would have bought the special edition of the game to see more back story to it.
 
  
  Overall, I gotta say this game was a blast from start to finish and I can definitely recommend 
 it to anyone who enjoys good survival horror games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sheeper177
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  When I first got the game, it was to prove a friend of mine wrong. He said that he'd literally 
 wet himself playing it, and it was, quote, a mind-rape . This intrigued me, how a simple game could 
 completely mess one up.
  
  So I went out and bought it. It ran fine on high settings on my machine, and the detail put into 
 the graphics is better than some other current-generation games.
  
  When I first saw the Slo-Mo feature, I doubted that I'd ever need/use it. How I was wrong. I used 
 it at every opportunity, scoring headshots with akimbo pistols.
  
  The weapons. This is an odd subject for me. The only weapon that I really disliked was the shotgun. 
 It seemed to pale in comparison with everything else. Hell, I used the pistols more often. I didn't 
 like the proximity mines, either. The AI, which I'll get into later, was smart enough not to come 
 my way, or to blow them with a grenade.
  
  The AI in the singleplayer. Absolutely amazing. It follows general military tactics, as opposed 
 to I KILL HIM NOW, HE ONE GUY! , and subsequently running 10 yards while the player is carrying 
 a large particle weapon. However, the AI didn't take advantage of a leaning player, which kind 
 of cheapened the experience.
  
  Difficulty? It didn't get harder as you progressed, which, albeit realistic, made the game too 
 easy.
  
  Storyline? Excellent. The eerie story leaves no loose ends... well, except for that damned cliffhanger 
 at the end. The story is appropriately chilling without leaving out any of the critical information 
 bits.
  
  Final Summation: Excellent piece of work. It's easy, yes, but the story and the gameplay even it 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giguerefan87
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  as the title suggest this game is amazing, almost everyone has heard this before but it needs to 
 be said again. this game has been out for something like a year now and nothing even comes close 
 to comparison. the gameplay is amazing, the storyline is brilliant, the sounds are very in depth 
 and add to the experience. everything about this game just blows me away, the weapons are a but 
 boring after a while but then again, where else can you pulvarize someone with a steel spike to 
 the head. this game is just all around fun and the melee combat is something that is just terrific. 
 i can go on for days but i wont, just go play the online for free, buy the director dvd. wait for 
 fear two and then fear three and continue. to elaborate on the scariness of this game, i let someone 
 borrow it (he is at least 35) and he had nightmares every night he played it. he is doing it again 
 and going through the expansion. all you can say is that little girl is freakin' me out. we all 
 do it. just like we play this during the daytime with all the lights on and when someone is home.
 
  
  you get the point, pick it up you'll be glad.
  
  -nabokovfan87 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAFE1941
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 12, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I recommend this game, highly. Rarely has a game ever  .... but 
 this one does. The sounds and graphics are amazing. Down right scary! To get the most out of this 
 game, play it at night with all the lights off! If you are a true gamer and have no lady to sleep 
 by, it shouldn't be a problem. But it's seriously a scary game. My son and daughter wont watch 
 me play it. Heck, I have a hard time playing it, even in the daytime. Good luck trying to guess 
 the plot, cause it all throws you off in the end! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmdrmonkey
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  Pros: Easily the most advanced AI to date, even more advanced than FarCry; enemies are smart and 
 brutally tough, and will work in unison with a sort of hive mind and use advanced tactics to flank 
 you; insanely intense firefights; hand to hand combat is downright cool, and along with slow-mo, 
 gives the game a sort of Matrix feel; basically pretty good from an actual gameplay and control 
 standpoint; somewhat destructible environments; impressive graphics; most people found it scary, 
 I didn't, but very little scares me so that's not a good measure. Cons: weak and underdeveloped 
 storyline (a ripoff of The Ring, combined with nonsense about clone soldiers and a telepathic vampire) 
 that doesn't really come together until about 10 minutes before the game ends; idea of a clone 
 army seems like an all-too-convenient plot device to justify the fact that you only face off against 
 a few enemy character models; extremely repetitive and uninspired warehouse, office, and lab environments, 
 with little to differentiate one room from the last or the next, which seems like a huge letdown 
 after playing games with extremely varied locales, like HL2 and FarCry; unlike HL2, doesn't really 
 do much with its physics engine; many of the weapons are stuck in an irritating semi-auto mode 
 which makes them less effective at getting headshots than they would be otherwise; slowdown on 
 my system unless I took the settings back to medium 1024x768 no AA, 4xAF, but then again my PC 
 is a piece of crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jade_Monkey
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 9, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I will say is the PC I played this on:
  
  CPU: AMD Athlon X2 4400+
  RAM: 2X 512MB OCZ PC-3200
  Graphics Card: 2x BFG 7900GT 256MB
  Hard Drive: 200GB SATAII Hard 
 Drive
  Monitor: 20.1 Widescreen Monitor
  
  I run F. E. A. R. with all of the details at maximum, soft shadows on, 4x AA, 16x AF, and at a resolution 
 of 1280*960. I tell you this so you understand my interpretation of the graphics may be different 
 than some.
  
  F. E. A. R. has some of the best graphics I have seen yet. The best part in my opinion being the blood. 
 I take time to look at some poor guy I just massacred on F. E. A. R. because it is that pretty. Also 
 the shadows are very well done to. I like being able to see enemies advancing towards me on walls 
 depending on the circumstances. Another nice touch is when I shoot at a wall pieces come off depending 
 on the gun, and there is dust depending on the surface. One last thing, when you blow enemies up 
 with explosives, you can sever limbs, and the stumps you leave him with trickle out blood, very 
 good touch.
  
  The story to F. E. A. R. is also top notch. It sucked me in and made me want to know more about the 
 main players. I liked how you are given little tidbits of what's going on currently by overhearing 
 radio reports, as well as getting back story by listening to answering machines. I won't spoil 
 the end except to say it was very satisfying.
  
  The game play is net to perfect. The enemy AI is very good. They flank you and work together, retreat 
 if necessary. I would say they are second best to the AI on Far Cry. The slow mo effect worked 
 really well. I was worried going into the game because slow mo effects in first person seemed liked 
 a bad idea, but Monolith pulled it off. In fact it saved my ass countless times. One of my biggest 
 praises of F. E. A. R. is that if you set the difficulty higher the enemies get smarter and better, 
 they didn't simply crank up their health.
  
  F. E. A. R. has a lengthy single player campaign, and multi-player. The single player campaign, on 
 extreme difficulty, took me about 15-20 hours to finish. The multi-player is pretty good as well. 
 I don't play it as often as I thought I would, but it's still decent.
  
  I don't have many gripes with F. E. A. R. but there are some slight things I disliked. For instance 
 you have a flashlight, but it's mounted on your head and only lasts about 1 minute before it has 
 to recharge. I'm sure special forces can come up with a better solution. Secondly the multi-player 
 seems to lack the tactical feel the single player had. It seems like a slightly better version 
 of Counter-Strike.
  
  These things aside, F. E. A. R. rocks. I can't praise it enough. If you have a good enough PC to appreciate 
 the graphics, and you like a game that is fun and also can scare the crap out of you, F. E. A. R. 
 is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surag198
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 8, 2006 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Fear is a great game. by no means does it fail in what an FPS should be... intense, fast, and visceral. 
 I'm not going to review its intensity, the quality of the shooting, the kinetics etc. because others 
 have lauded it ad naseum. Its a great game in that regard... but after a while you tire of it. believe 
 me, at first when i heard this from others I refused to believe it as the game seemed perfect in 
 every regard from shooting, to being scared and being careful to having to employ smart tactics 
 against smart enemies. But unfortunately the storyline lags.... now I'm not much for stories but 
 you feel like it could have been taken to the next level. Like the girl could have appeared and 
 done something more often or more character interactions could have taken place (not so much having 
 to save lives but working with others or communicating in the game w/ people as opposed through 
 a telcom device) Near the end, say the last quarter of the game, the game begins to weaken because 
 of how repetitive it seems. I felt almost as if the developers were just prolonging it when it 
 should have ended. Now I do like long games, it makes its monies worth... but I also expect to be 
 gripped till the end.... the mechanics and fighting only takes it so long... after a while they begin 
 to wear on you and you tire of the same ol shooting (even though the enemies are smart and even 
 though you have to be tactical and careful) I just felt that variety was not there in the playing. 
 At first, i felt that the drab office complexes and the repetitiveness of it would not be an issue 
 as others had with it. But near the end it too began to affect my interest. I feel that, even with 
 its exceptional game play, the weakness in story and the feeling that this game could have been 
 sooo much better with better and more frequent story elements make me say that while you will enjoy 
 this game you will also be disappointed, especially near the end
  The game is fairly easy... at its most extreme, while I did die quite a few times, I still have 
 managed to make through the game without difficulty (i had slow mo on, which undoubtedly helped 
 but still.... not as hard as it could be) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLithium
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 8, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games I've ever played, it's amazing in every which way! There's actually nothing 
 like it! Be sure to pick up the extraction pack F. E. A. R. Expantion Point as well! Money and time 
 well spent!
  
  I can only think of one bad thing about this game and that would be that your computer needs a 
 very high performance to run this game in good quality, which may scare off some or force people 
 who doesn't own a kick-ass computer to play Quake 4 instead.
  
  However - the graphics is awesome and you will be able to enjoy the story and the gameplay weather 
 you play it with high or low performance!
  
  You will love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkAss007
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2006 3:18 am PT
Review:  The horror... The terror... The blood... The shooting... The Game has it all! Definetly the greatest 
 graphics in the history of FPSs... At least till the release date of Crysis.,.. But the game is 
 stunningly good.... Probably the most terrifying, blood-spilling game ever!!! And yea, as I said 
 in the review index, the game is Wicked Sick!!! Wicked as in for good, mighty, great, powerfull 
 and so on... And Sick as in for: Violence, blood, horror and stuff like that.... SICK part is not 
 a problem for me... I don't mind violence and blood, I'm just saying that the game has them both... 
 If you ask me, I think it's a MUST HAVE for every FPS fan... Another 10/10 PERFECT!!! WICKED SICK!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Villimax
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 5, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  I'm gonna' say the word scary an awful lot.
  Graphics? Flawless. Sounds? Flawless. Yes, yes, I'm sure you're aware that the video and audio 
 of the game are just perfect. We get it. The game is VERY system-friendly, much like Half-Life 
 2. My horrendous computer, which hardly runs much of anything, can run F. E. A. R. with ease, though 
 I don't get to experience the nice graphics and physics people with better computers would enjoy.
 
  Let me just say that the game is meant to be scary, and it is. I've never found scary movies to 
 be scary at all, but F. E. A. R. forces you to be right in the middle of everything, setting the pace 
 of the events, and walking right into something freaky and unexpected. Little girls are frightening.
 
  I found the scary parts to be perfectly timed, and quite scary indeed. They made the game very 
 addictive the first time through, as I'd have no idea what to expect around the next corner, and 
 I'd desperately look forward to the next freaky moment.
  However, beyond the scary cutscenes, the single player is boring beyond boring. At first, I found 
 the AI to be really interesting, and the action to be fun, but after a few battles of me alone 
 versus small groups of identical soldiers, it got really boring. I was so bored by it all, I didn't 
 even make it to the first battle against anything stronger than the big, beefed-up human soldiers.
 
  I loved the scary parts, but the fighting was too damn repetitive. The AI never did anything unexpected, 
 and each battle felt the same.
  I had really been hoping that the game would be team-based. Looking at lots of screenshots, and 
 the description of the game as the player being part of a well-trained team and all of that crap 
 had led me to believe that the player would be set alongside comrades in arms.
  Instead, the player is always alone. ALWAYS. If the player sees any friendly faces, they either 
 ditch him or die horribly before the action starts, so the player must always tackle enemies alone. 
 Not that the enemies are hard, but without teammates, the enemies are just BORING.
  I know I'm way too much of a teammate addict, but you can ask any fan of a good game like Half-Life: 
 Opposing Force or Medal of Honor: Allied Assault that the coolest parts in those games were the 
 rare parts where the player gets teammates. It's not that the player needs help. Teammates just 
 set a more fun environment and a better feeling to the game.
  Enemies fighting enemies is also just as fun as teammates (the only reason I played through Halo's 
 single player) , but as far as I could be bothered to play through the lame single player fight 
 scenes, there were no such events. Every enemy only wanted me dead.
  So, though the scary events of the game are just incredible, and they're really something to look 
 forward to (and watch alone in the dark) , the actual fighting in between each cool scary scene 
 is boring as hell. I just couldn't bear to play it all the way through because the fighting was 
 too repetitive, especially with the great disappointment that the player gets no teammates in combat, 
 even though the game says the player is a part of a team, and many screenshots made it look like 
 some of the player's enemies were actually his allies.
  
  I can't see why everyone would think the game is so great. I don't know why it'd be a top shooter 
 . The special effects, physics, sound effects and all of that technical stuff are just perfect, 
 but the single player gameplay, beyond the scary scenes, was too damn boring to keep me interested 
 for very long.
  Because only the scary scenes are fun, once you play the game all the way through, you'll probably 
 have no reason to play it again, as you've seen the scary parts, thus ruining any suprises by those, 
 and the combat is just boring.
  
  The multiplayer is fun, though I've already talked about it in F. E. A. R. Combat, and don't feel 
 like retyping it all. My number ratings below are for the SINGLE PLAYER ONLY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raegn
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  I'm a fan of FPS games, and F. E. A. R. takes the cake! Doom 3 had its perks and definitely got points 
 for the spooky factor, but F. E. A. R. blows it out of the water hands down! F. E. A. R. incorporates 
 a great storyline that you are perpetually trying to figure out. Every now and again, when you 
 least expect it, you find yourself experiencing flashbacks that initially seem to make no sense 
 at all, but as the game progresses, the pieces come together. It still leaves you hanging, though, 
 at the end, and you just know that a sequel or expansion is on its way!
  
  I played it completely through at least 10 times, and one of the interesting things to note as 
 you play are the appearances of the little girl. Typically there is a spooky sound or event - lights 
 flickering or the like - that clues you in on the appearance of Alma, but not always. I recommend 
 when playing the game to keep your eyes open and always be alert to the goings on around you, as 
 Alma will guide you to various assistance, but don't let her touch you!
  
  Another interesting bit is the conversation held by your AI teammates when you aren't in sight. 
 Any time you are approaching them from out of view, take a moment to pause and listen to what they 
 have to say as it also clues you in on the story line.
  
  F. E. A. R. is one of my favorite games of all time, and I can play it over and over without becoming 
 bored with the monotony, because each time I play it seems that something new, or something that 
 I've missed before is revealed.
  
  I highly recommend it! You may find yourself jumping from time to time as you become so involved 
 in the game and then suddenly something falls or the like and causes you to jump a few inches out 
 of your chair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NZX666
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 7, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Horror films have been long-time staples of crap direction- so much that a 'Horror' film has become 
 known not as something this indeed horrifying or frightening, but is instead a film that is filled 
 with scenes of cheesy violence, usually acted out on characters you couldn't care less about.
 
  Films that really do frighten you then, have become a bit of a rarity nowadays. What's even more 
 rare is a game that does the job better than most of those said films. In short, F. E. A. R. will 
 have you jumping at your own shadow
  
  Taking themes from Japanese horror films, F. E. A. R. is an action game that is oozing with atmosphere 
 and style to the point of brilliance. I make the reference to cinema mainly because F. E. A. R. is 
 a particularly cinematic experience- the Hollywood grade score and sound effects, aswell as the 
 overall presentation of the game resembles a brilliant mix between a John Woo action movie and 
 The Ring. The atmosphere is tense and dripping with style, while the action is relentless and incredibly 
 engaging.
  
  The game's production values are screaming hot- F. E. A. R. is the best looking PC game available, 
 no doubt about it ( and will be so until the first batch of Unreal Engine 3.0 games come through) . 
 The visual design of the levels may be a repetitive, but the levels are no less functional for 
 combat purposes though. The audio is simply outstanding with moody ambient music and frightening 
 sound cues, as well as spectacular effects for weapons and combat- F. E. A. R.'s immersive quality 
 is largely due to the brilliant aural environment. The first time you see the little girl, the 
 first time you fire the combat shotgun- oh, they are just too memorable to describe. You have to 
 experience this game for yourself to understand why.
  
  As with all great FPSs, the action is very much at the fore. F. E. A. R. succeeds in this regard most 
 admirably- the combat mechanic of the game is arguably the best seen in an FPS since Halo. It's 
 that damn good. This is largely due to the game's brilliant A. I.- the human soldiers you fight 
 through most of the game use brilliant and effective ass kicking tactics. They will flank you, 
 talk to eachother to co-ordinate, sneak around, flush you out with grenades and so on. As they 
 are all as effective as you are as soldiers (save for your one advantage, the slo-mo reflexes bullet 
 time) , and as the player is usually outnumbered, all the encounters become tense standoffs- making 
 this one cracker of a hard game. Best likened to (again) the Legendary Mode in Halo, the overall 
 difficulty is high- but the game is none the less enjoyable for it, if not more so. In fact, F. E. A. R.'s 
 combat mechanic is actually similar in many ways to (yet again) Halo's- duck and cover use is emphasised, 
 grenades can be thrown off hand, you have a number of melee attacks at your disposal and only three 
 weapons can be carried at once. The heightened difficulty however demands somewhat more tactical 
 thinking though- borrowing some of the feel from games like SWAT 4. So much so, that F. E. A. R. ends 
 up distinct enough to set it apart from its contemporaries.
  
  The story, though secondary to the action, is great in most places and masterful in the rest. I 
 say this because some of the sci-fi elements may seem a little hackneyed at first, but once you 
 get passed them you will find something that is truly dark and disturbing. The story is the best 
 I've seen from a shooter in recent years (save for maybe Half-life 2) , and the finale is absolutely 
 mind-bending, trust me.
  
  Overall, F. E. A. R. is a single-player classic worthy of anyone's attention, with great production 
 values, brilliant combat and an excellent story. Buy it and tell your friends too- having seven 
 shades of **** scared out of you has never quite been so fun.
  
  *F. E. A. R. also has a great multiplayer game as well, and is becoming ever popular, so be sure to 
 try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadibm
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 6:04 am PT
Review:  What to say
  
  F. E. A. R Is the right name for an assume game
  
  FEAR was really on of the best of the few shooting games I played
  an attracting story that keeps 
 you going
  
  FEAR has a rich environments with plenty missions that though might be in the same destination 
 still has a lot of variety in techniques, strategies &amp; breath taking moments
  
  The weapons are amazing and the more you go-on the more your weapons grew stronger helping to defeat 
 your enemies
  
  Creepy girl and a mad man combine to make your worst moment real
  
  The ending of the game kept me eager to know if there is more
  and there was (F. E. A. R Extraction 
 Point) is out and I can't wait to try it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildamnesia
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 3:45 am PT
Review:  This is a great game, it looks great, plays great and sounds great. It does however have its problems 
 which keeps it from being the superb game it could have easily been.
  
  1. Slow-mo button. A neat gimmick which you have from the start. Unfortunatly it makes the game 
 stupidly easy. There's no challange when you can simpy slow down time. The Matrix was like 8 years 
 ago, get over it. 2. All the environments lack imagaination. There are rooms full of crates, endless 
 corridors of pipes, an old abandoned buiding.... every cliche in the book is in the game and you 
 will soon get bored of walking from one bland room to another.
  
  3. A minor thing but your tourch light is very poorly rendered. It doesn't cast any shadows and 
 has no depth. 4. In an effort to build up tension there are sometimes big gaps between the action 
 where you're just walking around from room to room. This doesn't build tension it's just boring.
 
  
  5. Not scary at all apart from the fast-moving assassin things but the slow-mo button kills their 
 effectiveness completely.
  
  My advice is to buy the game, enjoy it but resist using the slow-mo button. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xDarkpuppetx
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  This is a perfect game for us horror freaks out there, seems like every 15 minutes you'll catch 
 a ghostly figure or worse lerking around or suddenly flashing in your face keep you at the edge 
 of your seat through out the game, the weapons are detailed including the muzzle flash and firepower 
 etc, this starts off as being dropped in warehouse like surrounding your small team gets killed 
 and now your on your own, you'll travel through many rooms encountering ghostly soliders every 
 2 minutes, a perfect game for both or combined horror freak and action freak, i promise you, you 
 won't be bored one second of this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VDrakula
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is best shooter in 2005. Why? Because is is simply best. Game is 12 hours of fire and little 
 period of fear. Best part is slow motion bullet time. Max payne was first but perfection of shader 
 in frirt person is amazing. Enemies are great. Through game u fight against same soldiers but AI 
 is greatest part of game. When u heard flash him out for few secound grenede explode near u. Alma 
 is scarest part of game. She show her self in ventilation, lifts and other places from u can`t escape. Graphics 
 is great like a sound esspecially when is bullet time is on. Parts os glass flying trough air prats 
 of wall fall on the ground just like in Matrix. Great game for PC. Enyoj 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper_con
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 30, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  I was extremely sceptical at first. I am not too much into the scare factor of games rather than 
 the overall technical, or strategic aspect of gameplay. FEAR is a terrific game. The graphics are 
 great, the storyline is well planned. Now, for the downfalls of the release:
  The physics of the game are somewhat inadiquate. something was missing. Like maybe the ability 
 to move barrels or brake Wooden crates in order to open gated areas. The ability to move crates, 
 barrrels, etc. in order to build and climb. Granted the game doesn't really require the use of 
 moveable objects. However, the feeling to give the user the ability to control his environment 
 is always a nice touch to a game.
  
  Back to the Creepy Erie little girl scenario... yea... like I've said before... I'm not really into 
 the creepy head popping around the corner False character things. Freaks me out.
  
  Anyways, overall great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZepp23
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  I'm pretty sure I bought FEAR the day it came out, barely knowing what it was. Once I got it home 
 and had it loaded up, the graphics and gameplay totally blew me away (this was back when my computer 
 was still in its prime...) . I love the slow-mo effects, even though I'm pretty sure they go away 
 in the harder modes. As far as the shooting goes, I have to go as far as to say the gameplay definitely 
 bests the likes of a game like Half Life 2. To this day, I have to say its one of, if not THE best 
 shooting game I've played in a very long time. Unless you don't like FPS games, Buy it! I might 
 buy FEAR Extraction Point, but currently my cash funds are quite low. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7540
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 29, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Vivendi Universal has done it again, this time, partnering up with Monolith, the people behind 
 the Condemned series. F. E. A. R. is one great game, I have to give you that. But the gameplay is 
 somewhat a little bit easier than I expected. No jokes, there are many cheat codes to hack the 
 game almost the same way as San Andreas. You play as a commander who is sent in a building to investigate 
 creepy things. In other words you're like the violent ghostbusters. Of course, F. E. A. R. isn't all 
 that perfect. The regular buggy camera and some noticable glitches when using codes. There have 
 been a number of FPS's that stared a little demon girl, heck, even in movies like The Ring and 
 Silent Hill. But be prepared, this game ain't for the faint-hearted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 29, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  There are many incredible elements to this game and one of those is definately not the story. The 
 most obvious incredible things about FEAR is the graphics and the action. The sound is amazing, 
 therefore raising the **** your pants level to a thundering high. But all of this kind of starts 
 to remind me of a typical Hollywood action film. All style but no substance. The continuous repetive 
 hunt for Paxton became so boring and annoying, running around dark office spaces that only changed 
 in variations of differed floor design was starting to wear off. There was a few moments where 
 we hopped outside and thought here we go , a bit of a change but it was only temporary before it 
 all went indoors again into the same annoying environments. One thing for sure, this is no way 
 near the intellect and excitement that Half Life is, but my god if it was so, then what we would 
 have here is another unforgettable masterpiece. But only time will tell.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: free2gamme
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 29, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Great game, very scary first three times through the game, After that its not scary but it is still 
 fun to shoot up the soldiers and environment, they never die the same way twice, The graphics are 
 nice but you do have to have a pc that can run this on high setting. the soldier intelligence is 
 unseen in any game in history, It is only about a 10 hour game but the multiplayer is where you 
 get your money worth it is fast!!!!! it takes a lot of learning to get used to it you will die 
 on the multiplayer part a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mulder2683
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 2:48 am PT
Review:  I heard a lot about FEAR and I actually thought it's just another FPS game, what's gonna be new. 
 Today, I got a hold of the game and let me say: WHAT A GAME! It's simply stunning! For most of 
 the game you just feel like you are in it! You feel like you are already part of this mysterious 
 world! The graphics are awesome, the slow-mo adds more effects and fun to the game. Most of the 
 game is played in the dark and the use of the flashlight is crucial. I will be playing the game 
 non-stop then I will buying FEAR Extraction Point and see what's what! Don't miss this game! I 
 heard a lot about FEAR and I actually thought it's just another FPS game, what's gonna be new. 
 Today, I got a hold of the game and let me say: WHAT A GAME! It's simply stunning! For most of 
 the game you just feel like you are in it! You feel like you are already part of this mysterious 
 world! The graphics are awesome, the slow-mo adds more effects and fun to the game. Most of the 
 game is played in the dark and the use of the flashlight is crucial. I will be playing the game 
 non-stop then I will buying FEAR Extraction Point and see what's what! Don't miss this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crave4more
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Your walking down a dark corridor, your headlamp on and only your machine-gun and your wits as 
 companions. As you continue down this corridor, you start to hear voices - screams - splatters. 
 Suddenly the blood-soaked tiles from the walls start to come loose and fly around you like some 
 demonic merry-go-round, the door behind you slams shut and locks, and as you spin around to see 
 what the hell is going on - everything goes calm, and you see bloody footsteps on the ground - 
 you follow them. Deeper into the darkness you wade, not knowing whats around the next corner. As 
 you aproach the the T-junction at the end of the corridor, you see a little girl in a red dress 
 run past.... you run around the corner to find her, only to find that she has vanished before your 
 very eyes......
  
  This is one of the many freakish moments that you will encounter while playing F. E. A. R, an absolute 
 masterpeice of an FPS, and one of the best games all round currently on the market. Not since the 
 mighty Quake, has a shooter been able to suck you into its world via the incredible atmosphere 
 that it provides.
  
  The story goes that there is a psychopath on the loose by the name of Paxton Fettel. While at the 
 beginning of the game not much is known of him, however you do know that he has a large army of 
 soldiers that he is able to control psychically. You, as a member of the First Encounter Assault 
 Recon team (F. E. A. R) , have been called in to stop him at all costs.
  
  First things first - the graphics are mind-blowing. The sheer detail in the maps, models, decals 
 and weaponry is astounding. When cranked up to its highest settings, it will certainly make your 
 computer work! It will also look like your playing your own A-list action/horror movie. Water effects, 
 fire effects, haze/smoke effects all look incredible and how you would expect them to look in the 
 real world.
  
  Sound is equally as important in this game - and it certainly dosn't dissapoint. Everything from 
 bulletshots, to screams, to splatters are all crisp and clear, and the voice acting isn't too bad 
 either. The musical score is your general scary/tense/horror soundtrack with not too many surprises, 
 however it does draw you in competantly.
  
  One of the things I thought was great, was the inclusion of bullet-time or slo-mo as its called 
 in F. E. A. R. This is a great aid in getting out of a pinch and looks pretty cool too, however its 
 inclusion isnt like Max Payne where it was purely for stylistic purposes. Here you actually use 
 it as a means of life or death. The game will last you generally about 10-15 hours and has 11 intervals, 
 or chapters. The finale is the sort of tense ending you would expect from a game like this and 
 definately leaves you drooling for more.
  
  F. E. A. R is definately one of the masterpiece FPS's on the PC, and soon to be on consoles as well, 
 and should not be missed! Even if these sorts of games are not generally your style, you owe it 
 to yourself to give it a try, just to soak in the atmosphere of it all. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubiquityxx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 25, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, I was there. Just over a year to date ... waiting in line at Fry's to take home a dose of 
 F. E. A. R. I bought into the hype the fanboys had been pluggin for months on end. I had just built 
 a new machine - dual core, 4GB ram, wide screen, top of the line graphics, etc etc. 15 minutes 
 to install ... and a quick patch.
  
  At some point later in the evening I sat down and started playing. Not more than 15-20 minutes 
 into it did I get the **** scared out of me. You know what I'm talking about ... that tunnel corridor 
 where the lights go out and you hear that little **** laugh ... a shadow scurrying across the wet 
 concrete floor while my HUD flickers, unknown entity .
  
  If you've played this game you know that's an indicator in-game for anything that is of the paranormal. 
 It's midnight where I'm at, in my own studio, alone - it's dark outside. In-game I'm trolling the 
 basement of some light industrial facility in Auburn, Washington and I have no clue as to where 
 I'm going. All I know is I feel like I'm there, and I'm scared. lol - mommy?
  
  I turn off the game - head to bed and vow not to play this damned game late at night again. The 
 next DAY I dig in and start enjoying the full-fledged FPS title. Amazing graphics, intuitive AI, 
 demanding system requirements, not much of a story ... always chasing someone. All the good and 
 some of the soso. But I had a great time overall.
  
  F. E. A. R comes with tools to design your own content and levels - which I love. You can build single 
 and multiplayer levels. Unfortunately the way Monolith released its tools made it difficult for 
 people to get under the hood and really design solid single player levels. So most of the quality 
 Mods out there are multi player levels.
  
  I'm awaiting the expansion pack Extraction Point ... and will post with my thoughts on that as 
 well. It's a different developer, so we'll see.
  
  Let's hope they can get away from the cliche of the creepy little girl with hair in her face and 
 focus more on the horror storytellying aspect. I love getting the **** scared out of me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phast007
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 25, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a great FPS game. It has a great story that you really get into, Now that extraction 
 point is out you can finish the story. The enemy system in this game is amazing! The enemy (if 
 you put it on the hardest seting) is really hard to beat. A lot of people think the story is short, 
 But i think its just right.
  
  The graphics in this game are really amazing, The environment in F. E. A. R is set up really great. 
 The sounds are just as great! You can tell when playing this game the creatures put a lot of thought 
 into this game, They paid attention to every detail in the game.
  
  So in the end F. E. A. R is a great FPS game to play!
  
  PS, This game is great if you play it 
 at 2 in the moring!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inf3rnus88
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 25, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  No matter which way you slice it, F. E. A. R., is an amazing game. From its amazing production values 
 (and very interesting premise) to its intense action and incredible graphics, this game will blow 
 you away. If you're like me and you enjoy a brief (but substantial) gaming experience saturated 
 with everything that makes a good game (great graphics, characters, gameplay etc) then you'll love 
 what F. E. A. R. has for offer. The game's central storyline clocks in at about 8 to 12 hours; a bit 
 longer if you take your time, die repeatedly or get stuck; which isn't terribly long. However, 
 what it manages to achieve in these 8 to 12 hours is actually quite remarkable.
  
  Let's start with the storyline. F. E. A. R. actually stands for First Encounter Assault Recon which 
 is a secret organisation formed by the government over a decade ago. The objective of the F. E. A. R. 
 team is to investigate and circumvent paranormal threats to national security. Now if you consider 
 a whole battalion of elite, telekenitically controlled, super-soldier clones a paranormal threat 
 to national security, then you can see why the government decided to form F. E. A. R. At the head 
 of this army of soldiers is a man called Paxton Fettel, who has apparently been possessed by the 
 spirit of a sinister little girl, who remains nameless until later in the game. As the game progresses 
 you begin to unravel the sinister story surrounding the happenings of the game. The best way to 
 glean a complete picture of the storyline from the game, is to make sure that you listen to all 
 of the answering machine messages in the game as well as upload all of the data stored on the various 
 laptops you will encounter. Now, as you may have suspected from the opening scenes of the game, 
 there is a twist. I won't give anything away; but suffice is to say that this game has one hell 
 of a twist to it, one that will shock you!
  
  The story wouldn't be as immersing if it were not for the incredible cinematic-quality production 
 values that this game brings to the table. If you have the resources available to you to run this 
 game on maximum settings (with good frame rates) then you will love this games graphics. In terms 
 of texture detail, F. E. A. R. isn't an overly innovative release; however, where the magic really 
 happens is in the effects and lighting. F. E. A. R. sports some of the most surreal lighting effects 
 since Doom 3. However, where you really begin to realize that F. E. A. R. has raised the bar in gaming 
 graphics, is in the effects. When you shoot stuff in this game you don't just get some piss weak 
 bullet hole in the wall and the sound of a bullet hitting concrete. No, no, no in F. E. A. R. you 
 get smoke, bits of rubbel and debree flying everywhere, sparks, bullet cases, shards of broken 
 glass, the works. Throw in some killer physics and you have an experience unlike any other. The 
 sounds in this game are killer. Not just the sounds of battle either; but the voice acting as well. 
 All of the central characters are well voice-acted. However, what I really loved about the game 
 were all those smaller touches to the audio. Like when you wipe out a small squad of troopers, 
 you'll often hear them remark something to the effect of: he wiped out the whole squad! . Or when 
 they are drawing close and preparing for an assault: Die mother****er! . The tactical relay is 
 quite impressive as well and it is reactive based on your own actions in combat. So if you decide 
 to push right in an attempt to flank them, you'll hear them yell: he's trying to flank us! . It 
 all adds up to a very immersing experience. Now, the most important part of all, the combat. What 
 sort of reviewer would I be if I never once mentioned the combat in F. E. A. R? Not a very good one, 
 I'll tell you that. Because this whole game is built around combat and the combat is good, very 
 good. The first thing you will realize, if you are coming from a shooter background, is that the 
 action is intense (especially if you aren't using slow-mo) and pretty fast paced. The damage system 
 is pretty realistic; however, the armor that you (and they) are wearing will shield you from the 
 majority of the damage. Therefore, it's not possible to take a guy out with a single shot to the 
 chest with a rifle; but will most likely take a good few hits. Headshots are also quite a bit insubstantial. 
 Sometimes it feels as if the game purposefully inhibits your ability to kill enemies in one hit 
 so that you are forced into large firefights with enemies which are using the environment to their 
 advantage. For example, if you slow-mo and fire at one enemy who isn't aware of your prescence 
 it is entirely possible to kill him with one shot to the head; however, the second enemy will prove 
 resistant to a one-hit death on most occassions. It's almost as if being aware of your prescence 
 is all that is required to resist most instant-killing blows from automatic weapons such as the 
 assault rifle and sub-machine gun. However, strangely enough pistols seem to be able to headshot 
 consistently without fear of ineffectivity. There are plenty of weapons in the game which can one-hit 
 foes; however, there is also a lot of weaponry that you feel like it should be more effective that 
 it is. Nevertheless, whilst this may seem a bit odd, most of these guns are designed to compensate 
 with a large quantity of ammunition and plenty of bullet-pumping power. The spam weapons of the 
 game have a large spread; however, because they put out so many bullets can still be used to chew 
 down opponents quickly. The major problem with this approach; however, is that in the majority 
 of circumstances it is often tactically a more sound idea to pick off as many foes as you can. 
 Simply running into a fire fight and spamming your enemies to death is effective; however, it isn't 
 armor and health efficient. If you employ this tactic poorly you can quickly find yourself running 
 out of health and armor, leaving you with less resources to tackle the games harder fire-fights. 
 Therefore, it often seems wiser to try and pick off your opponents without sacrificing health and 
 armor, so that you can conserve enough for these fights. Conserving ammunition with the more powerful 
 guns in the game is also quite important; especially when you are faced with the giant mechanized 
 rocket-firing mechwarrior-esque, enemies in the game. Which will prove to be quite resilient to 
 normal weaponry. Overall I was very pleased with F. E. A. R. and I recommend it to everyone who enjoys 
 a good shooter. The games single player is enough of a reason to buy it; however, if you like, 
 the games multiplayer is also quite effective. You will find; however, that it is not as skill-reliant 
 as other games and therefore, is unlikely to become as competitively played as other shooters such 
 as Call of Duty or Counter-Strike. But it is fun nevertheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aziansniper
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Fear
  first encounter assault recon
  after taking a look at this game, i was amazed
  this is one of the best fps PC game ever!
  the single player is creey and builds up lots of tension 
 which just makes it more addicting!
  the multiplayer game is absolutely amazing!!!
  one thing tat amazes me is the graphics
  the graphics on this game is just absolutely amazing!!!
 
  The gameplays people most on the internet is exactly the same as the game!
  it's not like other gameplay movies that makes the game look good and the actual game is crappy
 
  the game also uses all kinds of stuff to make the game scary
  the sound in the game and the AI especially, is amazing
  they will work 2gether 2 try 2 corner 
 you when they see you or work as a team and surround you
  the slow mo is an awezome feature on this game
  If you are lookin for a game that will last u 
 a long time and will b fun and exciting, this is the game 4 u
  the only downside is that it's a system hog and u will need a good computer 2run this on good graphics
 
  overall, i think this is one of the greatest PC games ever made and i highly recommend you get 
 this game
  you will definitely not regret buying it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reonarudo
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I&acute; m from Brazil, and when this game arrived here, I buy and play 10 hours in the first day. 
 The graphics are soo beatifull, the voices, the history.... this is the best game FPS that I played. 
 Buy Now !!!
  Portuguese: Este jogo realmente &eacute; impressionante, a Sierra fez um trabalho muito legal, 
 no come&ccedil; o o jogo lembra at&eacute; Resident Evil, s&oacute; que em primeira pessoa e muito 
 mais assustador. N&atilde; o &eacute; um jogo dificil, para quem esta acostumado com Half Life, 
 entre outros, em pouco tempo vai se acostumar com os controles e com as miss&otilde; es.
  O Gr&aacute; fico &eacute; muito bom, pena que exija uma m&aacute; quina potente para rodar... Use 
 de prefer&ecirc; ncia uma placa da Nvidia , tipo G800 acima, mas se voc&ecirc; tem uma FX , j&aacute; 
 d&aacute; para brincar um pouco.
  Ah, &eacute; bom ter 1 Giga de mem&oacute; ria para n&atilde; o ter aquelas travadas b&aacute; sicas. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danigozne
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 23, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  If you're reading this reviews, that probably means you like horror movies and FPS and somehow 
 you're thinking in buying this game. Well, stop reading and go to the store straight away, for 
 this is the best game in series.
  
  Good things about it, almost everything: Stable software, easy to setup, The best graphics out 
 there, very good sound, interesting story, and scary to death! It's got all you expect from the 
 best Shooters, and it's 100% immersive. Every company should look into this game for inspiration, 
 because it has something really difficult to find in a game: You forget you are playing a game, 
 but just enjoy all the time in front of your computer.
  
  The bad things though are the game too long and is too repetitive (always killing the same characters) , 
 and there are not too much environments, and if you don't have the best computer, forget it, because 
 I have a 512 7900 GTX geforce 2 gig RAM and a dual core, and with top specs at high resolution 
 setup it's still slow.
  
  It will be difficult for me to forget the first time i vapourised a guy, and watch him explode 
 into bones and dust, also the time that little girl appeared into the elevator, because this is 
 the first game after resident evil 2 that made me actually scream. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azaiel
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 22, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Lets get one thing out of the way before I begin, this game is flat out awesome and if you enjoy 
 FPS games and you dont own this one yet then go right now and get it!
  
  Onto the fine points though, this game has a deep sense of feel and intensity that most games dont 
 manage to capture. From the dark and moody sound effects ramping up the tension to always spotting 
 something moving in the shadows or seeing shadows cast from behind you to turn and find nothing 
 there, then onto the sometimes shocking halucinations that Alma one of the games main characters 
 likes to induce upon you where you are swimming in blood or walking down a coridoor only to find 
 that it never ends until something unexpected lurks to shock you out of your whits.
  
  The visuals in this game are amazing, they do a great job to set the atmosphere and mood of the 
 whole storyline and the engine does shadows very well adding alot of depth and often uncertainty 
 about what lies ahead. The character models look great even up close and then the firefights you 
 get into can not be described too well because they simply have to be experienced to get the full 
 feel of how awesome it feels to fire a gun in this game. The environments rip to shreads around 
 you as smoke and dust kick up from everywhere making the area look like a war just passed through 
 which no game has captured anywhere near as well as this one does.
  
  The AI for the enemy characters is challenging to say the least, even at the lower end difficulty 
 settings they are incredibly smart and are believable enough to make you feel they have their own 
 concience in many respects. You hear the squads of soldiers chatting with one another as you fight 
 your way through them but they will trick you often and many times as I was attacking a small group 
 of them the remaining few would flank me and take me down from the rear which was cool on the AI's 
 part but aggrovating on mine. The battles you will have in this game are always against 3 or more 
 soldiers and they are down right brutal, no mercy tactics are definutely the best option with these 
 guys.
  
  The sound effects are superb with gunfire and voice overs being close to perfect then add onto 
 that the creepy horror music score and the disturbing effects crom ominous radio static to voices 
 in your head telling you to do things it all fits together so well and does a fantastic job of 
 immercing you into the world.
  
  This game is not perfect however, the main two gripes I do have are the settings, you always seem 
 to be going through an office building, which is right for the storyline but it would have been 
 nice for a bit more variation on it. Also you always fight the same looking soldiers pretty much 
 from start to finish, there are a few other types of enemies around but the main ones are the clone 
 soldiers that all look exactly alike which can become a bit tiresome but the action itself more 
 than makes up for that.
  
  All in all this is a game that should not be missed my FPS vets or new FPS players alike, everything 
 works perfectly in harmony making a game that is striking in appearance and deep in scope with 
 enough twists and turns in the plotline to keep you on the edge of your seat to the very end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bconnell02
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 20, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Where to start... The graphics are insane, if you have the PC to support it. I maxed out all settings 
 and my jaw dropped. Simply amazing shadow detail. The AI is awesome when there are multiple opponents 
 in a room. I've seen the AI use flanking when there is at least 3 of them. I play at night w/ lights 
 out so I had the S**t scared out of me a couple of times. Defiantly a thriller. I love the story, 
 and how mysterious it is. Can't wait for the expansion pack. Also has a good multi player. I have 
 yet to find anything I dont like about the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quakeknight1991
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Fear (first encaunter assault reacon) is the best horror fps done for now. Fear is revolutionary, 
 it has brought the first person shooter genere to a new level of intensety. The gunfights are really 
 impressive and fear is the only fps game that melee combat has some utility. The graphics are really 
 cool. The horror scenes in fear are scariest horror scenes ever in a game. This game much gore 
 what makes this game even cooler. The slowmo mode is pretty impressive too. The story of this game 
 is very good too. So if you like fps games or even if you not you MUST buy fear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disciple_slave
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 20, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  The Good: Graphics are one of the best. Levels are large. A. I. is intelligent. Spooks are better 
 than doom.
  
  The Bad: Levels are almost linear. Enemies are all the same except for a couple. Story line is 
 revealed awkardly.
  
  F. E. A. R. is by far the best looking game out in the market for 2005 and most of 2006. The graphics, 
 as long as you have a high end machine, are amazing and crisp.
  
  The sound is freaky. During the game, there are spooky sounds coming from all sides of the screen. 
 If you have a theater system for your PC or your Consoles, F. E. A. R. is the ideal game for you.
 
  
  Doom throws monsters in your face at every door and corner. Because of this, the player will get 
 used to it. F. E. A. R. on the other hand throws nothing at you throughout the whole game, but the 
 player will be in tension from the start. Everytime I started up the game, my heart rate would 
 pound until I turned the game off. The only hint that something freaky is going to happen is from 
 the Unknown Transmission coming through from your radio.
  
  No real troublesome puzzles in F. E. A. R. The problem with them is that they were there to slow you 
 down. The game is 8 hours long, roughly. The puzzles slow down the process, but they are not that 
 bad.
  
  Gameplay is great in F. E. A. R. The game is fast paced and beautiful. There is a Slo-Motion option 
 when the player is being ambushed by up to ten enemies at one time, or when, what I guess F. E. A. R. 
 calls a boss, is attacking you. Depending on how many Reflex Boosts the player finds depends on 
 how long the Slo-Motion will last. The same goes with one's health meter. The more Health Boosts 
 and player finds, the more health one will have.
  
  Leave me a message if there is any more information you need on the game. It is a deffinant buy. 
 The expansion pack will be out on October 24, 2006 and should be just as good, if not better than 
 the first. J 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n0s2004
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 19, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  The Good : Perfect combination of sound &amp; visuals, gameplay is just as good, awesome special 
 effects coupled with slow-mo.
  
  The Bad : Can get a tad bit repetitive, could've used more varied locales, some of the better weapons 
 aren't available till the end of the game.
  
  Afterall the wait &amp; hype FEAR finally comes along &amp; manages to amaze us. The firefights 
 in FEAR are among the best that you will ever play. The sounds &amp; graphics work well to create 
 an excellent atmosphere. The slow-mo feature in FEAR look amazing as you watch bullets shred enemies 
 &amp; the environment alike.
  
  The few flaws in FEAR are that the story isn't very engaging but this isn't any real problem since 
 the action will completely overshadow it. Another little defect is that nost of the game is a wild 
 goose chase in search of Paxton Fettel whom you encounter at the very end of the game &amp; easily 
 kill with a single bullet since he's on his knees in front of us.
  
  All this said the few flaws shouldn't even make you think of not playing this great game. It's absolutely 
 recommended for any action/shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoS212
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 18, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Very nice game make u so feel so frightened . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  You just have to play this wonderful fun scary bloody almost perfect game ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! The gameplay is perfect the graphics to is u didnt 
 palyed it so you just HAVE to try this game just beware dont pie ur self 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_returns29
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 16, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is by far one of the best FPS's out there, setting a new style of gameplay. Every minute 
 of F. E. A. R. is spectacular, from the shoot outs to the spooky encounters.
  
  F. E. A. R. is like 'The Matrix' and 'The Ring' put shoved into a game. The style of shooting is amazing, 
 you are able to go into slow-motion and shoot your enemies, and you can see every single detail 
 from the bullet trails to every spurt of blood. The game isn't just about shooting, it's also very 
 creepy. I got the most jumps out of this game out of any other horror games I have played. The 
 game is spooky because when you are just say walking through a corridor, at the end of the corridor, 
 someone will suddenly walk past and the game will make a loud, frightening noise to scare the crap 
 out of you.
  
  F. E. A. R. would have to be one of the best shooting games I have ever played, but to get the most 
 out of it, you need a very high-end PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaco123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 13, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Off all the first person shooter games i've ever played this truly stands out.
  With its amazing physics engine and kick ass graphics with slo-motion nothing compares it.
  
 
  This is the first first-person shooter game that can serously scare the **** out of you. The story 
 is unique and the sounds are exclent. Best thing about it is that it supports 7.1 surround sound 
 wohoo!!.
  
  The game is about an insane guy being possed by a creepy child something like the grudge and he 
 starts killing people and noone can stop him but you. basicly thats 1/38 of the story.
  
  You dont need people to tell you if this game is good it won the best F. P. S. game of 2005 its better 
 than q4 and doom3. SO FAR best F. P. S. horror game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jealentus
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 12, 2006 1:44 am PT
Review:  I started out with the demo a while back and ate it up, it was pretty much a majority of the game's 
 good parts summed up into a little 20 minute play session. I bought the game and overclocked my 
 video card on my old computer to play it well, and I blew the card up. I was sour toward the game 
 from then, but I came back to it recently with my new computer and gave it another go around.
 
  
  The game is atmospheric, it defenitally nails down that aspect. It feels like you're being hunted 
 in a haunted house, and it is done well. The horror aspect of the game is there, but I don't think 
 it was used to its full extent. Sometimes you might miss the visual on the shock and just miss 
 the whole horror scene. In a way the first person view cripples the game, but it adds to the atmosphere. 
 The horror is also somewhat overdone, in the beginning of the game you will actually flinch in 
 your seat from something popping up or coming out of nowhere or something. You're armed with a 
 gun at all times however, so its really not that bad. Just things that sneak up on you. Near the 
 end of the game it becomes very unscary since you've seen the characters a few times and know what 
 they do.
  
  A good part of the game's atmosphere is contributed by it's visuals. The game has a very high tech 
 look, the shaders are very powerful and can render some very good looking characters in a fashion 
 that doesn't have that plastic look a lot of other games have. Wrinkles, splotches, freckles, and 
 moles are present and make the people look less like action figures. The parallax mapping really 
 makes the textures look great, it looks like there are actually thousands of bricks on a wall or 
 all of the bumps in the street are present, and when they get shot it looks like you actually tore 
 into the wall. Particle effects are really nice as well. Since I got my new computer I like to 
 play my games with Anti-Aliasing but then I would have to sacrafice soft shadows which make the 
 game have a smooth and refined look, but the jaggies are still very noticeable and take away. While 
 the technology fueling the games visuals are very nice, the artistic direction does not compare. 
 The dark theme is present, yes, and rooms are often cluttered, but it is often the same clutter 
 and the dark theme gets repetitive. Rooms are blank except for a couple barrels here and a ladder 
 there, or other objects that don't add to the feel. Areas usually have a very simple geometric 
 look to them and with the color scheme present it gets redundant and makes you feel like you aren't 
 making progress. The dream sequences are quite refreshing when they show up though, everything 
 gets blurry and ghosts are present as well as flames and other cool lighting effects that make 
 you feel like you're hallucinating. In the end the lack of any real artistic direction takes away 
 from the overall look to the game.
  
  The sound is alright to put it simply. Gunshots sound like gunshots, explosions sound like explosions, 
 general first person shooter faire. There is a lot of unnecessary cussing though which feels like 
 they put it out there for a cool factor to draw in the simpler minded more easily entertained folk 
 (which really don't exist in the PC gaming community) and thus really takes away from the dialogue. 
 The voice acting is better than a lot of games, but the plot isn't based so much on what you hear 
 as much as what you see, so the sound takes a step back. Also the schwing sound effect that cues 
 in every horror scene is very unnecessary and redundant, the 20th time you hear it you know something 
 scary is coming and you don't get shocked. It pretty much warns you. When you go into slowmotion 
 the sound really kicks in though, you can hear the sharp sound of the bullet cases hitting the 
 ground, the low pitch slow voices sound cool, and pretty much the translation between something 
 going from normal pace to slow motion sounds cool.
  
  Gameplay-wise the game is pretty much just another first person shooter. There is bullet time, 
 but it feels cheap. It showcases some of the finer parts of the game like its physics engine (the 
 way an enemy flips over when you shoot their legs with a shotgun never gets old) but overall it 
 is just to make the game easier. If the guns didn't recoil as much as they do or you didn't flinch 
 so hard when you get shot, the slow-mo would be very useless. Enemy type aren't that special either, 
 just a lot of the same guy with the occasional armored version and super armored rocket shooting 
 variation. It's really just a lot of the same room to room shooting that is in too many games today. 
 Sometimes a pitched firefight in a large room will take place which does get fun with the slow 
 motion when lots of explosions and guys flying about from hot lead are onscreen, but it doesn't 
 happen enough. The melee is very underused too, I only used it to break some of the boards you'll 
 run into in the game. The enemies generally don't allow for you to hit them with your weapon's 
 butt. If you try, you will lose health. The level of difficulty in the game is variable, and I 
 picked normal as I do with every game, and it wasn't too easy, but enough to where I didn't get 
 angry and turn the game off because I kept dying in the same area. I suppose the difficulty is 
 just about right. The pacing is skewed at times. You usually run room to room clearing out 3-10 
 enemies at a time, grabbing a health pack or two, maybe finding a health or reflex upgrade and 
 ammo, and be on your way to the next. Occasionally you run into an area that will require you to 
 jump down something that isn't easy to spot or flip a switch that isn't in plain sight. In these 
 situations I would run around the room several times until I finally caught what I was looking 
 for through repetition. The developers could have done a better job on that, it throws off the 
 just fast enough pacing the game usually has. I spent about 9 hours on the game which was enough 
 to beat it, and don't expect a whole lot from the ending.
  
  This review may sound harsh but overall the game is better than a majority of other shooters on 
 the market. I would rather play it than Quake 4 for example, but isn't as good as, say, Max Payne 
 as far as the shooting aspect goes. The story wasn't as hot either, but again, it's a step up from 
 average. Shooters are a dime a dozen while horror games are not, and I give F. E. A. R. props for 
 combining the two, and while it was a rarity, it was also achieved in another recent game, Condemned: 
 Criminal Origines, which was far more scary and atmospheric. I reccomend the game, but would not 
 pay more than $15 for it, especially since the multiplayer is free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggwhilko
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 12, 2006 12:20 am PT
Review:  A game that at times has mindless shooting, but overall you feel like you have earned each kill. 
 Weapons are limited to three at a time. This can be frustrating when you happen to cross over a 
 few that you don't want to drop, but it all works out. Ammo is plentiful when it needs to be, but 
 is also scarce when you need to be more mindful of your shooting and technique. Not one particular 
 thing blows me away, but the entire game as a whole does. I played it 3 straight times on increasing 
 difficulty levels and was able to complete each one... not without difficulty though. The story 
 might stay the same, but the increased A.. I. keeps the game refreshing. If you are a FPS/Action 
 fan like me, I would recommend spending the money. Plus with the expansion Extraction Point and 
 the working title F. E. A. R. 2 there is a lot of story to continue with. Also the on-line is supposed 
 to be great (I'm not a big on-line fan so I wouldn't know) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subw00fer
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 11, 2006 10:46 pm PT
Review:  I'm not quite sure why F. E. A. R. got a so good review. The first intervals (or levels) are okay. 
 You see something, and it's messing with your mind. You understand something is going wrong. But 
 then the creepy feeling fades away. The levels become linear. Way too linear. The first weapons 
 are okay, but then... when you get that particle gun, the sound it does when you shoot it just 
 don't sound like a weapon at all. Same goes for those Y winged drones that come later in the game. 
 Even if the worst sci-fi movies, you won't find any laser fights that sound that funny. The reflections 
 in the water are not what they should be. The bad guys who are supposed to be controlled by a telepathic 
 freak all have the same voice, they all say the same sentences in the same tone. And these expressions 
 are absolutely not showing that they are under the influence of another mind. Some efforts should 
 be made to create expressions on-the-fly with a good text-to-speech engine. This way, the tone 
 could change. After a while, hearing the same phrases prevents you from really enjoying the experience. 
 Although I did like the fact of being able to pickup enemy ammunitions after killing them, it could 
 have been challenging to see enemies running for these ammunitions and guns if more powerful than 
 what they were already handling. The PhysX engine is pretty cool, on the other hand. I have the 
 feeling that those who developed this survival/combat horror/suspense game were all at their first 
 experience. Not enough details in too many small details forces me to give not more than 7.4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdohaney
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  What's good about this game? Basically everything.
  
  The graphics are amazing. The detail used in the blood spatter and destroyed objects has been unseen 
 before this point. The closest to come is Far Cry or Max Payne. The story line, while a bit confusing, 
 still keeps you glued to the monitor with unknowns. I would give my first born up for a peek at 
 the next chapter of this FPS. The gameplay is guaranteed the most exciting since Far Cry and Max 
 Payne. Comparing them is not necessary because all three are so good. The slo-mo shooting and gore 
 is the most satisfying to date. I loved pinning guys to walls with the weapon that shot steel bolts. 
 The sound effects and music were perfect for the game. It kept your heart beating throughout the 
 game. Also, a comedic dialogue was added which brings a nice lightness to the game. Ultimately, 
 I thought this game was a perfect ensemble of action, stealth, comedy, and adventure. So many games 
 lack all four aspects; especially with the big production companies now a days churning out garbage 
 like Half Life 2. Stab!! I could not help myself... the game sucked! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morb
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 10, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Some people are saying that this game isn't scary , but this game does what it's meant to, keep 
 you on the edge of your seat, and make you feel like your riding a suspenseful roller-coaster.
 
  
  From the opening scenes to the final level, you never know what to expect. Sometimes it's bad guys 
 coming straight at you, to sounds, to visuals just on the edge of your peripheral vision. How a 
 person has to enjoy this game to the fullest, is immerse themselves in the game, put on the headset, 
 get rid of all outside distractions, and just enjoy the ride. For those that can't just enjoy the 
 experiance, this game won't be for you, and will explain some reviewers comment on the non-suspense 
 experience.
  
  The AI is HIGHLY intelligent, which make some very fierce, and fun firefights, where you are once 
 again immersed into the game. The cut scenes are a part of the story, and never annoying, and you 
 never truly leave the game.
  
  A negative to the game is that it is quite linear, you are lead to where you need to go, which 
 is good sometimes, but may question the re-playability of the game. Another negative, is that quite 
 a few of us have been spoiled by the Half-Life game engine, and not all the props and surroundings 
 are effected by bullets, and other collateral damage. I found this quite annoying when using weapons, 
 and the shot gun range does become questionable as you can't really judge where or what your hitting.
 
  
  The soundtrack is amazing, and quite easily could have been made for a movie. I look forward to 
 seeing a live action movie, as it could quite easily done. Not to production teams, use the music 
 over and over.........
  
  This game is a must buy, as it is very, very enjoyable, and quite open for sequels/expansion packs. 
 A great story, a great idea, and very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashizy666
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 8, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Talk about creepy this game is the bombdizzle. I'm only running the game at 2 gigs with a radeon 
 9600 and 512 megs of ram so it runs kind of slow. But overall this is a very exciting FPS. Although 
 I thought the slow-mo was cliche it is done to perfection in F. E. A. R. What I need is a better video 
 card and more RAM and i'll be content with my purchase. this is the best FPS I have play in a while 
 although it is a system whore to say the least. A great game overall. I forgot to mention that 
 the Ai is awesome and is a great challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackie103
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2006 12:27 am PT
Review:  Hello fellow game guys and gals, well at long long last a game of worth has come to the PC gaming
 
  world. FEAR is all it claims to be and a whole lot more. One cannot relax in fear if the AI troopers 
 don't kill you, the haunting entitys will surely scare you to
  death. Playing the game in the daylight hours is even hauntingly scary with the fantastic earie 
 background music to say the least. F. E. A. R. is a real cool combat
  and freight game all rapped up in one fantastic package. F. E. A. R. will indeed stand next to Call 
 of Duty and DOOM as one of the greatest PC games to come around in a very very long awaited time. 
 Low end gaming machines may have hard time playing F. E. A. R. before one buys it, one should check
 
  out GameSpots gaming guide for the game as they are a fantastic bunch whom put it all together 
 for us.
  F. E. A. R. gobbles up memory to display its fantastic graphics and a high end graphics card is truly 
 needed
  to play it. Anything less than a high end gaming machine perhaps is a waste of moneys to play this 
 game. If one follows GameSpots tune up recommendations then the gamer should be able to pull off 
 a great game install. FEAR is easy to learn and the first few levels guide you through game play, while 
 at the same time scareing one to death ! Our little sister is quite the spooky gal and seems to 
 know when to haunt you, the trooper AI's just want to kill you. Our lil sister wants our souls and 
 then some. The game is quite bloody and gore
  abounds and if one is hard case gamer, well you may even have nightmares until you get use to it, and 
 maybe not even after one is use to playing it. Saving frquently will keep you in the game. Also
 
  leaning is a absolute necessity ! The upgraded retail version 1.07 seems to be a bit shaky although 
 I have not crashed yet. I am playing with the keyboard and mouse, perhaps a joystick is the recommended 
 device. F. E. A. R. has come out at the right time of the year and that is halloween, however it is 
 a game worth its merit anytime of the year. I myself cannot get enough of playing FEAR. Just like 
 Call of Duty, one cannot put it down playing or any other way ! I am adding to my review of F. E. A.. R. 
 and F. E. A. R. Extraction Point. These two games are in my hard core gamers opinion the best PC game 
 ever to hit the gamers circlres it is such a marvelous game and sooooo perfect the developers should 
 be highly praised .IT has never once crashed my PC, Its just perfect. Even the ATI are smart as smart 
 can be. Its high time Doom takes a backseat, makeway for F. E. A. R. and all its more than likely upgrades. I 
 would pay double for this fantastic game if I had to. I have been playing both editions of FEAR 
 on high difficulty level for close to three months now and it just keeps getting better and better. These 
 developers have out done them selves. Fantastic job guys ! Words of praise cannot be said enough, the 
 only way anyone can find out the truth is play it ! You will NOT be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FirestormMk3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 6, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. may not be a complete revolution of the fps industry as Goldeneye and Counter Strike were, 
 but it is still an amazing game. The game actually focuses on a coherent storyline that manages 
 to seemlessly integrate itself into the action of the gameplay. There is never a point where you 
 leave first-person view and never a point where your character cannot move in some way. The story 
 segments come in the form of messages you can optionally check on telephones (allowing 2nd time 
 players to skip these segments) and files on laptops that your mission coordinator explains to 
 you. There are also the segements where the enemy messes with your head leading to dreamlike sequences 
 that overtime come together and make sense at the end.
  
  The basic story is that you are the newest recruit to a government special forces team that was 
 put together primarily to fight paranormal activity. Each member of the team has some sort of special 
 ability, in your case, it's your reflexes. When you activate the reflexes ability you move at an 
 incredibly fast rate that in essence slows the world around you to bullet time. This is your first 
 mission, wherein a general that is able to control specially bred soldiers via telepathy has gone 
 rogue and now you must fight through this batallion of troops to kill or arrest the general and 
 restore order.
  
  F. E. A. R. has breathtaking graphics: provided you have a system that can exploit it. I personally 
 have a very powerful machine and found F. E. A. R. to be one of the most breathtaking games I've ever 
 played. Of course, the graphics can be turned down to accomidate lesser machines, but still it 
 will have the graphical equivalent to the current generation of consoles. The games lighting effects 
 and soft shadow technology add to the creepy surroundings that the game bases itself around.
  
  The sound was obviously designed for a 5.1 system, and is sounds great. All of the ambient 
 sound effects build tension quite well, and the sound in equally as powerful when the bullets start 
 flying.
  
  In the sense of gameplay, one complaint could be that for almost half the game you fight the same 
 guy over and over, but the variety of later enemies and the focus on a 100% interactive environment 
 demonstrates that this was done for the sake of the story (remember, cloned telepathic soldiers) 
 rather than lack of ability. The game accuratley depicts the act of firing a gun as a violent act, 
 but seemlessly integrates physical combat moves like the roundhouse kick to the face (really, you 
 can do that) . F. E. A. R. also focuses on out of combat gameplay with a changing and interactive environment 
 where you can go for long periods of time without fighting-this adds to the suspense.
  
  In short, F. E. A. R. is excellent not just for it's great combat, but for what happens out of it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charlie2688
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 4, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is a FPS that surprised the public in 2005 with brutal gun fights and chilling situations 
 and still is one of the scariest and immersive FPS in the market today.
  Lets start by looking at the factors that make this game so great
  
  Gameplay: You play as 
 the point man of the special FEAR team (First Encounter Assault Recon) that is dispatched to deal 
 with a rouge telepathic agent named Paxton Fettel and his army of clone soldiers. This wont be 
 an easy task as Paxton Fattel will be constantly moving to different locations with a hidden agenda 
 and his clone soldiers will be armed with incredibly high tech weaponry and will do about everything 
 they can to stop the player from finding what is that they are looking for. The game is incredibly 
 realistic and tactical as a few shots and the player will be dead making cover fire, flanking, 
 constant cover and weapon selection extremely important. The enemies feature possibly the most 
 complex and disturbing AI in a FPS as they will act as a team and do the unthinkable to stop you, 
 they can easily outsmart the player if he is not careful creating a level of tension that will 
 left the player mentally exhausted. But the player will have a few tricks of its own apart from 
 being very skillful in the multiple weapons provided and a melee expert with some really cool moves 
 such as scissor and slide kicks the player will have advance reflexes, when entering this advance 
 mode everything slows down except for the player, this moments will create some of the most impressive 
 and action packed sequences in the game. But the game is not only about the action it will also 
 pack a lot of high tension and horror scenarios were the players nerves will be put to the limit 
 when dealing with paranormal events. Graphics: FEAR visually is excellent and is successful in 
 creating incredibly immersive scenarios that will pack a lot of chilling moments as well as some 
 devastating action scenes were everything will be blown to pieces in some impressive display of 
 gunfire and fireworks. The light effects are remarkable in creating tension filled scenarios. The 
 game is also incredibly gory and bloody featuring some extremely disturbing scenes that will put 
 players to the limit.
  
  Sound: A game this great will not be as scary or action packed without excellent sound. The tension 
 scenes will be filled with some disturbing music and sound effects that will set the perfect mood 
 for chilling scares while the action parts will be filled with fast action music and sound effects 
 that fit perfectly with the explosive situation. The voice acting is very well implemented and 
 believable adding a lot to the whole experience. Value: The game is lengthy for a FPS but more 
 than actual length of the levels will be the difficulty of successfully advancing as the enemies 
 will present a devastating force to be deal with. The slow motion is so well implemented that you 
 will probably find yourself repeating some parts just to experiment more with the slow motion and 
 how spectacular it looks.
  
  At the end FEAR packs what is need to have a solid FPS that will leave all FPS fans satisfied with 
 a truly cinematic experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superjuegos12
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 3, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is an First Person Shooter with an incredible storyline that makes it intensive and interesting.
 
  The graphics are amazing. In addition, you and your enemies can interact with almost every single 
 object in the world , which I personally consider a really important detail and realisym.
  The sound is not excelent but I think that can put you insede the game scene most of the time.
 
  I really don`t like this kind of games but this one make me consider playing shooters.
  The fear factor in this game is unique and I can asure that some parts of the game are really scaring 
 and you tend to have caution about every single thing that occurs during the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovituralapizda
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 1, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  well impressive game... all that lacked is a little bit of diverse gameplay... all game is a combination 
 of horror and shootout scenes. i must admit that even my pubic hair went white at some points.... very 
 good game.
  i played high dificulty first time i entered the game.... AI is awesome, game was VERY challanging 
 for the 1st time on high dificulty. sometimes it was frustrating... because there were absolutelly 
 no breaks from the action... like going to base or something... that was a dumb example but i cant 
 think of a better one right now.
  overall.... very good game, but did not move me like some others. only played it once also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamodizzo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 1, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  If your inlove with DOOM3 and can't seem to step away from your PC when engaged, this is the game 
 for you! Played it 5 hrs str8 one day and if my dog didn't bite my neighbor, I'd play it for 4 
 str8 more... Outstanding graphics and it's plot thickens with every horrifying chapter as you'll 
 be put in situations that real recon ops would face. Very detailed and scary, like DOOM3 it has 
 it's moments when I chose to run and rethink my strategy... The AI is maginificent, gotta give 
 it up to team FEAR, worth every penny I used to get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKA_Ben
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 30, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R could be the scariest game you will ever play. Its excellent pacing from long periods of 
 solitary exploration, to insane combat, to downright frightening hallucinations will keep you on 
 the edge of your seat. Only draw-back: youre going to need a bomb PC.
  
  STORY: F. E. A. R borrows a page from the Half-Life series and drops you into the role of an unnamed 
 character and giving you know background information on the event. For F. E. A. R. you are a rookie 
 point man for the government task agency know as First Encounter Assault Recon, a team designed 
 to investigate and quell paranormal phenomenon. As with Half-Life, the story is told entirely in 
 the first person perspective, with your character remaining mute (with the exception of heavy breathing) . 
 Your first assignment with F. E. A. R. is to find a man by the name of Paxton Fettel, who has caused 
 a major disturbance in the Armacham headquarters. He has apparently taking command of a battalion 
 of clone upper soldiers and is looking for something unknown to intelligence. So you and your squad 
 go to the last place Fettel was to be known at, when you are suddenly visited by eerie hallucinations. 
 After being knocked out by Fettel who leaves you with a cryptic message, the remainder of the game 
 consists of tracking down him and what he is looking for. All along the way the story is revealed 
 through radio chatter from your leader and other operatives as well as unexplained flashbacks to 
 an event of which you have no recollection. Even more of the story is released through voice-mail 
 messages stored on phones, and evidence that you find exploring areas. The tale is told in an interesting 
 way that makes you want to continue playing to find out just what exactly happened at the Armacham 
 building and why you are suffering hallucinations. GAMEPLAY: Our game controls very similarly to 
 most PC FPSs but switches around some legacy keys to make room for specific features. It would 
 seem obvious to most the Flashlight would be used with F, this is however the use key in F. E. A. R. 
 and flashlight is on the. X key? This switch is annoying at first but it doesnt take long to get 
 used to it (or un-used to it when you want to play something else) although some of my friends 
 dislike the use of the control key for the crucial slow-mo function, their poor, poor pinkies (the 
 pinky pain is worth it though, the slow-motion ability is a lot of fun to play with, especially 
 when blowing up crowds of enemies with a shotgun or grenade) . The controls are very responsive 
 and the actions are always fluidly animated, never risking the chance that shooting could become 
 boring. The guns, in fact, are very realistic and fire just how one would imagine they should as 
 thy kick back forcing you to adjust your aim or even maybe let off on the trigger for a second. 
 Youre given three slots for weapons, which can b e swapped out for the guns of your fallen enemies, 
 who are deviously smart. Enemy troops have the most sophisticated AI I have ever seen. They will 
 actually flank you and catch you buy surprise. They can take cover, and knock over obstacles to 
 get you off their tail, as well as see your flashlight and know exactly here to throw their grenades. 
 And even though you usually only fight the same soldiers in every battle, the pacing and brilliant 
 fun of the combat allows the fun to never get old. Speaking of pacing, you should know the F. E. A. R. 
 doesnt strictly involve the nest shooting segment strung to the next shooting segment to maybe 
 a vehicle it and finally to a boss, the majority of the game involves no weapons at all. When you 
 arent fighting you are usually exploring an abandoned complex, which you know wasnt banded three 
 hours agowhich is a little bit scary. Youll find blood stains and perhaps a dead body, but that 
 is not where the fright comes from. During these long exploration segments youll frequently be 
 caught off guard by a hallucination or other paranormal event. A gore splattered skull might flash 
 across the entire screen, or you might see some shadow running away out of the corner of your eye, 
 or unexplained radio transmissions from an unidentifiable source. These segments ALWAYS surprised 
 me, and I even literally jumped OUT of my seat during one of them. Its scary and fun and keeps 
 you on your toes, plus youll always be looking forward to the next battle and hoping youll get 
 out of the lonely place you are in.
  
  GRAPHICS &amp; DESIGN: The graphics of this game are incredible, their keynote feature being the 
 dynamic lighting and gore. On their highest settings, everything is rendered well and is bestowed 
 with realistic physics. Shooting some papers, will result in fling paper chunk mist, shooting a 
 rat: a cloud of blood. If you hit a can with your melee attack itll roll off the desk, pushing 
 things out of its way. Bullets leave huge holes in the wall. not to mention your opponents, whose 
 poor bodies can be torn up into meaty chunks. Gore is awesome in F. E. A. R. Clouds of blood will 
 arise from groups of grenaded enemies (and it only gets more enjoyable when you slow it all down 
 with your reflexes The environments are textured nicely and feel very realistic, especially when 
 combined with the dynamic lighting, which is where a lot of the suspense is brought out. A good 
 example would be walking down a completely unlit hallway and at the end is a darkly lit room. Another, 
 you walk into a hallway and to your left you see something leave in hast as the light in the office 
 swings aimlessly in the air casting realistic shadows, including your own. That is one of the nicest 
 features about F. E. A. R. is the ever present body of your character, something even HL doesnt even 
 do. Your hands will grab on to a ladder, you can look down at your running feet, and you can even 
 get scared by your own shadow. The little touches like that add up to a very realistic feel. The 
 only two problems with the games looks are the water, which looks too hella reflective (its like 
 sloshing through oil) and the people. The people move realistically, and behave realistically but 
 they look plastic and inexpressive. Luckily you dont see many other characters as you are always, 
 somehow conveniently separated from them. Ohyes, it might also be noteworthy to point out the 
 F. E. A. R. is a very demanding game and requires some really high end components to really enjoy 
 it. To put it into perspective for you, my machine (a Dell XPS M1710) can keep a brisk clip at 
 1600*1200 resolution with everything turned up EXCEPT Anti-aliasing and texture filtering, and 
 even with my 7900GTX (mobile) , 7200RPM HDD, 2.16Ghz Core Duo (mobile) , I still experience some 
 minor points of slow-down when, say, I am in an environment that used a lot of water, or has a 
 huge (and I mean utterly HUGE) explosion. So dont expect to play F. E. A. R. on your machine if you 
 dont want to upgrade something wait for the 360 version, which is basically the same game just 
 lower resolution (at least you have consistent frame rates) .
  
  SOUND: Monoliths use of sound to create the atmosphere of F. E. A. R. is executed perfectly. The 
 music is dynamic and changes to your situation. Parts where one is exploring by oneself, creepy 
 atmospheric music is played, while during battle the beat picks up. Some parts even lack music 
 completely, making the task of exploring that unlit office all the more suspenseful. Sound effects 
 are clean and realistic, guns pop nicely, explosions erupt brilliantly, and the many moans, groans, 
 screams and crashes of the scary parts are done flawlessly. There is no getting around being scared.
 
  
  MULTIPLAYER: This is really the only disappointing aspect of F. E. A. R. Its just the standard FPS 
 multiplayer fare, death match, team deatch match, ctf, etc. Maps take a generally long time to 
 load as well as spawning, but other than that it is rather enjoyable, if not short-lived. I grew 
 tired of it within a half hour.
  
  OVERALL: F. E. A. R. delivers a suspenseful experience through unique storytelling and atmosphere 
 composition. Youll be scared like a small girl, and you will giggle with glee whilst relieving 
 soldiers of their limbs. Be sure you have a powerful rig though to fully enjoy F. E. A. R. or just 
 wait for the 360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hackerdork
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 30, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Guys and gals, this game rocks, its fast, its fun, its gory, its !@#@ #scary too.
  
  Single player storyiine iis pretty decent, I dont want to spoil the game. However if you find a 
 new weapon, the new baddies find you. You need to know how to run backwards, break glass and shot 
 the heck out of the baddies.
  
  Stay away from the **** err the scary long haired girl. She is there it take names and kick ass, 
 and she forgot your name.
  
  This game is quite violent and filled with adult langauge, I would not play this with littleones 
 around. For the best effect with this game, crank the BASS/subwoofer up, if you have one, and wear 
 headphones. Play in the dark and this game will back the hair on the back of your head stand up! 
 Creepy.!
  
  Great graphics, great musical score! More FPS need to follow F. E. A. R's lead and take notice that 
 a good story, good graphic, good game play all make for a GREAT game.
  
  !! whoot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark_03
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Every body brags about FEAR saying that it was simply a amazing gaming experience. I thought quite 
 the opposite. Sure the graphics were great but the gameplay was like been their done that. Their 
 are a total of 3 levels which actually look unique. As the levels are very dull and repetive. The 
 eneamys are the same through out the game. They just seem to add a new bad guy every 3 hours or 
 so. The gaming experience is terrible, i prefer first person shooters such a half life 2 and doom 
 3. The game is probaly only worth getting if its cheap or you want something to rent out. On the 
 positve side the multiplayer was alright with some tense shoot out action. Its short out lived 
 as theirs is probaly a total of 30 servers on the games web browser. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flubagalub
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 29, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is one of the best games I have ever played. It is really scary, and stays scary for the whole 
 game. Some games are scary at the start, but there is too much horror in it so you expect something 
 to happen at every corner. But FEAR spaces the horror out, so you get scared, recover, relax, then 
 get scared again.
  FEAR has the most realistic graphics I have ever seen in a game. Even my best computer can't quite 
 run it perfectly on highest graphics setting, but luckily you can turn them down quite a bit, for 
 bad computers.
  The AI is excellent, the enemies will take cover, suppress, ambush, flank and give covering fire. 
 I've completed the game twice, once on easy mode and once on hard mode, and I still get surprised 
 by the enemies sometimes. But luckily you get reflexes, which let you temporarily slow down the 
 game, and get an easy head shot, or move to better cover.
  There are plenty of weapons, 3 types of grenades and 4 types of melee attacks to use. There are 
 also several different types of enemies, the normal ones, heavily armoured ones, even more heavily 
 armoured ones, and heavily armour wall-climbing guys.
  FEAR's multi player is great, but there are so many of its kind, and its slomo is its only unique 
 thing in multi player.
  Overall FEAR is a fantastic game, and I recommend it to anyone who wants a great horror, or a great 
 fps game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonuchi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 29, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  I've had this game for quite some time... but the review finally shows up. This game is pretty sweet, 
 now that I've manage to get a brand new computer that can push the limits of what this game can 
 carry. The graphics are quite impressive with debris splattering all over and interactive surroundings. 
 Not as interactive as I would like them to be, but interactive. I love playing this game but my 
 room/computer is in the basement of my parents house... and man do I not want to play this game 
 down there just because of that little girl and what happens near the end of the game. IF YOU'VE 
 SEEN JAPANESE HORROR FLICKS... YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zandervan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 29, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  This game is simply the best fps game that I played in such a long time, even though it took me 
 a year to play this game. I've been longing to play something that could rival my first experience 
 with half life 1 single player. Although F. E. A. R comes up a little short I've enjoyed every second 
 of it. However it does seem to borrow materials from other sources. Shock material resembles something 
 out of a Japanese movie and I can't tell the difference between F. E. A. R's slo-mo and Max Payne's 
 bullet time. I would love to complain a little more but F. E. A. R combat makes up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaiden
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  Fear in my opinion is proberly one of the best FPS' ive ever played .to begin with theres some 
 what of a reason as to why your in the game but the story line does develop , alot!. Its almost 
 like being in your own shootem up horror movie with little hints and scenes like playing voicemail 
 and the lights filckering ominiously when you see what apears to be a evil ,scary demonic... wel 
 i wont ruin any thing but theres two main parts , shooting bad guys to bits wiht a fantastic array 
 of weapons ( i say array i mean like good ideas for weapons ) since you can only hold three at atime 
 which is no real problem. and of course as seen in trialers and screen shots teh scary bits and 
 theres quite a few, the ai is the best ive seen as seen in many other reviews the enemy wont wait 
 idly if they hear you they'll will come after you .taking cover moving around trying to flush you 
 out with nades really draws you in to a dynamic battle.
  
  it's all good to list off great things a bout a great game but what really counts is how bad are 
 its .. well bad points. true the envrioment is repetative but only in the sense your in buildings 
 through out most of it , to be fair if your worrying about i saw tht office cubicle 20mins ago 
 well your not playing fear right:)
  
  other than that no real down falls every weapon is unique and sounds like it should , in game sound 
 is also very good again like being in a movie.
  
  and thats about ti if you want a good scary game or just want to shoot evil looking things and 
 bad guys buy it totally worth it infact i feel its a must play game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xennor
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 26, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  HL2 is a better game overall but F. E. A. R. blows away Doom 3. The suspense and fright factor of 
 this game are what Doom 3 was trying to accomplish. On more than one occasion I jumped out of my 
 seat.
  
  I am able to run it on maxed out graphic settings and it is just beatiful. The sound is amazing 
 too. It keeps you on the edge of your seat.
  
  I like that you are only able to carry 3 guns at a time, it makes you approach various situations 
 differently depending on what you are carrying at the time. The melee moves are decent, but not 
 something you normally will use.
  
  If you are a fan of FPS games, you must give this one a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbrightful
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 24, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  The good: If you are looking for a FPS with great graphics, superb sound and fun point-and-shoot 
 action then you will love FEAR. It's creepy, immersive and fun. It also ran great on my Athlon 
 3800/GeForece 7600. Had everything set to max with few issues. Very nice job on their part. (BTW, 
 Used patch 1.07.)
  
  The bad: There is little in the way of originality. Anyone remember the game System Shock 2? Then 
 you'll remember the physic stuff in this game. The graphics ... been there, done that with Doom, 
 Quake, HL, Far Cry. The sound. Too many games and movies to list with these sounds. Final analysis: 
 Very fun game that FPS lovers will enjoy. While the game borrows from others, it does so very well. 
 8/10 overall. Good job FEAR crew! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodyhugger79
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 24, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Downloading demo...
  
  I enjoy the action beyond the graphics and the suspense of this game. Grabbing 3 weapons at a time 
 is the best challenge for gamers. Thanks to shadows, it helps me to beat the enemies. What else? 
 I hate the radio... I know that enemies are on my way.... duh.
  
  I am using ATHLON XP 2000+, 512MB RAM, GeForce 6600GT 256MB AGP and it works fine for my needs.
 
  
  What can I say more? Downloading the game demo will make your decision if you want it... All I 
 can say is... It is just right for me and to everyone who likes FPS game.
  
  Doom 3? I think villains are not just right.... Exaggerated! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamx30108200
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 25, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Ok, at first, this game is just amazing, the graphics, the intense fire fights, the slow motion, 
 the impacts and explosions effects, the weapons.... but after awhile, you feel like you're always 
 fighting the same guys in the same building, even though you are progressing in the facility.... then, 
 near the end (around 5 levels before the end, just after your heli crashes) it gets really interesting 
 = new atmosphere, more clues on the story and NEW ENVIRONMENTS. Those 5 last levels were enough 
 to change my rating from 7,5 to 8,3. Graphics:
  The lighting effect and shadows are perfect and they gave the atmosphere a new meaning. Explosions 
 and particles effect are top of the line. As i said, the levels are awesome at first but after 
 awhile, look all the same until the near end of the game. Sound: Near perfect.... gave me the chills 
 a couple of times
  
  Value: I'll probably play the single player another time to really understand the story but having 
 to go through all those levels that look alike just annoys me. But the A. I. is the best i've ever 
 seen (game industries should copy them) so maybe the challenge replicas would give me, will be 
 an another reason to give this great game another try.
  
  My specs:
  
  P4 HT: 3,4ghz
  2 gig RAM
  ATI radeaon X850XT PE
  Sound blaster audigy 2 ZS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikepigeo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 24, 2006 12:11 am PT
Review:  Short and sweet, here we go. Story line is absolutely incredible, twists left and right and one 
 HUGE twist at the end... love it. Graphics, amazing. Sound, immersive. Gameplay... well lets just 
 say, at the end, i could feel my adreneline pumping from head to toe and after the game was over 
 a beat, i looked away from the screen and felt like i was exiting one world and entering another. 
 AWESOME. I still cannot get over how awesome the story was. Definetely movie material. complicated, 
 smart, suspensful, twisted, scary, immmersive. Just a handful of words the storyline is worthy 
 of achieving. By tge way, shotgun is soooo awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TopherBrown24
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 23, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R.
  PC
  9.2/10
  
  F. E. A. R. is a FPS in which you are sent into a military complex to take down a superhuman terrorist.
 
  
  Graphics 8-10
  Since this is a PC game it is dependent on how high the graphics are set. If set in the middle 
 this game will scare the S**t out of you the game looks perfect for graphics and provides a realistic 
 model of a military complex and office buildings or wherever you go. Im surprised this game looks 
 so good considering it was built on a 2 year old engine (seen in Farcry) essentially this game 
 looks like real life and with a game as terrifying as this you will definitely want to keep an 
 extra pair of pants nearby
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  This game is quite challenging until you know what to do when I started it I had been playing games 
 where I could take 200 bullets and keep walking this is a game where you will die quite quickly 
 so you need a strategy and good cover. A great addition to the game play is slow motion which will 
 for a certain amount of time slow down time while you can move faster and make quick work of a 
 group of enemies. The games guns are set so you can use different strategies in the game such 
 as a full on assault or staying back and sniping. The 2 best parts of this game however is when 
 you see the little girl just because it is so scary to climb a ladder and see her there killing 
 people it truly makes it a unique game. The second best part is when you turn a corner and see 
 an enemy standing there only to blast him with a shotgun its just so thrilling. Another strong 
 point is the AIs incredible ability to attack if they see you or even you flashlight they will 
 call the troops in the area and swoop in moving from different directions diving through windows 
 and cornering you.
  
  Controls 10/10
  The controls are basic FPS WASD controls so its nothing special but it works surprisingly well. 
 A new addition to this game is the ability to give a roundhouse kick to the face or a scissor kick 
 so much fun!
  
  Sound 8/10
  The chilling sound of a body falling in the water or the sound of troops discussing over a radio 
 of their latest attack plan however their discussions get repetitive after a while as you remember 
 them saying the same thing over and over.
  
  Realism
  Realistic completely the way the troops move the way people just everything!
  
  Length
  Long 
 game however after you beat it you wont feel the need at that moment to replay it online multiplayer 
 is available which can make the length quite longer.
  Conclusion
  Fun eerie game lots of action and pure horror dont play late at night! Hits: Great horror, Awesome 
 Action
  Misses: More radio dialogue would be nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martianrobot
Rating: 6.1
Date: Sep 22, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I really don't understand the fuss over this game. Yes, it is smooth and slick. Yes it has some 
 interesting horror elements. Yes it has pretty good AI. And yes it has a bloke eating peoples brains 
 for fun. But really, all this game boils down to is one long and fairly tedious GRUNTFEST. And 
 in my book that is just a complete yawn-o-rama.
  
  I think the problem with this game is that it promised so much but delivered so little. The 'interactive' 
 horror cutscenes are little more than that, cutscenes. You do not feel immersed into the scary 
 stuff... its just something that happens in-between all the never-ending gunfights between you 
 and 5 to 20 faceless clone soldiers in various dull and uninspiring warehouse / office / industrial 
 locations. It often just feels like you are playing a fairly bog-standard Half-Life combat MOD, 
 with some freaky occult stuff and some glistening pools of blood thrown in for cheap thrills. Either 
 that or a multiplayer FPS's last minute single player scenario addition.
  
  Don't get me wrong - I am impressed with the soldier AI - its the reason I've given it any points 
 at all... but it just completely lacks direction and creativity... it feels derivative, and almost 
 a completely wasted opportunity for something really special.
  
  To be honest, I never completed the game. I got about 2/3rds of the way through and my savegames 
 got corrupted. I couldn't be bothered to wade through all those tedious gunfights again, so uninstalled 
 it and sold it on ebay.
  
  If you are into various assorted mindless gunfights in so-so locations with exactly the same bad 
 guys, then I can heartily recommend this to you. Me, I'd rather play Half-Life 2 again and again 
 for it's creativity, atmosphere, physics and variety. Give me a crowbar and a gravity gun over 
 an 'authentic' MP40 (or whatever you gun fetishists worship this month) any day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: behony
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 21, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  The first time I played this game actually scared the **** out of me. I actually was scared to 
 even play it, looking at my computer and thinking if I want to play or not instead of just diving 
 right in. the A. I. is disturbingly human like if you crank up the difficulty. and there is plenty 
 of ghosts and creepy stuff to make you jump out of your seat. the slow-mo feature is great and 
 the weapons are very Satisfying to shoot.
  
  The draw back to it is it is a system hog. The story line is a bit vague and it seems to get a 
 bit repetitive but not enough to draw you away.
  oh and it is a total rip-off of the ring and the grudge in terms of spooky stuff. even the music 
 is a dead ringer from the Japanese version of the ring.
  But aside from that this is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXxArchangelxXx
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 21, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  Heart pounding, blood pumping, and mind racing. This game made me jump out of my seat on more than 
 one occasion. I would purposely only play the single player of F. E. A. R. at night with all the lights 
 off and my headphones on which would immerse me into the situation that I feel like I'm fighting 
 for my life. The amazing shadow and lighting effects start to mess with your mind after a while 
 and you do get the I'm not alone feeling that sends chills down your spine. What makes the horror 
 aspect of F. E. A. R. so effective is that it uses the elements of what you cannot see rather than 
 having some huge monster jump from the shadows. When walking down the dimly lit hallways you'll 
 come across bodies covered in blood, hear the laugher of children, or see something shoot across 
 in the corner of your eye which can make you paranoid after long sessions.
  
  The weapons and enemies, particularly the AI, are dead-on. Everytime you fire the shotgun or machine 
 gun you can almost feel the recoil travel through the mouse up into your arm. And your enemies 
 can feel it as well when they can have individual limp blown off. But make no mistake, doing so 
 is not easy. These enemies have some of the most amazing AI I have ever seen in a game. They adapt 
 to the situation by letting the squad know where your location is, how many men they've lost, and 
 figuring out how to effectively kill you. They won't go down without a fight.
  
  Overall, the horror aspect of F. E. A. R. is what kept me coming back for more. There was one point 
 where I had to stop playing for a couple of minutes and turn the lights on so I could calm myself 
 down. Make this game one that you will remember because it scared the hell out of you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulz1992
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 19, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is one of the greatest games I have played in a long while! It combines horror, with great 
 graphics, and ausome FPS Action! At first glance, F. E. A. R. is unbelivable! The gameplay only gets 
 better from their as the storyline keeps things interesting and with Alma stalking you you're always 
 afraid to turn that corner and constantly feel like someone is stalking behind you! I have to say 
 this is one impressive game compared to ANYONES standards and should defintly not be missed by 
 anyone who can play it! Unfortuantly, like any game, it does have it's share of problems which 
 arn't many at all! First thing I didn't like is that their were constantly the same enemies, don't 
 get me wrong, the enemie AI was great but I just wanted to occasionally see something new! The 
 enviroments were destrutable and great, but looked all too familiar unfortuantly! This game is 
 truely a classic in the making 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theplayboy0
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 19, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The soundand the way a firefight takes place is as close to the real thing 
 as possible. The AI is extremely well designed. The enemy constantly goes out of their way to flank 
 you or to get a better advantage point. In most FPS games you can show yourself then take up a 
 defensive position and wait for the enemy to come right into perfect position that allows you to 
 mow them down. In FEAR they do the exact opposite. Once the enemy has spotted you they immediately 
 search for cover and prepare for a firefight. They are actually concerned with staying alive. They 
 don't dumbly walk right into your line of fire. Most of the time they will take up cover positions 
 and then try to flush you out of your position by tossing grenades in order to make you move. The 
 enemy is a good shot too. They know how to fight and when to move and in which direction in order 
 to best kill you. Also the firefights are actually real feeling. The lights flicker and bullets 
 hit them, the walls have gaping holes in them from the stray bullets, and the debris that flies 
 into the air from hitting random world objects can blur your vision. The noise is lifelike. The 
 game really feels like you are shooting a gun. The storyline is good but very predictable. The 
 weird factor is amazing. You often find yourself wondering WTF? It can be freaky at times with 
 such random things happening that are pefectly timed to the story line. The darkness of many areas 
 gives a creepy feel. The biggest issue is that the game seems just keep rolling into the next mission 
 without closure from the previous mission. You just take off on this ride and keep going until 
 the end. The maps and levels seem repetative because they are. The enemy is common in most situations. 
 You know what you're going up against. Also this game is a freak for your computer system. The 
 graphics are good but the engine isn't. It really hammers your machine to the maximum potential 
 but doesn't provide the maximum graphics unless you are playing a superstar stud machine with 2GB 
 RAM and Dual-Video Cards. If you don't have this game buy it. It will sustain a short FPS fix and 
 is well worth the current discounted price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kholdstareo1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 18, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is, without a doubt, the scariest game I've ever played.
  For instance, one time, i was calmly walking down a corridor, when suddenly, a bloody, mutilated 
 body smashes through the window of an office and i jumped out of my seat, nearly crapping my pants.
 
  The graphics in this game aren't revolutionary, but they are draw-droppingly good, and some moments 
 trhoughout the game are just HOLY SH*T!!!! cool, especially in the games slo-mo feature. but the 
 thing is, slow-motion here is kind of unbalanced, so at points the games seems too easy, even on 
 extreme difficulty (the ONLY way to play this game) . also, there aren't a crapload of mods out 
 for it, and the multiplay can't compete with greats like Counter-Strike and Battlefield 2 . But 
 it's still fun and now you can download ALL (yes, thats right) of F. E. A. R.'s multiplay for FREE.
 
  just go on www. whatisfear. com and download F. E. A. R. Combat and get a CD key for the multiplay. and 
 you can even check out the demo, which is one fecal-load dropping hell of a good time. also, the 
 expansion pack is coming out this October (2006) and adds new weapons and enemies.
  sorry if my thoughts seem so unorganized, but i spent like an hour writing a 2 page long review 
 for this and accidentaly exited out :P /dumbass.
  BUY IT! $@#% awesome game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerosnog
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 18, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is sooo good, if you like action and getting scared!
  amazing CPU too. makes it a challenge.
  sometimes it gets boring, when nothing happens.. no gunfiring 
 and nothing scary, but when it comes, it comes good!! the graphic is not bad at all, but you need 
 a verry strong computer if you wanna play with the highest graphics.. the sound makes this game 
 sooo good, you get scared whn you hear a creepy song.
  This game is NOT for the faint-hearted!
  if you havent got to the elevatorpart yet, stay ALLWAYS 
 in a corner when you use the elevator...!!!
  
  this last text is SPOILER so dont read it if you want to get really scared:::
  
  SPOILER::::::::in 
 the elevator, Alma suddenty appears insie the elevator, and dissapears. that freaked me out so 
 bad, im glad i was with a friend when i gt to that part.. it maybe not sounding THAT scary, but 
 it realy is!!
  take the elevator? no thanks, il take the 1000 steps instead after seeing the elevator-thing on 
 F. E. A. R. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apoq
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 18, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  I played this game until the end waiting for that something special that everyone was talking about 
 and frankly i couldn't find it. The scare just isn't there anymore after the first two hours because 
 you begin to see a pattern emerge in the gameplay: you have acts of shooting briefly interrupted 
 by the horror scenes that in the end don't seem that horror. Of course a small girl with an apetite 
 for death is quite scary but wasn't this the plot in the Ring? The graphics were mediocre but might 
 be better on a top of the range machine. I was only able to play at medium detail and i didn't 
 get to see anyting to impress me. You do have flying debris but somehow it looks like it was added 
 in a hurry: one bullet causes a hole in the wall the size of you head. The models are pretty much 
 well done but not with the amout of detail you can see in Half-Life 2.. it's nice to see them shoot 
 with the gun atop their head, take cover and so on but sometimes it looks more awkward than real. 
 One of the biggest issues is the lack of diversity in the environment. Everything is indoors and 
 you don't get to see more than office complexes and labs. The bullet time is ok, but it has been 
 done before so i can't give them credit. Plus it's almost useless as you can play through the game 
 without using it. Hand-to-hand combat skills will become obsolete very fast and while you are theoretically 
 you can use the stealthy aproach i doubt anyone will.. it's just not that kind of game.
  On the other hand the AI is great: kind of the HL1 AI but better. Another big issue is the weapon 
 models: they don't look real, they don't sound real and they don't inflict any real-looking damage. 
 And since we're on the subject, the game lacks a good physics engine like havok or whatnot. It's 
 rather like Doom3 or even worse Quake 2 where you just don't get that much environment interaction.
 
  So you see, there's nothig revolutionary here: no drop dead gorgeous graphics nor never before 
 seen gameplay just a big budget game with recycled ideas from older better games. I'd rather replay 
 HL1-2-ep1 for the 20th time than play this game again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  I'm gonna start with the bad about this game, as I'm sure a lot of you have read about how great 
 this game is from other fans of this superb shooter. Lets start with... the story. It's all well 
 and good, but towards the end of the game you are left with massive plot holes that you are dissappointed 
 to not have cleared up. The maker's obviously spent more time than usual on the story for this 
 blastaphon, but, unless they plan on sorting things out in the sequel, you feel that they might 
 have slacked off when it comes to end things and instead MINOR SPOILER go for a cheap shock instead. 
 Another bad thing about this game are the environments. Although they all look great and realistic, 
 they hardly change throughout the whole game. Grey factory to grey office complex to grey warehouses. 
 Towards the end of the game you are desperate for a bit of variety in your surroundings. My last 
 **** towards this game is its length. All in all, it took me about 10 hours to complete, which 
 includes me slowly crawling forward through some levels, wondering exactly what the hell that noise 
 was. Yeah, so length is another issue.
  But now onto why I think this is one of the greatest shooters ever. Most importantly, the actual 
 gunplay in this game is electrifying. It really does have to be experienced to be believed. Every 
 minute of shooting in this game, I loved. From shooting with your average assualt rifle and perfecting 
 headshots, to shattering a room, and your enemies, with the shotgun, to evaporating a mans skin 
 with the railgun, every moment was pure shooting bliss. The AI is some of the best I have ever 
 seen, and this makes the game even more enjoyable.
  The graphics are amazing, with spectacular detail and style. The sound was equally as good, with 
 gunshots sounding realistic or futuristic, and disturbing beasts in the shadows making freaky-ass 
 noises that make you spin around, ready to destroy whatever wants a piece.
  This game really does deserve your attention, and despite the rather short palying time, you will 
 still love it, because no other game is as enjoyable and kinetic throughout.
  
  The Good - Top shooting - Impressive graphics - Pretty much the best AI I've ever seen
  
  The 
 Bad - Quite short - Environments lack creativity - Not very scary 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskongen
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 15, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  This is my top 10 Favorite FPS game.
  
  some of the stuff is Good Stuff : + Great selection of weapons, from a nailgun type of weapon which 
 makes your enemies stick to the wall like wet balogna if fired correctly, to heavier kinds that 
 makes your foes into lamb chop.
  
  + The Sound is amazing all the way, weapons sound authentic and powerful, music also plays a fine 
 role.
  
  + The bulletime or Focus ability you get is very useful and not to mention cool, run into too many 
 foes, then just pop this ability on and gun them all down before they even hit you, you can even 
 dodge their bullets.
  
  + Graphics are Outstanding weapons look sexy, some enemies have Cool models and nice abilities, 
 like the Crawler ninjas i like to call them, they jump around like mad men in an intense speed
 
  
  + Nice Effects on the weapons when you fire them, nice explosion effects and when in Focus mode 
 its even better, feels like a movie more than often.
  
  + Ragdolls and Physics are great too, you can blow your enemies to bits and wound them badly so 
 they limp or become limbless, bodies fly around if you blow them up, Glass breaks look great and 
 realistic.
  
  + You can Slide kick and jump kick, and even punch them, this looks great with Bullet time on. 
 + Nice story with creepy twists along the way
  
  + Good Multiplayer too
  
  + Much much more cool stuff
  
  
  Bad Stuff : - Story leaves you wanting more, and a bit short
 
  
  - Some bugs and bad map areas.
  
  Overall, Superb FPS nothing more to say, than go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andy_punisher90
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 14, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. Excellent AI and great story. I was hooked the first day because no game 
 that i know of features such intellegent Ai like F. E. A. R. Then after being tense from all the AI, 
 that little girl gets you off guard. Play it on extremely hard, and you got yourself a challenge. 
 A game that has both horror (the horror aint that bad, just keep your guard up at all times) and 
 great FPS action is a game worth playing. Its also an intense multiplayer game. The action is great, 
 especially blowing someone up with a grenade. Great Game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joesbox
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 14, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Awesome!
  
  I really enjoy playing this game, the AI is well written, enemies take different courses of action 
 depending on how you approach them. The weapons have some thought behind them, not just your average 
 pistol, machin gun, sniper rifle type weapons.
  
  The whole game has a very dark sense about it, which really takes you in to it. It is a very difficult 
 game to stop playing, I often find myself playing way longer than I intend to.
  
  The bullet time function comes in handy when things get a bit difficult but to me it seems a bit 
 out of place - still, a cool function.
  
  As for the graphics and physics of the game! woooo! The way debris flies off walls when you're 
 in a gun fight is very impressive. The graphics are impressive, even on a low end system like mine, 
 objects and levels have a lot of depth and clarity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmccrea
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 14, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  I dont play much FPS's in my old age anymore, but a friend recommended this one so I tried it. 
 WOW did it hook me. I played it non stop for months, running thru it again and again, just to find 
 out the little details in the game that you always miss. The AI is by far the best Ive seen in 
 dealing with you, running behind desks, hiding, hunting you in packs and such. Also the story, 
 is pretty top notch, IMHO, and really got to me. Made me mad and gave me a conncection to the villians. 
 If you are looking for a fun game to play in the dark, or any time give it a whirl. I doubt you 
 will be dissapointed by any mean! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadarknight
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 11, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  i am sure u heard of this line "think before u act" well this game will make u think in ways u 
 never have!!!!! in all other shooters games u just rush in and kill everyone as fast as u can well 
 this game enemies look at the way u fight ad come up with a plan u take u down. the first time 
 i played this i did not expect that to happen i had 2 guy pinned down and contiuned shooting then 
 i looked to the left and one guy will shooting at me so i killed him easily and i forgot about 
 the other guy as i was about to leave i heard a sound behind me and i turned around and there he 
 was standing i was in shock! and he shot me in the head also the other thing that freaked me out 
 was the girl in red OMG!
  one girl who i don't want to break her heart wow 
::::::

::::::
UserName: szafto
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 18, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  you shall play it with a friend and for full effect play it at night and you will get really scared! 
 small details makes this game GREAT, the sound is awesome, you can hear little alma whisper in 
 some scary spots. the cool thing in this game which is similar to max payne is that you can use 
 slow motion which makes the fights very cool!
  
  Graphics- Very Good! everything looks very realistic. thats it nothing wrong with graphics
  
 
  Sound- Excellent, just like i said before.. small details scare the hell out of you
  
  Gameplay- fu**ing great, when you use slow mo you can see everything that happens around you and 
 gets you an advantage which is cool, some soldiers are very difficult to kill so slow mo is the 
 best to use against them.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who likes to get really scared, like silent hill and resident evil, 
 thank you for reading my review... happy hunting with alma! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wsammut
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 10, 2006 3:18 am PT
Review:  fear is a really great fps game, it really clings to its name fear cause it really gives you fear 
 at various levels of the game. you take the role of a special force squad which deals which supernatural 
 things and you really do end up in a supernatural world of this young child who died when she was 
 you, and this crazy b*****d who turns out to be you brother... which you then kill... etc... etc... 
 all in all its a nice game with a nice story... kinda gets boring at times cause of the same setup 
 of each level... offices all the time almost for abouit 4 levels. still good gameplay with a good 
 engine, cool weapons, nice intelligent AI and the rest a good fps should offer.. nice game all in 
 all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Powerpipe101
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 9, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R.... This game is freakin awesome. It's so damned scary and fun... it's amazing... The story 
 is pretty simple, but how the story unfolds and all the twists suck you in. Taken from Wikipedia: 
Armacham Technology Corporation (ATC) is a hi-tech weapons company with billions of dollars worth 
 of contracts for the US government. Currently a serious crisis is taking place inside one of the 
 facilities owned by ATC: a battalion of clone supersoldiers, under the telepathic control of a 
 man named Paxton Fettel, has taken control of the structure, killing anyone who was there."
  
  The guy you play as in F. E. A. R. just joined F. E. A. R., which stands for First Encounter Assault 
 Recon. They deal with paranormal crimes. Your character is constantly getting hallucinations from 
 Fettel, which are just very weird. It's hard to explain - but the hallucinations are just so damned 
 weird. Then you meet Alma, the creepy little girl who is somehow related to all of this. The gameplay 
 is mostly like your typical shooter, run around and shoot a bunch of stuff. There is a twist though 
 - you can go slow-mo in this game. It's the most awesome thing ever, in slow-mo, everything slows 
 down completely and it looks and feels amazing, it gives you better aim and control over what you're 
 doing, and the effects are just plain awesome. When you shoot a shotgun - you see the bullets travel 
 as they hit your enemy, or even the wall. When a bullet hits the wall - the wall lets out dust 
 and particles and reveals a large hole in the wall, it's just an awesome effect that you can't 
 get enough of. Especially in slow-mo. The hallucinations and weird things add to the creepyness 
 and the atmosphere, which makes the overall gameplay better and sucks you in more.
  
  The A. I. in this game is nothing short of superb. The best i've ever seen in a game. They take 
 cover, yell out when throwing grenades, and just give commands and really gives you a sense of realism. 
 On hard difficulty, it's not the little girl you should be scared of. It's the enemies.
  
  The firefights in this game are so great mainly because of the intensity and atmosphere... It really 
 makes you take cover and make sure you're safe when you peek out to shoot them. When you start 
 shooting, chaos ensues. Dust and particles everywhere - desperate enemies trying to survive as 
 you run as fast as you can in slow-mo, shotgun in hand blasting away and beating the crap out of 
 anything you see.
  
  Graphics. Woooooooooow. Absolutely amazing. You need a crazy good PC to run it, but jesus christ, 
 it's worth it. The walls ripping open, the dust, the detail, the lighting, the shadows.. They all 
 have to be seen to truly experience the game. The lighting is amazing. The shadowing is some of 
 the best i've ever seen. The particle effects are easily the best. The physics are just right. 
 The graphics are nothing short of "Wow." Especially in slow-mo. The atmosphere is great too, lights 
 swinging around, blood on the walls, light flashing as you walk through a room with papers and 
 blood scattered around is just scary as hell.
  
  Sound. Also amazing. Sometimes there's music just perfect to fit the mood, and the sound effects 
 make you scared more than anything else... Eerie noises constantly happening, glass breaking, everything 
 works well together to create an amazingly scary experience.
  
  Value. There's not much reason to replay this game, or the multiplayer. Multiplayer is fun, but 
 it can be very laggy, and it's just not all that great. Single player is great to play twice or 
 more, but there's not much point to it. I know i'll be replaying it plenty of times, but there's 
 not much reason to keep coming back. You gotta play this game, one way or another. It's just so 
 amazing, scary, and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hendricks55
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I love how monolith comes out with these awsome titles like shogo and nolf but personally i must 
 say fear takes the cake with excellent A. I. and the scariest storyline that gets under your skin 
 causing you to freak yourself out more than the game intends. Its on the fright scale way above 
 doom 3 and right up there with system shock 2. great gameplay with the great story keeps you playing. 
 Not to mention the underrated multiplayer that is right up there with counter strike. great overall. 
 one of my top 3 favorite games. just when you think you might be safe the little girl in the red 
 dress Alma scares the **** out of you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muppen
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 29, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  In F. E. A. R. (First Encounter Assault Recon) you play as a rookie soldier in a team which's job 
 it is to investigate and resolve paranormal activities. The evil Paxton Fettel has gain control 
 of a highly trained army of soldiers which are controlled by telepathy and your job is to stop 
 him and any other freaks you might encounter. When you play F. E. A. R. you should play with the lights 
 out late at night. The crawl under your skin horror which is featured in F. E. A. R. really keeps 
 that adrenaline going throughout the game. Combined with the awesome gunfights and impressive AI, 
 every minute of this game is a awesome experience. As if that wasn't enough you can also go slo-mo 
 a l&aacute; Matrix! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fman12
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 3, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. It is a total original, and very scary. This game has amazing graphics, and 
 an awsome selection of guns. My favorite is the gun that shots the huge steaks. It is though a 
 hard game. Th A. I is very smart. This game will kept you hooked till its all over. This game has 
 made me jump more than any other game I have played. The gameplay is one of a kind smooth and simple. 
 The slowmo feature is awsome. If you want one of the best games ever made you need the game, but 
 you do need a good computer to run it perfectly smooth. This is a game I will never forget. It 
 is the best computer game besides Call of Duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corlorde
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 2, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I thoroughly enjoyed this game, for starters. What I did was, I blew through the game just running 
 and gunning so I could get to the end, like I do with the majority of First person shooter (FPS) 
 but then I did something I almost never do with these type of games; I actually backed up and played 
 it again. I think this is necessary, because there are lots to learn about the actual story Fear 
 tried to tell, and you can only find out what is really going on, if you take the time to look. 
 You can still finish the game without searching for clues, but you will be more confused than ever. 
 Slow motion takes a page from movies like The Matrix and the like in that, when in a bind, all 
 you need to do is hit "Slow-mo" and your character's heightened reflexes and agility enables you 
 to move and react significantly faster than you opponents.
  
  Fear works in part because the developers did an outstanding job creating a creepy or foreboding 
 atmosphere. Fear had an advantage that others of the genre did not, and thats people by and large 
 have kick butt graphics cards and graphics drivers that bring out all the gory details. There are 
 quite a few memorable moments in the game. You will hear taunting voices, and see weird stuff like 
 people disintegrating as they walk past you and (taking a page from Japanese pop-horror) a mysterious 
 girl in a red dress that appears and disappears without warning. Hopefully, this is the start of 
 a new revolution in first person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soklik
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  This game will put You in a seat that you would not want to sit in, but the game sucks you in, 
 just cant stop playing. FEAR has your heart working on overdrive because there is not a single 
 place in the game that will not freak you out. The graphics are just great if you have the right 
 equipment to run. The gameplay has a great storyline everything explains itsself over the period 
 of game time. One of the best game that came out, FEAR is a game that you want to be overwith and 
 done!!! Overall the game is a awsome game to play!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grisslebone
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 1, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  The best FSP I've ever played! Holy crap, where do I start... Perfect graphics and AI with a block 
 buster story-line. This is a game where nothing else but action, killing the enemy, and the occasional 
 devostational exoplosions happen. There are no difficult puzzles, no looking for keys segments, 
 nor time wasted running around the "arena" looking the way out. F. E. A. R. Is about making your way 
 through a twisted technological conspiricy gone horribly wrong. At the start of the game the "real" 
 villan starts his/her own reign of fear. You begin as a bad-ass and start up a body count that 
 only compares to that of... well, you fill in that blank. "What, a full battalion of them?" I've 
 already stated that the graphics rule. It dos take some power to run this game on the PC. The video 
 options can and will test the capability of your system. It does play best on dual-core sytem with 
 an NVDIA 7800 or 7900 series or an ATI 1900, however if your system meets the reccomended it should 
 play just fine if you dial down the setting some. If you don't have a PC capable of playing this 
 then wait until its available on the X-Box 360. Close to a perfect 10, but when one sets the bar, 
 someone else will certainly always break it. It's still the reigning champ, but just you wait... 
 Until Extraction Point breaks out! "Target Sighted!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daiwin1982
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2006 12:44 am PT
Review:  This game certainly has one thing down.
  Creepiness!
  The game has lots of mystories and many things to blow up!
  It starts out gory with a physcho 
 that is on the lose killing people.
  And you got to hunt him down!
  It is not a Doom 3 by far but still packs some in your face scenes.
  I recommend this game for 
 at least 18 and up as it has some scenes that are grousome.
  This game is a good shooter has good graphics and mysteries and puzzles to find out.
  This is 
 my first Review of a game so hope you like it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smudge_Smill
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 30, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Hmm, a game i enjoyed a lot, but the firefights were too few and far between. I like games that 
 don't involve walking around for 10 minutes, then 10 seconds of firefight, followed by another 
 stint of walking around through a maze. I kept holding out in hope that I would fight alongside 
 AI allies... but it wasn't to be.
  
  That said, fun game.
  Nice graphics, very smooth details and controls.
  Excellent AI. Nice techniques used, including 
 flanking, covering fire and ingenuity --- strategic enemy positioning.
  
  Furthermore, it had a stupid ending. (and the game was too short!) .
  
  I couldn't help feeling 
 sorry for the antagonist psycho crazy girl.
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloudstrife234
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is remarkable and is by far the sweetest release for the pc hands down. i only played 
 this on a 360 but im telling u the game is amazing. it is going to be the most memorable pc game 
 ever. i truly havent seen better gun play than this. the game is so fast past and everything is 
 so fast and breaking and exploding. the ai i thought in the game was simply brilliant, you will 
 watch as enemies try craulling to take cover and trying to kill u. the sound is one pf the best 
 parts along with its breathtaking graphics. everything is great and knowing there is a fast past 
 multiplayer. brilliant game, wish i can give it a ten but i cant so 9.9 out of ten 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commando8535
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  I'm usually a fan of military shooters but having read previews and reviews of this game made me 
 pick it one day.
  
  As usual I'll try to cover as much as I can without giving much about the story away.
  
  The 
 game is set sometime in late 2002 and early 2003, a psychic commander by the name of Paxton Fettel 
 has taken control of a battalion of super soldiers, a highly secretive Special Operations group 
 known as F. E. A. R (First Encounter Assault Recon) has been dispatched to neutralize Fettel, but 
 it's much bigger than Fettel.
  
  The story revolves around a new rookie to the team known as just the "Point Man" his abilities 
 are off the charts, your teammates consists of Spen (or Leo) Jankowski a loud mouth veteran of 
 the team but skeptical of the new guy and team medical technician Jin Swon Kwon and team coordinator 
 Betters, supporting the team on this mission is the US Army's elite SFOD-D better known as Delta 
 Force.
  
  The game play of this game is utterly amazing, the enemy AI is some of the best I have ever seen 
 to date, they realistically take cover, throw grenades and attempt to flank you, there accuracy 
 is above normal (this is what you expect from clone super soldiers) however there only downfall 
 is that the New Guy can hear every radio conversation that they transmit. The enemies you will 
 encounter in this game range from your normal everyday clone super soldier to the highly trained 
 and heavily armed Security Guards, make no mistake they can and will kill you every chance they 
 get. If your a fan of getting down and dirty then this game has enough fire fights to keep the 
 fire going, the firefights are fast and deadly, one wrong move may be the end of your career; you 
 will be armed with everything in the book (and then some) to fight against Fettel's minion's each 
 weapon has it's strengths and weaknesses from the Rakow G2A2 (SL8 in Real Life) to highly co-coordinated 
 Chuck Norris moves (it's fun to round house kick a person in the jaw) . As you can see the game 
 play is one of the best parts of this game.
  
  Sound wise the game offers spectacular weapon and atmospheric sounds, every explosion sounds perfect, 
 and if that wasn't enough most enemies you kill will scream in pain (albeit they sound real) . The 
 music of the game fits with the game play. Graphic wise the game offers superb graphics, everything 
 is just picture perfect, the fireballs to the blood is in my opinion one of the center pieces of 
 this game. To tell you the truth I can't explain the graphics you have to play it in order to understand 
 the "beauty" of game engines. Another feature of this game is that it has a nice rag doll effect, 
 when you run everything around you makes noise and moves, bodies fly realistically (its fun to 
 use a rocket launcher against a group of unsuspecting clones) . Another feature of this game is 
 it's atmosphere, it's utterly unnerving and creepy at best, it's dark and claustrophobic. It isn't 
 the enemies that scare you it's the atmosphere. Word of warning don't play this game at night. 
 Overall this game is one of the best games I have ever played; the only gripes I can find were 
 that it is a system hog and its product placement. I'm glad that I picked this game up.
  
  On a lighter note if youre a fan of Red vs. Blue then I suggest you watch the PANIC series, if 
 you don't know what Red vs. Blue or PANIC is. Search it you'll laugh your arse off. Until next 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwordsmanBeta10
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 29, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever played Resident Evil? Did you like the horror genre story and gameplay of it? But..... did 
 you wish for action packed gunfights without losing the mystery horror gameplay? I did. If you 
 are one of these people FEAR First Encounter Assault Recon will be your gift from God. The graphics 
 are amazing. It actually looks like a guy getting ripped in half by a sub-machine gun! Don't get 
 me started on explosions! It looks uber realistic. Now the gun fights. Bullet deflections. Grenade 
 craters. Stuff blown into pieces. Three main characters of gun fights. Before I finish I have one 
 thing to say. Alma scares the hell out of me.
  
  P. S. Bow Chicka Bow Wow! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazilla
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 29, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  I hesitataed to get this game because I thought that my computer would not be able to handle it. 
 I was wrong. I can't have everything on graphics-wise, but the important thing is that the game 
 is highly adjustable. Not many games offer the type of adjustability that FEAR does in the performance 
 department. I was very surprised at how well this game can run if you are willing to spend just 
 five minutes tweaking the settings. After that, it is time for mayhem!
  
  I was totally blown away by the suspense that this game creates. It is one of those rare games 
 that creates emotion. In a shooter, I find that really rare. It is almost as immersive as an RPG, 
 but has the twitchy feel of a great shooter. This game has some scary moments that harkened me 
 back to my days of playing Resident Evil on the PSOne. You almost want to leave all the lights 
 on in the house when you are playing this one. I really like the weapons in this game as well. 
 The AI is superlative, and your enemies don't just sit and wait for you to come to them. They will 
 flank you, attack you, sneak up on you, and just about anything else you can think of. The only 
 real flaws I can see in this game, is the absolute over the top use of foul language. I don't mind 
 language in a game, but sometimes the characters cuss ALL the time. Everytime you run up on an 
 enemy, they drop the F-Bomb, or some other profanity, and I felt like this could have been avoided 
 easily, and didn't really lend to the realism of the game. The story IMO lacked a little cohesiveness, 
 and it was easy to see what the main character had to do with everything, but all of his exposition 
 comes at the end of the game. It would have been nice as well, to have more character interaction 
 too. The multiplayer portion of the game is cool as well. Pick this one up if you like shooters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 28, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I had high expectations for this game and was pleased very much. The only problem is, is that this 
 game is a cpu hog and requires a decent rig to run this thing at medium settings. Heres the rundown. 
 Good: Nice graphics, smooth gameplay, good storyline. Another solid FPS. Bad: Requirements to run 
 this game. The bullet time is done a bit differently but is kinda similar to a Max Payne type of 
 game. The A. I. is solid. I had guys flank me or throw grenades left and right trying to flush me 
 while I was just waiting around the corner ready for a head shot. A very solid game that could 
 continue into a series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jefvhees_basic
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 28, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Not much new under the sun here, just aim and fire. There is nothing innovative what 
 so ever. Nothing at all. A "nice" standart FPS but nothing special.
  
  Graphics: Well they are just flat out boring. Very repetitive. And that is an understatement. Everything 
 looks the same. The only leveldesign i liked was in the appartement buildings. That was the only 
 interesting location in the game. BUt i have to give them some compliments about the effects and 
 annimation. The characters all behave realistic and cool. The ennemy's are cool to! So overall 
 maybe a 8.
  
  Sound: Nothing verry special. Voice acting is a bid off. But the sound effects from teh guns make 
 it all worth wild. You really feal like you are firing a gun!
  
  Value: Dunno, i have no need to play it again. The game was creepy. But the storytelling sucks. 
 The story gets told in the last 5 minutes of play. That was a total letdown. But yeah, very creepy!
 
  
  Tilt: Well, none what so ever. It was to standart fore me. I like the more innovating games. But 
 that'd just my opinion.
  
  Me personal would give the game a 8.5. So don't mind the revieuwers tilt, that would just drag 
 the overall score down on this standart game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziegd
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2006 12:01 am PT
Review:  ... and I guess I can understand that, if they went in with definite expectations of what they wanted 
 the game to be, or if they only played thru once. Granted, the settings are a little repetative 
 (lots of corridors) , and they don't really do justice to the amazing graphics. But I believe this 
 was done by design, to add to the claustrophobic sense of dread that permeates the game. Not since 
 System Shock 2 has a game kept me so on edge, with a prevailing sense of anxiety and tension through 
 out. The sound also contributed to this atmosphere in a big way. And the little girl element, although 
 a blatant rip-off of The Ring, is still done extremely well. No other game has given me as many 
 poop-my-pants moments as FEAR; even playing thru a third or fourth time, and knowing what to expect, 
 some of the scenes STILL freak me out.
  
  Although the story is a little confusing at the start, I believe this was also done by design. 
 The fact that things become more dreadfully clear as the game progresses contributes nicely to 
 the anxiety level, which kept me immersed through out the game. In addition, I've seen critics 
 complain about the lack of resolution to the story, then rave about HL2; but get serious, guys... both 
 the original HL and HL2 story lines were far from resolved at the end, and this leaves the franchise 
 open for more great experiences in the future. Don't get me wrong... I am a HUGE HL and Deus Ex 
 fan, but comparisons to those games, or games like Doom 3 or Quake 4 just don't make a lot of sense, 
 as FEAR is, in a lot of ways, unique. And as I mentioned earlier, I think players that go in expecting 
 a Doom 3 experience will be dissapointed. I think System Shock 2 (w/o the RPG elements) is closer 
 to the over-all experience.
  
  Finally, this review wouldn't be complete without mentioning the intense visceral combat against 
 tough, smart foes. In a word... AWESOME. Personally, I'm looking forward to several next installments 
 in what could become as successful a franchise as Splinter Cell, or even (dare I say it?) Half 
 Life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZappBboy
Rating: 3.1
Date: Aug 27, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because of all the praise it had gotten. The last time i do that. I can't believe 
 that everybody thinks this is the holy grail of FPS! I mean im writing this review pretty damn 
 late after releasedate. But i have to do it for my own therapy.
  
  Gameplay: Bullettime ripoff with no real story to it. You'v got great reflexes so you can move 
 in BT. **** AI? Nope its way to scripted. Several times you can lure the NPCs to come one after 
 one around the corner and blast them away with yout shotgun. The shotgun and the MP5 are the only 
 weapons worthwhile to get and you get those at the very beginning. Nice!
  
  Storyline: There isn't any! I don't know how many instances had the same mission. Get this Paxton 
 Fettle guy, and you NEVER get to him! You play hour after hour just waiting for something to happen 
 but all you do is go trough every lavel wich looks exactly the same by the way and nothing ever 
 happens. BORING! It's also a ridiculously easy game! You can't go ten feet without getting a power 
 boost or a medkit or a whole bunch of ammo. So you never ever die!
  
  I mean the sound and the graphics live up to expectations but looks don't make the game.
  
 
  It's just one word to sum up this game: BORING!
  
  Don't buy it! It's not even worth your time if you get it for free! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunterBruno
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2006 2:08 am PT
Review:  Well this game was almost better than Far Cry. I loved Far Cry for the huge maps and the devil 
 tridents but FEAR is growing on you like a good suspension movie with lots of unsuspected thrills. 
 Not for the weakest at heart. I will play this game again but on my new rig in the future because 
 the specs are so high to play it full that my rig at this time is just the limit.
  A game worth to buy and worth to play for all that loves the suspense.
  Fantastic environments 
 and very nice sounds. I hope that the sequel is even better and that Crysis will come soon enough 
 because that game will surprise us a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metkillerjoe
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 24, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  All I can say for fear is that there have been some times in the game when I felt that I had screwed 
 up (fall into a pit or something like that) , and then i realize that is all part of the game. FEAR 
 is the first game I've seen that uses so many special effects that are otherwise wasted as eye 
 candy in other games and uses them to create an atmosphere of darkness and hate.
  I can say that when I first started playing it looked very cheap and true some of the first minutes 
 of the game are a bit boring, but 5 minutes into the game and I was already feeling a creepy atmosphere. 
 But this game isn't just great for atmosphere (even though it is set around that theme) there is 
 plenty of shooting around for FPS fans. There are times that I've had so much fun with a particular 
 strategy (such as sticking a soldier in the middle of a whole group of soldiers with a grenade 
 and watching the whole mess unravel in slow-mo) that I've loaded the save up again and again just 
 to have fun with it.
  There have also been few times that I've ever hated the save system. Gamespot reviews the save 
 system as new but not extremely practical, but the truth is quicksaves along with checkpoints along 
 with autosaves along with player saves make 4 ways to save your game and never miss a beat. The 
 best part of the save system in my opinion is that the game doesn't just go to the autosaves and 
 checkpoints but goes to the most recent one.
  All in all this game is well rounded and all I think it could improve on is the graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RIDDICK_2005
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 29, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Do i even have to say anything about this game, it was and is amazing. the only thing this game 
 need and will get is an expancion pack or a sequal because after u beat it is just making you beg 
 for more. This game is the first for me to make me do that. This game is awsome. Dude if you had 
 to rent this game to see that it is amazing then you just wasted $10 to the price of the game. 
 If this game does not get pc game of the year then i dont know what will quallify. The only thing 
 that I can see that is holding this game back from being amazing is that the game is a system hog, 
 but you knew that already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ebag3587
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 21, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Like many people, when the F. E. A. R. demos came out last summer I gave little thought to them, thinking 
 that the game would be some cross between the X-Files and Doom 3. But remembering my initial hesitation 
 to playing another awesome dark horse, Deus Ex, I decided to dl the demo and try it. In a word, 
 it was fantastic. I was really looking forward to the release of the game after playing the demo, 
 especially since the graphics and AI were so good. I didn't actually get around to playing the 
 whole game until last weekend when a buddy lent me his copy of the game. It's not that I'd heard 
 bad things that deterred me from playing it, it's just that I've played little else but Battlefield 
 2 since August 2005.
  
  Like I said before this game's visual presence is AMAZING. I'm running an A64 3500 stock, 2GB DDR400, 
 a 6800 Ultra 512, and Audigy 2 ZS and this game on the maxed settings gave my comp some issues, 
 but after using Tweakguides. com's F. E. A. R. tweaking guide and some trial and error I got it running 
 smoothly and so that it still looked amazing even in all the fire fights. I'd highly recommend 
 the tweak guide found here: http://www. tweakguides. com/FEAR_1. html. The settings I ran were 1024x768 
 FSAA2x, AF16x, all sounds maxed, max physics, max particles, max world detail, medium corpse detail, 
 max effects, max decals, min water (cuz the diff settings werent any diff) , max reflections, volumetric 
 lights on with med detail, med light detail, shadows on, soft shadows off, medium shadow detail, 
 max texture detail, max video, max shaders. On the hardware test i got min: 38 fps, avg: 65 fps, 
 and max: 150 fps. In game I used FRAPS and benched most levels at about 75 fps, but mins were sometimes 
 in the mid to high 20s.
  
  Besides the great visuals and in game physics, the sounds are the best of any game I've ever played. 
 It was a really good idea for Sierra and VU Games to have Warner Bros. do sounds for the game. 
 Everything has a unique sound and the EAX HD track totally helps with directionality and figuring 
 out where enemies are.
  
  This game def immerses your senses and makes the world of the game really come alive. The work 
 with the playable cut scenes and everything was really cool and a fun way for the story to unfold.
 
  
  However, the game was somewhat disappointing when it came to the story. I feel as though they really 
 didnt explain a lot in the beginning, and left you hanging at the end (of course for the expansion) . 
 Thankfully I didn't have to pay 50 bucks for the game, but if I had I would have def expected more 
 of a story. Also the single player game is just short. I played literally 12 hours on the 2nd highest 
 difficulty of four settings and beat the game. I mean come on. HL2 took at least twice or three 
 times that when I played it on the highest of the three levels there. And the action of the game 
 was pretty straight forward, only towards the end did you kind of have to figure stuff out, like 
 connecting the power relays to get into the Vault. Otherwise it was pretty basic corridor style 
 play. I terms of using your head in the game to advance the levels, besides tactics in firefights, 
 DOOM 3 and HL2 are much better games.
  
  All that said, F. E. A. R. was a good game. I would say that like other tech showcases, like DOOM 
 3 and HL2, that too much time was spent on the cool effects (visual and sound) and not enough on 
 the story. I feel as though in terms of replayability, this game ranks pretty low. The game to 
 beat that balances an excellent sensory experience with a great story is HL2.
  
  I doubt I'll replay the single player campaign, but will def borrow F. E. A. R. again from my friend 
 when I build a new comp to bench it, because no other game right now is as challenging for PC hardware. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSboy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 21, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  FEAR its one great game, that combines fast paced shooting with creepy moments that will make you 
 jump off your chair... believe me its true!!!
  
  To start FEAR has excellent graphics and effects!!! You shoot and walls fell off, glasses are  
 really great!!! It has excellent lighting and the textures of the Al and the surroundings are great
 
  
  The Al in this game is excellent especially the enemies!!! They will call for backup, the will hide 
 behind walls, they will throw you grenades and they will do anything a real soldier is supposed 
 to do!
  
  The gameplay its great, sometimes you can use slowmotion to help you aim better and kill your opponents! While 
 slow motion the effects are great and the aiming its really better and you can kill your opponents 
 more easily
  
  STORYLINE... the storyline of the game its pretty good and will keep you to the game wanting to 
 know how it wil continue although its a little bit difficult to understand at times!
  
  To sum up, FEAR is a great shooter and should not be missed by anyone!! Get ready for FEAR!!!
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyRo421
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Went out, bought V for Vendetta on DVD and this game. Smoked a blunt, ate some chinese food and 
 watched my new favorite movie of all time. Maybe it's because I'm in a really good mood, maybe 
 it's the chronic, but holy hell this game kicks ass. Buy it now. Stop reading this. Why are you 
 still reading this? Jesus Christ, get this game already.
  
  I need more words so I can submit this extremely biased review... The quick brown fox jumps over 
 the lazy dog. "There is no spoone." You want the truth!? You can't handle the truth! How many more 
 words do I need? Apparently, this many. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehsdomi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 20, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  The graphics on the game are truly amazing. The thing is though that you need a fast PC to run 
 it. I had to use a 4200 64 x2 with 2GB of RAM and a ATI x1900 XT graphics card, just to run everything 
 on maximum and it was still just a little slow. Besides having a good computer you only need a 
 few hours to beat it because the story is short, luckily they are coming out with an expansion 
 pack. Multiplayer is great and fun. Now they got F. E. A. R. Combat for those who choose not the buy 
 the game. A lot of the plot to me was senseless and felt like it needed some work, especially at 
 the end of the game.
  
  To Sum it Up, Get a Fast PC... Its Lots of Fun... Games Too Short... Plot is Weak. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 19, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  Outrageous action, borrrowing features from Max Payne, Counter-Strike, and other Monolith games. 
 If you're tired of using slow-motion (aka bullet time) akimbo guns, you can blaze a fury of jump 
 kicks in your enemies head.
  The graphics are amazing and really test your system to see who's got it and who needs it. As 
 well, the sounds are just amazing on a good Sound Blaster card, especially the new X-Fi sounds 
 cards.
  The story is incredibly creepy. It's not only fun to play, but friends will get a kick out of 
 just watching you play the game.
  The multiplayer is incredible. It's just a tactical shooter but the way it plays is much like 
 a single player, realistic fantasy. This is a game that will make parents crap themselves when 
 they see their kids play it.
  Tons of gore. I'm a fan of gory games. The more the gibs, the better.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  The 
 hardware requirements are steep. Veeery steep. You will not be running this game on your integrated 
 video card or your Celeron/Sephron computers.
  Tons of language that can't be filtered without a mod.
  
  :Overall:
  F. E. A. R. will definantly 
 be installed on your computer for a really long time, if you got the hardware to support it. It's 
 one of those games that make you proud to be a PC gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 17, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a typical FPS however, theres a difference in the fact that its perhaps one of the few 
 that can challenge Half-Life to the crown of the best shooters out there, single player is definately 
 a contender for it. Multiplayer has its unfortunte underground of hackers but so does other games, 
 what can you do?
  
  Once the story gets going, you get pulled into a deep plot involving plenty of paranormal activity, 
 at one point you think your a ghostbuster but instead of carrying a proton pack, your carrying 
 some of the latest military hardware. Some of the set-peice scenes can be truly scary, one minute 
 you could be creeping down a corridor and boom, all hell could hit the fan.
  
  The A. I is also very smart, unlike some other games. Enemy soldiers will use some strategy in order 
 to prevent you from reaching your objectives. They'll hide, ambush in order to put you into an 
 early grave.
  
  Definately worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adjnyctek
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 27, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  WOW A MuSt HaVe ThE GaMe Is CrAzY..... When I brought it home and install it, I was like this game 
 sucks.... not the kind of game I like playing. :- ( I was like I just wasted my money... so, I began 
 to play a different game. I got bored from playing the other game. Days later I re stared F. E. A. R. 
 and I tell you, It is a great game to play. Hours and Hours of playing time I got better and better. 
 The experience with the supreme sound is like no other PC game I ever play. Every Mission gets 
 better than the other, using the slow mo feature is a plus when low on ammo. If you take your time 
 on each mission you will find lots of extra health and grenades along the way, When you kill the 
 enemy you pick extra ammo as well, a great tip save your best weapon for the master enemy that 
 show up along the way. A MUST HAVE Angel Brooklyn, NY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishwish22
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 16, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  I really wanted to like this game but its so bland I gave up on it. Yeah the enemy is better then 
 your average bot but its level design is the most uninspired pile of blandness it makes my mothers 
 living room look good. Room after room of boring textures and props that make you want shoot yourself 
 if the enemy doesnt do it for you. higly annoying not scary sounds and stupid little girl children. If 
 this is what you call a great game then I feel sorry for the future of pc games. Buy prey its alot 
 more fun then this half backed potatoe. YOu call that level design my mother could decorate her 
 bathroom better! pah. Only thing it has going for it is the very good AI of the enemy force but 
 the rest has all been seen before max payne halflife ghost recon yawn do something new for gods 
 sake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Answer_1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 15, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is the first game to make me flinch and ive been playing games for quite a while. The 
 sound quality is great and the graphics is sharp the games is a decent package pack the the best 
 action you can find around. The A. I is very intelligent the games story line is a nice twist. The 
 reqirements are nice because ive seen other games like graw eating away at the core of your computer 
 and your pockets. The games is very good let me say that again the game is very good if you need 
 a game to buy even if youve never enjoyed shooters you should try this one. The scare about the 
 games is also crazy the way they put things together ive never seen it done like that only in the 
 cinemas. The multiplayer is wicked fun the maps are good and the competition online is fearce, 
 especially with the fixes and patches it makes this game a steal to buy at this time. The presentation 
 is great my only compliain is the weapons i think they could of done a better job with them but 
 i guess they were trying a different feel to the game. It does add some individuality to franchise. 
 F. E. A. R is possible the best shooter ive played s far and no i havent played Half-Life 2 and probably 
 wont , fear is new its brings fun to slow motion it brings new A. I activity new challenges new 
 story its just damn new go out and get if you havent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKASchwanksta
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 13, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R., which stands for First Encounter Assault Recon, is a First Person Shooter that impresses 
 people after the first 3 hours, but slowly bores the player after that. Though I could o give you 
 a brief overview of the story, I feel that, because the story is not worth telling, I will not 
 waste my time.
  
  Lets talk about gameplay, because, in reality, its a GAME, so GAMEPLAY is very important. F. E. A. R. 
 does not intend to throw anything new at you in this respect. You have an assortment of pretty 
 bland weapons, with the exception of the Rail Gun. The Rail gun is basically a gun that shoots 
 nails, theres no way to really explain it and better. It shoots nails and the uninteresting enemies 
 and gets them stuck to the wall. It's actually really cool to leave a room and see a bunch dudes 
 hanging by their arms on the wall and to see the whole room be in complete disarray (holes in the 
 wall, nails stuck in the wall, blood spattered all of the wall, and windows shattered) . 
  
  The firefights are enhanced by the "reflexes" of your character which essentially slows down time 
 (as if you've never seem this before) . Once again, this effect looks very cool in the first 2-3 
 hours, but after a while, you'll be asking for a new gameplay element. Uhm, if you're an explosion 
 buff, in slow-mo, the explosions look quite spectacular, sending your enemies' limbs flying everywhere.
 
  
  Another good thing about the firefights is the enemy AI. It is nothing short of spectacular. Being 
 a scary game, the fact that the enemy is very aware of their surroundings as well as your position 
 makes it great. You'll hear them curse like drunken sailors as you assasinate their comrades, and 
 watch them cordinate flank attacks on your positions. One of the ways you can tell they are smart 
 is that they sometimes set up their own cover without scripts. They will knock over tables to put 
 some separation between you and them. They are also not blind, like most AI. If you set a mine 
 that is in plain view, THEY WILL NOTICE and chill out until you come and find them. 
  
  This AI is all well and good, but, in the end, you will see basically the same enemy the whole 
 game. 
  
  The scary element is very well done, and if you sat in a dark room playing it, im pretty sure you 
 would jump quite often, however, basically all of their fear tactics are drawn from The Ring (which 
 is a movie, if you dont know) . 
  
  So basically, F. E. A. R. is everything i just described it as. If I were you, I would buy it when 
 it's cheap because while some things about it are amazing, it will not last you very long. It has 
 a multiplayer which is good, but you have to like fast paced action, which i hate. Try to borrow 
 this game or buy it when it is cheap.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 13, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R was one of the most anticipated first-person shooters of 2005. While it was given a wealth 
 of descriptions pre-release, F. E. A. R is quite simply a superbly designed game that provides a genuinely 
 creepy, 'on-the-edge -of-your-seat' atmosphere and some of the most intense single player firefights 
 you'll ever encounter. Whilst there is an argument that the game doesnt stretch itself, it delivers 
 exceptionally on what it offers.
  
  In F. E. A. R you play an unnamed new recruit in the First Encounter Assault Recon (F. E. A. R) unit. 
 This unit essentially deals with paranormal activity and threats. You get a fairly good run-down 
 of the issue at hand in the opening cut-scene. A freak by the name of Paxton Fettel who has some 
 pretty handy telepathic skills has taken control of an army of clones that have been developed 
 by the Armacram Corporation and it is up to you and back-up military personnel (who you never 
 fight along side of) to find and neutralize Fettel and thus close down any threat. Of course, its 
 not so simple and by the end of the game you are taken for a bit a ride through corporation ethics, 
 cover-ups, conspiracy and a significant serving of combat. And theres also Alma, a freaky little 
 child who will send the odd chill up you spine with her cameo, but usually suitably placed appearances 
 throughout the campaign.
  
  F. E. A. Rs graphics are as groundbreaking as they are taxing on your system. You are going to need 
 one powerful rig to experience this game at its maximum settings. But even on the medium settings 
 (about where I had it) , this is a very impressive game to look at. Granted, there is not a lot 
 of variety in the environments, which at times do look cardboard cut-out like, but the rest of 
 the game and the effects are stunning. The enemies, NPCs and weapons look very crisp and sharp, 
 and in the heat of a firefight, a lot happens on your screen and it is a joy to watch. The particle 
 and special effects the game uses, with glass smashing, huge chunks coming out of the wall with 
 the dust and residue billowing into the encounter, the movement of your enemies as they duck for 
 cover or jump through glass and the overall lighting and shadows are supreme. When in full swing, 
 F. E. A. R is one of the best looking games going around. There is fallout from the violence  your 
 enemies will die in a number of ways and expect to see plenty of red matter and other less savoury 
 scenes and with an element of realism. The game does earn its MA rating.
  
  The sound in F. E. A. R may actually be its strongest point and it provides a strong contribution 
 to the tense and claustrophobic atmosphere. The sound works the player in turn with sparse chilling 
 effects and noises to the full blown aural chaos of the firefights. When creeping through the rooms 
 and lanes, the sound works wonders  using sparse noises that keep you guessing. The fuzz of your 
 sensor when it picks up a movement of unknown origin never ceases to send a chill up your spine. 
 The chilling laughs, the creepy ambient sounds and the whispers will play with your head, especially 
 if you have headphones or a quality set of speakers. Contrast this with the mayhem of the firefights. 
 The weapon sounds are frighteningly realistic, the smashing of glass, the ripping of the plasterboard 
 and the ricochet of bullets and the empty cartridges hitting the ground provide some of the most 
 amazing sounds to date. Amongst all of this is the voice communication of your enemy, and voice 
 acting of your allies and the creepy, minimalist incidental music that comes and goes. The sound 
 is half the reason why F. E. A. R is so creepy.
  
  The gameplay does focus on its strengths and F. E. A. R does succeed with this approach. The game 
 is primarily a first person shooter that focuses on challenging, Hollywood style firefights. And 
 it will provide some of the best combat you will encounter. While the standard battle is between 
 three or four enemies, you can sometimes be engaging up to a dozen, and that is tough! The enemy 
 AI is first class and really does and an extra level to the game. These guys are smart: they know 
 to flank, communicate, flush you out, or hold and wait for you move. You can hear them communicating, 
 which sometimes gives you an idea on how they are going, but they are very smart. They are very 
 good shots too and wont miss too often. Although there are only a few types of enemies, they will 
 keep you occupied. They heavy armour clone will take a lot to bring down and there is a cool invisible 
 karate style clone that appears on a couple of intervals.
  
  However, you have ultra-fast reflexes on your side (part of the reason you were recruited into 
 the F. E. A. R unit) and this does assists in battles. Activate your reflexes and times slows down 
 (Max Payne like, but much more effective) and you continue at normal speed, giving you some valuable 
 metres and seconds on your enemy. This can last for quite a few seconds, and whilst not on tap 
 in replenishes reasonably quickly. You also have a lethal kick if you get into some close combat.
 
  
  There is a reasonable array of weapons at your disposal, ranging from the stock standard pistol 
 to a heavy duty particle gun that will liquefy an enemy on contact. The higher end weapons, however, 
 do not have large amounts of ammunition and you can only carry three weapons at one time, so decisions 
 need to be made about what to take into combat. Youll be able to pick up ammo from your fallen 
 enemies, as well as health packs that are scattered throughout the game.
  
  Whilst the firefights make the game a white-knuckled action experience, F. E. A. R mixes this with 
 a shade of horror and the unknown and it does produce a genuinely unsettling atmosphere. The 
 game is played at night and usually in dark or dim-late environments. The ability of Alma to pop 
 up unexpectedly does provide the odd genuine fright and the pervading sense of dread is enhanced 
 with clever visual and sound work. Whilst I never jumped out of my chair, I certainly did feel 
 the odd chill up the spine whilst playing F. E. A. R
  
  The story isnt a bad one, and it does build up a suitable sense of dread as you progress through 
 the intervals. It is obvious that the situation is getting out of control as you uncover more about 
 the history or Armacram and its research. This game doesnt go for the happy ending. The token 
 good looking NPC chick meets a grizzly fate, as do practically all characters you encounter. The 
 story does take a bit of believing, but its slightly twisted and horror-tinged theme gives the 
 game the appropriate atmosphere from start to finish.
  
  F. E. A. R took me between 11 and 12 hours on the normal level, but this was a very tense and competitive 
 game. While there was a bit of time to catch your breath every now and then, and the closing intervals 
 of the game did seem to speed to its conclusion, the single player campaign of F. E. A. R is intense 
 and exhaustive. I have not played the multiplayer component, but it gets a good wrap. It is also 
 about the released for free, so expect it to be patronized a lot more in the near future. Whilst 
 the replay factor for the single player component may not be great, I can see my self dusting this 
 one off and trying the next difficulty level, because this superb AI really does bring out the 
 competitor in any gamer.
  
  I paid $AUD58 for F. E. A. R, which was on sale at the time. It is more than I normally pay for a 
 game, but it does represent reasonable value for money. It is certainly a game for the collection.
 
  
  F. E. AR combines intense first person shooter action with a spooky, unsettling environment to deliver 
 a quality gaming experience. Whilst maybe not as groundbreaking as initially predicted, this is 
 one mighty gaming experience. It is a tough, intense, draining but ultimately satisfying game. 
 Turn the lights off, put the headphones on and let F. E. A. R take you on its twisted wild ride.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: funboy05
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 13, 2006 2:28 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is an amazing game with a great single player campaign. You start off as a nameless special 
 ops marine who recently joined F. E. A. R. (First Encounter Assault Recon) and is quickly assigned 
 to find and capture Paxton Fettel who is this Telepathic Maniac who can control soldier clones 
 with his mind and has gone loose and escaped. You are quickly thrown into cut-scenes of nightmares 
 and are give pieces and pieces as the game progresses of the story.
  
  Fear has one of the best gameplay I've ever played. What makes playing Fear so fun is the A. I. 
 as many have mentioned, the A. I. is very smart though not challengingly difficult. The A. I. uses 
 environments for cover or creates cover (moving sofas around) , they call for back-up, they will 
 suppress fire you while others are flanking you from the side, investigate if they see a light 
 and other things. The gameplay kind of gets repetitive after awhile as you hardly leave the same 
 environments, at times you would find yourself in a parking lot or wondering back allies, but usually 
 you'll be in a building going through rooms you've felt that you've gone before. What upsets me 
 is you basically have the same mission all the way through, it's ridiculous; and you'll be fighting 
 by yourself all the way through as well. There are puzzles to complete in this game, yes, sometimes 
 you won't know how to advance because you have to do something somewhere else, they're fairly easy 
 and are not that much common throughout the game, but just thought I'd mention the puzzle aspect 
 of it. I really like the bullet time effect it has in the game where you get to slow down time 
 though it's been borrowed from previous games (what hasn't nowadays) , to me thought it's a bit 
 on the short time side of things. But it's fun, it gets you out of tough spots. You also fight 
 basically the same enemies all the way through with a few surprises on the way. The weapons in 
 the game are good, you get a few futuristic guns like the Plasma Rifle and so on, but it's basically 
 regular weapons. There's also three different types of grenades with their own unique ability. 
 Anyways, Fear does have it's spooky moments though it won't be that scary after playing it a second 
 way through, but it's still kind of scary espcially on good graphics and sound. WARNING: be careful 
 of fear forums because they're crawling with spoilers and trust me you'll like the ending.
  
  Online is somewhat fun, there aren't much people playing on-line thought that will soon change 
 with Fear Combat which is Fear Multi-player for Free. It's got your typical modes, Deathmatch, 
 Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, etc. Some maps are quite small, but the strange thing is that 
 some of the large maps are actually a little big to want to play on like Streets. The speed also 
 goes a little fast since the default speed is 1.2 which is nothing big but is notable to mention; 
 of course you can customize the options to have Fear run on the speed that you want since there's 
 no running/sprinting button to press in this game. Another thing too is that the weapons seem a 
 little unbalanced since some weapons kits are easier to kill than others. I mean it's fun, but 
 the heart of the game is in the single player.
  
  Graphics are amazing. Well at least 95% of it. If you've been on the Fear Hardware Performance 
 Guide on Gamespot, you'll see that the best way for a performance gain is your graphics card, so 
 make sure you have a decent graphics card for that's what this game relies on the most. You can 
 still pass with 512mb-1gb of ram easily in this game with a decent processor, but the graphics 
 card is what is needed most to enjoy the graphics, feel of the game, and even spooks. Like mentioned 
 earlier, the only complain I have is the ugly effect a bullet gives to a wall. Like once you shoot 
 at a wall and you get close, it kind of looks like a cut-out crater look. It doesn't really look 
 like a bullet shot the wall. But anyways, the graphics are amazing even though I have an x1600xt, 
 it still looks pretty sharp. Though the one thing you might want to turn off is soft shadow for 
 that just plunges your framerates by around 30 and it doesn't look at that much better. The graphics 
 are great with great explosions and physics effects, like mostly everything you shoot will likely 
 react how you shot it. There's framerate dumps here and there in the game, usually when you're 
 outside, but it stays at a decent framerate with the right system. Graphically it's what you want 
 if you have a decent to high end system.
  
  Sound is awesome. They change the music here and there during the game which just spooks you out. 
 It also sucks when you're trying to sneak and you walk over cans or whatever and it makes a sound 
 or whatever and you think it's someone behind you something. If you're lucky enough to have a decent 
 to great sound card and/or speakers then you're in for a hell of a time. The guns sound real and 
 powerful, you can hear where the enemies are coming from, great music, and just a pure joy to hear.
 
  
  Fear is a game in which you probably won't be coming back after beating it a couple times. I mean 
 the multiplayer really won't be dragging you back, it's fun, but not addictingly fun. It's fun 
 to play once the single player gets boring or unscary. It's fun while it lasts and heck you'll 
 be wanting more. The single player campaign is fairly long, 10+ hours, for some longer for they 
 have to take breaks from scared. But it's a great single player though it does get a little bit 
 repetitive.
  
  One quick note: I'd like to say that I bought the Director's Edition of Fear which came with a 
 few extras like a mini comic book (extended version of the intro movie scene, but still great comic) , 
 directors edition stuff like making the game, commentary of the first 40 minutes of the game, etc. 
 It's great, I like the behind the scenes, this version costs roughly $38 on newegg I believe, to 
 me it's worth it. It even comes all in a DVD so no need to be switching Cd's upon installing and 
 no need to be taking care of all those cd's.
  
  FINALLY I would like to say it's a very good game with good fears here and there and very good 
 gameplay. I don't believe it's a system hog like others might tell you, just keep the resolution 
 low and watch the shadows options. It's a great game if you're getting it for the PC and prefer 
 the mouse and keyboard (it'll be coming soon to the xbox 360 in case you don't have an "average" 
 pc) . It's a good game if you have money and are looking for a new game that will keep you occupied 
 and entertained with it's share of scares. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ABOLZOZ
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 13, 2006 12:40 am PT
Review:  This game is something special. The way idea is to create extremely intense close quarter combat 
 in a scary and futuristic setting. The game play is fast pace and addictive but dont get me wrong 
 the weapons do recoil and vary a lot in their functionality (aiming-accuracy-damage) . This is not 
 a classical school shooter it is not a realistic shooter as well it is somewhere in between. The 
 scary oriented setting adds a lot to the game, it gives an over all feel of fear that adds to the 
 tension of the game play. The graphics are really beautiful one of the best seen in years. The 
 way the particles fly all over the place during a gun fight is the best seen in any Fps. It gives 
 the player a rush feeling of chaos and excitement plus a beautiful firework effect. The sound effects 
 are excellent to say the least. The music is beautiful it sticks in your head and u cant shut 
 it of it just keeps on playing like a good song that you just keep repeating. The story is nice 
 but you dont have to follow it or understand it really, it is revealed as strange but cool cut 
 senses that are always appropriate as a horror movie introduction. The game in its core is a run 
 and gun shooter, add to this some scary moments that really spooks u out. The term run and gun 
 here is not like a Serious Sam style, the enemies are extremely smart and this game has offered 
 the highest AI in a shooter to date. Many times u do feel that u are playing a multiplayer game 
 not a single player campaign; the A. I is that good. I was forced to play the game 3 times and I 
 finished it at the highest difficulty level. It plays flawlessly extremely challenging and excellently 
 engineered. U have a power that allows you to slow time, that to me was a low point. This power 
 can really ruin the game if it was overused. I finished the game without using that stupid power. 
 Yes it looks great to use but it dramatically decreases the challenge. The same thing with Doom3: ROE 
 , if u know what I mean. The mistake is being repeated again with Prey. Game developers please 
 add elements that make your games more challenging not less challenging ok!
  Back to Fear now. I liked the game-play but I wanted some more diversity the game does get repetitive. 
 The weapons are excellent but it would have been much better if the weapon models where more realistic: 
 an AKS 74 U for example. ( U know that short machine gun that is supplied for the Russian special 
 forces) or an M 4 model. Realistic weapons are much more desired. 
  Also u can notice that the game is all the way close-quarters no long range combat at all like 
 (the excellent Far Cry for example) ! And please add a real sniper. 
  
  I enter the room 4 enemies has spotted me. They are cleverly positioning themselves and giving 
 each other important information about my position. I am fanatically trying to place killer shots 
 in my enemies while moving to find cover. The particles are flying all around a fire explodes near 
 me I am a bit scared but I have 6 med kits so Ill manage. One down. two down .. I throw a grenade 
 my last enemy has perished I am satisfied. 
  
  The game is really excellent defiantly a classic. The king of close quarters. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: neatfeatguy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 6, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I waited a while before I finally brought myself to actually pick up a copy of this game. The main 
 reason I was waiting was because I needed a better computer to play the game (and I finally got 
 one) plus I never see the benefit to dishing out the cash that a game company is calling for when 
 a game first comes out. I usually wait for the price to drop down a bit before I get games.
  
  I am glad that I got this FPS because it puts Doom 3 and Quake 4 to shame in game play (replay 
 value) , graphics and even the story line.
  
  The replay value comes into play here: If I were to save before I entered a new area that looked 
 dangerous and fight off the enemies there.... I could load my saved game and when I entered the 
 same area I just played through, most of the time, some of those enemies were not in the same spot 
 they were in before. Thus causing me to have to change my tactics on the fly to keep myself from 
 getting killed.
  
  This game is very fast paced if you don't use the Reflex ability to slow things down around you. 
 Playing without using the Reflex ability make this game much more difficult to play and it adds 
 a new challenge to it if you wish to beat the game in this manner.
  
  From what I've seen when playing, the AI is some of the best I've seen in a FPS since FarCry. The 
 computer will try to flank you, they'll try to flush you out with grenades, they'll try to come 
 around from behind you and force you to move out in the open where other enemies will be waiting, 
 they'll call for reinforcements if you've taken down most of the squad and they are talkative among 
 theirselves and they are alterative towards their surroundings.
  
  There are a few glitchy spots I've come across, where you will walk through an area and out of 
 nowhere an enemy will appear behind you and proceed to beat the living daylights out of you. Also, 
 even if you sneak up on a group of enemies and toss out a geranade, they'll yell out Geranade! 
 and dive for cover, even though they have no line of sight with me or the geranade I threw.
  
  There is a good variety of weapons to use, this ranges from melee attacks (kicks, jump kick, 
 sliding tackle/kick and the butt of your weapons) to dual pistols, sub-machine guns, rifles, 3 
 types of grenades and a rocket launcher.... I do believe there are one or two more kinds of weapons 
 that I may be forgetting about.
  
  I cannot comment on how multi-player works, I have yet to dive into that aspect of the game, but 
 if it is anything like the single player levels, I'm sure I won't be disappointed with it.
  
  If you are a fan of FPS and want a game that brings more to the menu than Doom 3 and Quake 
 4, then FEAR is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wreeek
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2006 11:47 pm PT
Review:  I. LOVE. THIS. GAME. Period. It's immersing, it's intelligent, it's drop dead gorgeous (in the sense 
 that the environments are natural and filled to the brim with detail) , it's gory, it's violent, 
 it's brutal, it's original (for the most part) , the effects are phenomenal and spectacular, it's 
 actually scary, it's messed up, it has a pretty darn good story considering it's an FPS, multi-player 
 is fun and perfectly balanced, the physics are exact and tight, the guns are amazing, the world 
 is incredible, the AI is unbelievable and very, VERY, intelligent, to the point that it's frightening, 
 and I can play it again, and again, and again. It's a ten hour movie that you as the character, 
 play out, and holy crap! There's an actual player model, and you don't just automatically climb 
 ladders, as well as see your hands on the freaked rungs!! You know, like in real life? Welcome 
 to F. E. A. R.
  
  I say Hard at first, then you get used to it. Higher difficulties are truly hard though.
  You 
 learn the controls quick but timing takes a while.
  Also, enemies may seem predictable after a while. If so, raise the difficulty, as it also raises 
 there intelligence.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nvorgang
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 7, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  After I rebuilt my computer, I needed a game to test it. F. E. A. R. was that game. I have a 7800GT 
 OC, 1 gig of ram, and amd62 x2 4200+, and I was playing the game on medium-high settings. Game 
 is very smooth for me to play. The game has a good story that is fleshed out during the course 
 of the game through weird 'visions', info on computers, and other voice messages. I personally 
 liked the ending of the game, leaving lots of room for expansions or a sequel. I liked the creepy 
 atmosphere, kept the tension high for about half the game, but it kind of gets old after a while. 
 The weaponary in the game is awesome, but the only weapon I felt that was weak was the rocket launcher. 
 Something for me to get use to was how high the mouse sensitivity was. If you're not use to it 
 when you first play, it becomes second nature and necessary because of the slow-mo powers you have. 
 I wish I had a sound card for this game (i'm using onboard audio) and can't wait till i play this 
 game in SLI. I highly recommend for any FPS fan and anyone who wants a challenge because it can 
 be tough sometimes in firefights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 6, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is a great game, with some nice shooting actions and the power to slow time.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Excellent FPS
  +Bullet time
  +Very smart enemies
  +Nice multiplayer
  +Nice 
 freaky atmosphere
  -Short game
  -Very repetitve level design
  -End is very bad
  
  Graphics:
  +Amazing graphics
  +Looks very real
  +Good atmosphere
  -You need a very good 
 computer for this game
  
  Sounds:
  +Amazing sounds
  +Weapons sounds are awesome
  +Some nice music
  +Freaky background sounds
  
  Value:
  +Nice multiplayer modes
  -Short 
 campaign
  -Repetitive level design
  -The end of the game is really bad and very easy
  
  Tilt:
  +Overall nice presentation, with FPS controls
  
  Cya all, and remember nothing of 
 this :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_storm
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 6, 2006 4:47 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. stands for first encounter assualt recon its a team who deal with super natural situations. 
 In the game you are a soldier who just joined the fear team (and you never speaks through out the 
 game) . A crazy guy called Paxton fettel escaped from prison and with his telepathic powers he awoke 
 a clone army. YOU are fears point man and is sent to investigate the  
 telepathic communications from fettel you discover that paxton fettel is your BROTHER and the spooky 
 girl you see around the game Is your MOTHER. 
  
  The graphics for this game are really good and need good requirements to run this game to run it 
 smooth u need 1 gb of ram. The environment graphics are really good but i was let down on the character 
 detail it has a good physics engine and when u repeatedly shoot u see smoke rising from the walls 
 and good big chunks of the wall falling apart. In the game you get to use slo mo which means u have 
 the upper edge on your opponents (very useful in ambushes) u also have some martial arts moves bicycle 
 kick jump kick and slide kick.
  
  This game has the GREATEST A. I. i have ever seen in years. The clones will communicate between 
 themselves and try to flank u they flip shelves and tables to create cover and they will call for 
 reinforcements. Very good sound effects gun fire sounds real and explosions are very good when 
 seen in slo mo. What ever the price the game is a must- buy game.
  
  I am not a multi player fan but i heard it is pretty good. The game is very good on the whole and 
 it is the first game that you can actually see your legs and feet making you feel more ion the 
 game. Thanks for reading this review and please respond. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mryupcarlseen
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 5, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Fear is an extremely well executed game. The graphics are literally the best I have ever seen. 
 The gameplay is near perfect. One very neat feature is your ability in the game to "react quicker" 
 which is basically an option to slow time (while your reacted at a normal speed) while playing. 
 Almost exactly like Max Payne. Heh, it was a good idea and it hasn't gotten old. What else can 
 one say. There are no real weaks points to this game except for one. Please, oh God please...... give 
 us a sniper rifle!! Anyways, this is an exceptional first game in a series that should blow everyone 
 away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ithilgore2006
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 13, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is, technically, a very impressive game. The gameplay is intense, and it has an interesting 
 story. But it has it's flaws:
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics for this game are awe-inspiring to look at, for the most part. The atmosphere is helped 
 by the creepy and convincing environment. The physics are great, with full rag-doll effects, and 
 good object physics. The character models, to glance at, look superb, however, some parts are disappointing, 
 the facial expressions are sub-par, especially when compared with the older Half-Life 2. Particle 
 effects are used well, paticularly on explosions. The developers clearly put a lot of effort into 
 the presentation.
  
  Sound:
  The game has superb sound, if a lack of music. However, perhaps in the context of this game, music 
 shouldn't be used, so this may be a plus. Gun and explosion sounds are convincing, and voice-acting 
 is quite good. However, the best area of sound is used to effect during the "Unknown Origin" scenes 
 (the game's scripted "scary parts") , with screaming, rattling, and banging used to excellent effect. 
 In fact the sound that signals these scenes, the "Geiger Counter" sound, can get quite unnerving.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay is enjoyable, if somewhat unspectacular. The firefights are very intense, and the "scary 
 part" in between each firefight are genuinely frightening, the first time you see them. Controls 
 are easy to use, and the game isn't too difficult. Whether you count the scary parts as a plus 
 or not is down to personal taste, but they do their job well.
  
  Value:
  This is where the game starts to go downhill. The game is fairly long, and moderately difficult, 
 but once you complete it, there isn't a lot to go back to. Once you've seen the "scary parts" once 
 or twice, you aren't really unnerved by them much again. The game is very linear, and there isn't 
 much replay value.
  
  Overall, this game is worth a purchase, if your PC can handle it. Be warned, however, once you 
 complete it once, it loses a lot of appeal. The firefights are always fun, however. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackhawk42
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  Well, let me tell you something about this game. It is truly a masterpiece, as I have stated. Now 
 let me tell you why. The story, although hard to understand, fits right in with the gameplay. 
 
  
  Alma is behind all the action in this intense shooter. It's a paranormal story that resulted in 
 lost lives as the mission to capture the man behind the army of thousands of clone soldiers goes 
 wrong, and suddenly you find yourself in the middle of the fighting.
  
  Lots and lots of extensive blood, suspense so good it will scare you (as it did me) , a unique arsenal 
 of guns, horror-movie sound and music, and enemies with AI so good they will make you HAVE to arrange 
 battle tactics when fighting with these supersoldiers!
  
  All in all, this game is very well done. And if you're like me (I love FPSs) you'll probably play 
 through this whole game more than once. 
  
  I got a kick out of this game, and if you love shooters, so will you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gentazo
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2006 2:40 am PT
Review:  A paramilitary force infiltrates a multi billion dollar aerospace compound taking hostages, but 
 issuing no demands. The government responds by sending in its best special operations teams, only 
 to have them obliterated. Live footage of the massacre is cut short by an unexpected wave of destruction 
 that leaves military leaders stunned and in disbelief.
  
  With U. S. Special Forces in over their heads, the Commander in Chief turns to his final option: 
 you. You've been trained to handle the inexplicable, armed with experimental high tech weaponry, 
 and given full executive authority to end the crisis by any means necessary. 
  
  System Requirements:
  
  * Windows  2000/XP with latest service pack installed
  
  * DirectX (tm) 
 9.0c
  
  * Pentium  4 1.7 Ghz or equivalent
  
  * 1GB RAM
  
  * 128 MB DirectX  9.0 Compliant Video Card with hardware T&L and pixel shader support*
  
  
 * 3.0 GB free Hard Drive Space for installation
  
  * Additional hard drive space for a Windows swap file and saved game files.
  
  * 16-bit DirectX 
 9.0 compliant sound card with support for EAX 2.0
  
  * Broadband connection for multiplayer games.
  
  * Mouse & Keyboard
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: klint44
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 4, 2006 3:16 am PT
Review:  I finished the game yesterday and before started writing this review I checked several reviews 
 of gamespot readers. People please! Come on! Far Cry gets 8-9 and this 6.8? You are kiddin' me!
 
  
  First thing is the absolutely novelty - brilliant action and behavior of the human enemies. I was 
 shocked how the authors managed to reconcile the elements like movement, speech and combat and 
 how well it contributed to the reflection of reality. The game is thanks to this (and other things 
 too of course) quite hard from the very beginning and the bullet time appears to be most useful.
 
  
  The other thing I liked about the game was the creepy atmosphere. In the last meeting with Alma 
 (when the big door is covered with blood) I turned around too late, so she already had her hands 
 on my neck - I jumped out of my skin!!! 
  
  And the next novelty - you can carry three weapons at a time - brilliant! And this is the reality 
 of the game. In Return to Castle Wolfenstein you could carry six Panzerfausts (not the rockets, 
 but unreloadable launcher - quite big) plus ten further weapons - you would have to pull a cart 
 with this stuff just to move not mentioning climbing or combat.
  
  The game's lowest possible rating is at least very good and in some areas it is undeniably brilliant. 
 However there were of course some drawbacks. The basic that come to my mind were the following:
 
  
  Most probably there is no single self-defended building, where you can switch on/off a turret with 
 pulling a lever in a box hanging on a wall in a corridor - you should have figured something else 
 you lazybones! (ok I am nibbling now) .
  
  Shotgun half-drowns in the floor when fallen from the hands of defeated enemies (what's that you're 
 sayin'? that there is a patch fixing this? ok - I am not updated - sorry) .
  
  Ok seriously: the main drawback was that the game was not getting much harder from the beginning. 
 I was surprised when it was over. Of course in part it resulted from the better bullet-time and 
 mastering the skills throughout the game, but should be a bit harder. When you play an FPS you 
 expect new nastier enemies, new more powerful weapons, but also you expect that it will be harder 
 and harder to survive. And here... After assassins in one of the initial intervals for a long time 
 it was a piece a cake. The EVEs, the flying robots and heavy armored replicas appeared not to be 
 much smart (especially EVEs - letting me kill them for almost nothing) .
  
  But - as I mentioned in the beginning the game was hard itself so there was plenty of fun and several 
 times they got me.
  
  Overall I would say, that most probably I will come back to this game. Will become a classic. And 
 to the guy who rated the game 6.8: you go play some chess! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redgarl
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 2, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I got into mind as soon as I started to play was : "Is it supposed to look better 
 or it just like that?" . I really tought I was gonna see something with all the praise it received, 
 it wasn't the case. In fact, the Source engine is still able to do much more with less. the particle 
 effect are cool, but should't take that much power. Oblivion run better than that (it's not a compliment) . 
 I don't know what Sierra was doing with the code, but it's not what I call a good job.
  
  Enough of my rambling about the technicalities, let's start talking about the game.
  
  Gameplay...
 
  Generic, so generic... if it wasn't for the story, the game would have been a desert. It's no 
 Half-Life by any mean. Collect bullets, kill, collect medikits, kill, do this crap... ahhh! It's 
 just Quake in another skin. For the guns, well, the shotgun and the mp5 are about the only guns 
 worth getting in the entire game... funny enought, they are about the first ones you get. It's 
 normal to see the duallies to be more lethal than most of the rest, because the game is like that... 
 abnormal.
  
  I forgot to talk about bullet time... well, there is nothing more to say about it, it's simply 
 bullet time in a FPS.
  
  About the A. I. ... yeah it's really a great A. I., but it doesn't mean it's really that much better 
 than what you already saw. I played a ot of CS, and I can tell you that this isn't a wonderful 
 A. I. . I was waiting for the enemies to come along because I was in a dead end, I killed everyone 
 of them because they were all coming by the same way. Only the last one get from behind, but at 
 last, I got him by behind because I knew he was coming from behind. The enemies are good shooters, 
 in fact, they always hit you... it's not great A. I., it's great NPC aim, that's different.
  
  The only great thing about the gameplay is probably the Horror theme. It's still a Max Payne 
 clone, but that thing work like a charm. It's one best horror game on PC.
  
  Graphics
  Well, they are good, very good, but they don't render what they should render for the power you 
 need. I got an older card, so I was forced to put my resolution under 1280X1024. It's about the 
 first game I need to do that, even Oblivion can run at that resolution without AA. Still, I was 
 expecting something incredible, but I got a look to just another FPS. The fire effects are great 
 with the particle effect during explosions, but you are only going to see that during animations. 
 Far Cry look better and it's older and was from a new developer. Still great, but not what I was 
 hoping for.
  
  Sound
  Guns, peoples and enemies... nothing new and interesting here. Where it really shine is during 
 flashbacks. A huge range of filters have been used for recording. The atmosphere is greatly improve 
 with this, but only last a few seconds at each time.
  
  Value
  Not much after the adventure. In fact I didn't touch it after. The price is too high for the time 
 you're gonna spend on it.
  
  Tilt
  I was waiting for this game. I thought it could be something after such reviews, but I wasn't able 
 to step into it really much. It's a pure FPS with pure FPS gameplay. It's really generic if you 
 have spend some time in other ones.
  
  I don't believe it deserve such a score, it's good and better than most FPS on the market, but 
 there is too much flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halfdeck22
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 2, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  I've played FEAR now around 4-5 times trying to find what I missed after reading so many rave reviews. 
 Don't get me wrong - there are some aspects of this game I love, but it just left me with an ambivalent 
 feeling.
  
  The Bad
  
  Bland environment. Compare the first few minutes of prey or Doom 3 to first 15 minutes of FEAR 
 and you realize FEAR and there's nothing WOWing me. I see the same wrench calendar, magazine, stapler 
 about 10,000 throughout the game. Sure, with the graphics maxed, each room look pretty real. But 
 it feels so artificial and in the end, every room looks like every other room. On the contrary, 
 Prey forces me to look at every detail of every room - way more immersive imo.
  
  If the story was compelling, the boring enviroment wouldn't be too bad. First, you don't have a 
 name, you're the "FEAR Operative." The psychic clone soldiers storyline is weak. The basic objective 
 is to keep moving forward. But the most annoying thing was how each mission ends when I'm jumping 
 down from somewhere. I can appreciate the HL type of gameplay where the game isn't segmented into 
 different set-pieces (like No One Lives Forever) , but this game does seriously drag on.
  
  The gameplay is too easy. Like others said, too many medpacks, too many stims, too few enemies. 
 Also, if you're facing 3 enemies, you always get your first kill for free, so you're really only 
 dealing with 2. Go into bullet time and there's no way you can die. The gameplay is better if you 
 avoid bullet time altogether. Also, the enemy feels way too scripted. I just don't interpret what 
 they're doing as AI. Plus their radio chatter gives too much away. It would have been better if 
 they said nothing revealing, like "we need reinforcements!"
  
  The game is not scary. Too many apparitions, visions, and paranormal effects. Repetitive lines, 
 like "they all deserved to die" fell flat. After watching the Ring at 3 am alone I was completely 
 spooked. I never got that same feeling with FEAR, because like I said, there's barely any story 
 in this game.
  
  Character graphics is good. You'll pause to look at the carnage after every battle. With all the 
 settings maxed the soldiers' carcass look awesome. Still, overall, the game is nowhere near as 
 breathtaking as Prey or Doom 3.
  
  Overall, FEAR is a mixed bag. Some good graphics, lousy level design, non-existent plot, easy gameplay. 
 also, it could be just me, but the constant autosaves were annoying and unncessary. Every time 
 there's an autosave, the game gets stuck and it takes you right out of the game. Imagine watching 
 one of your favorite movies and the station breaks for commercial every 2 minutes. That's how it 
 feels. It's still a game worth playing, but not one I can rave about.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigRoachy
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 2, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R to me.. is one of those games that just blows you away in all the previews. The graphics 
 are mind blowing, the gameplay looks fantastic, and everything just comes together so perfectly. 
 But.. then when you actually get the game and install it, the game seems to have.. dumbed down 
 a bit. It isn't as amazing as you saw in the previews. You notice that the graphics are jagged 
 in spots, and the gameplay gets boring fast.
  
  Not to say that F. E. A. R is a bad game, though. In fact, Fear is one of the best First Person Shooters 
 to be released in the last few years. It has an interesting horror premise, one where you don't 
 really have much of a clue what's happening at first. You start out being briefed on a strange 
 situation, a guy named Paxton Fettel has gone on a hungry, people eating rampage, and you're being 
 sent in with a small team to eliminate him. Typical horror theme. And, of course, there's the creepy 
 little girl that seems to rip apart everything and everyone in her path. Obviously, the story of 
 Fear isn't its strongest point, though it's horror setting can tend to freak you out quite a bit.
 
  
  Probably the game's strongest point has to be its gameplay. It blends generic first person shooting 
 with some hand to hand combat and some bullet time style slow motion sequences. The game's A. I. 
 can be very intelligent in spots. They will knock things over for cover, communicate with each 
 other, toss grenades to flush you out, and fall back when they're screwed. The combat is fast paced 
 and enjoyable, but after a while you realize that you're shooting the same guys over and over, 
 and the fighting tends to get tedious. Fear has your standard array of weapons such as assault 
 rifles, shotguns, pistols, and then the plasma stuff and rocket launchers. Nothing extremely interesting, 
 but they all get the job done very well.
  
  The graphics of Fear shift back and forth between superb, and simply mediocre. Some times you'll 
 find yourself in a highly detailed office setting, blood stains on the ceiling that seem to be 
 seeping through and dripping, broken glass, curtains, particles everywhere, and lots of texture 
 details. Then sooner or later, you'll walk down a bland hallway with nothing much anywhere.. flat 
 textures and bland detail. Also, the huge bullet holes that appear in walls look extremely bad 
 when you pay attention to them. And on the topic of graphics, you'll notice that the setting never 
 really changes. I felt like I was fighting through the same offices and dark corridors the whole 
 game. The enemies that you fight don't seem to have much variety either, just grunts and robots 
 really..
  
  Where Fear really shined with me was with its sound effects. The sound really spelled out the creppy 
 atmosphere within Fear. Weather it was the sound of blood dripping off the ceiling, or the sound 
 of the invisible ninja guys coming to get you, it rocked.
  
  The multiplayer in Fear isn't exactly anything special either. It's basically just.. Deathmatch, 
 and Team Deathmatch. There is also a mode that uses the slow motion, which is cool, but after you've 
 fried the same three players 30 times, the novelty wears off. But, multiplayer was obviously not 
 the focus of Fear.
  
  So in conclusion, I enjoyed Fear. It didn't take me very long to accomplish, but it was fun and 
 is definitely worth picking up to kill some time for a couple nights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xdrjx
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 2, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  FEAR delivers nice shooter action combined with dense atmosphere. Most players will find themselves 
 more then once shocked by the game. But I think this game is a little overrated. It's a good game, 
 but not as good as many people tell you. The graphics are very nice, even though they aren't as 
 good as in HL2. But the level design lacks some innovation. After completing the game you feel 
 like you just played 3 different levels. This also counts for your enemies. Most of the time you 
 spend killing the same replica dudes over and over again. The more interesting ones appear rarely. 
 Its a good solid game, which makes a lot of fun but its definitely no 9.0 or above!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 2, 2006 4:50 am PT
Review:  FEAR is a mind blowing game, graphic wise, that requires an advance PC to operate, that is if you 
 want it in its full graphical glory. Depending on your PC, the game has a very good frame rate, 
 awesome details and pretty explosions. With a good PC rig and PC home theatre you will gain the 
 full benefit from this game. 
  
  As a straight forward FPS this game delivers in abundance. It has a good weapon display and user 
 friendly weapon menu and the enemy AI is bar far the best I've seen thus far. However; we all know 
 that game graphics does not mean its a good game. Let us begin with the downside of FEAR. 
  
  FEAR suffers from a lack of innovation in the storyline department and lack of both variety 
 in objectives and enviroment. The story is very straight forward, linear, and kinda boring. There 
 isn't any fact finding agenda that leads up to a interesting & climatic moment. Sure you get to 
 download some dry facts from lap tops spread out throughout the game & hear those repetitive messages 
 from answering machines, but not enough to create a sense of mystery and suspense. To its defense 
 though, the supernatural effects of the game does create a creepy mood in the beginning, until 
 you begin to get use to it, since it is placed there to just make you jump here and there offering 
 no fight or flight option. 
  
  Now as far as lack of enviromental variety, the game setting is downright laughable. I seriously 
 feel that the developers suffered from a serious case of office phobia. If you strip away the awesome 
 graphics, effects and details, the game setting is boring and repetitive all throughout the game. 
 You go from office floor to office floor, from building to building, to the occasional wharehouse 
 or sewers or ducts, then back to the office. Kinda makes you wonder all that shooting going on 
 in those buildings that the city itself is still unaware of the rukus. 
  
  Now as far as being a straight forward FPS, FEAR delivers. That is if you don't care much for storyline 
 and character development, then this game is for you. The game is very short but the enemy AI is 
 amazing. As far as enemy encounters, you'll pretty much will encounter the same enemies over and 
 over and over again. Sure you will encounter a few variants of soldiers and the occasional HEAVY 
 - an armored plated Bio soldier freak of nature. Also along your office journey a mech or two, 
 cloak ninjas, flying drones, wall mounted guns from hell and attacking spirits, but pretty much 
 its the same across the board. 
  
  I must admit though the most fun part of this game is taking on the enmy AI. I recommend playing 
 this game on a very difficult setting since it gives you an awesome challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggestben
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  Good points : 
  
  + The A. I in this game is simply the best yet seen on any P. C or console FPS. Enemies take cover, 
 ambush you and circle around in an attempt to flush you out, helping make no firefight the same.
 
  + The graphics too are some of the best seen on any shooter to date. The shadowing is excellent 
 and, together with the lighting and different special effects, amplify the tension during the paranormal 
 parts of the game, and the soldiers are highly detailed. Some of the environments are a bit bland 
 however.
  + The actual combat is highly satisfying, with a cool implementation of slow-mo and fun melee attacks 
 to try out, as well as the aforementioned great A. I to fight against.
  + The balance between adrenaline pumping shootouts and quiet creepy moments is spot on. 
  + The 
 story holds your interest for the whole game, as not everything is handed out to you on a platter, 
 you'll have to find out some things for yourself.
  
  Bad points :
  
  - Once you have fought one enemy, you've fought them all. While the combat is fun, the different 
 number of enemies you'll fight against is very low, so there is a danger that you'll get tired 
 of fighting the same faceless goon over and over again.
  - The single playing game itself is quite short, but there is always the multiplayer to spend some 
 time on.
  - The number of guns you can get is also low. While for some people about 8 or 9 guns would be 
 alright, with the enemy count so low a larger number of weapons would have kept the player's interest 
 up.
  - As mentioned before, the environments are a bit bland, with the same grey textures and office 
 style scenery.
  - As with most recent P. C games, if you want to enjoy the game as it was intended, you'll need 
 a top of the range P. C. Goes without saying really...
  
  F. E. A. R is a great FPS and deserves to be compared with the Half-life's and Doom's and Quake's, 
 thanks to the visceral combat and freaky jump-out-of-your-seat moments. There are some flaws, but 
 they don't overshadow what is a brilliant game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisgtahalo22
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 30, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I have played a lot of first person shooters, they are my favorite genre, I played some of them 
 thinking they were very intense. I thought I knew what intense was. Until I dove into the game 
 that is FEAR. Within the first twenty minutes I experienced the craziest, in your face, blood soaked, 
 firefights of all time. 
  
  Gameplay-This might take a while, it is amazing. A gun in this game looks and feels like a gun, 
 you fire it and it blows away anything that you shoot with it. These are the most entertaining 
 weapons of any FPS I have ever played. This is also one of the goriest games i've played. Few sights 
 can exceed the moment you run into some poor guard and shoot him in the waist and you his torso 
 twirl into the air, while his legs just fall right to the floor in amazing show of blood, guts, 
 and debris. It's astounding to see the gunfights in this game. The enviroments feel destructive, 
 even though they really aren't because of the great engine this game runs on, more on that in the 
 next section.
  
  Graphics-Best i've seen, they even beat out Half-Life 2. The lighting, the smoke, the debris, the 
 blood and gore. Everything visual in this game will blow you away. Both the environments and the 
 models look absolutely fantastic, it almost looks like reality. The animation is very good, when 
 the guards are doing some crazy moves or when you are. Although you need a hell of a PC to run 
 this game like it's meant to be, you won't be disappointed at all.
  
  AI-These are the smartest, most advanced AI controlled enemies to this date. You won't believe 
 how realistically they act until you see it. They lean around corners, making them a smaller target, 
 they crouch. They crawl below pipes and things to get a better shot at you. They even run away 
 at certain times because they feel like they need better cover. They also do things that i've never 
 seen AI opponents do. They will knock over or scoot whatever furniture or the like where they want 
 it to create cover, bookshelves, couches, whatever. These guys are very smart, most shooters have 
 you facing off with ten to twenty enemies at a time. In FEAR you never face more than ten, yet 
 it it is a very steep challenge most of the time.
  
  Story-The main character of this game is the only letdown of the story in the fact that he doesn't 
 say anything throughout the game. So we never really know who he is. the rest however is top notch, 
 we learn about your past, about a psychotic general, and about an innocent looking little girl, 
 that is until you see what she can really do to some people. The story about the girl is very tragic 
 and very shocking, the twist at the end is one of the most surprising ever. 
  
  Horror Elements-This game is a first person shooter, horror game. The scareiest game to date because 
 it doesn't use the cheap shock moments of Doom 3, something jump out from a dark corner type scares. 
 It uses psychological terror on you to mess with your mind, and believe me it works. There are 
 a good number of complete jump out of your seat moments in this game. The girl Alma, who has a 
 striking similarity to the gril from The Ring, has the ability to scare the the living **** out 
 of you when you least expect it. The game uses shadows, weird lighting, ambient noise, and a lot 
 of tension to create a very believeable atmosphere of terror. All the way through the game, it 
 almost never devitates from this formula, and is genuinely scary throughout. Think of the craziest 
 action shooter game mixed with the scare formula from The Shining, and you get this game.
  
  Conclusion-The scareiest, most intense shooter game ever made. Shooter will play it many times 
 for the gratifying action of this game. Horror fans will love it to for it's terror and creepiness. 
 Remeber you need a very high end PC to run it, but once you get hooked up and playing, you realize 
 it was worth every penny spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoeJohn531
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  I just completed F. E. A. R. and I must say I was quite impressed with the game. The graphics were 
 quite good, the bullet time was superbe, the guns sounded just right, and the controls were tight. 
 After hearing so much about how hard the game was I was slow to try tackling F. E. A. R. but after 
 I found the easy setting it was smooth sailing from there on out. The game isn't quite as scary 
 as the name might imply but it does have it's moments.
  
  Go out and get yourself a copy, it's worth it.
  
  Oh and the shotguns ability to sever limbs 
 and cut people in half is amazing. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bingbashbosh
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 29, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a game that delivers dramatic realism and lifelike atmosphere throughout the whole 
 game. he story is about a nameless F. E. A. R. guy who is sent out to find a guy called Paxton Fettel 
 who has escape from a mental institutin or prison type facility and kills pretty much all of the 
 guards there. He is capable of controlling biomechanical super soldiers and he awakens them from 
 there slumber and the story really kicks of from there. F. E. A. R. is an absolutely true horrific 
 experience. if you fire a gun, you could expect a lot of pieces of brick and wood and stuff like 
 like that. The game includes a slo-mo tool that helps you out of almost any situation. But that 
 doesnt make the game much easier thanks to its groundbreaking AI and difficulty. This game is a 
 must buy for anyone who can beat the minimum system requirements and stuff. The multiplayer is hard 
 and not worth playing because you die a lot. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadParrot145
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 28, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Current System Config:
  Intel P4 2.2 ghz
  Ati Radeon 9250 PCI (yes it works surpisingly well for FEAR)
  640mb of ram
  
  FEAR is great 
 in many aspects, first, it is very forgiving with lower end video cards, as well as lower system 
 specs. I found it running suprisingly well on my system. In this case I wouldn't consider FEAR 
 to be a huge system hog, since it runs so well on the minimum system requirements. Graphicly, however, 
 FEAR looks great, but could look better... The engine sort of reminded me a lot of swat 4 (could 
 be my video card though) , anywho i've seen better. 
  FEAR also sounds great, expecially with the eerie soundeffects that keep the heartpounding atmosphere 
 steady through most of the game. Yes it gets very creepy at times, if you dont have a great sound 
 system, i reccomend using a pair of headphones, it definatly keeps you inside the game.
  Gameplay was great, FEAR is most notible for its remarkable AI. Unlike in Quake 4, (finding the 
 enemies rushing at you and almost predictably bad) , the enemies are smart in FEAR. They work as 
 a team, so you cant run in a room and expect them to follow, they may surround you from all sides 
 as well. The guns are the best, you can blow a man into meat chunks with your shotgun, or crusify 
 him up on the wall with the penetrator. Though the build up of weapons is slow, it gets much better 
 as the game goes on.
  Is it worth the hype? Its certinally overrated at times, but theres still a lot to be found in 
 this game. Any FPS fan will get a kick out of the bloody goodness. And as i said, it has a reputation 
 as being a system hog, but it also runs great on the minimum system requirements, and i get a better 
 proformance out of it then other older games such as Doom 3. But if you're looking for a good game 
 to play right now, FEAR is an excellent place to start.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AquaGeneral
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is a very fun game but you will need a very powerful computer such as a 512mb graphics card 
 would finaly make it have a better frame-rate. Single Player goes very long (10-20 hours) and the 
 multiplayer is very fun but anoying how you die so fast. FEAR's plot is that you are in a sqaud 
 called F. E. A. R, you are trying to find and eliminate a very strange killer that can plant things 
 in your head and make you think it is realy happening, also he eats people. When you shoot someone 
 the blood looks very realistic and if you either go up close with a shotgun or shoot/throw a grenade 
 the enemy will loose a leg or arm or everything. FEAR is relativly a scary game espcialy a bit 
 further in the game, it was realy the first game to have a multiplayer that can scare you with 
 the dark places, things like a enemy coming at one point of a corridor and you walk past and he 
 turns of his flash light. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inutero121
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 26, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  Don''t get me wrong, I loved the gameplay, but something was missing in the story for me. I was 
 impressed at first by all the bells and whistles, but those faded hours into the game. There is 
 no clear cut story about the character or the guy you are fighting. I would have given the game 
 a 10 across the board if that had been remedied. Good points though are excellent graphics, good 
 scare tactics, and strong multiplayer. If you're a fan of firstperson shooters / tactical shooters 
 then you should be satisfied with F. E. A. R's smooth controls.
  
  Graphically this is a demanding game, but fortunatly the game allows you to downgrade the highspeed 
 graphics so that just about anyone can play it. I felt that the sound was sufficent in quality 
 and length of gameplay was about right. When I finished however I was lety down by the ending. 
 It was a typical ending you would see with games like Resident Evil. To sum it up... krunning and 
 gunning till you escape the building you are in and get to saftey outside. It really was too bad 
 to have such a cliche' ending after all the work to get there. I still play it from time to time 
 and feel the replayability is a possablility, however if you want to play it more you ought to 
 just play online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poe13
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2006 4:36 am PT
Review:  WOW!!! What a fun game Sierra and Monolith have produced. I mean, I've played many great FPSes 
 like, Halo series, HL series, etc. but none have come close to what F. E. A. R. is! I say, it is quite 
 a thrill! Scary in a lot of the game and you-against-squads kind of battles that put you in one 
 of the most commanding positions as you rip and tear through the Replica Forces. Very well done, 
 including the somewhat hard to understand storyline. I recommend this game to anyone who loves 
 a good FPS when there are so many other dumb ones out there. 
  
  I can't wait for Extraction Point and F. E. A. R. 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yabegoods3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 25, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  great game. great multiplayer.... def go buy it and play it in the dark. The little girl pops out 
 of nowhere and scares the crap out of you. Good story aswell. cant wait for fear 2. Also if your 
 in to multiplayer games this one is alot of fun and has alot of maps and different game types to 
 choose from. As for the graphics, i think they were well done if you like playing first person 
 shooters you will enjoy this game. But if you dont like scary games then i would play with the 
 lights on :) . I give it a 9.3 A+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilazn_boi
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 25, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  This game is fear. Supposidly this game should be scary. I dont know if you find a guy whos mom 
 is younger then him and eats people is scary. But personally i think that is just messed up.
  Gameplay 9/10
  The single player mode is great but the online player just sucks. Mainly because 
 a jump kick kills in 1 hit.
  Graphics 6/10
  This game doesnt have amazing graphics. I cant even run this game with a 5500 even at lowest settings. 
 So that means this game engine is just horrible. Nothing in it looks so spectacler that you are 
 like omg.
  Sound 9/10
  There is great voice acting but there is a crap load of talking. And you basically have to hear 
 it.
  Value 6/10
  There is no replay value at all. But the single player should entertain you for awile.
  Reviewr's 
 Tilt 4/10
  I hate this game cause it doesnt offer anything new exept for the belief in this game that if you 
 have amazing reflexes you can go in to bullet time. I say bs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cigarello
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 24, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  The first time I unpacked this thing from the box, I knew i was in for one hell of a ride, I'd 
 played the SP demo and fell in love with it almost instantaneously.
  
  The graphics speak for themselves, graphics don't make a game at all, but when they immerse you 
 this deep into solid surroundings, scary ambient noises.. some really freaky scenes and at some 
 points where you think it's a cutsecene the whole thing is actually running in real-time.
  
  I was blown away by the ffects and I would imagine that anyone whom dislikes this game just 
 doesn't have a good enough PC to run it smoothly, I'm sorry but I just can't see how anyone with 
 any knowledge of the FPS genre can dislike this title.. unless it scares them too much, hehe..
 
  
  The main criticism is the fact you seem to fight the same enemies continusly with very few boss 
 fights, excuse me while I look at the faces of the people I'm shooting at and admire the clothes 
 they're and what eye colour they have !1!1 ! .. gimme a break.
  
  There are a few too many controls I feel, but I just removed the lean keys and replaced them for 
 more necessary commands, and played it fine with consistant pleasure.
  
  A breakthrough, a revolution in the FPS genre and an instant classic, play it and love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpgalindo
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  The graphics are asome, you need a powerfull machine, but if you run it at maximum it looks great 
 the dust coming from the walls the shadows, its asome the best thing of all is that it doesnt only 
 have the graphics the sound is also asome and the best of all the gameplay, its so good, the AI 
 its so real, and the nail gun is so cool, you can nail your enemies in the walls, dam I am not 
 making alot of sence but I am putting something and I remember another thing, this game is really 
 cool, the story is also great, could been alittle longer but no problem, its the best game I have 
 ever played, since mario 64, o and the first time I played max payne and made the matrix move, 
 oooh yeah it also has that, damn its a good game, worth in any collection. I dont know what to 
 say just that it is a great game, forvime me if I didnt make alot of sence but i am really hyped 
 with this game
  
  play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainsawjesus
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 24, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R brings a new extreme to FPS gaming. 
  If your not content with slaughtering mercilessly the minions of an evil genius then F. E. A. R has 
 something extra special for you because not only does it give you opportunity to relentlessly execute 
 the said minions but it also chucks in a horror element that is absolutely chilling.
  
  Starting the game play of F. E. A. R will give you an indication of what to expect. Within the first 
 five minutes you start hallucinating and fall momentarily into a dream state world, its slightly 
 unnerving but extremely compelling, however you get your first jump out of your seat moment a few 
 minutes later, which will no doubt (if your like me) set the mood for the entire game, edgy and 
 uncomfortable. 
  
  And that is exactly what follows throughout the rest of the game. Its edgy, unnerving, relentless 
 on your sense and extremely unsettling.
  It takes you on a wild ride of gun fights that are amazing due to the brilliant AI and physics 
 and then in the blink of an eye it chucks you right into a horror scenario that will leave you 
 feeling compelled to continue playing but with the lights on! There truly are some jump right out 
 of your seat moments and other moments that are so chilling that you will want to take a break 
 from the action just to regain your composure. Call me what you like but play this game in the 
 dark and with the sound through closed in headphones and then come back here and tell me I am wrong!!!
 
  
  The weapons of F. E. A. R are also anther highly commendable element because they just feel so right 
 for the games atmosphere and they don't wimp out on noise or power. They each have there advantages 
 and disadvantages which are obvious, shotgun for closer kills and machine guns to let rip in more 
 open battle, its a generic but works well. 
  
  The slow-mo feature adds another great spin on game play because and like its name suggests it 
 slows the action down but leaves you more reflectively able, for instance if you came across a 
 team of clones and hit slow mo then the ensuing battle will be in your favor because by the time 
 you've finished unloading the clip and the slow-mo runs out (it works on a time bar) the team of 
 clones may only be lifting their guns to aim and you would of killed the majority. It sounds cheesy 
 but it is a great resource and seeing your bullets tearing through the air and into a clone is 
 so satisfyingly enjoyable that after every battle you feel the world might just be a safer place. 
 
  
  The environment within the game takes place pretty much in an office building and this is the only 
 negative of the game because it can start to feel a little repetitive after awhile but that said 
 it all makes sense at the end.
  The environments themselves, although sometimes repetitive are used to good measure, ofter as you 
 are searching the room/s will be only lit up by the glow of computer screens which leaves you flash 
 lighting into cubicles in search of weapons and medical kits and sometimes these seemingly innocent 
 searches quickly transcend into a terrifying nightmare.
  
  Because it is an office build you will find that the aftermath of a shootout is just carnage and 
 again thanks to the slow-mo it gives the chance to see it all unfold, you will literally see a 
 scene of pure mayhem as you unleash your weaponry, bodies will be flying through the air whilst 
 windows and computers are being torn to blown to pieces, chunks of the wall will be blasted out 
 leaving dusts clouds and blood will redecorate the scene, and in some case limbs and once the the 
 dust and smoke clears you will of witness an office environment quickly turned into a battlefield. 
 
  
  Often you will find your self in a Die Hard scenario where your only means of continuing in your 
 progress is by way of air conditioning air duct or through maintenances areas and this again can 
 sometimes lead to nasty surprises with cheap scares that will actually scare you more than you 
 would like to admit, and again this will set your mindset for the duration of the game and you 
 will suddenly find yourself screaming at shadows and firing shots into thin air, its so atmospherically 
 chilling that the sense of urgency and panic will remain with you until the final credits of the 
 game role up.
  
  The storyline is well written and plays out in a very satisfying manner, I won't go into details 
 because although the story is simple in itself it needs to be experienced by the player. 
  
  The graphics are wonderfully good and at times during game play its worth taking the time to 
 take in all in, but what really stands out is the enemy AI. The AI of enemies can change a battle 
 into hunt so do not be surprised to find yourself retreating for cover so you can reload your weapon 
 only to find when jumping back into the action to find everyone gone only for them to jump out 
 of a hiding space to flank you with heavy fire from all directions.
  I found that if I died during a battle that the second time around would be completely different 
 battle in the way the enemy reacted and behaved. The AI really does make this game stand out from 
 any other AI system used in a game.
  
  F. E. A. R's arrival to the gaming market made me realize how poor my PC set up was. I had spent the 
 many months previous to its release playing Half Life 2 and Call Of Duty without so much as the 
 slightest problems graphically or with performance so my hopes of just installing F. E. A. R and getting 
 on with the game came crashing down pretty soon when starting the game, so just be aware that F. E. A. R 
 really is a system hog, however that said you can run F. E. A. R at what I found to be a suitable 
 rate using a Geforce 6600 it will look and feel good but don't expect it to look great. I recommend 
 as 1 6800 or highter, but hey, it say that on the box right.....
  
  So to conclude, nothing overly bad can be said about F. E. A. R, sure the office environments may 
 be a little repetitive but like I said its all relevant and the chances are you won't be to bothered 
 about it because the game is so relentless on the gun fights and horror so your always active.
 
  F. E. A. R has taken a great genre and created a great game engine that will shape the way future 
 FPS are made. 
  It has a great story and great graphics and amazingly good game play. It might not necessarily 
 have a replay value but the first run through the game is enough to make you feel pleased with 
 the whole package. 
  If you have the system requirements then this is unmissable. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 18, 2006 2:50 am PT
Review:  The game is simply impressive in every way. The AI is very reactive; Ex. they will fire behind 
 them whall running away to cover their retreat or movement, thy will also scream &amp; curse at 
 you to confuse you whall their team members flank you. The weapon actions are a little cheesy at 
 time but look cinematic in slomo. The story is quite suprisingly scary, I remember I first started 
 playing &amp; saw a dark room and went into it with the light on and from one object to another 
 ran this little girl in a red dress... I started firing because it freaked me out a little (lol) . 
 This really is a great game, though sometimes a little repetitive and coridoored, it makes up for 
 it in geanious gameplay &amp; unscripted AI battles. Get it and do it now before the Expansion 
 pack comes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Random1992
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 26, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Being a creepy, interactive, action-packed adventure, F. E. A. R. is a game that brings a cinematic 
 feeling to video games. All throughout this 'video' game there are creepy horror scenes along with 
 intense action sequences. It gets you so into the storyline that you want to play and play until 
 you find out what everything is. Then it all comes together. They could make a movie out of this, 
 but if they do, they'd better do it right.
  
  Gameplay: I love the storyline of this game. At first, nothing was clear. All I thought this was 
 about is that there are two creepy fellows chasing you. Up to the Interval Four, I started realizing 
 what this was about. It revolves around Alma. She has a last name, and that name surprised me, 
 but I won't tell you here. The storyline is so incredible that this as a movie would get at least 
 three stars, if made right. I also love the slowmo effect (i'll get into that in the Graphics section) . 
 Just the way everything is put together, it's like a movie, but interactive. The action in this 
 game is just so entertaining and satisfying that I can do it all day. I love the fact that if you 
 use a high-impact gun you can go up close to somebody and blow their limbs off. So satisfying.10/10
 
  
  Graphics: Remember when I mentioned the Slow-Mo effect? Well if your PC is good enough, you can 
 see the 'sharpness' effect it uses. And it's not just in slow-motion where there are vullet ripples. 
 And all of those awesome-looking slow-mo explosions happen in realtime. Also the water is the best 
 I've ever seen. And I like the fact that when you're in the helicopter, it's not just a 'scene' 
 but you're really in a helicopter. If you turn the settings to Low, you'll see that this game from 
 the barebone isn't so spectacular. It's the new effects added to the textures and just a new engine 
 which makes the game look better than it really is. But who really can play this game on Low Settings, 
 it's too good for that. Like I said before, you can blow limbs off, tear into the sheetrock with 
 your gun, turn people into clouds of blood, and just completely destroy the environment. On the 
 downside, it's a bit of a system hog. 9/10.
  
  Sound: This is what makkes scary video games. And scary movies even. The creepy effect of 'hehehehe' 
 and the screeching noise you hear as something freaky happens gives a chill through your spine. 
 It's so creepy, that it makes me look behind my back every 50 seconds. Without the sound, I wouldn't 
 be scared. 10/10
  
  Value: It's more of a one time, okay I get it, type game. So it has low value. I would play it 
 once again just for the fun of it, but if you play it the second time around it just isn't as great 
 of an experience. It's because you know everything. And when you know everything there is really 
 no point in going through the entire storyline. game to figure out, or to conclude, everything that 
 has just happened to you. It's sort of disappointing, really, but it's one helluva game; go out 
 and get it. But the action this game has brings the value up from a 7 to a 9. If you just want 
 the action, play multiplayer, that's what it's there for. 9/10
  
  Tilt: Really, my tilt is my conclusion, what this would get out of ten if I had to rate it myself. 
 There's really nothing to say, but go out and get your hands on this "Masterpiece." 10/10
  
  49/50-98%Being a creepy, interactive, action-packed adventure, F. E. A. R. is a game that brings 
 a cinematic feeling to video games. All throughout this 'video' game there are creepy horror scenes 
 along with intense action sequences. It gets you so into the storyline that you want to play and 
 play until you find out what everything is. Then it all comes together. They could make a movie 
 out of this, but if they do, they'd better do it right.
  
  Gameplay: I love the storyline of this game. At first, nothing was clear. All I thought this was 
 about is that there are two creepy fellows chasing you. Up to the Interval Four, I started realizing 
 what this was about. It revolves around Alma. She has a last name, and that name surprised me, 
 but I won't tell you here. The storyline is so incredible that this as a movie would get at least 
 three stars, if made right. I also love the slowmo effect (i'll get into that in the Graphics section) . 
 Just the way everything is put together, it's like a movie, but interactive. The action in this 
 game is just so entertaining and satisfying that I can do it all day. I love the fact that if you 
 use a high-impact gun you can go up close to somebody and blow their limbs off. So satisfying.10/10
 
  
  Graphics: Remember when I mentioned the Slow-Mo effect? Well if your PC is good enough, you can 
 see the 'sharpness' effect it uses. And it's not just in slow-motion where there are vullet ripples. 
 And all of those awesome-looking slow-mo explosions happen in realtime. Also the water is the best 
 I've ever seen. And I like the fact that when you're in the helicopter, it's not just a 'scene' 
 but you're really in a helicopter. If you turn the settings to Low, you'll see that this game from 
 the barebone isn't so spectacular. It's the new effects added to the textures and just a new engine 
 which makes the game look better than it really is. But who really can play this game on Low Settings, 
 it's too good for that. Like I said before, you can blow limbs off, tear into the sheetrock with 
 your gun, turn people into clouds of blood, and just completely destroy the environment. 10/10.
 
  
  Sound: This is what makkes scary video games. And scary movies even. The creepy effect of 'hehehehe' 
 and the screeching noise you hear as something freaky happens gives a chill through your spine. 
 It's so creepy, that it makes me look behind my back every 50 seconds. Without the sound, I wouldn't 
 be scared. 10/10
  
  Value: It's more of a one time, okay I get it, type game. So it has low value. I would play it 
 once again just for the fun of it, but if you play it the second time around it just isn't as great 
 of an experience. It's because you know everything. And when you know everything there is really 
 no point in going through the entire storyline. game to figure out, or to conclude, everything that 
 has just happened to you. It's sort of disappointing, really, but it's one helluva game; go out 
 and get it. But the action this game has brings the value up from a 7 to a 9. If you just want 
 the action, play multiplayer, that's what it's there for. 9/10
  
  Tilt: Really, my tilt is my conclusion, what this would get out of ten if I had to rate it myself. 
 There's really nothing to say, but go out and get your hands on this "Masterpiece." 10/10
  
  48/50-96% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwnr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 22, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  If you have a high end PC, this is a must for it's revolutionary graphics. If you have a really 
 crappy PC, this will only bring lag and multiple deaths. 
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is very similar to most FPS games. The only things I would comment are as follows. 
 First, you can lean left or right, allowing you to shoot an enemy without revealing a large area 
 of your body for them to hit. Second, you can carry up to 10 medical packs for you to use later. 
 They recover about 20 health units each time you use them. Third, you can activate slow motion 
 reflexes, which is the equivalent of having enhanced reflexes in real life. This effect is basically 
 activating the matrix. Forth, you can use melee attacks and martial arts attacks to put down enemies. 
 Lastly, you can actually see your body parts when you're playing. If you look down, you can actually 
 see your legs and feet, unlike most FPS games. You can also see your whole body if you look into 
 a reflection. 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are incredible. These are some of the most advanced graphics available to PC gamers 
 in the world. When you shoot, you can see particles flying everywhere. The whole game feels extremely 
 scary because of the darkness, blood marks and such. 
  
  Sound:
  Sometimes the sound has looping problems, but those are encountered in almost all of the better 
 video games I play. The gunshot sounds makes it feel like you're actually firing a real gun, instead 
 of a pipe with gunpowder inside. 
  
  Value:
  At only $40 nowadays, this game is well worth the price. It will keep you entertained for weeks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loic54
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R., who has not feared being alone in your house on a blackout, or enter an abandon house. 
 
  F. E. A. R. is going to make you fear!
  This shooter is just supreme, including an awesome sountrack that makes you shiver. The AI of the 
 enemies is outstanding. Yoy will die at least 20 times in order to finish the game. 
  Alma (the evil girl) is going to scare you from time to time, I couldn't help screaming on some 
 of the occasions. The plot is good too, it looks like a japanese horror movie, the ones that stay 
 on your head spining. The day I finished the game I couldn't sleep. I guess my surround speakers 
 helped in that.
  The weopons are really cool, not the traditional ones. Plus you only can carry 3 weapons, so sometimes 
 you have to choose between two powerful weapons, I always choose the hardest one to get, and always 
 carry a rifle or the machigun.
  
  The weapons feel real too, taking chunks of wall when you shoot it. The ligh effects are awesome, 
 this game is not like Doom 3 where everything is dark, this game creates a feeling over you like 
 somebody is watching what you're doing.
  
  In overall this is the best shooter I've ever played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spenta
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay gets and 8 because without the slow-mo its just another fps and slow-mo although still 
 fun is in no way innovative.
  
  Graphics deserves a 10 and is definitely the high point of the game. It has ultra realistic physics 
 and seeing your enemy vaporize into a blood cloud is alway a great stress reliever.
  
  Sound could have had a 10 also but certain items were either to sensitive or too loud. For example 
 when you dropped a large weapon when swapping weapons it sounds extremely loud as does bumping 
 into office chairs and other things that shouldn't be so loud. Otherwise the game has great sound 
 realism and surround placement
  
  Value gets a 10 because of the length of the single player game and in a day when most games are 
 $50 to $60 this one was $30.
  
  Tilt is a 9 because I just got sick of the rather boring backgrounds and environments. 
  
  
 A must buy and for $30 a great deal. Be sure to play with the lights off and the sound turned up 
 and surround speakers are a definite plus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvdhl89
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  This FPS title developed by Monolith, F. E. A. R. makes you feel a big step to the next generation. 
 This game combines FPS action with terror scenes, making it more fun to play it. 
  
  Graphics
  Really nice shading, the characters just look very realistic, detailed weapons, really 
 good environment, the bullet time effect is just amazing, and the creepy scenes, lol, sometimes 
 I get really scared that I quit playing until it passes =P
  
  Sound
  Amazing sound effects, the creepy sounds really scared me.
  
  Game-play
  The game-play its 
 almost like a Counter Strike game-play, so you don't have to change the way you play . The AI is 
 ok, they really try to evade grenades, shots, and also checks the place, even it's only normal 
 mode.
  
  Conclusions
  If you like terror movies like The Ring or The Grudge, or games like Clock Tower and Fatal Frame, 
 and like the FPS action, then this game is made for you!!
  
  Sorry for my bad grammar, cause English isn't my first language.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 19, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Intiially, I wasn't impressed with hearing about the storyline or the inclosed areas. All I could 
 think about was it being a Doom 3 / Quake 4 clone. I was wrong, it easily surpassed expectation's, 
 and ended up looking damn good, sounding awesome, and even had great gameplaty elements.
  
  Graphically, the game is dark, not flashlight all the time Doom 3 dark, but still dark in nature, 
 and in environment. The level of detail that can be available is immense, especially wit hthe right 
 system set up. If you got a top of the line PC you are in for a visual treat.
  
  Sound, if you have a good to great soundcard like a Soundblaster X-Fi, you are going to have a 
 very good audible experience. The audio will help out not only in the singleplayer element, but 
 even in the multiplayer element.
  
  Gameplay, the weapons and weapons fire do have a great feeling of tangability. The weapons have 
 a solid feel, and kick that when you use a shotty, its a rocking weapon espeically when a victim's 
 head becomes a gresy smear under the power of the full force blast of your shotty pointed at it.
 
  
  The envirnment also adds to the tangable feel, and gives you a sense of being a feel in this environment. 
 Just be careful though the baddies will try to get the jump on you especially when they are in 
 a squad.
  
  Storyline, is a slight blemish, you are constantly on the chase of your telepath / sibling. He 
 is always getting away, for some unseen reason, and when you do get him, the experience is almost 
 arguably one of the most frustrating incidences in the game.
  
  Alma, well she is a ghostly little girl that remains through the game a total pain in your arse, 
 at the same time scaring the holy living hell out of you at many times throughout the game. 
  
  Overall, one of the best FPS'es I have ever had the chance to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaMaoTao
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 24, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  This was the most horrible fps for the past years. It has retarded gameplay
  and you are the most patient man on the world if you can complete a level
  without suicide from 
 the boredom.
  
  The only thing that is AAA quality here is the MARKETING.
  
  Graphics
  Soft shadows and reflections are the only things that might deserve to have a look 
 uppon.
  
  The models are plastic. Welcome to the world of plasteline. If you give a s.. t about fps games send 
 an email to all the major fps software houses and tell
  them that the stupid specular highlights must be used in moderate. We know that you can do specular 
 lighting 5-6 years after first all the hobbist!!! little games have used them.
  
  Level Design
  Here comes the major pittfall of the game. I think this guys designed blood 2, they 
 didn't bother to learn a little more on level design to have better levels than blood 2. Even blood 
 1 was better than blood 2 in terms of level design.
  Boring. Boring. Boring.
  Mutliply the same level with minor modifications with some factor and you will have all the levels 
 of single player and multiplayer.
  Just play Half Life 2 and then go to start a FEAR game. It is like falling from ten thousand feet 
 to the surface of earth.
  
  Just one phrase:
  You have opened the gates to 1998.
  
  AI
  Revolutianary ai? That was a good one. Stop laughing. The only intelligent
  about you enemy 
 is that they constant checking where you're looking and selecting another path to approach you. Even 
 a cs bachelor student in the worst college can implement this.
  
  Finally.
  Don't spend your money here because someone spend too much money advertising this horrible game. Even 
 1.0 is overating for this game.
  If someone offer this to you for a present consider it an insult, and throw it
  to garbage immediately.
 
  You're wasting time of your limited life even reading about it. Forget about it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlospeixoto
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  This is a game that combines all the elements of success, outstanding graphics, gameplay and a 
 mix of non stop action with horror! the player belongs to a squad named F. E. A. R. that is responsable 
 to fight paranormal issues to the country! The responsable for the main issue on FEAR is a little 
 girl named alma, but u don't want to meat that little girl, believe me! i leave the rest for u, 
 so play it, and get amazed and jumpy, with FEAR. One of the best FPS, made till our days! it also 
 has a extremely good multiplayer mode, with all the effects of yhe main game! Frenetic action! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crewdog217
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 17, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. great title for an awsome game. I had to see what the hipe was all about on this game. 
 Hats off to the music and sound guys and gals. It didn't matter if I had the lights on or off the 
 game still gave me chills while playing. The graphics and story line were superbly done. Loved 
 how every graphic detail could be adjusted for seamless game play. It was like I was in a couple 
 of scary movies I've seen. Then I went on to play it online. It was the most fun I've had in the 
 shooter game. It was hard for me to stop playing. Before I knew it, the clock read 3:37 am. I'm 
 going to keep an eye out for games from Sierra and it's collaborating partners from F. E. A. R. I 
 hope you all enjoy this game as much as I have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canxp
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 17, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Maybe F. E. A. R focused to much in graphics and sound and left to little for the story/enviroment 
 and challenge.
  
  The final objective of a game is being fun, and F. E. A. R achieves it, shooting and running with 
 slo-mo while dodging a cluster of bullets and rays from enemmies is fun as hell. But the same slo-mo 
 that adds an important amount of fun also kills the challenge, plus the excessive amount of medikits 
 and ammo in every corner.
  
  Also, story is just a joke, "find Fettel beacuse he is bad", maybe you'll be walking countless 
 corridors and a little sub-mission but the story is pretty repetitive and linear plus the loopy 
 enviroment (offices, and ruined buildings are the most used) .
  
  Besides that, graphics and sound are PERFECT, the dynamic lighting, plus the physics engine (Havok) , 
 the great texture detail and the sound quality will inmerse you, specially if you're playing with 
 5.1 (or more) in a closed and dark room. 
  
  Sound doesn't score 10/10 beacuse of voices, every voice is well recorded and fits perfect, but 
 every soldier you come across have the same voice-set assigned to.
  
  If you're the kind of person who doesn't care about some missing story or some loopy enviroment. 
 F. E. A. R is the gane for you and your just-killing-for-fun desires. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devouring_One
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 30, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is an action/horror FPS game that utilizes bullet time (Slow-mo) to enhance gameplay making 
 it an intense shooting game. This game is definitely a candidate for Game of the Year. The sheer 
 amount of action in this game is like none I have ever encountered. I dont remember playing anything 
 kind of game as intense as this. The game is both a horror game and an action game; both of which 
 are done very well. The feeling of the game is spooky and action-packed. Sometimes you find yourself 
 waiting for the next firefight with the enemies, but yet too afraid to see what lurks around the 
 next corner. Never has there been a game like this. It may look like an ordinary FPS game, but 
 once you try it; you know what Im talking about.
  
  You start off in the game as rookie at a start of a mission. You have to find out what is going 
 on as a madman is using a battalion of cloned soldiers to kill people. The further you get in the 
 game, the more youll learn about the story and how there is a connection between you and the current 
 situation.
  
  The theme of the game is like an action-packed horror mystery. You want to find out whats going 
 on, but you are being stalked by a ghostly girl figure. She just keeps popping up around you scaring 
 the crap out of you. This is what makes the game scary; you start to imagine these weird events 
 taking place which are spooky. This has something to do with your past and why you are so dissimilar 
 from the ordinary soldiers. This allows the story to have an in-dept story which is done well and 
 keep you in at the edge of your seat.
  
  What makes this FPS game different from other is that you are able to slow down time, also known 
 as bullet time. This can give you a huge advantage over the enemies. You can move faster and shoot 
 quicker and more accurately. Throughout the game you get power-ups for yourself such as increased 
 life and bullet time. This can help you a lot in the game, but they are placed in secret locations. 
 Bullet time adds new elements to the game especially for the multiplayer portion of it.
  
  The action is extremely fun. You get to shoot and destroy almost everything in this game including 
 people as well as the environment. People will lose body parts and disintegrate and the environment 
 will fall apart and be damaged as you encounter shoot-outs. Its fun to destroy things in this 
 game.
  
  The real highlight of the game is the computer A. I. in this game which is very intelligent. They 
 will use the environment as cover and pull down objects to take cover behind. Not only will they 
 do that, but they will try to take you out in squads and attempt to flank you.
  
  The weapons are cool. They each are different giving you different advantages. This can affect 
 the gameplay greatly in both single player and multiplayer. Since you can only carry three guns; 
 youll be forced to toss some guns away and use more strategies to defeat your enemies. In addition, 
 this can change how you opponents fight in multiplayer. The way each gun can kill people is cool 
 as you can vaporize people, blow them up or blow their limbs off. Watching your enemies die is 
 just plain fun.
  
  The visuals are one of the best. The graphics are done well and the environment is meticulous. 
 You can practically destroy every aspect of it. This displays the amount of details used. The only 
 bad thing about it is that the environments can get repetitive and the surroundings are very dark. 
 You may move from place to place, but the environments are pretty much the same. They should have 
 put a little more variation. The sound is great too. The voice acting is done well and the enemies 
 act and talk like real people. You can listen in on their radio transmissions to get a heads up 
 start on them. For example, if you hear them say, All clear! This means that they dont know 
 that you are in there, so you can sneak up on them and kill them.
  
  Despite the voice acting, there is no in-game music. Throughout the game, its quiet and the game 
 doesnt really give you a spooky feeling. Most of the scares come from the visuals. I thought they 
 should have worked on the audio part a little more.
  
  The game is lengthy and fun. The multiplayer for F. E. A. R. is good, too. It can get fun and challenging 
 since you can die fast in it. Bullet time can give you a huge advantage and can allow you to get 
 a huge advantage in a shootout. There are not many varied gameplay elements in it, but the levels 
 are different from each other changing the strategies you might use.
  
  This is definitely on of the best games of 2005! I wont be surprised if it gets Game of the Year. 
 With its intense action and spooky horror feeling blended in with the games well-made story; its 
 a definite must buy for PC gamers and action fans. Do yourself a favor and get this game if you 
 already havent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameslacy3509
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting to play this game for a long time. I got my new computer a couple of days ago 
 and finally got to play it. All the talk about this game is spot on. Not really scary but the gameplay, 
 graphics, and AI is awesome. Able to play on high settings and it runs smooth and looks awesome. 
 If you are womderign about this game, get it!! And I haven't even played the multiplayer yet, just 
 the single player, so I have a lot left to explore. 
  
  The only thing I have struggled with so far is the controls. They are good but there are a lot 
 to get used to. I am beginning to get used to them but I end up pressing the health up button at 
 times rather than the slo-mo buttton when under attack and in a hurry. This game sure sends a good 
 amount of enemies from different directions, and I'm just on moderate difficulty. Can't imagine 
 the two harder difficulty levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yomeo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 17, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is what first person shooters are all about. Having intense gun fights and then scaring 
 the crap out of you. Starting with the graphics, if i had to choose one word to describe them id 
 say... real. The during and aftermath of gun battles is stunning, there is so much detail that goes 
 into the effect bullets have on the surrounding environment and enemies themselves. Theres nothing 
 better than having to squint to see through the rising dust and smoke to see if there are any enemies 
 remaining. The Sound is another part that was done just right. The weapons sound powerful but more 
 importantly when the game is at its scarier moments the sound is so creepy. Now Ive already mentioned 
 how good the gun battles look, but the gameplay definately holds its own. The A. I. is probably 
 the smartest you will see in a while and they coordinate with eachother and use the environment 
 for cover. The ability to use slow mo helps make it easier to get out of tough situations aside 
 from just plain being cool. A lot of the environments do look similar but you will be so scared 
 and involved most of the time i doubt you will really notice. I dont want to give too much away 
 about the story but lets just say you wont be bored with it. To top it all off there are some new 
 modes in multiplayer that i thought were great such as incorporating slow mo into it. Buy this 
 game, you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantomstrider
Rating: 4.7
Date: Aug 17, 2006 2:24 am PT
Review:  I came in expecting great things from this game since gamespot reviewed it and it was the gamer's 
 choice. Turned out to be one of the most annoying and boring first person shooters I've ever played. 
 One first thing I should mention is that there is about 3 different enemies that they will recycle 
 in this game (excluding 2-3 boss robots that appear only occasionally) over and over and over (they're 
 clones. Convinient huh?) .
  
  First of all, the plot is weak. I found it a non-immersive plot that was made even more difficult 
 to get into with the quiet, fuzzy, vague radio calls that occasionally play. It drags on and on 
 and on seemingly pointlessly. The plot just doesn't support the game well enough to support the 
 50th "The enemy has changed office locations again" and "We lost the enemy because now our tracker's 
 broken." Basically it drags on frusteratingly. Perhaps if the game was a bit more enjoyable this 
 could be overlooked but when you hear the typical cutsie blond daughter in the office building 
 say "My father's in some abandoned facility I've never heard of" and the cheesey typical hollywood 
 lines like "I'm not leaving without my father" you start to feel queezey and frusterated that -this- 
 is the reason you're going to have to wade through 1 soldier and his 299 identical twin brothers 
 in the next frusteratingly open-ended buildings.
  
  Let me state some of the major gameplay annoyances that separates this first person shooter from 
 all the other half life clones out there. Firstly, the flash light. This game is pretty much always 
 in pitch black. Thus, you're given a torch. Sounds fair enough? Wrong. This torch will run out 
 every 10 seconds and take 20 seconds to recharge. And in the annoyingly open-ended office buildings 
 with enough recycled landscape to make you wonder what was wrong with the 3d designers, you don't 
 want to be running through pitch black or you may miss the tiny, obscure grate that will take you 
 an hour of running in circles to spot that you missed.
  
  Another major point is the radio calls. They're so fuzzy and hard to make out that you can pretty 
 much only make out the complimentary American "sh*t" or "f*ck" every 5 seconds in a conversation. 
 Missing a plot's ok right? That doesn't ruin a game? No. In this game's layout it does. Even when 
 you strain your ears and silence all the explosions to make out the conversation, your commander 
 will make sure to give you the most vague description of what your objective is and where you're 
 supposed to go leaving you completely in the dark on where you're supposed to go.
  
  This game will drag on and on. There is pretty much 3 types of buildings you will go through that 
 are recycled over and over and over. That includes the enemies too. The plot will drag on about 
 finding one damned character for 6 missions and even at the 6th one you'll get side-tracked on 
 something else.
  
  The graphics and sound are about the only things I found original and good about this game (though 
 they hog up your system, making quicksaveaholics in for a frusterating experience) .
  
  Also, don't believe the constant "OMFG THIS GAME WILL MAKE U **** UR PANTZ" reviews. At first they 
 might make you jump a bit but predictability and repeatativeness of the "scary" parts will make 
 you yawn after the 2nd time. The weak plot will assure you don't stay tense for long.
  
  Overall, I found this game dragged on, was non-immersive, frusterating and boring. If you are into 
 first person shooters I would suggest this game. If you are just looking for a good game I would 
 not suggest it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asian_marine
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  WOW, this is the best FPS game next to Halo 2. The graphics are incredible. If you play with a 
 X-Fi card it feels like you're actually there. A totally AWESOME game.
  
  Graphics- This game looks pretty real to me. The phyics are awesome, theres blood everywhere. This 
 is a really creepy game.
  
  Sound- The sound is what truely makes this game. The surround sound makes you actually feel like 
 u'r there. I can't believe the gunfights. Makes you wonder if they were on the crew for saving 
 private ryan.
  
  Gameplay- I don't get spooked that easy, but this game had me crapping my pants 10 minutes into 
 it. This game is so scary, i never play it at night, it freaks me out to much.
  
  But you know you're really night scared because inside you know it's just a game, but it's the 
 tension and thrill of knowing that something bad is going to happen is what makes your adreniline 
 pump at maximum. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DogOfDeath
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  What is F. E. A. R.? Short answer, a game that will make you crap yourself.
  
  Long answer?
  F. E. A. R. stands for First Encounter Assault Recon. You are a special oppritive sent into a facility 
 to dispatch a homocidal man who goes by the name Paxton Fattel. Here's the kicker. You are supernaturally 
 sound. You have the ability to slow down time to your advantage ah-la Bullet Time. Paxton, is a 
 canabalistic psychopath who controls the facilities security with telepathic powers, turning them 
 onto his side, and ultimatly, against yours. Now, there's one more string in the way. An eight-year 
 old girl. Her name is Alma, and she wears a red dress, but unfourtuanatly for you, she is dead, 
 and haunts the facility... and doesn't perticularily like you.
  
  The game plays like a tactical twitch shooter, and you can kind of choose how you wish to fight. 
 For example, you enter a cafiteria being patrolled by secruity personalle. You can either do the 
 following: Slow things down with your power, and dodge the bullets, and blast the crap out of everything. 
 Two: Just go in guns ablazing, but be careful not to get too cocky, the AI can be smart. Three: 
 Go tactical by crouching behind cover, leaning out, and picking your shots.
  
  As I said before, the AI can be smart. Wait, nevermind that "can be" phrase... the AI IS smart. 
 F. E. A. R. has the smartest physical AI I've ever seen in a game. They will communicate to flank 
 you, or warn themselves that you might be doing the same. They'll mine the place, whip grenades 
 with rather pin-point accuracy, throw tables to form cover, dive over counters to retreat and flank 
 you. However, they don't know everything. If they can't see you, they don't know. If their behind 
 a wall blind-firing you, you can throw diwn a mine 6' away from them, then force them out of the 
 corner. They won't see that mine, and beautiful red splatter will coat the wall.
  
  Now, graphics.... wow.. the graphics. Not only is the entire game mind blowingly beautiful, but it's 
 creepy as hell. Half-eaten boies left behind by Paxton, random blood on the wall, or half a room 
 filled with it. But the real thrill is during combat. Sparks fly as computers get fragged, lights 
 sway back and forth and the lighting throws shadows over the room, concrete pillars crack and spray 
 debrit, blood sprays from your opponents wounds and splatters on the wall, floor, cieling, wherever. 
 The game's combat is just breathtaking, and everything that happens makes it absolutly better.
 
  
  Now for the sound... I'm not going to go into much detail with the combat sounds, like all the guns 
 going off, the computers freaking out, and everything just being uterly destroyed... that sounds 
 great. Where the sound really takes a turn for the good has to do with two things: Music and Effects. 
 The music just generally creeps you out, queueing up at the best times (sometimes the worst, like 
 dark hallways, if you know what I mean) . The effects are really cool too, like the sound of your 
 team radio tranmission cracking and shutting off when supernatural stuff goes down, like Alma appearing 
 next to you in an elevator, then suddenly dissappearing into nothing.
  
  F. E. A. R. is one of the best FPS's I've ever played. It took me a while to finish, because nearing 
 the end, I was too damn creeped out to play it. The game seems pretty hard at times, and I seemed 
 to use F5 a lot to quick save because I would just find myself overwhelmed by opponents. For some, 
 the game may feel kind of short, but I felt it just right (I took my time however, listened to 
 radio shows, play phone messeges, etc.) . If you just blow through the game, I can see a 10 hour 
 game. If you learn the story behind Origin (The big secret of the facility) , and pay attention 
 to things, the game can take you anywhere from 15-25+ hours. But, if your like me and you scare 
 easy, this game can take longer. F. E. A. R. delivers what it promises, a cinematic shooter with a 
 creepy passenger seat.
  
  -PDog 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hybridace
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2006 2:39 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. will be one of "THE" scariest games you will ever play on you P. C. Try playing this game 
 at midnight or early morning all alone in your room and I promise you that your gonna get scared 
 senseless, but if you guys really wanna hear yourself scream like a little girl, then turn a T. V. 
 close to you on and switch it to a channel with whitenoise like the one in THE RING and play F. E. A. R. 
 Your going to keep looking back at the T. V. every 10 seconds! ^^. Aside from how insanely scary 
 this game is, there are of course other things a games goodness should be based on right? Well 
 F. E. A. R. pretty much also dominates in that sector too. Ok so in terms of graphics, F. E. A. R. looks 
 SO DAMN REALISTIC! and the physics of the game are so real! If you shoot a guy in the head with 
 the nail gun (Or whatever its called) the guy gets nailed to the wall! Another plus in F. E. A. R. 
 is the SLO-MO feature which really makes the firefights in this game really look sweet. This game 
 also has alot more to it and I highly suggest you guys to buy it! ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklordATK103
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 11, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  First things first, I love this game. Its scary, it has action it looks amazing, it sounds great 
 and the multiplay is fun and fast paced. The story in this game has you playing a member of F. E. A. R 
 which is a tatical unit which is set out to take out a military general i believe who can control 
 his troops using pshyic powers. The levels are highly are detailed and just how good this looks 
 adds to the horror of this game. Along with the graphics, sound plays an important role in scarying 
 the crap out of you. Now multiplayer, the multiplayer may be fast paced but its fun. All of the 
 multiplayer levels have that creepy feeling that the story gives. I am confused to why this game 
 did so badly in stores as it is a great game, it gives FPS fans every thing they want, multiplayer, 
 a variety of guns and a horror element. I almost forgot the Artifical Intelligence in this game 
 is actually intelligent and they can destroy you if you jsut run and gun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowhideyou
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  Dang man! F. E. A. R is sick! Once you start playing it... it's hard to let off it... unless you're 
 really really spooked and then have to stop playing. But other then that... graphics are amazing, 
 sound feels like you're actually in it, and the gameplay is pretty explosive. Expect the unexpected 
 cause it can hit you whenever it wants to... if you know what I mean. The interaction in this game 
 is pretty crazy too... you touch something or run over it... either falls over or moves alot. You 
 can shoot lights and make them start moving and cause eerie effects or you can use the rag-doll 
 physics to have fun with enemie's corpses! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabi098
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  This game has absolutly everything going for it!!!
  
  A great and original story line is you don't mind that F. E. A. R. means nothing!
  Lets Face it "First 
 Encounter Assault Recon" makes no sence. But still The base is really nice.
  
  The graphics are mind-blowing. Simply perfect. Both polished models and a world that looks real: 
 a combination of HL2 Enviorment and Doom 3 like models.
  
  The game is alot of fun to play. While the game is repetitive the action will keep you hooked for 
 a very long time.
  The weapons might not be so original but they look cool and they serve their purpose if your a 
 all action ful steam ahead type of guy or more of death by far this game has the weapon you need.
 
  
  The multyplayer is fun but not really anything special. But what it might lack in MP it makes up 
 for it in SP.
  
  Finally both scary and realistic. In this game probably the bigest scare i had is that a little 
 girl keep thrwing all sort of stuff to mess with your mind.
  
  Wether shes runing in a dark tunnel and you never find her or shes comming strait at you with blazing 
 falmes after her she will scare you.
  
  A great game can't w8 for it Expantion pack and its sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigjeffery82
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 10, 2006 1:38 am PT
Review:  The story behind this game would put alot of hollywood script writers to shame. It's just so absorbing. 
 You feel like your actually in the game. The graphics are great and the pleasure you get when throwing 
 a grenade and watching the ripple effect as it explodes while in slow motion is breathtaking. The 
 A. I. is the best i've seen in a long time. You could play the same fight seen 10 times and each 
 time the enemy will try something new. The game gets progressivly harder as you'd expect and the 
 finaly is a must see. Overall i think this game kicks ass and even if you don't like FPS's I'm 
 sure this game will change that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derrico_8448
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 8, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is scary. The whole experience is so immersing, and it has a certain atmospheric creepiness 
 that will leave you on the edge of your seat the whole game. When you encounter your first enemy, 
 (shooting an innocent dude) and shoot him down, you will realize how many different ways you can 
 handle a firefight. You could :
  A-) go into slo-mo and run across an open area, shooting all enemies.
  B-) Handle the firefight 
 in a tactical fashion. (I. E. hiding, and leaning)
  C-) Sneak near the enemies, and go all Jackie Chan on their A$$es.
  Yes. The graphics are amazing 
 if you have the rig to handle them. For example, if there is a loose light, you can shoot it and 
 the lightin on the walls will move accordingly. Sparks fly of metal objects, wood chips off wood, 
 and concrete crumbles, and creates a thick, blinding dust. The textures are top-notch, and sound 
 design is great too. You can pick this game up at eb for 30 dolars, and 40 for the directors edition. 
 (I bought the directors edition. It comes with a P. A. N. I. C. S. episode, A Making of, Full commentary, 
 and a comic book) BUY THIS GAME OR ELSE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red-Neck
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is different. Never before your enemies AI has been so well worked on, never before, you 
 found so much difficulty on playing a game like on FEAR, never before, you actually felt happy 
 while **** yourself, because of a 1 meter lil girl, this is what makes this game so damn good. 
 Some people say. Gaming cant be described as art. Thats wrong, F. E. A. R proves it, creepy scenarios, 
 with basic things witch turn out greatly, are the roots of FEAR`s success. For example, you, walking 
 in a badly lit corridor, with lights switching on, and off, the only sound you can hear, are of 
 your own footsteps and the water drops. From the ceiling. This are all things witch help you to 
 structure the plan, of making gamers, afraid. Of making gamers, have trouble when they go to sleep. 
 Who has the balls to come here and tell me, you didnt jump when the little girl appeared, unexpectedly 
 some where in the game scenario. Its not only that, this game has a story, characters fulfill 
 their roles, and slowly the story unfolds its self with visions, you often have. 
  This game is superb, and with a good comp, not Game Spots comp, you will find out, how beautifully 
 designed this game was. We should all bow our heads to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KugarWeb
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Wow! What can I say? Amazing graphics, sound and the scare factor is also top notch! When first 
 picking up this game I was sceptical about parting 30 for it for the simple reason I had believed 
 all the hype about Fahrenheit which turned out to be painstakingly slow in it's storyline and frustrating 
 when things when balls up and I had to resume from a previous savepoint. But, none of those same 
 frustrations surface here, especially with all the action that's to be had from such a great game 
 as Fear. Ok the game could be a bit more friendly with slower computers, but that's the time and 
 age we've come to at the moment. Do expect quite a long pause if your running the minimum requirements 
 for this game, especially when loading or saving game saves etc.
  Other than those very small gripes, I've got nothing to complain about, except perhaps the amount 
 of times I've jumped back in my seat and scared myself just by seeing something suddenly appear, 
 but don't let that put you off, it's all part of the fun!! The actions and physics within the game 
 are excellent also and very much match those portrayed within Half Life 2, especially following 
 the scaryness factor as well. What I most like about this game however, is it's unique features 
 such as Slow Mode which makes gun fights all the more interesting as you see your bullets pierce 
 through the air and meet their target.
  Gun accuracy is very good, especially with the appauling throwbacks that some of the weapons have, 
 but is a good challenge added to the game, and means you can only improve your skill as you use 
 it more and get used to each of the little problems.
  Overall, an excellent example of first person shooting gaming and definately well worth the money, 
 especially wih the DVD Director's Cut Edition which includes additional features such as videos 
 and artwork. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatboyvinnie
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Story: You are a member of a special ops unit called F. E. A. R that deals with paranormal activity. This 
 time the mission is to stop a cannibal called Paxton Fettle that has taken control a army of about 
 1000 cloned soldiers and end the chaos.
  
  Graphics: Pros-Models are supremely detailed and look really realistic, Environments look very solid
 
  Cons-Unfortunate lack of enemy models and environments which makes the game a bit repetitive towards 
 the end
  
  Sound: Pros-Gun sounds are some of the most realistic gun sounds of all time, horror type sound effects 
 helps to keep you on edge throughout the game, voice acting is great
  Cons-None
  
  Game play: Pros-Gunfights feel awesome and really feel like they came out of a John Woo film, Special 
 effects like bullet time are extremely fun to use, nice variety of guns
  Cons-Puzzle elements are really basic
  
  Replay Value: The single player game will take you 
 about 10 hours to go through and the higher difficulty will keep you coming back to it.
  F. E. A. R also features a solid Multi player where you can use all the special powers which can make 
 the action really chaotic and great
  
  Overall: This is one of the best FPS's you can buy at the moment and apart from the fact that theres 
 a lack of enemy models and environments it could of possibly be one of the best FPS's of all time 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillyhox
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 5, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  This game was awesome. This is one PC game that I totally don't regret buying. The action in this 
 game is edge of your seat action. With a surround sound system for your pc you will be having a 
 blast with it. But you must have a powerful graphics card to deal with all of this. The slow down 
 time is awesome in fights. You get right up there slow down time and blow someone away with a shotgun. 
 It looks great. I can't wait for this game to come out on the 360 because I know I will drop $60 
 or $70 to pick this game up. If you play this game I am very positive that you will not be disappointed 
 with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jm100jazz
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 5, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I downloaded this game the day before yesterday, and having got to interval (level) 6 of around 
 8, am hideously bored and frustrated. The game lacks any overall sense of purpose and player direction 
 and in an age post Deus Ex and even Max Payne, to have shooters for the sake of shooting is simply 
 insulting to the consumer. Mission briefings are an absolute joke-they usually lean towards some 
 variation of 'Find Fettel' (the bad guy-apparently) or 'Kill Fettel' or 'We're not sure where Fettel 
 is at the moment but it'd be nice if you could kill him'. Aaaaaaggh! All I seemed to get was a 
 few 'visions' a la Max Payne of Fettel and some 'Ring' ripoff which quickly loses all 'fear'-factor 
 as whenever anything paranormal happens it's the one time you know you can't be hurt. The combat 
 I will admit looks good and the stealth/aim mode is effective, however the bullet time, along with 
 the ability to save anywhere AND the oceans of medpacks and ammo lying about AND the ability to 
 change difficulty during a game (go figure? as you americans would say) make it far too easy. I 
 can't be bothered to play any longer, and frankly I feel gamespot should take a serious look at 
 what FPS games should be striving for now in terms of story, and even small things such as the 
 introduction of bigger and scarier foes as the game progresses (which FEAR lazily lacks) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3rev
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a big step up for gaming this is the kind of game that u will want to play for hours 
 and hours. This is a game that you might not want to play if you get scared and stay scared really 
 easy becuase this game really likes to mess with your mind and it does one heck of a job. You should 
 have a really high powerful computer if you want to play this game becuase it requires alot from 
 your computer. F. E. A. R has some of the best gun battles you will ever see in a game the levels 
 on the game are very creepy there is something wrong with this game you can only have 3 weaponds 
 at a time but i guess thats nothing really to make this game less then the best firstperson shooter 
 ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geogo3r
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 5, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. by far is one of the single most greatest shooter games that you could buy today. The 
 landscape/environments are captivating in an eerie way, mainly rundown urban settings and some 
 office scenarios. The graphics are amazing and couldn't be any better.
  
  F. E. A. R. Has a gripping storyline that keeps you playing until the end. Often I found myself keeping 
 my character stationary while I thought out what was going on, thinking outside the box. Although 
 I cant find myself typing a very long review ill make it crude and to the point. Buy F. E. A. R. or 
 borrow it from a friend it doesn't matter you'll end up wanting to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingmike1980
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 5, 2006 12:14 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R
  System requirements  (too darn high) LOL
  
  Minimum-
  
  System: Pentium (R) 4 - 1.7 GHz or equivalent 
  RAM: 512 MB 
  Video Memory: 64 MB 
  Hard Drive 
 Space: 5000 MB 
  
  Recommended-
  
  System: Pentium 4 - 3.0 GHz or equivalent 
  RAM: 1024 MB 
  Video Memory: 256 MB 
  Other: Radeon (R) 9800 Pro, GeForce (TM) 6600 or equivalent 
 DirectX (R) 9. Sound Blaster (R) X-Fi (TM) series sound card. 
  
  My recommendations-
  
  CPU  P4 3.2/ AMD 3500+ (x2 4800+ recommended )
  RAM  2 GB in dual channel
  Hard drive  irrelevant 
 on TE (cause we all got big ones)
  CARD  6800U/X850XT minimum (X1800XT/7900GT and above highly suggested)
  
  THE REVIEW:
  
 
  A NOTE:
  
  Firstly, a personal note, I have been gaming since 2000. Ever since I got my hands on a First person 
 shooter I was hooked. Today fps have come a long way, if you compare games like DOOM and Quake 
 which started it all, a long, long way indeed. 
  I am a fan of the more graphically sweet shooters, as looks have always mattered to me. 
  This 
 is where FEAR comes in. I recall RTCW as one of the finest looking games of its time, complete 
 with superb gameplay, the GOTY award means I neednt say much more.
  
  Another fps, which took my gaming senses by storm was Farcry, another amazing shooter. At the very 
 outset, FEAR is graphics, graphics and graphics. Lets move on!
  
  THE GAME:
  
  The very heart of an fps is the weaponry and of course the shooting! Why else would you wanna run 
 around with a gun in your hand?
  FEAR excels here. Monolith have done an excellent job with the game, (couldve been a little less 
 resource heavy, even my 7900GTX slows down at max settings) . 
  But the feel of the weapons, the tactical gameplay, and the visuals simply grab you by the throat 
 and immerse you completely, so completely that all you feel is exultation, and FEAR!
  
  FEAR puts you in the boots of a member of FEAR, a high tech squad that deals with paranormal situations 
 where fierce firepower is needed. You start inserted via chopper, and find your comrades kaput! 
 From here on you are on your own. FEAR plays well, and the I really felt involved, as if I was 
 really there! The enemies you face will range from replica soldiers, (controlled by a science experiment 
 gone wrong Paxton Fettel) , to heavily armored replicas who look like the baddie Kane from Robocop 
 2, to irritating drones which will fly around shooting you. All these foes need some serious firepower 
 and FEAR delivers! Shooting foes is actually one of the highlights here, the guns are ultra realistic 
 with a kind of brutal kickback, assault rifles realistically jar you as you fire. You will feel 
 the actual impact as the bullets rip through the enemies armor, and the rag doll effects are awesome. 
 Spoily warning  there is a gun which will actually allow you to nail your opponents to walls and 
 other surfaces, looks really good! The assault rifle is very powerful and will rip into foes, while 
 the particle rifle (works like a railgun) incinerates leaving Mr. bones behind! You cannot stock 
 up on ammo and let loose however because the weapon system allows you to carry a maximum of 3 firearms. 
 Opponents have the same arsenal of weaponry you do, so do watch out, youve been warned! 
  
  As you play FEAR you will be encouraged to use military tactics of flush and finish, as the 
 storyline grips you, your past is slowly exposed as you play along. The corridors of the tech facility 
 you are charged with clearing of baddies, will be memorable, both for the action, and the lack 
 of it. 
  
  Then there are these cutscenes where youll be haunted by a little girl, (no name, dont want to 
 spoil the experience) , and you will see Paxton, who will spill some of those precious what happened 
 to me in the past beans. The cutscenes and visions that you character has are so sudden that they 
 will scare you. 
  
  There are instances where you have to use your flashlight (thankfully integrated on your gun, no 
 doom fiascos here) , but beware that the AI is so ferocious that theyll detect your flashlight 
 beam, and start scouting around! They will also call for help, flush you out with grenades, and 
 coordinate attacks in hope of taking you down. 
  
  FEAR encourages stealth also. An enemy unaware of you will be taken down with a couple of well 
 placed shots, but once theyre on to you, DOOM 3 seems a picnic!
  
  SIGHTS & SOUNDS:
  
  Visually speaking, FEAR is one of the best looking games ever! Bullet time effects make a brilliant 
 showing here, and you can see the matrix style slow mo bullets whoosh by you, and your lead whooshing 
 into the baddies. I immensely enjoyed a particular section where I went into bullet time and dual 
 welded pistols, (which are surprisingly punchy for the smallest weapons in the game) , threw a grenade, 
 then emptied both clips into 2 soldiers far away from the explosion while the 2 guys close to it 
 contributed to the red dcor! Sweet indeed. Grenade explosions cause concussive shock waves, very 
 realistic, as is the dismemberment upon use of a powerful weapon or explosive. The sheer amount 
 of particle and debris effects are amazing as rounds plow through walls leaving behind big gashes, 
 and the flying chunks of concrete and dust all adds to the absolute realism that FEAR delivers.
 
  
  The only sore point is the extremely high graphics requirements. I played FEAR first on an X850XT 
 (office) , then a 7900GTX on an FX 55 rig (office again) , and my new rig. The sad part is it didnt 
 run perfectly on any of these. it blows current hardware right outta the water!
  
  Sound wise FEAR excels, with the music picking up tempo with fights, and dieing down to a steady 
 haunting hum, that adds twitch to that trigger finger. Voice acting is good, with the replicas 
 getting so loud in their voice commands, that you actually hear them before you see them.
  Weapons sound like, well weapons, the way theyre meant to sound, loud, harsh and jarring. Not 
 for the faint hearted!
  The soundtrack, as far as special effects go also rocks! Bullets tearing into walls, shredding 
 replicas, and shattering pottery will sound like youd imagine it should!
  
  To sum up although FEAR is resource heavy, but I feel this is a trend that will only increase. 
 To actually enjoy the game with all its effects you need an uber rig, but if you have one at your 
 disposal, this is GoTY material! Sights and Sounds get FEAR a 9/10 from me, (one less cause of 
 the high requirements)
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  FEAR gameplay is A class. Very few games can deliver action, in its most visceral form. To shoot 
 and actually feel you gun hand rock, and see your target being torn to shreds, wounds pumping gore, 
 this is special, and might I add very difficult to inculcate in a game. 
  The atmosphere, empty at times, is just as eerie without the baddies, in fact more so. The gloomy 
 corridors, eerie sounds and shadows all add to the oppressive feeling of being one against the 
 mob! Suddenly a door opens somewhere, or a guard shouts intruder, the pace changes, and its shoot 
 fast, shoot accurate, and keep moving. FEAR actually makes you think for awhile, as to the next 
 move. Slow thinking will get you a grenade in the face!
  
  After a while, the game does get a tad repetitive, simply because the replicas tend to call out 
 to each other before you see them. They will also use the same dialogues, over and over, like He 
 wiped out the whole squad, means theres two baddies left, while I need backup, means theres 
 just one more replica to pop! 
  
  This slightly repetitive scenario does detract a bit from the suspense that FEAR is capable of 
 delivering. Not to say its intrusive from entire immersive experience thing. 
  
  MY TAKE: 
  
  If I were to choose between FEAR and Farcry, Id still go the old is gold way. 
 Reasons being gameplay for one, the stealth factor, (FEAR doesnt offer silent weapons) , and level 
 design. However the gap is very tiny, and as far as graphics goes theres no comparison. If gripping 
 and scary is what you want then its a no brainer, FEAR any day!
  
  The storyline is also more immersive, the visuals well Ive ranted about them enough by now. The 
 feel of the game is top notch, and the actual chaos of combat closely simulated. 
  
  Quite simply if your rig is up there with the best, get this game, else dont even bother with 
 a pirated copy, cause youll miss some 65% of the action, and 90% of the experience.
  
  Advice to all  upgrade before you play the latest crop of games  FEAR, Oblivion etc. its well 
 worth it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellsKing
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 4, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  WOW and "holy **** she's coming right at me!" These are just few of MANY phrases I said while playing 
 this magnificent game! If your looking for a thrilling first person shooter, then this is it! Not 
 to mention the little scare bonus involved. Elma or wat ever that lil girls name is, she can scare 
 the crap out of a damn Skeleton! Imagine that girl from the ring x10 more scary! Yes, thats right! 
 It's that scary! When you encounter this girl from time to time she'll pull of some creepy lil 
 stunts from crawling towards you out of the clear blue sky while your trying to get through an 
 AC duct, to appearing in front of your face while you climb down a ladder! This is just about 1/4 
 of the game tho! I haven't even gotten into the first person shooter part. You can slow down time 
 and bust a cap into all the mofo's you see around you! It's not too easy nor is it too difficult, 
 it's just right. I haven't had this much fun in being scared nor happy to blow off some heads since 
 Doom 3. It's a must buy classic... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan_archer1010
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  The a. i. in this game is one of its best features, and it can make the game very difficult on the 
 higher settings. The weapons are fairly standard for the most part, pistols, shotgun, machine gun, 
 rocket launcher etc. The graphics can be stunning, and definately help make this a great game. 
 Also the npc's speech is quite good, and rarely gets annoying, especially when they see your flashlght 
 or hear a noise. The only downside is you have to have a pretty good system to play it and an awesome 
 one to max the graphics settings.
  All in all, the best first person shooter i hve played in a couple of years, probablysince far 
 cry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathanpiper3
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 2, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  The game is too short, plain and simple, quite a let down after you've played it for a good couple 
 of weeks. Although i think it could of been an absolute great game if there was just abit more 
 too it, more levels for a definite and more variety. Hopefully they will improve on fear 2 but 
 as sequels go i wont be surprise if its worse. On the whole, good but just not worth spending anymore 
 than fifteen pounds on it, and thats if you don't have any other game you're thinking of buying. 
 Nothing has come close to the gameplay in goldeneye and i dont think it ever will so im not giving 
 much hope for any shoot em ups in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 2, 2006 4:40 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is the best description to this game. The main feeling that your experiense during the 
 game is FEAR!
  The game itself is based on DOOM 3 engine, I got it after the first look on the game. The faces 
 and the way they look will be familiar to those who had played DOOM 3.
  So as you understand the engine is very powerfull so the graphics of the game is. The picture is 
 very pretty and interesting even on medium settings, on high performance they just look great!
 
  The sounds are also good, ofcourse it is! The thriller games are on 50% depends on the quality 
 of sounds. Through the game it makes you fill really spooky sometimes. When something falls down 
 or brokes you stop an start to think: Am I need to walk this way?
  The AI of the enemies is also good. They are not extremly smart but still are very challenging. 
 The way your enemies are hiddin behind the boxe, walls, then try to shoot you by throughing granades 
 or shooting without making themselfes uncovered. But they still sometimes perform silly things 
 like running from side to side or jumping over the fences when the passage througn it is in 2 feet.
 
  The gameplay is very interesting and comfortable. it doesn't bore you while playing the game.
 
  I also want to point out the way you fill this game. You know Ifor me it seems like a good and 
 quality film. It is like you are in the cinema watching the film and at the same time you are in 
 it yourself. All the sudden turns of the story during the game make you fill great!
  In total I want to say just one thing: Play this game, you won't regret it!
  Tahir"Yazon"Tillyaev 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rath999
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 29, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  When I saw one soldier jump over a wall and one soldier crawl under a bookcase that had just fallen 
 in his path I knew this was an incredible game. The AI uses flanking maneuvers and grenades to 
 deadly effect. With the various mines and grenades you can have a lot of fun setting up ambushes 
 and traps for the soldiers. The creepy side of the game and the action side of the game are kind 
 of separate which is a little odd (you won't see anything really creepy during a firefight) but 
 both sides are well done. Haven't finished it yet but I'm having a blast playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sh4d0wc4st3r
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 29, 2006 3:17 am PT
Review:  To start, F. E. A. R. is a scary game. It's paranormal effects will shock the heck out of you. The 
 story in this game is that you're trying to take out some psychotic freak that likes to eat people 
 and you get mixed up with a psychotic girl that turns people into bones. Although you need a high-end 
 PC to run this game nicely, you can still get the chill running it on a lower setting. 
  
  Gameplay: This game has a great gameplay. It's fun to play and it freaks you out when you play 
 it. The effects in this game enhances a lot. The slow-motion effect is really nice to have and 
 the variety of futuristic weapons are all nice.
  
  Graphics: Depends on the PC. For me, it's great. The effects on the walls when you fire your gun, 
 the blood stains, the character's facial effects are all done very well. If you run this game on 
 the lowest setting, it looks like an N64 or PS1 game. Either than that, graphics on high looks 
 next-gen.
  
  Sound: Great sound effects. The heavy breathing in the suspenseful moments to the firing of the 
 weapons. The dialogue is also very well writing and performed.
  
  Value: Great single player and even better multiplayer. This game should last a long time no matter 
 how well the graphics look.
  
  Tilt: There's not much to say about this game. The developers imagined what they wanted out of 
 this game and they got it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenday882
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 28, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  This game is really fun. It feels like a scary action movie. The graphics are wonderful (if you 
 can run it) . The game play gets kind of repetitive, but thats when the spook comes in. Some of 
 the scary moments you never realize. You get a lot of weapons too. Examples are the normal shotgun 
 and smg, but you get a ghetto type-7 particle weapon. It turns your enemies into skeletons. One 
 of the best parts of the game is the rag-doll physics and the gore. Seeing a guy blow up in his 
 own blood is both messed up and sweet lol. Anyway this game is definitely worth the $40 at your 
 local retailer. Sierra did a really good job with this. I wonder how F. E. A. R. 2 will be.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djwglpuppy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 28, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  I am about half way through the game right now, so I think I have a pretty good opinion. There 
 is really only one level in the game and only a few enemies... Technically it should be the most 
 boring game made. The fact of why I can't put down the game is about atmosphere and tension. The 
 frst one that you heard more often trhan not is the creepiness factor... The sound and lighting 
 really does set the mood, the screenshots do not do it justice (I though the reviewers are mad 
 to see that a boring deserted office is creepy) . I can't play this game nonstop because I get too 
 jittery from all the ambient drones and flickering lights and images. The other thing that it does 
 is make you feel like you are really in a firefight. When I play half life 2, I can pop enemy after 
 enamy with no problem. With F. E. A. R., I have to take a deep breath, run like hell, fire in the 
 right body parts, throw grenades at the right time, take cover at the right time, etc. I feel drained 
 after the firefights ands thank god that I have one health pack left (sometimes I don't have any) . 
 Like gamespot, I can see some parallels to Japanese horror being a huge takashi miike fan.
  The downside to this game is that in order to have the full effect, you HAVE to have a beefy system. 
 I have an XPS 1710 dual core 2.13, 2GB of RAM, and a 7900 Geforce 512 MB Video Card, which by all 
 other game standard rocks, but just gives me aenough power to run the game descently... sometimes 
 the frame rate drops more than I like but it is overall a descent experience.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameric6
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  This is game is near perfect. IT has amazing graphics, awesome gunfights, a great thriller story 
 that will have you guessing to the end, and a little bit of horror mixed in. BUY THIS GAME. the 
 only problem is that some people with less powerful computers will have to lower there graphics 
 settings or upgrade to play. this is an instant classic and should be in every fps players game 
 library. there is no reason not to own a copy of this game. the sound and music are also top notch. 
 The single best part of this game for me was the enemy AI. enemies will react very inventively 
 to your tactics and will try to flank you or flush you out of your position with grenades. when 
 facing a squad of enemies some will lay down cover fire while others will try to flank your position. 
 it is like facing a real highly trained group of soldiers. they don't fall for simple tricks like 
 other shooters and you will find yourself face down on the floor many times because of how tricky 
 the AI is in this game. but the computer is never cheap in its tactics so losing is not so bad. 
 you can also save anywhere with the f5 key so its easy to save before every fight. overall this 
 game is probably one of the best i have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lXlFUSElXl
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 27, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  You gotta love the insane amount of debris after shooting your weapon.. Everything from sparks to 
 dirt litter the atmosphere.
  
  The gameplay is intense with some extremely intelligent A. I. At times the slow mo becomes very 
 effective when you are overwhelmed.
  
  The graphics are top notch with any game out at this point in time.
  
  The story is quite immersive 
 and is a good twist from the normal.
  
  Only downside is the gameplay can become a bit repetitive as you move through the game but with 
 all the good and so little bad in the game it can easily be overlooked.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarah-1988
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 27, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R (First Encounter Assault Recon) is an outstanding Modern First-Person Shooter with admirable 
 graphics. F. E. A. R shows the proper recommendations of a shooter and the graphics are so appealing 
 that people will get addicted. The plot of the game is unique and is surprisingly well-done. The 
 downer side of the game is that the recoil of the guns are too realistic which makes it very hard 
 to see whats happening since everything gets blurred. Even with its downside, F. E. A. R is still 
 wonderfully made and is recommended to all gamers. People will not have a hard time completing 
 the game but it may take a while because F. E. A. R is not that simple but also not that difficult. 
 I guarantee that everybody would love the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guile_charlie
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I'd like to say that F. E. A. R. is one of the all around greatest games I've ever played, 
 and is potentially the best F. P. S. ever made. It takes everything that made Halo so popular (more 
 like, overrated) and uplifts them to an extreme that Bungie only dreams of accomplishing. With 
 that out of the way.
  
  The control is a dream. Considering my pc isn't as good as most others who have this game, the 
 controls are still very responsive and quick. The graphics are terrific and the framerate suffers 
 minimal slowdown for the most part. It plays outstandingly! The sound quallity is great, with blood 
 chilling ambiance and fairly creepy music. The story line, however, is what will keep the ever 
 growing fanbase of this new series comming back for more. The enemies don't get repetative, and 
 each and every stage keeps the same creepy and suspensful look and feel, but are as varied just 
 as they need to be.
  
  If you are even remotely into first person shooters, then at least try out this game, it's well 
 worth the time and money invested. If you don't have a PC that can handle it, then definetly get 
 it on the 360 or PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Fist
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is one of those games that comes along and you think it can't be as good as everybody 
 seems to think it is, but then you try it it out and you are hooked after the first intense firefight. 
 I had heard great things about this game and was a little doubtfull that they could really be true. 
 AI that actually sees its surroundings? Some of the best lighting and bump mapping to date? Interesting 
 story? The AI and the story bit grabbed my attention and I decided to try this game. I have to 
 say that I was swept off my feet by the first gunfight, the fighting was so intense that I was 
 sweating by the time the last enemy had hit the ground in spray of blood (this game is quite bloody) . 
 The AI was a bit of a disapointment to me though, even on the harder difficulties I could easily 
 outsmart them if I couldn't always out-gun them. All the same they were still much better than 
 most games artificial intelligence. The story was pretty good if a little bit far fetched at times 
 and the graphics stood out from most games. I was also disapointed with the environments in the 
 game, most were very dull and though they were detailed they lacked flair and changed little during 
 the course of the game.
  
  Pros: Good AI, good graphics and physics, good voice acting and sound, addictive gunfighting, smooth 
 presentation, very few bugs or glitches, and solid multiplayer.
  
  Cons: Boring environments, low replay value (I played through twice) , not much variation in enemies, 
 story feels contrived at times, no AI in multiplayer.
  
  Overall: Worth the money and a very solid and enjoyable game on the whole. Its strengths more than 
 make up for its weaknesses. A must buy if you are a fan of horror games or John Woo films (plays 
 like one with dual pistols and slide kicks and all) . Good entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baelrrogg
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 26, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  Not too many games can make you feel like your actually shooting a gun and not just clicking on 
 what you want to die. FEAR is one of those games.
  The guns all have very quick and realistic rate of fire and recoil making it almost impossible 
 to effectively take on a huge group of enemies (or even a few ) if it were not for your ability 
 to slow down time. This is something that has been done before but not quite like this. Here you 
 are nothing without bullet time. Enemies in FEAR are actually quite smart (they throw objects around 
 for cover, duck behind obstacles, actually manage to flank you, etc.) and trying to take them on 
 without the help of bullet-time will only result in you missing most of your targets and getting 
 killed. Bullet-time gives you time to really ENJOY shooting your opponent (you actually feel enjoyment 
 with every landed shot) and seeing him and the environment get torn apart by your gunfire. Bullet-time 
 is not infinite however, you have a gauge that fills as time goes by or as you kill opponents. 
 
  
  The story doesn't really break any new ground. Everything in there has been seen before in the 
 new Hollywood horror flicks and recent games. The game does a good job at screwing with your mind 
 with the supernatural stuff at first but after a little while it gets repetitive and you half expect 
 most surprises before they actually happen. There aren't too many supernatural enemies except for 
 a few ghosts who disappear as soon as they are shot. Most enemies encountered throughout the game 
 (and the most fun) are part of a clone army. The climax of the game is somewhat lost near the end 
 of the game (can't really give out more here without spoilers) . But this game's strong point isn't 
 its story, it's the action sequences and they are plenty of those in there. 
  
  Graphically, FEAR is one of the most impressive titles yet. It features realistic textures, great 
 character and gun models. The environment are very destructible showing bullet marks, smoke, destroyed 
 objects such as paper, file cabinets and the like (this game is mostly set in an office setting) 
 . The game's physics are another wow factor. At one point in the game you obtain a nail gun that 
 can be used to literally nail enemies to the walls. The character models are fully destructible 
 as well. What I mean by this is that compared to recent shooters where throwing a grenade at an 
 enemy only sends him flying, FEAR's models will actually blow up to bloody bits. A shotgun shot 
 to the head will decapitated an enemy and one to the arm will rip it off (Did I mention this game 
 was gory?) . Obviously not for the faint-hearted but anyone remembering the old shooters were this 
 was common occurrence will be pleased. 
  
  Another strong point of FEAR is it's sound. The dialogue doesn't sound too forced (with a few exceptions) 
 and the sound effects are great and really add to that action movie feel. A warning though, playing 
 this game with surround sound headphones with the lights off will freak you out at first (you eventually 
 get used to the spooks unfortunately) . The supernatural sequences have fitting sounds and music 
 which add to their creepy feel.
  
  Multiplay is present in FEAR and has some nice twists on the regular deathmatch and other typical 
 game modes. One of the coolest multiplay features is that in certain game types your bullet-time 
 is a team-activated pick-up where one member of your team gets it and ti then activates bullet-time 
 for all players but only players on your team have the enhanced aiming and movement speed, effectively 
 slowing down the other team to a crawl. I can't comment much more on the multiplay aspects of the 
 game as I haven't played them as much as would have liked. 
  
  To conclude, FEAR is a game any shooter or action-movie fan should own and everybody else should 
 give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nebuzad0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 25, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. has been one of the best games I have ever played in my gaming life. 
  
  F. E. A. R. is the story of a special ops agent who was just recruited to a team of other soldiers 
 in the scearch of a psychopath by the name of Paxton Fettle. Fettle has apparantly taken over an 
 army of clone soldiers. Your job is to stop him because apparently if you kill the person controling 
 the clone army will stop opperating. While on your missions you will slowly uncover the story whilst 
 being scared to death by the supernatural young girl Alma. I will say that if you have the time 
 this game has one of the most fuffilling stories of any FPS video game out there!
  
  First off the AI of the clone army is almost supernatural in itself! if you take cover they Flank 
 you. If you fire at them they take cover. If you are in a room and they know it they throw a grenade 
 in after you! When I say the enemies are smart THEY ARE SMART! But you where not put onto this 
 special team of agents for no reason! They mention at the begining of the game that you were chossen 
 for your reflexes. In the game you have a secret weapon: you are able to slow down time. I will 
 mention that this game does the slow time thing very well!
  
  The graphics are top notch. I will say that the explosion and particle effects (on a good computer) 
 are some of the best ever. And that is all I will say graphics wise because its not graphics that 
 make a game its the Gameplay!!!
  
  I will say that there is some redundancy in the game.
  
  Monolith Productions does one thing amazing, and that is suspence and ambiance! This game cept 
 me on the edge of my seat!
  
  In my final words do not F. E. A. R. to play this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ketsapoulse
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  This game has a lot of superb features that Im going to talk about them in this review:
  First of all the GRAPHICS its truly amazing and has a lot of effects like reflections and lightning.
 
  Then the SOUNDS its just too perfect to describe. 
  PHYSIC ENGINE: very good physics they almost good as Half Life 2 the game.
  GAME PLAY: truly 
 great story and great game play with 2 modes: single play and multiplayer.
  THE BAD: nothing at all.
  THE GOOD: perfect graphics, sounds, game play and physics.
  MY LAST 
 WORD: If you dont have it you must buy it right this moment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: world69star69
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 24, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  First off this game is highly overrated! Sure the game has some cool shader and lighting effects, 
 but the environment and enemies are totally mundane with no variety what-so-ever!!! It seems that 
 people only rate games like this based on the Ai and gunfights which I agree are good, but nowhere 
 near as good as say Farcry, half-life 2, or Chaos Theory. I need more to a game, perhaps because 
 I have a vivid imagination, and RPG's are my favorite game genre. So environment is extremely important, 
 as well as diverse characters and NPC's. This game has like 2 different enemies repeated over and 
 over agian. 
  
  Lets talk atmosphere here.... It starts out cool and the horror element is a good touch, sadly it 
 doesn' t continue that way. The horror aspects are few and far between, and the game seems to focus 
 on repeated gun battles with these clones ( the clone things is just a cop out for the art department 
 so they didn't have to make many original npc's... horrible, my favorite games have 100's of diverse 
 npcs (I know rpgs aren't fps games, well Oblivion is like one, but if rpg games have that and great 
 atmosphere environments, then a fps can do it too!) In a plus it does offer good lighting effects, 
 I wish more was done with that and the horror aspects though, as the clones remind me of charcaters 
 from counter strike (another game highly overratted, boring, and I can't stand the simple repetitive 
 gameplay trash! For MP nothing beats unreal tournament orig and 2004!!!)
  Now the environments are crap!! Repaeted over and over again office complexes and water treatment 
 plants, it really needs something in them to to make each level stand out!! People said this about 
 DOom3 although I found D3 excellent because its environment were fresh with a variety of interacting 
 moving machinery, grusome corpses, different enemies and the lighting was well done and was used 
 good! Fear on the other hand feels drab, the same stuff seems to be reused like the art dept laked 
 funds or something. There is a few interactive valves and stuff but not much and the cooridors 
 feel empty compared to D3. Someone said everything is destructable, not true and most of the repated 
 shelves stay put not fall on enmies like you would wish, just boxes and stuff move, which there 
 is a lack of. The slowmotion and bullet environmetn physics stuff was directly plagerized from 
 Max payne 1 and 2, which had more and did it better, was more populated with actual stuff not abandon 
 hallways like Fear, people think its new its not! 
  The sound is ok, nothing special just average, the graphics engine is not impressive to me at all. 
 Doom3, source and Crytek fps engines are better! The gamplay is average if it had more then the 
 rinse and repeat gunbattles, like some cool puzzles (rarely seen anymore, but it looks like Prey 
 will bring this back! ) it would be really good. They could of done so much with this game. When 
 I started it I had an impression that it wouls rock, but after the first 5 levels and nothing different 
 it bored me! The story elements are short and boring. All in all I really wanted to like this, 
 the only thing that stands out it seems is the AI, but that alone doesn't make a game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dosadi_fan
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 23, 2006 11:06 pm PT
Review:  The game may be awsome but I don't think much of a company that doesn't give you an update option 
 and sends me to update sites that expect payment to upload a patch in under 2 1/2 hours. Left a 
 nasty taste in my mouth and I give them a big NAUGHTY NAUGHTY for doing so. The graphics are awsome. 
 Good story and average skill needed to play. Turning out the lights while playing had me jumping 
 out of my panties. Not much to complain about. I have not tested the online play, yet. I am hoping 
 that will fill in for the supposed short story line. Does everyone else get the creeps from this 
 game like I do? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daggerknight
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 22, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  When it was initially announced, and screenshots were first shown, I was not too impressed by F. E. A. R. 
 This was perhaps due to the fact that I was too blinded by the idea of Half Life 2 being released. 
 Whatever the reason, I dismissed F. E. A. R as yet another shooter trying to impress us with blood 
 and mindless shooting. 
  
  However, F. E. A. R is anything but a mindless shooter. The only way I can find to describe it is 
 a hybrid of Counter Strike and Half Life. The combat is tactical, requiring you to think before 
 you act. Part of this is due to the fact that your weapons suffer from recoil, partly because of 
 how grenades work (AKA Halo style) , and part of it is the amazing AI at work. Many games have been 
 said to have AI that behaves like real people, but its never been more true than it is with F. E. A. R. 
 These guys will run around an entire level in order to flank you if it. They will toss grenades, 
 give each other cover, and basically do everything you would do to score a take down, as well as 
 avoid everything you would, like walking right into a doorway being covered by a guy with a rocket 
 launcher. Once in a while some weird things happen (like the AI running right over a mine they 
 saw being planted) , but such cases are rare. 
  
  The combat is absolutely brilliant. While the basic structure is similar to most games, it has 
 its own unique flare. The melee combat system is particularly noteworthy. Apart from the awesome 
 moves you can execute (flying kicks, spins kicks, etc) , it is also one of the few melee systems 
 in an FPS thats actually useful in a firefight. 
  
  The weapons themselves are quite nice. While they are not as original in their design as the original 
 Unreals arsenal, they are none the less satisfying and memorable. Of particular note are the Nail 
 gun, Pulse rifle and Repeating Cannon. All the weapons are also designed to look like the kind 
 of weapons you would expect a military force to use, no matter how strange (IE the rocket launcher 
 and cannon.) .
  
  As you may have heard, F. E. A. R gives you a slow motion power. While this may sound like a gimmick, 
 its much more than that. It is a lethal weapon that you may find yourself relying on at several 
 points in the single player game and in the multiplayer modes It is included in. 
  
  I wont give away anything in the single player, as its plot is quite intriguing, and best experienced 
 for yourself. I will say one thing though; the level design is downright bad at times. Granted, 
 nothing gets as bad as Halos Library level, but its none the less dull and reparative. Still, 
 the game itself remains interesting, but next time I hope Monolith works on this one major flaw 
 with an otherwise awesome game. 
  
  Multiplayer is also a fantastic aspect. As mentioned earlier, it bears many influences from counter 
 strike and Half-life. It is chaotic as hell, with explosions going off every second, smoke hovering 
 in the air, and shots coming out of every corner. The modes included are the typical death match/ 
 team death match and Capture the flag, as well as some interesting ones such as elimination/ team 
 elimination, and the recently released (in a patch) Capture and Hold. The death match modes also 
 allow you to play with a hypo that allows each team to trigger a slow motion mode that lets their 
 team run faster and slow the others. The catch; only one person can carry this hypo, and he is 
 surrounded by a bright blue light. In other words, he is a big huge target for the other team. 
 
  
  As great as the multiplayer is, I really wish the game had in built voice chat, like Counter Strike, 
 because this game encourages tactics, especially in multiplayer, yet without voice chat, such strategizing 
 is almost impossible. 
  
  Finally, one gripe I have with this game; the liberal use of gore and swearing. Now, im not saying 
 that games should not use this stuff at all, but the fact that a censor is not available, and the 
 fact that the gore often is a bit excessive, is a little putting off, since there are many who 
 do wish to play without such things. I just think the option should be there like it used to be 
 in older games. 
  
  All in all, F. E. A. R is definitely worth checking out. I strongly advise you download the demos 
 (both single and multiplayer) before buying it, though, since it may not appeal to some for whatever 
 reason. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slashsrilanka
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 22, 2006 12:11 am PT
Review:  This is nothing but awesome better graphics than doom and even more scarrier. before u play please 
 check ur age limit cos it seriously is bad sor low age people. I didnt get to play this game with 
 awesome graphics cos i dont have a good comp. But i had 1gb of ram and a radeon 9550 (256mb) that 
 could be played on medium graphics. To get the maximum graphics out of this game buy a comp which 
 include a geforce 7 series 3d card.
  and also get some good fast ram plus atleast a 3hz processor with HT tech.
  i highly recomend 
 a good surround as well cos this games sound is awesome with out surround sound the game would 
 be lame
  AWESOME GAME CANT WAIT FOR THE NEXT EXPAMSION! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlcain
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 21, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Fear is a game that is big on immersion, and really takes scare tactics in a FPS to a level we've 
 seldom seen before. I actually debated on whether or not to purchase this game, even after playing 
 the excellent demo, and for anyone else doing the same.... JUST BUY IT!!! 
  
  Just to get it out of the way, lets talk about what's wrong with the game. First, after awhile 
 the scare tactics can start to feel cheap. I say after awhile because instead of getting creative 
 they just settled on using variations of what was done earlier in the game. Second, there is a 
 general lack of variety in the game. The environments, as well as the enemies don't change drastically 
 throughout the game and so it all feels a bit familiar by the end of the game. Lastly, the game 
 is a bit on the short side, as I think I ran through it my first time in about 10 hours.
  
  Now let's talk about what's right!! First, the graphics. This game looks absolutely stunning, featuring 
 a host of graphical bells and whistles that really help to make you feel in the game. The game 
 can be a bit of a system hog, but the average computer should be able to run it on at a decent 
 level. Also, the level design is fantastic. This is a pretty linear game, but the way the levels 
 are designed allow for quite a bit of strategy in battling your enemies. 
  
  And this brings me to what was really done right, the AI. The AI in short is the best tactical 
 AI ever seen in a game to date, and really makes the game what it is. The AI serves so many purposes 
 in this game, that while the other stuff is great, it is the AI that brings it all together. After 
 all, the AI makes the game; tactical, immersive, fun, replayable, and puts the great level design 
 to use.
  
  So in the end, this is a game that must be experienced. Watching your enemies coordinate against 
 you by laying down cover fire, flanking, and flipping over objects in the environment for cover 
 is an experience few, if any, games can offer while providing excellent graphics and level design. 
 Not to mention one of the top three endings of all time!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  Well first thing about this game realy its isnt very scary afcource you may get scared when ghost 
 shows in front of your face , but the crepiest thing i think that is the sound , when you play 
 this game you get scared from the sound , well when i got little anoyed from that i just turned 
 out the sound and played ... But without it its difficult to play then i turned on again ... Enemys 
 arent scary at all , i can say one thing that you might get scared in thoose places where there 
 arent no enemys no nothing just creapy sounds ... Afcourse this game is amazing i dont know why 
 but when i played i coudnt stop playing ... But this game is short for me i finished it very fast 
 ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thezuki
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 21, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  No piece of entertainment ever scared me as much as this game did, at times i would have to turn 
 it off because i would be so scared, the story is simply amazing and definately should be made 
 into a movie with a great directior, the graphics are great and so is the sound, the AI really 
 stands out and the enemies are extremely smart and are very difficult, when i fire fight starts 
 you fell yourself running and dipping for cover trying not to get shot, there is also a nice collection 
 of guns ranging from pistols to zapper things, although i didnt play much the multiplayer is also 
 very well done
  
  overall this game is amazing and anyone who can run it should definately check it out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ackad
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 19, 2006 5:02 am PT
Review:  Okay we have Doom, then we have War craft, and now we have F. E. A. R..
  See this game, you wont often see scary and action like this game! forget Doom. Not even scary. 
 Seriously, whoever plays F. E. A. R., will get scared at the night time, like looking at the closet, 
 or going down stairs that is so dark.
  I swear the first time I played this game, I had to sleep right next to my parents. This is a must 
 buy for any gamers who love action and fear!!
  I love scary games but, I have to rank this number one because this game has every weapon, good 
 scary parts, no cheats, and its just right. Wow I have never seen so good game play. As I said 
 before, this game is a must buy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JinDragon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 18, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Ugh, there's not much I can say about this game, except that it's a double edged sword of pure 
 fun. I play this game sometimes in my internet cafe, and every moment playing it is just intriguing. 
 It's extremely intense as an FPS, and while its somewhat like other FPSes, it's at the same time 
 unique, thanks to the features you get. The graphics are simply superb, looking good and adding 
 to the creepy-as-hell atmosphere of the game. Speaking of creepy, the gameplay of fighting and 
 the overall progression of the game gives you an intense fear of every corner. I've been frightened 
 so many times by this game, as the atmospheric background just grips onto my stomach, and I keep 
 telling to myselfQUIT PLAYING THIS GAME NOW!", but, it's this fear that keeps me playing. 
 
  
  Just play it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gabovaisas
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 14, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  A mind-blowing AI! That is the best way to describe F. E. A. R., the first person shooter that took 
 the gaming world by surprise. With its amazingly intelligent bots which adapt to the environment 
 with great quickness which delivers better and realistic gaming. The developers not happy with 
 their amazing AI decided to give the game something 'extra', powerful and fast graphics; graphics 
 so detailed and real that give the game a truly realistic environment. IT IS JUST A PLEASURE TO 
 PLAY A GAME LIKE THIS. It goes around that gaming is doomed and nothing new comes out. FEAR definitely 
 goes against this giving players and gaming world something different from the other PC first person 
 shooters. Hope developers give us, the players, more that just the regular game. Hopefully FEAR 
 will influence the rest. Also is worth mentioning that Nintendo is another giant on this, making 
 things different!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: granposho
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 14, 2006 3:09 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games that even if you play it only in single player you'll want to play it 
 very very often... such is my case, I've play it for the third time till the very end and is a 
 game so well crafted that you'll spend less time guessing what's wrong with this game rather than 
 explaining what makes it so great.
  
  Many of you are fps freaks just like me, if you haven't played it you better come up with some 
 very very convincing excuse 'cuz you're missing quite a master piece.
  
  The story... engaging, great plot with some minor political twist, but quite spooky. Let me get 
 something straight, this ain't your silent hill or so, where you spend more time freaking out than 
 any other thing, this game has a great ambient, with some seriously great spooky events, you know, 
 those unexpected things that makes you jump off your feet. The way the story is told is very clever, 
 the only cutscenes you'll see are short and the rest are all in game events.
  
  Graphics and Tech, do I have to say anything? I run this with almost every single setting on max 
 and is just so beautiful that it makes your eyes bleed for more, and what about sound? Sound is 
 as important as graphics are, and it's up for the challenge you know? I recommend a X-Fi card, 
 since is one of the most powerful cards out there and with that cards characteristics it will be 
 a great load off your pc, increasing performance quite visibly.
  
  Perhaps one of the things that differs this game from the rest is the AI, you'll never, ever, have 
 the same fight twice, and they're always challenging because of this great Ai!! You'll have an 
 anecdote for each corner, some day you'll find your self telling your friends "once I was coming 
 out this door when..." and he'll answer with it's own experience... never the same. That's what 
 made me play this awesome game so many times.
  
  Bottomline, after such a game, you'll be aching for more, and soon my friends will our prays be 
 answered, soon we'll have extraction point, let's hope it's up for the challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkaya27
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 14, 2006 2:47 am PT
Review:  That is Turkish... When you play the FEAR.. care about your GT (GT=ASS :d) .. Oyun tam bir korku 
 yelpazesi. Acayip garayip, insani ilklerine kadar korkutacak ergumanlar iceriyor. Kan korkusu olanlar 
 oyuna yaklasmasin. yada kan rengini degistirsinler. Koku ve Gerilimin dibine vurmus bir oyun. Neden 
 insani bukadar kokutmaya calismislar anlamadim. Evet oyuna baslamadan once oyun hakkinda biraz 
 bilgi edinin ve ingilizceniz zayifsa yaniniza bir sozluk alin. Oyunu anlarsaniz daha cok havaya 
 girersiniz. Size tavsiyem oyunu ilk en dusuk seviyede oyunayin sonra oyuna alistikca seviyeyi artrabilirsiniz. 
 zaten oyunun guzeliklerinden biride istediginiz anda oyunun seviyesini belirleyebilmeniz. Ayrica 
 oyun sirasinda size bazi tavsiyelerde bulunuluyor onlarnda dikkate aln. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bczican015
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 12, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a single and multi-player shooter for the PC. This game is absolutely amazing. High-end 
 graphics, extreme sound quality, and intense multiplayer are only some of the features that this 
 game delivers. Combined with a unique mission system, destructible environments, and scary and 
 utterly horrifying images that burn themselves into your mind for the rest of your life, this game 
 gets reps as one of the best games ever.
  
  The graphics are absolutely un-matched by anything on the market today. Environments look real, 
 No questions asked. The characters and enemies show facial expressions, personality, and depth. 
 The lighting in this game adds to the already creepy aspect of the game. One second, the player 
 is traveling through an abandoned building, shooting everything that moves. And the next, walking 
 through a dark hallway scared and afraid. The environments are also all destructible. And ALL means 
 ALL. everything the player can see, can destroy.
  
  The sound is perfect. PERFECT. the music is eerie and creepy, and matches the game perfectly. All 
 the guns sound realistic and each have their own sound and feel. The computers hum just like real 
 ones, the telephones ring and play messages amazingly, and the glass shatters with the sound that 
 chills the player to the bone.
  
  The game itself is put together perfectly. The missions flow from one to the next, and the multiplayer 
 is an amazing feat in gaming history. The Slo-Mo feature is absolutely beautiful in multiplayer. 
 The multi-player system is real and takes a lot of skill to master, just like all the different 
 weapons and items.
  
  F. E. A. R takes gaming to a whole new level. With beautiful graphics, amazing sound, and a unique 
 multi-player, mission, and playing style, F. E. A. R is sure to remain the top PC shooter for months 
 if not years from this date. If this game has any flaws whatsoever, its that its so scary, that 
 the player is too scared to play in the dark.... alone.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patswu03
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  This game has the best A. I. I have ever seen. The enemies react differently to each individual 
 situation, they will hide behind items, they try to flank you, they will throw grenades at you 
 in an attempt to bring down your health, there is no limit to what they will do to defeat you. 
 This game is worth the money for just single-player or just multiplayer, but you get both. You 
 can't get any better than that. The graphics are amazing as well. You can play the game at it's 
 lowest resolution and it will still look amazing! Great replayability too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 12, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  no matter what i say and how i say i cannot really describe how much pure pleasure i've had when 
 playing F. E. A. R, in fact, it kept me as happy and excited as FARCRY did before. Graphically, this 
 game is a fantastic choice because it reveals what other games could not reveal, great atmosphere, 
 superb graphics and textures, fantastic decoration of levels... really nothing to be desired in 
 here. the gameplay is a phenomenal one, since once u pull the trigger u are less likely to stop 
 shooting and blasting everything around you and i love the slow-motion stuff.. really addictive. 
 the sounds can be sometimes creepy, however they're the best ever made, especially when it comes 
 to enemy swearing and shouting out of ach when you shoot them. all in all, F. E. A. R is a damn great 
 game that you should have in your shelf as a leader of all your games in all aspects!!! I really 
 loved it so so much and i am sure nobody's gonna feel otherwise about this masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  fear is the best FPS game ever made it amaizing with every thing its cool and beutiful and clear 
 the gameplay is easy and full of fun and the graphics i think the graphics sheder model 2.0 and 
 the effects is so so so so perfect and the 
  soft shadows in the game and the weapons type is cool with perfect guns and equipments and the 
 best thing in the game is the motion mod is perfect like the matrix you can see every thing slow 
 and clear and the thing is good that the game full of secrets and surprises and its a simply scared 
  that what i have to tell you about the perfect game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratedr123
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 23, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  This is game has you on the first day on the job and you experience the worst thing in your life 
 or anybody else's. The first mission for you is a screamer, you probably experience the scariest 
 moments in the game. A dead little girl named Alma is deadly and pops up from everywhere so watch 
 out for here. Enough with the story lets get to the game itself.
  
  Game-play: The gameplay is great, the shooting is different from other games, you can slide and 
 knock someone back, bicycle kick that kills any type of low armored infantry in one kick, and a 
 spin kick that I did not use much. Now with all this shooting you are going to pop-up in some scary 
 intense moments of the game, such as flashbacks and ghosts popping from corners and then leave, 
 which tends to leave your fingers tingling and you trigger happy. The AI is pretty smart, they 
 will call out commands for there squad, take cover, jump through windows, and ambush if they get 
 the chance.
  
  Graphics: The graphics is beautiful think of Half Life 2 and times that by 2, thats how good the 
 game looks. The game is shiny and polished but most of the game is in the dark so you can't see 
 all the good textures. The characters faces look realistic even the hair on them moves. The blood 
 and the rag doll physics are great, there's nothing like shooting someone in the back with a shotgun 
 and blood fly on the walls and he flips over the rail.
  
  Sound: The sound of the guns sound realistic, but some of the guns are not real so I have no idea 
 what it is supposed to sound like but, it sounds good. The voice acting is star product sound like 
 they are not even reading from a script, and the screaming call of back up from the enemies are 
 nice to.
  
  Value: This game is different from others, this game is creepy and fun at the same time, this is 
 a buy not a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ord1000
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 9, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  This really is a great fps which, unfortunately does have quite a few flaws, that ultimately prevents 
 it from sharing the same level of greatness as some other mighty fps, that have gone on before 
 it - Doom, Half Life 1 & 2, Quake, Halo etc
  
  It comes at you with a bizarre clash of genre styles. It's has the high octane action of Die Hard 
 or Hardboiled crossed with the eastern ghost/horror vibe of The Ring or Dark Water. This is actually 
 startingly effective in creating an eerie atmosphere amongst all the heavy ordinance that is at 
 the players disposal.
  
  The combat is not only incredibly satisfying, but also brutal and highly visceral. You can almost 
 smell the cordite hanging in the air, along with the gore, which can brilliantly be done in slow 
 motion, to better appreaciate the "onis occisio". 
  
  Indeed this game simply revels in the "art" of carnage. If the flying and pirouetting bodies don't 
 impress then the sheer destruction of the terrain definitley will. Computers, windows, boxes walls 
 etc all shatter/explode in fine detail. Indeed the particle effects in F. E. A. R. are still probably 
 the best that can be found in games today.
  
  It's a great shame then that this level of invention and detail could not be extended to the environments 
 or the enemy design. F. E. A. R. does suffer from incredibly tedious levels. From dull warehouses 
 to inane offices it just doesn't grab the players attention. Now this could be said for a previous 
 FPS classic like Halo, however that at least let you experience outdoor battles amongst the terrible 
 corridor monotimy. F. E. A. R. alas does not.
  
  Enemy design too is also a dissapointment with the player battling the same type of soldier for 
 90% of the time. Along with the hefty computer requirements which means that some won't get to 
 see this at it's best, all stop making this the genuine classic it could so easily have been. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: illpiercedninio
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 8, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review so please, do not be so harsh on me.
  As I fired up the game, I thought about all the comments and opinions - good and bad - I've read 
 about F. E. A. R. The story, the scares, the amazing graphics, everything.
  Monolith's menu screens haven't changed much since Shogo or one of the best games I've had the 
 pleasure to play, Alien Vs Predator 2. So at the title screen, I felt like I took a 3 or 4 year 
 trip to the past, at home, but nostalgic.
  I'll start with what everyone seems to care about today: graphics.
  Once inside the game, at 
 first, to tell the truth, I didn't find it so blowingly amazing as people made it out to be. I 
 thought it looked "ok", but nothing crazy. As the first bullets started flying I knew I was wrong. 
 It's not the graphics per se that are amazing (which after a while you'll find they are) but it's 
 the effects of the bullets and how everything reacts to them. The particles, the smoke, the blood, 
 the broken things, it's all so well done it's hard to believe when you've killed your last enemy 
 and you look around, as clouds of dusts settle down and you get to see the consequences of your 
 recently-caused mayhem. And although the game's graphics are spectacular, you just get used to 
 them. Yes, you do. The levels are repetitive, you rarely change the environment in which you play. 
 It just seems you keep seeing the same room after room after room, only in a different distribution 
 of things.
  The story: 
  I felt lost most of the time. I didn't really know what was going on, no one told me much, the 
 conversations were vague, and I just felt like I was taking orders like a mindless grunt, and I 
 highly doubt that was the approach the developers aimed at. It also seems a little bit stretched 
 out, since you're given a whole lot of information on the ending levels (especially the last one) , 
 which makes me wonder if they didn't hold up all that just to get the player hooked up in a not-so-interesting 
 way. 
  The sound: 
  I thought it was great, actually, the only complain I have is that on 5.1 systems sometimes the 
 sounds get mixed up, or something that should be clearly hearable isn't, but it happens with most 
 games, surround sound is far from perfect, especially on FPS.
  The game:
  The game itself is fun although it seems, like I heard before, a little stretched out. I felt like 
 I was walking a LOT sometimes and nothing was happening, and although I know this is a tactic for 
 creating a great momentum, the climax of the build-up just wasn't there most of the times. There 
 are some truly awesome moments, though, which I will not spoil for obvious reasons. The fights 
 are amazing, I have no complains with that. Everything from the graphics to the sound to the A. I 
 (yes, the A. I) is superbly done. On to that matter, I have yet to find better A. I in a game. I 
 treated them at first like normal, idiotic robots but after the first couple of fights I knew I 
 had to change tactics or I was going to die a lot, which I did anyway. Enemies flank you, take 
 cover, and attack in squad-based tactics in such a real way that is truly disturbing at times. 
 It's immersive, and although I didn't find it scary most of the time (I only remember a couple 
 of times I jumped out of my sit) , the devs really know how to keep the tension at all times. It 
 always seems like something scary it's about to happen but rarely it does. If that is a good or 
 bad thing, it's your opinion.
  With that said, this is must-have game for everyone out there who is a FPS player. If the FPS is 
 a gender you're not interested in, then don't bother, this game, as amazing it is, will still not 
 change your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lotrfan_1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  After all the hype surrounding this game, I was very tempted not to play it for fear of being disappointed. 
 However, Sierra have managed to pull it off once more.
  
  Combining the cinimatic quality of the Half-Life series with a chilling tale of conspiracy, FEAR 
 is by far one of the best FPS games to come about in a long time.
  
  Taking influences from "The Ring" and "The Matrix", FEAR plays like a Hollywood blockbuster. Helped 
 by astounding graphics, realistics physics, truly awe inspiring gun battles, f****** scary little 
 girls, and a story that will keep you guessing right till the end.
  
  Ladies and gentlemen, the FPS revolution is here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aromon
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 8, 2006 12:17 am PT
Review:  Installing the game, I had the impression this would be a good experience, maybe something new, 
 but would'nt bring anything unique to the FPS gameplay. How wrong I was. This game has the most 
 advanced AI I have ever played against. These guys will flank you, move around you, take cover, 
 move to different cover if you come near them, and kill you more times than you can count (That 
 is if you play maximum difficulty) . Other than the AI, you have a fantastic array of weapons as 
 well as innovative melee attacks as well. It also has a very detailed way of letting you know your 
 enemy is dead: You see more blood than wall behind them. Also, I really like how the heavy machine 
 guns don't recoil when your firing! Major props for that because I hate having to constantly pull 
 down on the aimer when they keep flying above my target. Graphics are nothing spectacular, but 
 they are much better than most PC games if you have an ATI Radeon 1900 Crossfire. On any other 
 system, I would'nt know. Gameplay is cool. You can jump, duck, move from side to side and lean 
 from side to side. Also, you can slow time down if you have too much on your plate. Value is top 
 notch because the brutal experience of the AI is not only very challenging, it never gets easier 
 either. They do something different each time, even if you approach them the same. Sound is freakin' 
 sweet too. Guns sound ferocious and the overall sound is very connective if that makes sense and 
 they also use strong language which is a plus in my book. Makes it seem more real and serious. That's 
 about it, enjoy, I'm going to keep playing an maybe get some shut eye around 5:00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moshingpunker
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 6, 2006 2:08 am PT
Review:  From a publisher that has brought various mediocre games like the S. W. A. T. series, this game comes 
 as a surprise. F. E. A. R. shows a combination of first person shooter, great cinematics and wonderful 
 thriller that just suggests that you paid for the whole seat but you will only use the edge (sorry 
 I stole that from a t-shirt I saw in the 90s used by No Fear, no pun intended) . The game plays 
 with your mind with the multiple levels of non stop action. Accompanied by a well rounded online 
 multi player mode, this game is an instant classic and I wouldn't be surprised to see more games 
 that go along the same genre of this great game by VU Games. Well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wat_ever
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 5, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is really one of the best Sierra games ever!
  
  F. E. A. R. stands for First Encounter Assault Recon, a government squad which tackles with the supernatural.
 
  
  F. E. A. R.'s graphics is astounding. The environment is so realistic. It's graphics are more detailed 
 than Doom 3! Another part that F. E. A. R. surpasses Doom 3 is it's scare factor. It messes with your 
 mind. Weird things come up. The infamous girl who looks like Sadako from The Ring everytime appears 
 out of nowhere.
  
  F. E. A. R. not only is an FPS, but sometimes you can use your legs and arms to punch and kick.
 
  
  Overall, F. E. A. R. revolutionizes FPS gameplay that we might see more in the future in other FPS 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshHL2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 3, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Well I'll start by saying this is my first EVER review of any game, and the fact I decided to take 
 time out and review FEAR shuld be credit to the game.
  
  The game itself starts out with a short introduction. You are a new agent in the  
 devoted to investigating the paranormal. I won't spoil the game by giving any details of the story, 
 but for a First Person Shooter it contains alot more story plot then most shooters. The first level 
 of the game has you exploring a suburban environment and the in-game 'halucinations' start almost 
 immediately. Throughout the entire game you will see ghost like images of Paxtin Fettal and Alma 
 (the small girl that surrounds most of the story plot) occassionaly moving out of the shadows and 
 dissapearing. Sometimes they will say something, sometimes the halucinations get worse and you 
 enter dream like states or flashbacks from the past. The interesting thing is you actually remain 
 in control of your character thrughout the entire game, wich adds alot of immersion to the story. 
 You can pick up alot of information from telephone messages or laptops scattered throughout the 
 levels, and this is a very natural way of finding things out. Later on in the game your character 
 becomes a significant part of the plot, and during the last few levels its almost impossible to 
 beleive your playing a computer game. Overall the story is extremely interesting and the level 
 of immersion keeps you wanting to play.
  
  Graphically the game is very good, characters, weapons and textures all have the level of detail 
 we have come to expect from a modern shooter. However its the small details that make FEAR the 
 most visually impressive game I have ever played. For a start, there are more bullets on your screen 
 then you will ever see in any other game. The ability to 'slow down' time for short periods is 
 extremely effective, not only does it work so well for the gameplay, but the ability to see every 
 single bullet 'carving up' the air in slow motion is extremely impressive. Grenades produce alot 
 of thick smoke thats extremely difficult to see thru, and it lingers in the air for a long period 
 of time, which adds an interesting element to multiplayer. All the character models are fully deformable, 
 what this means is your shotgun can blow someones head off (literally) and spraying bullet fire 
 at someones stomach will 'slice' them in half, not to mention grenades... lets just say it can 
 get messy. All this is very satisfying for those who like realistic violence, anyone who doesnt 
 like the sound of this shuld NOT buy this game. The 'halucinations' are full of very impressive 
 effects and by the end of the game you will get to see everything from 'other wordly' creatures 
 to the entire city being torn apart by a massive explosion all being rendered in real time on your 
 screen.
  
  Almost everything is physically reactive (including corpses) and if u shoot something it will fly 
 around in a satisfying (and realistic) way. Enemies are SMART, they will use cover, talk to each 
 other, work in teams, push over objects and use them for protection, give orders, flank you from 
 behind and do almost everything a human play would. They appear to be 'aware' of their environment 
 and you will hear them say things like 'I saw a flashlight, 'I have 3 men down,' 'He's over there,' 
 and lots of other real-time dialogue wich indicates just how advanced the AI is. There arent alot 
 of enemy types, but you never notice it. The game does feel very clostrophobic at times (the same 
 way doom3 felt) and sometimes you find yourself 'wanting out,' but overall this adds alot of tension 
 to the game. The horror element in this game is present all the time and it only gets worse as 
 the game progressess, this isnt for anyone who cant play doom3.
  
  You do get to fight outdoors and sometimes you have NPC's you have to protect or fight alongside 
 wich adds some relief to the tension but you fight alone for most of the game. The Levels are large, 
 there is some back tracking sometimes, but not alot. Generally the game is paced very well and 
 level changes occur frequently enugh. The Gaming environments are varied enugh to keep you interested 
 throughout the entire game. Sound is extremely good in the game, most notably enemy dialoge, bullet 
 casings and the 'slow motion' effects. The music is perhaps the most impressive ive ever heard 
 in a video game, most people wont notice it, but music adds to almost half the 'scaryness' in this 
 title.
  
  Multiplayer is good, Its simple Deathmatch/Team Deathmatch that feels exactly like the combat in 
 the single player game. Weapons are satisfying and balanced very well in single and multiplayer. 
 Most notably the 'penetrator' weapon uses very high calibur ammunition (you can see the bullets 
 lodged in cement walls) and you can literally 'pin' individual body parts to a wall using the gun. 
 Another weapon literally tears the skin from your enemy leaving only a skeleton. These kinds of 
 details running in real time make FEAR an extremely impressive game engine.
  
  Overall the game is long enough, It took me 2 days to complete but I was playing it all the time 
 on 'medium' difficulty. I think most people wuld be happy to play through the game more then once. 
 Unfortunately (to my dissapointment) their are no vehicles in this game, there is one level in 
 a car park were it wuld have been ideal to drive some sort of vehicle. The ending of FEAR is clearly 
 left open for a sequal and after becoming so immersed in the story I think most people will want 
 to purchase more of the game. Lastly, I bought this game for $100 in Australia, wich I thought 
 was slightly overpriced in comparison to similar games (half Life 2 is only $50) , but I didnt regret 
 the purchase. FEAR is worth buying for anyone who enjoys an intense first person shooter and can 
 stomach the kind of horror found in DOOM3. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SciFiShooterGUY
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  This game is graphically realistic. Perfect 10.0 in every single way. The game is bloody and dark. 
 But in the long run, I think DOOM 3 wins that round very close. the farther in DOOM 3 you get, 
 the uglier things get. Although, I havent gotten to far in FEAR. But I noticed there is a much 
 larger amount of blood spray and decals in this game. Still it has the best gore effects, even 
 though it's not as bloody. And besides gore, it has a supernatural side that will send chills down 
 the spine of even the toughest of gamers. Because it puts you in situations were you feel you dont 
 have total control over. FEAR is a primal emotion afterall.
  FEAR has th best AI I have seen in any game. They do some amazing stuff. Now this is going up against 
 the other soldiers. They are the least scary enemy of the game, as they fight in groups. Where, 
 so of the more stealthy or supernatural characters see mto stalk you around every corner.
  
  This game also has one of the best multiplayer games for a Science Fiction Game. I always think 
 of this games multiplayer what DOOM 3 could have been. I really wish more people would play DOOM 
 3 multiplayer. 
  Anyway, this should be on all PC Gamers shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Novatera1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 2, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. - What a game.
  
  I've been looking at F. E. A. R. for quite a while before it was released, and I became increasingly 
 excited about the whole thing. When I finally purchased it, installed it, and played it, it blew 
 my mind on how innovative Monolith Studios can be. There was very little about this game that made 
 me disappointed. The weapons, the action, even the short but scary sequences that just plain freak 
 you out were all put together very well.
  
  The visuals in this game are well above average, and are only playable on high-quality settings 
 if you own a high-end rig equipped with near top of the line parts. Physics are very accurate, 
 and it's still so incredibly fun to blast a soldier 6 feet with a shotgun, sometimes even dismembering. 
 The game does have quite a load of blood and gore, and the action gets very intense at times when 
 multiple enemies are coming from all angles. Textures are extremely detailed, and the lighting 
 and mapping are very well done. Sure at times the areas get a little repetitive, but with the level 
 of details, it doesn't really matter. 
  
  With all this eye candy, there's ... erm... ear candy. Audio quality is very important in this genre, 
 and F. E. A. R. really shines here. If you have surround sound or a good pair of headphones, you will 
 become quite immersed into the game, hearing everything from a tiny mouse squeaking in the corner, 
 to an enormous explosion coming from behind. The music is quiet and creepy, and then becomes very 
 intense and involved in the action.
  
  With any game, everything comes down to how it plays. F. E. A. R. has no problem stacking up compared 
 to other big games such as Half-Life 2 and Doom 3. There is some strategy involved, yet it does 
 get a little annoying when you can hear everything the enemy is about to do because of the externally 
 announced radio. Certain commands they give eachother give you very huge warnings, such as if a 
 grenade is about to come at you. This changes a little with a raise in difficulty, but it's still 
 present. The game is quite realistic, minus the fact of instant health recovery with health packs, 
 but that can't really be helped. Slow-motion is a very important aspect of the game, and it's incredibly 
 fun to tune down time and defeat your enemies in style. Along with the fairly wide assortment of 
 guns, your can use melee combat against your foes. And without a good storyline, a game can be 
 quite dull, but F. E. A. R. really shines here. The game progresses quite nicely, and there are a 
 few dynamic main characters, including the main antagonist, who is quite a sick man. Overall, gameplay 
 is a great highlight, and you just can't go wrong with slow motion and guns.
  
  Overall, F. E. A. R. was a great experience. It had many great sequences, and some very intense battles 
 that you will definitely remember. Again, I was rarely disappointed with anything in this game. 
 If I could change something, it would probably be how it's sometimes aggrivating when you can't 
 find your way through some of the indoor levels. Spending many minutes on trying to find one small 
 thing is quite annoying, but it didn't happen very often, so it wasn't all that bad. Other than 
 a very few tidbits, I found F. E. A. R. very well conceived. I recommend it to any first-person-shooter 
 fans for it's sheer gameplay, and also to any horror fans for the creepy atmosphere the game has.
 
  
  F. E. A. R. - 9.5/10
  
  Written by: Novatera1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neerajkumar_4
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 1, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R
  
  By,
  $corpio_g@mer a. k. a Neerajkumar_4
  
  Introduction:-
  
  This game is just simply great. You are the newest member of the First Encounter Assault Recon 
 (F. E. A. R) , the military's top-secret task force assigned to deal with paranormal situations. You 
 have amazing reflexes (you can slow down time also know as bullet time Max Payne style) . You witness 
 many ghost sightings during the game that spook you now and then; then you have your enemies behind 
 you. As you are a soldier you can even perform punches and different kicks. The guns and the grenades 
 are cool. In this game you have only 10 save slots, its kinda insufficient but its still okay!! 
 
  
  Game-Play:-
  
  The AI is amazingly smart. They react to your sounds or sight and even your flash light. It really 
 superb!! The gun fights are packed with lots of action and obviously fun, youll really enjoy it! 
 The rag doll sequences really are awesome!! 
  
  The environments are highly recycled!! This makes the game a bit boring! You sometimes get confused 
 that where you came from and where do you need to go!!?? This is very disappointing! 
  
  Graphics:-
  
  The graphics are top-notch! But you need a really humungous configuration!! The 
 environments are very much realistic. 
  
  Sound:-
  
  The sound adds to the creepiness in this game! The sound are really good ! 
  
  Conclusion:-
 
  
  This game is a superb horror FPS ever made with amazing gun fights; but the game-play time is short 
 and its too costly !! Still the game rocks!!!! 
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  
  Sound- 10/10
  
  Gameplay-10/10
  
  Replay Value:5/10
  
  Story: 9/10
  
  Overall- 9/10
  
  
 
  Scorpio_gamer:- Remember there is NO such thing as GAME OVER!!
  So keep GAMING.!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geon106
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 1, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  This game is fantastic, a game no first person shooter fan should be without, a gripping storyline, 
 superb DirectX9 graphics engine, immersive EAX sound all come together to make a game like no other, 
 then theres the genre, this is not just a FPS with shooting soldiers or aliens or monsters in the 
 normal "jump out of the closet" method, this one plays on your mind and is more psychological.
 
  
  This game is not for the fain't hearted, some jumping and ultimately disturbing moments. The best 
 way to describe the type of gameplay you'll get is Resident Evil but with more firepower.
  
  This game takes a lot of its elements including its character "Alma" from The Ring.
  
  
 Conclusion: A superb modern FPS game that no true PC Gamer should be without, this game is the 
 reason why PC's are better than Playstations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dudekiller2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 1, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS PROBALY THE BEST EVER! the physics, graphics, and effects make you feel like youre 
 in a matrix movie. what makes this game what it is are its creepy scare moments. (such as a shadow 
 of alma darting out of sight) the AI is damn smart, they will do anything to kill you. the slomo 
 can save your ass alot. the core of this game is Alma, who was put into the origin project and 
 gave birth to both Paxton Fettel (super eveil menace guy)
  and the guy you play as, whos goal is to hunt down and kill Fettel but the gameplay will get a 
 little boring over time, as the scares become too familliar and you keep fighting the same evemy 
 (well, there clones!) =)
  
  OVERALL: SUPER AWESOME GREAT GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yuddengard
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 31, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Well, I just finish off this game and it's so amazing. I bought it a long time but never played 
 seriously.... let me say I have my F. E. A. R. Other night I started to play that and I couldn't stop, 
 because how much you discover about the story, much more You wanna play and discover all details...
 
  
  What to say about the game, it's interesting.
  
  The graphics are really fantastic. Blood spreading all around \o/ is what come in my head when 
 I think about F. E. A. R.
  
  The sound really really scared me sometimes. The way like the sound plays when you get througout 
 the environment \o/ or enter that or have some enemies
  
  The gameplay in beginning is a little bad, but you accustom to that.
  
  And the winner's great 
 prize is the SlowMo. I saved myself in at least hundreds of situations thanks to that. The graphics 
 in SlowMo are great. To jump and unload your weapon in the enemy is the best way to view his blood 
 spreading out.
  
  The enemies are stupid sometimes, but with they You'll always have someone to kick the ass and 
 a great fight.
  My favourite weapon was the shotgun. I used it for a long time in the game. With just one shot 
 the enemy get vanished from the earth, wow....
  
  So, that was F. E. A. R. a game that will scare you and fascinate you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bkinay
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 31, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  sound wicked creats the feel for the game but the scenery n levels not worth the resources the 
 game consumes. nothin ground brakin ai alright good game to play if you are lookin to be scared 
 into sum action or summin lol. dont expect to be scared so much durin some of the l8er levels as 
 the scenes involving paranormal Apparitions and stuff are not very common and alot of the same 
 old running into soldiers killing them walkin 4 ages just 2 find more of them borin but besides 
 this it is quite a fun game 2 play now and then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 30, 2006 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Should you get F. E. A. R Director's edition? The DVD Version saves you the trouble of getting 5 discs 
 when you should just get 1. Why should I get F. E. A. R you ask? 
  
  Well for one: The game play isn't all about KILL KILL KILL ! It's about laying out tactics choosing 
 what weapons are best for the situation since you're limited to hold 3 weapons. In Quake 4 you're 
 a walking armory, in F. E. A. R choose wisely. 
  
  The game play in F. E. A. R. has you finding the switches sometimes, kill some people, and a little 
 sniping here and there, survive creepy flashbacks, but what makes the gameplay so good is the balance 
 of Guns they put in there. For example, would you use a pistol for sniping? No! You use it to close 
 to medium range. So learn the weapons and figure out what they can do. The slo-mo will amaze you. 
 I threw all my grenades in slo-mo just to see their pretty explosions at one time. Slo-mo can help 
 you out at some of the game's toughest choke-points. 
  
  There really isn't much in enemy variety though. Just normal troopers. Big Armored guys with shoulder 
 pads. And a Few ED209 look a likes. Also the story is just great. It has lots of twists. And some 
 excellent scripted moments. I thought they couldn't be any better. The sound is fantastic. When 
 you're in slo-mo and shoot someone, listen carefully. You'll hear the bullet hit contact on the 
 body. Gruesome. The voice acting was really good. 
  
  Anyways about the AI. It's challenging which is good. They yell at their team mates about your 
 movements and if they call for reinforcements it means you're doing a good job. I think it was 
 the smartest AI I have ever encounter in a game, the AI will work as a team and try to flank you 
 and also scar you out of position. 
  
  And now one of the most impressive parts of the game... the graphics. Graphics are just amazing. 
 So much detail !You could swear that the keys on the keyboard are in 3d because they are. The multiplayer 
 however is..... so-so. It's ok but you know, it's average. You have average multiplayer modes like 
 Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the flag etc. So this is why you buy the F. E. A. R DVD edition. 
 You get all the Scariness with an ace storyline and ending, that's new and original. Well hardcore 
 FPS gamers, I highly recommend F. E. A. R. its suspenseful, scary, fun and best of all, original. 
 
  
  Easily the Best Game of 2005. Also the very Best Game I've played on the PC to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iluvjapanesegrl
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 29, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R has extremely good graphics and good sound quality, but the gameplay lacks any ground-breaking 
 or any consistent intense play. The first few levels of F. E. A. R offer some intense scenes, where 
 you don't know what's going on and the next step you take might be your last. But after getting 
 the feel of the game of the first few levels, the enemies you fight are the same exact ones (with 
 the exception of the big metal guy) and there's no variety to their moves or to the facilities 
 that we fight in. We continue to make our way through tunnels and abandoned facilities and never 
 experience a different battlefield, while the opponents are the same clones that offer the same 
 dialogue and movements. After playing the first few levels, players lose interest in the repetitive 
 game and no longer have the same intensity that they started with. 
  
  This game could have gone a lot farther with the A. I and the scare tactics that it packages, but 
 fails to do anything ground-breaking or innovate to the FPS gaming community.. I give this a rating 
 just a bit over mediocrity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sadshadow
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 29, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  First: sorry for my bad english.
  
  I just got FEAR this past week (bad Computer specs...) any way...
  
  Im running with a GeForce 
 6600 Nvidia 128 vram AGP, Pentium 4 at 3 GHZ 1 gb ram.
  
  The first time I played it... I said.. WHAT THE HELL!! STUNNING GRAPHICS!!! the characters , the 
 dim lights, the shadows, the enviroment (too grey for me but... OK after doom3 all dark I enjoy 
 it...) the weapons, the
  bullet time effect... hell yea they did a great job.
  
  Walking on the first level, a good part of the level you get nasty scares, The room with the blood 
 was amazing. that child walking woa..
  
  Something I loved, the AI, damn they make me think in how i have to move!!
  
  the voices are 
 great, well done... Too bad its the same voice over and over and over, but while you are killing 
 them you really dont care about the voice tone...
  
  controls... bleah its a FPS :) so nothing about...
  
  This game is great, too hard for young 
 gamers, but they can control it with practice. 
  
  I havent finished it yet :P
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: saeed_gh_55
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  GOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD 
 GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD 
 GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD 
 GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEvGOOOD GAMEGOOOD 
 GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD 
 GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD 
 GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD 
 GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD 
 GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD 
 GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD GAMEGOOOD 
 GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grysh
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 29, 2006 5:15 am PT
Review:  First time around it was scary and intense but half way through the game it started to get a little 
 repetitious. My one major criticism is that there are no open spaces like in half life 2 or far 
 cry and for a game with such high requirements on your system that was disappointing. It's a great 
 looking game with great audio and weapons and solid interaction with the cy-ber world but I just 
 don't get the urge to play it again and again. Still - if you like your first shooters you would 
 be mad not to play it but I think it's a little over rated and over hyped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foever86
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 28, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  It is a great game, I admit, but it isn't the best of its kind. It's got the one of the best graphic 
 in the market, but it doesn't have significantly impressive story line. The enemies you have to 
 fight, however, is pretty smart, and they will hurt you if you don't act fast in a battle. With 
 great graphic, few new features in a first person shooting genre (slowing down other things, for 
 instance) , great sound, but little bit disappointing game play and story line, I would say it is 
 a OK game to try for non first person shooter lover, and it could be a bit boring for an intense 
 first person shooter gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asg2d
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 28, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay of FEAR is what makes it so enjoyable. It is unlike any other game that 
 I have played before. The plot is a little incomplete (probably on purpose) and somewhat confusing 
 at times. It was somewhat of a short game. The physics are awesome, though. Great gameplay!
  
  Graphics: Very good graphics. It reminds me of Half Life 2 graphics. It has some very interesting 
 elements such as the grenade explosions. The "hospital" cut scenes are unique, too!
  
  Sound: Sound was good. Some of the guns sound a bit weak, while others are HUGE. Environmental 
 sounds are excellent, though!
  
  Overall, I was very satisfied with this game. But, it could have gone more in depth. You find yourself 
 fighting the same 3 or 4 enemies through out the WHOLE game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo431
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  This is a great first person shooter. Both single and multi-player is great. When you start out, 
 you don't know much about your character, it's pretty mysterious. As you go through, if you pay 
 attention, you can find out hints about your past, and about the disappearances of other people.
 
  
  The graphics in this game are great. The way the bullets light up in sparks when they hit objects, 
 and the physics of course. AI in this game is incredibly intelligent. I remember this one part 
 where i shot down a shelf and the soldier i was shotting at actually crawled under it to get to 
 me. Plus there's the way the enemies try to ambush you. I was attacking the enemies through this 
 door, and they actually shot their way through a window, and flanked me. That's pretty impressive.
 
  
  The game is pretty repetitive, but still fun. Slowing down time and the even better kung fu type 
 moves you can do are great. It gives the game a sort of Matrix feel, and makes the game different 
 from other FPS games out there. It's a creepy atmosphere throughout, but the creepiness gets a 
 little old later in the game. It just felt like it wasn't really bringing in any new thrills to 
 try to scare you. 
  
  The multiplayer is a part that really shines. There are maps that are close combat types, where 
 you mainly use shotguns, kung fu, and the MP5. Then there are the outdoor levels where you stay 
 hidden and use assault rifles and snipe them to death. Or you can do what I do, and just go out 
 and kung fu them in the middle of a huge open sniper area, and get shot first thing. But you can 
 choose whatever weapon you want, whether it be the dual pistols, or the MP5 or whatever.
  
  So I feel that this game is great, but it has its flaws. The long but repetitive single player 
 will keep you going if you really feel obligated to do so. But over all, this is a recommended 
 game from me, for all the FPS fans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinvg6
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 27, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  Amongst the glut of sub par, so-so and typically trite shooters that currently flood the market, 
 Monolith's F. E. A. R. stands as a terrifying and wonderful reminder of the amazing creative potential 
 inherent to first-person games. Both a technical and narrative masterpiece, F. E. A. R combines elements 
 of science-fiction and horror with a beautiful aesthetic presentation and incredible enemy A. I. 
 The amazing end result is capable of converting even the most diehard console gamers into temporary 
 PC FPS fans. 
  
  Believe the Hype 
  While even the best big-name games typically fail to live up to all of the expectations placed 
 on them, F. E. A. R. is able to fully support its own heavy hype. Graphically, F. E. A. R is a sight 
 to behold, packed with jaw-dropping lighting and particle effects as well as outstanding character 
 animation that exploits the game's killer physics engine. However, all this graphical goodness 
 does come at a price, as F. E. A. R demands serious PC hardware to be appreciated in its true form. 
 That said, if you're able to run F. E. A. R. at its higher settings without melting your motherboard, 
 you are in for one of the most satisfying audio/visual experiences imaginable. 
  
  Slow-motion Slaughter
  But as the multifaceted gameplay proves, F. E. A. R. is much, much more than 
 dazzling special effects. Assuming the role of a new recruit in the elite F. E. A. R. unit (First 
 Encounter Assault Recon) , you have a plethora of powerful weapons and skills at your disposal. 
 In addition to your impressive arsenal, you can swim, climb, dive over obstacles, lean out from 
 behind cover, slow down time with superhuman reactions (ala Max Payne) , and perform a variety of 
 kick-ass kung fu melee moves, all backed by a highly intuitive and responsive control scheme. All 
 of these abilities become essential as you face off against an army of super soldiers who fight 
 and react with bloodthirsty zeal and frightening efficiency. In fact, F. E. A. R.'s surprisingly intelligent 
 foes put other dimwitted, duck-and-cover FPS enemies to shame, and help maintain a sense of panic 
 and excitement throughout the game. 
  
  Be A. F. R. A. I. D. 
  The outstanding story mode is also matched by an entertaining and very fast paced multiplayer mode 
 that puts a few interesting twists on old genre standards by incorporating cool skills like in 
 "Slow-Mo Deathmatch" and features a solid set of map varieties and distinct game types. Simply 
 put, F. E. A. R. is the game Doom 3 was supposed to be -- only smarter, scarier and better looking. 
 Even if you don't normally play FPS games, anyone who can stand a few good and gory scares (and 
 who's PCs are up to the challenge) owes it to themselves to experience F. E. A. R... You'll likely 
 be frightened -- but you definitely won't be disappointed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neoscang
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 25, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  I never picked up F. E. A. R. at first due to high pc specs. This weekend I pieced a sweet SLI machine 
 and threw it on a credit card so I could play newer titles. 
  
  The game itself is pretty freaky although I had some crazy stuff happen to me while playing it. 
 First Im walking through a puddle of blood when some crazy little girl in red comes out at that 
 moment my monitor decided to turn itself off I jiggled the mouse and there she was in front of 
 my screen! I almost pissed my pants. Then there was the time I had a power outage in the middle 
 of the game. Thus all my lights in the house were turned off the only thing running (my battery 
 backup) was my monitor and computer with my speakers blaring creepy noises. Next Im running along 
 level three chasing some dude covered in blood when my Tivo (right next to my computer) switched 
 itself to the movie Psycho. Or the time when my mouse ran out of batteries or a spider crawling 
 on my foot. 
  If you have saved your game in the 1.04 patch and upgrade to 1.05 none of the saved games worked 
 for me. Thus I had to level skip to the point of where I was. This worked great until I realized 
 I had no flashlight. You try playing the game without a flashlight, and if your hands dont turn 
 white there is something wrong with you. 
  
  I think my heart has beaten way more than it should have playing this game. 
  The game probably 
 would have been mediocre if it didnt have the scary addition. I believe that is what makes Monolith 
 so amazing. Look at No One Lives Forever 1 or 2 decent FPS with a cool twist = my favorite games 
 to date. Cheers and lets hope I see a NOLF (No One Lives Forever) 3!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nahidofhonor
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 25, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  Graphics is awsome, light and shadows r very much realistic. Shoot any light u will hav fun with 
 shadows. nice physics. and sound is ok.
  This game got everything but somehow its boring, and really boring. 
  At the begging of the game 
 i felt really excited with its graphics and action sequences. but as the game progresses i started 
 to hate this game. and at last i found its the ultimate boring game.
  I finished it in oneday coz i didnt find any reason to enjoy the game for more than oneday.
  
 This review is a peace of **** i Know. play the game and see how boring it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sneaky_badger
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 25, 2006 3:39 am PT
Review:  Although it was a bit short i felt the gameplay was emecive and complex
  some enemys although extremely tough and comprised mainly of metal
  can be disposed of with a 
 few shots from shotty.
  i felt there wernt enough mechs in the game what few there were i found to be the most enjoyable 
 bit of the game.
  MELEE attacks were SO helpful i keep on trying to use them in CS: S although u cant causing me to 
 die: (
  i completed it on extreme difficulty in aprox 10 hours
  could b harder and longer
  ending was a bit of a let down
  was expecting some sort of big boss
  not just aload of enemys 
 which can be disposed of with a shot from a pistol
  FYI THE PISTOL+ SHOTTY WROX
  CANT WAIT 4 THE NEXT 1!!!!!!!!!!!
  h8ted the automatic gun emplacements : (
  wooooo cliffhanger 
 ending or should i say hanging of chopper :P
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stomachjuice
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 24, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is an excellent single player FPS. It combines creepy atmospheres with the ability to 
 shoot a commando's head off in slow motion while a squadmate swears, and really, that's all anyone 
 ever needs in life.
  
  F. E. A. R. has impressive graphics. You will need a fairly high-end system to run F. E. A. R. at full 
 detail, and it's well worth it. At high detail you get all these little additions to the environment 
 that make it so much more immersive and believable. Unfortunately F. E. A. R. will not run well on 
 lower-end systems. F. E. A. R. s sound is also very nicely done, with weapons sounding realistic and 
 powerful.
  
  The storyline is... acceptable/good. Nothing fantastic. It's slightly strange and there are some 
 things which don't quite make sense, but F. E. A. R. is not a game which tries to make you understand 
 a story. F. E. A. R. is all about the gun battles and creepy moments and it's quite obvious that the 
 story was not one of the developers major focus points.
  
  F. E. A. R. can get monotonous in the middle where it's basically constant office pounding, and you'll 
 get to see some offices, a few more offices, change buildings to see some more offices and then 
 some. The variety in battles though does provide a little fresh air but overall there could be 
 more environments -- all you really see is a facility at the start, offices and then an industrial 
 area towards the end.
  
  F. E. A. R. s multiplayer is good, but because of its lag tendencies, it wont keep you hooked for terribly 
 long. It's all in the single player and it pulls it off well to result in a fantastic immersive 
 and just plain fun experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightwalker505
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 21, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  I've played alot of horror games like resident evil 4, doom 3, Silent hill but this game makes all 
 of them look like jokes (well mabye not resident evil 4) . The one thing that makes me like this 
 game is its Story its  and smart. you play as a soilder 
 in a special forces team call F. E. A. R. (First Encounter Assult Recon) thats made too deal with the 
 supernautral you have the power too boost you reflexes or slow down time so you can kill your enemies 
 more easier. a pychotic man named Paxton Fettel has ecscaped and is using his powers too control 
 an Army of clone super soilders and too add too the horror there a little girl named alma who is 
 somehow connected to you. as you go through there will be dream sequences that explain your story. this 
 games story is the best part of it because if you listen too all of it turns out too be extremely 
 crazy. as for graphics the games graphics almost look next gen but too expierence them at best 
 you'll need a pretty good graphics card it still can run at low detail you just wont get the amazing 
 looking explosions the particle effects and the blood splater on the walls but you will get some 
 just not alot. the sound is another great part of the game every thing sounds good to the weapon 
 sounds too the explosions it all sounds great and has really haunting music and great and some 
 terrifying voice acting. this game has alot of weapons and some futuristic ones too such as the 
 plasma gun/particle cannon there also awsome melee attacks like bicycle kicks uper cuts slide kicks 
 and more. just like the name describes this game has alot of scary moments it uses japanese horror 
 with little girls but this game isnt all just jump out at you horror even though there are a few 
 jump out at you parts its more about atmosphere the haunting music the dark hall ways, flickering 
 lights and ghost walking past you. its also extremely action packed it has awsome enemys like the 
 ninja soilders how move super fast and have chameleon like invisiblility or the giant mechs with 
 rocket launchers there all cool except like gamespot said theres little variety in enemys theres 
 only six kinds and one of thems not a soilder or robot its a demon that you'll encounter only a 
 few times but especially at the end of the game. the multiplayer is also good it has alot of maps 
 fast paced action and the new slow mo death match where every one looks for this special item that 
 gives them or there team the ability too slow down time so your the only fast person for a few 
 minutes but theres not alot of multiplayer modes just deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag 
 and slow mo death matches. overall this game is one of the best shoters ive every play great story, graphics, sound, weapons, 
 and very crazy ending AND I MEAN VERY CRAZY AND SCARY ENDING. you wont go wrong getting this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jdpunk
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 21, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Oh my god! This game is one of the bests, it has everything you would ask for. Great graphics, 
 great AI, and scary as anything gameplay. The games graphics are just so unexplainable. Now if 
 you want the full feel of this game, heres what you got to do, lock the door, turn off the lights, 
 put the volume at max, play at 12 midnight, and trust me you will have loads of fun. The games 
 graphics arnt just good... there amazing! You go through the game uncovering mysterys, shooting 
 everything in-site, getting scared, and everything else you can imagine. If you enjoy playing a 
 great FPS game and you also like being scared.. get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moffe12
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 21, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Great atmosphere, intense exciting firefights, brilliant AI, solid story.
  
  THE BAD: Constantly recycled enemies and enviorments.
  
  GAMEPLAY: This is where so many FPS 
 games get it wrong. Making the firefights wild exciting and still tactical. FEAR does this better 
 than almost any other game to date. The incredibly intense firefigths are perhaps the best thing 
 in the entire game. Smart enemies charging towards your position, while you desperately try to 
 hold them back. This is an experience no real FPS fans should be without. The AI is brilliant, 
 although the enemies tend to get fairly predictable over time. Since they do the same things over 
 and over again. But the AI is still superb to any other game, and it really adds to the intense 
 firefigths. You will some times go trough some pretty long sequences with no enemies. These are 
 here to scare you, and they do. FEAR is one of the scariest games to date. Theese sequenses actually 
 work very well. And adds even more to the already brilliant atmosphere.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are no less than perfect. The shadow effects are so well done that it looks 
 like the real thing. Although the faces of characters tend to look a bit plastic. I actually think 
 that it adds to the atmosphere of the game. But if the graphics are perfect, why not a ten? Becuse 
 the enviorments, although well designed, are constantly recycled. You run trough abandoned offices, 
 abandoned apartments, an abandoned water treating plant, an abandoned base... Well, you get the 
 point. FEAR is also a very violent game, wich i myself think is great. Not the pointless violence 
 of GTA, but realistic violence. If you shoot someone in the face, you can't expect them to look 
 fine except for a small bullet hole. This along with the good looks of the areas gives the game 
 a very realistic feel. And the best side of the graphics, the firefights. I can promise you that 
 you have never seen more realistic, furious firefigths. Everything from the dust in the aftermath 
 of battle to the large holes in the wall gives the impression of an intense and wild figth.
  
  SOUND: The sound of this game is just incredible. Ranging from the extremely cool sound of 
 a machinegun to the sound of a bottle falling over. The latter sound can actually make you jump 
 sky-high. Because you often tip things over in one of the scary sequenses mentioned. The horror 
 sounds are all very well done, and along with the music it creates an atmosphere so thick you could 
 cut it with a knife.
  
  VALUE: This is where the main weakness of FEAR lies, although the roughly ten hours it will take 
 you to finish the campaign is very exciting. There is almost nothing more to the game. The multiplayer 
 can be fun for a while but eventually you'l get tired of it. There isn't any particular reason 
 to play the campaign over again either. Since the game can get a bit repetetive the first time 
 around. And even more the second.
  
  TILT: What can i say? I love this game. Everything from the combat to the atmosphere is just amazing, 
 and as a big fan of the Half-Life series this game fits me perfectly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BreakdownXcore
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 21, 2006 4:04 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R was really good. abit short though, i completed this game in 3 days. this game is a mix 
 between shooting combat, being stealth, and abit of a hroror game. the horror bits are very scary.. 
 and there is alot of blood in this game. there are fantastic features such as the Slow Mo reflex 
 mode which lets u go in slow motion so when you shoot people in the head, you see alot of blood 
 spurting out slowly, also this gives u an advantage to beat mroe than one enemie!.. 
  overall i personally think, excellent game play.. but way to short.. story line is ok.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeSlayer01
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 20, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is the exact type of game I've wanted to play subconsciously for a long time. It has 
 just the right amount of gore to appeal to me realistically, just the right amount of violence 
 and action to appeal to me energetically, and the scary stuff is in a good amount to even though 
 I don't like scary stuff, this game wasn't over-the-top on that. And the story was great too, I 
 loved the story.
  
  The areas don't get that old, even though they're repetitive, but it has a reason. The whole game 
 takes place overnight.
  
  The game sounds fantastically amazing, especially in creepy moments with the little girl. The sound 
 adds a lot to blazing firefights, which are amazing just by looking at them. Dust flies through 
 the air, sometimes you can't even see the enemy. Enemies explode in clouds of dust and the game 
 shakes when stuff explodes. Everything flies everywhere. It's awesome.
  
  The game isn't terrifying, it focuses more on psychological horror, which is basically creepy atmosphere. 
 There are only a few moments in the game where stuff jumps out. The lighting in the game is really 
 good.
  
  This is my favorite game ever... I think everyone should own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake0401
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 19, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a great new blockbuster in the over-saturated FPS genre. It allows an incredible presentation 
 to really take the imagination of gamers to a new level. However the most impressive thing about 
 the game is really just indescribable. 
  From the second that you fire up FEAR to the minute you are done it is an adrenaline rushed adventure. 
 The graphics are phenomenal, and the AI matches the flashy presentation. Turn the game to the most 
 difficult setting and enjoy a frantic and challenging FPS experience you will not soon forget. 
 The enemies are smart, tactical, and deadly, and you will have to not only outgun, but more importantly 
 outsmart them to survive this game.
  The weapons all feel solid and creative. Your charcter must stick to a limit of three weapons (and 
 two grenades) bringing a strategiic and tactical element to the game and also bringing a deeper 
 connection to your guns. For instance swapping the trusty shotty that you love for a weapon that 
 you need for the upcoming conflict is often a bit sad. 
  The brutality in the game is a great addition and lends itself to the feel of the weapons. Very 
 few things are as satisfying as hitting your SLO-MO option, and unloading an entire clip into an 
 enemy while watching him get dismantled. The physics are incredible and the death and carnage you 
 unleash on the enemies are satisfying to watch and experience. It will not be a while til I forget 
 the moments of taking a shotgun point blank slo-mo and sending a foe across the room. Or using 
 a rail gun to shoot a dart into an enemy, send him backward into a wall, and have him pegged to 
 the wall via the rail dart, limp and dangling realistically. 
  The environments also take some great looking damage, with huge blasts sending chunks of the walls 
 into the air, blood streaks decorating the local walls and various other effects. Glass shatters 
 realistically, enemies push over crates, and shelves for cover, and fire extinguishers explode 
 a white spray into the air. Also during shootouts you will notice dust begin to collect in the 
 air from the particles of cement and drywall you are obliterating. It clouds the environment during 
 the shootouts and adds a very satisfying effect. Also light moves differently through the dusty 
 landscape and looks very cool.
  The game also offers a bit of a creepy story line. There will be moments that genuinely scare you, 
 and the children walking around the dark areas are creepy. Similarly when a vision of a zombie 
 or human appears to you and you shoot at it only to watch it dissapate into ashes (an obvious figment 
 of your imagination) it leaves you going, "Wow I thought that was an enemy for a second!" Turns 
 out that it was just a ghost like entity. 
  The game will satisfy hardcore gamers from any genre with its incredible gameplay, impressive storyline, 
 solid weapons, and phenomenal AI. 
  One of the best games to be released for the PC ever, and it REALLY gives Half-LIfe 2 a run for 
 its money as far as FPS are concerned. 
  A MUST BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raizor112
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 19, 2006 3:52 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a game that will both impress and scare the crap out of anyone willing to play this 
 game. It is without a doubt very good at creating an atmosphere that makes you think the worst 
 thing you could do is look around the corner, and of course you have to look around that corner 
 to continue your mission. Very often you'll be scaring the crap out of yourself by checking every 
 dark corner and nothing will happen. Then when you start feeling a bit safe again you get the crap 
 scared out of you when you least expect it. 
  
  Apart from the fact that the name F. E. A. R. has obviously been chosen well, the game is very good. 
 The story is good and gives you a goal to chase throughout the game. Amazingly the task force you're 
 a part of, somehow always seems to have a shortage of soldiers and you'll constantly find yourself 
 alone to navigate you're way through abandoned buildings and fight the heavily armored soldiers.
 
  
  The overall gameplay is good too. The slowmotion you can activate to gain the advantage over enemies 
 is really useful and looks very cool. The AI also reacts to your movements and actions. They'll 
 take cover behind anything they can find, use different sets of weapons, use tactics and warn each 
 other about your movements.
  
  The graphics are very good. It does require some pretty good specs, but when you have those specs, 
 the game delivers. The way you can see bullets fly past your head in slowmotion (which can't help 
 but remind you of The Matrix) , the way the bullets that missed hit the wall and break off pieces 
 of concrete and the bullets that hit your enemies, will make you wish there were more enemies to 
 kill. My personal favourite is definitely the nailgun. There's just a very strong sense of satisfaction 
 after you've just nailed a soldier to the ceiling by his arm or to the wall by his head. 
  Also the overall dark environment and the obvious dark shadows everywhere help improve the games 
 overall atmosphere which is aiming to keep you on your toes... and it does.... a bit too well.
  
  I can't say too much about the sound other than that it's good and it adds to the dark and 
 gloomyness of the game. A lot of times the sounds alone will frighten you, because a particular 
 sound will always remind you something bad is either gonna happen or is already happening, which 
 makes sure that this game will not bore you for even a second.
  
  Overall this game is amazing, the atmosphere of the game will make sure you can't get bored, because 
 you'll be on your toes the whole time. The graphics and sound are very good and amplify the games 
 inability to bore you. 
  
  So if you've got decent bladder control, a well lighted room, a lock on your door and you're looking 
 for a very good FPS, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Resident-Evil-
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 18, 2006 11:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is very scary try playing it alone and in the dark this game is very action packed it 
 got Resident Evil and Socom all in one with hair rasing chilz you will be on your toes with this 
 one. The game has some twist and turns and so really freaky bad people and best of all they kick 
 ur a** too. The sound is great and it also goes well with the great graphics, if your thinking 
 abount renting it first ake my word for just add it to your collection so sit back with a teaddy 
 bear and start kicking some a** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: potterpipi
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 18, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  This game is great! Best FPS since Half Life. Maybe best for the PC.
  
  Graphics: Terrific If you have the hardware. While it's true that the maxed out graphics of FEAR 
 are potentially better than HL2, the hardware and processing power required means that only people 
 running twin Geforce7800 in SLI mode will be able to get them. The lighting is gorgeous, and the 
 textures and effects are second to none. I can't fault FEAR for pushing the envelope, but I have 
 to praise Half Life for giving us graphics that are just as good (for the majority of PC owners) 
 with lower hardware requirements, a year earlier. Oddly enough, the facial graphics aren't as good 
 as either Doom 3 or HL2. 
  
  Sound: Awesome. The sound is really, really well done and is easily the best I've heard in a while. 
 This game in 5.1 surround will scare you and blow you away! 
  
  Gameplay: Terrific, although there are only 3 "real" levels. While there are 11 levels in the game, 
 they all take place in either an abandoned warehouse, an office building, or a secret research 
 lab. That's it. They are really well done, but this is where the game drops the ball- the repetitive 
 nature of the levels and the enemies will turn off some gamers. The "horror" angle of the game 
 is very well implemented, and there are some genuinely freaky moments. If you liked The Ring, you'll 
 like FEAR. Overall, this game takes the best bits of various shooters and combines them: Max Payne's 
 slow-mo bullet time is here, and very well done, as is Half-life 2's "story unfolds as you go" 
 brand of storytelling, which is more effective than the boring exposition that accompanies most 
 games. The controls are intuitive and effective, and the gun battles fun as anything. 
  
  Overall: A terrific game, though the repetitive nature of the levels and enemies makes for some 
 disappointment. The ending is also a tad of a letdown, though I didn't mind it. I recommend this 
 game very heartily, it is an instant classic. The story is somewhat formulaic and easily predictable, 
 the levels a bit dry, and the game a bit soul-less when compared to Valve's masterpiece. That said, 
 this is a keeper. Anyone who likes FPS games should definatly try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HIMSteveO
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 18, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  A game that was long in development, and delayed numerous times, Monoliths F. E. A. R. was supposed 
 to be the game that would challenge Valves Half-Life 2 as the PCs dominant FPS game. Monoliths 
 basic premise was to take the survival horror genre, mix it with the bullet-time from the Max 
 Payne series, and mash it up into a first person shooter. The result is brilliant, falling oh-so 
 short of taking down HL2.
  F. E. A. R. tells the story of an unnamed agent, you, who is a new member for the First Encouter Assault 
 Recon team, a top secret military unit, otherwise know as F. E. A. R., that investigates unusual para-normal 
 activity. Your mission is to locate Paxton Fettel, who can telepathically control an army of cloned 
 soldiers, and has all of sudden gone AWOL, taking the clones with him. Its not known what Fettel 
 is up to, but its up to you to find out. The story is presented in very much the same way as Valves 
 masterpiece, basically with you (as the protagonist) observing everything play out in front of 
 you. If your character isnt there, you generally wont see it unfold, just the grim aftermath 
 (with the exception of the games opening cinematic) .
  You cant talk about F. E. A. R. for long without mention of two of the most impressive aspects of 
 the game: the combat, and the graphics. Ill get to the graphics later, but combat in F. E. A. R. 
 is a thing of beauty. You literally have to see it to believe it. Playing through F. E. A. R. almost 
 feels like youre in the midst of John Woos latest action blockbuster. The sheer chaos that unfolds 
 during the many gunfights is a sight to behold, as bullets fly everywhere, explosions punish the 
 environment (and anyone caught in them) , and bodies get torn apart and litter the ground. The combat 
 is one of the best qualities of F. E. A. R., and someone is bound to steal some of Monolith's ideas 
 from it sooner of later. 
  The artificial intelligence Monolith developed for the game is, at times, downright scary. They 
 will employ all manner of tactics to flush you out, hunt you down, and generally see to your quick 
 and painful termination. They make for a terrific opponent, even on the lower difficulty levels, 
 as they make full use of cover, and all the weapons and training they have at their disposal. A 
 large part of what makes the combat in F. E. A. R. work so well is the A. I., as you will have to use 
 every bit of cover, and every tactic you can think of to get through the armies you will be facing. 
 
  Fortunately, you do have some assistance. As I mentioned earlier, the bullet-time effect is once 
 again used, this time as an extension of the main characters heightened reflexes. However, as many 
 times as bullet-time has been done in a game, it's still cool, and it's still useful. It also doesnt 
 hurt that effect looks so ridiculously cool, but more on that later. 
  You also have access to wide variety of weapons, ranging from FPS stalwarts such as machine guns 
 and assault rifles, to some very new, and very cool weapons, such as the staple/nail gun and a 
 sniper cannon that fires electrical slugs that literally fry whoever is unlucky enough to get hit. 
 And as cool as these weapons sound, you have to see them action to get a feel for how great they 
 really are. As is the case in most shooters now, you have a limited number of weapons you can carry 
 at any one time. You can only carry around three weapons at any given time, so the choice of weapons 
 also adds a slightly strategic element to the gun-play. Combine this with the melee attacks that 
 your character is capable of, such as a drop-kick and an awesome looking scissors kick, and you 
 have more than enough offensive capabilities to deal with anything the game throws at you. It's 
 also a massive help that Monolith decided to go the way of Halo, and map grenades to a separate 
 button, so that you want have to fumble around with weapon selection to get a grenade out and get 
 back to your weapon.
  For the most part, F. E. A. R. takes place in tight enclosed spaces, such as office complexes, parking 
 garages, alleys and sewers. While making the combat tighter and more cinematic, you may get a little 
 bored seeing the same sort of environments over the course of the 10-12 hours it takes to play 
 through the game.
  Monolith talked quite a bit about the horror influences they were trying to use in the game, particularly 
 influences from Japanese horror films. These touches add a great deal of suspense, and to freshen 
 up the FPS genre, as you never really know what to expect next, or even what youre really seeing 
 unfold in front of you. While not over the top, its the little things that count. The flashbacks, 
 the hallucinations, the random sounds coming through the radio, and the appearance of something 
 out of the corner of an eye, all combine to make for a much more cinematic experience. Plus, that 
 little girl in the red dress gives me the creeps.
  Graphically, F. E. A. R. is, in a word, amazing. Everything in the game looks great, and the elemental 
 effects such as water, gases and fires look really good too. Once youve witnessed the aftermath 
 of your first gunfight, youll fall in love with the game. Blood soaks the walls, bullet holes 
 riddle the walls, and bodies are strewn all over the place. Plus, once you see bullet-time in effect, 
 your eyes may well fall out. Bullets fly through the air, creating trails through the air as they 
 whiz past your head, and explosions send out a shockwave to capture the blast radius. A special 
 mention has to be made for the aftermath of the two weapons a talked about earlier. Stapling someone 
 to the wall is an amazing effect in its own right, but the electrifying effect of the sniper cannon, 
 like I mentioned, is something to behold. 
  However, be advised, because F. E. A. R. is a resource hog. You need a hefty amount of processing 
 power to get the most out of F. E. A. R., and as good as F. E. A. R. looks, it can come at a price, with 
 frame rate fluctuations occurring throughout the game. Fortunately, the game will often automatically 
 configure the graphical settings to the point where it will run comfortably, and you can even test 
 it in a 15 second sequence, with the game displaying the frame rate statistics afterwards, so that 
 you can then tweak the settings accordingly. It should also be noted that F. E. A. R. still looks 
 quite good on the lower settings.
  The sound is another area where you can see great care was taken in its development. The voice-over 
 acting is almost spotless, the sound effects are well done, plus all the atmospheric noises and 
 voices help to add to another layer of tension to an already amazing experience. It should also 
 be noted that F. E. A. R. is not a game for kids. Forget the violence for a moment, as the sheer amount 
 of F-words and S-words could possibly make even a sailor cringe.
  Basically, F. E. A. R. is a game that you must experience for yourself. The combination of amazing 
 AI, brutal and fun gun-play, and fantastic graphics and sound all add up to one of the best games 
 for the PC in quite some time, even after all this time. It's right up there with the likes of 
 FarCry as a serious challenger to Half-Lifes throne. If havent bought it yet, what are you waiting 
 for? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RudeBoy0910
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 17, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely wicked and cool. It keeps you in suspense all the way through, making you 
 continue to find out what happens next. I couldnt get off it cos i was just glued to the game for 
 hours. As well as being a horror game, it combines some FPS action, which i think is genius. I 
 have really enjoyed this game, and i recommend this game to all those FPS fans who like the crap 
 scared out of them (not as much as DOOM 3) . Cant wait until the expansion pack. Its at the top 
 of my wish list!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  First Person Shooters have been around for a while now, ever since Doom put the genre on the map. 
 The genre has also come a long way now ever since the debut of Halo: Combat Evolved. Enter F. E. A. R., 
 one of the most amazing, scariest and action packed shooters of 2005. The story starts with you, 
 a nameless "Point Man" for the elite squad known as F. E. A. R. (First Encounter Assault Recon) which 
 deals in paranormal threats. A man named Paxton Fettel has taken over an entire battalion of clone 
 soldiers called "Replicas" and are assaulting a corporation named ATC (Armacham Technology Corporation) , 
 searching for the mysterious Alma (the girl on the box cover) , who is at the heart of the story. 
 You're sent in to stop Fettel but you'll face a great number of intelligent enemies and discover 
 your own dark past. The story combines elements from Japanese horror and American action that we've 
 all come to know and love, allowing Monolith to create an exciting game that never lets up for 
 a minute! The visuals are absolutely amazing and the AI is just incredibly advanced and versatile. 
 Sound is also excellent, with the ambient music delivering chills down your spine and the action 
 music getting you pumped for battle. The voice acting is all right, but Peter Lurie, the voice 
 actor for Fettel does a pretty good job at giving him a creepy personality. One of the most important 
 gameplay mechanics is the use of slow-mo. It is revealed early on in the game that you have "ultra-fast 
 reflexes" and that when activated, gives the illusion of the world around you slowing down. This 
 is where the visuals shine as the entire screen takes on a warped effect and during gun battles 
 you'll see individual bullet trails flying across the room ala The Matrix. It does make the game 
 somewhat easy as you can keep waiting for the meter to recharge and pop out and kill the enemies 
 but this is balanced by the aggressive enemy AI who takes cover, uses squad tactics, uses grenades 
 to flush you out, and uses radio chat to try and flank you. Overall this is a worthy game for all 
 those who loves First-Person Shooters. It's all over in a little over 10 hours (the game features 
 11 "intervals" that are further subdivided into smaller levels) but you can look forward to the 
 upcoming expansion pack F. E. A. R.: Extraction Point.
  
  *Revised review to reflect my current review standards.* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MicK765
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 15, 2006 10:16 pm PT
Review:  I remember when i first heard of this game i thought wow that sounds cool. Then i got to play the 
 Demo. The Demo was enough to convince me that this would be a top game.
  
  This game has mindblowing graphics and physics. The way the AI moves and thinks makes the game 
 equally challenging as well as fun. But with this comes a price, a very expensive one at that, 
 you'll really need an updated computer, but it is worth i think.
  
  The horror aspect of the game can scare the crap out of ya (I've jumped a few times .. shhh) . But 
 in all a fantastic game and it is really really worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanjay856
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 14, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  I've been playin games for a long time now and have come accross a lot of games. Most of them are 
 really really nice of eg - POP. But this game really really roxxx. 
  
  Which ever angle you look at the game it is picture perfect. Graphics - best ever I've seen so 
 far any one will be really impressed. Sound - Thrilling and very very detailed when used in a good 
 sound card and a good set of speakers as well like some 5.1 system or some sort. Game play - Man 
 this game is really really scary at some points, that little girl charecter really scares me off. 
 And AI and the physics are down to earth, the solders are very realistic, bullet time, some Martial 
 arts moves, love it.
  
  All this is cool, but it won't work without a realy gaming Rig. My GeForce 6600GT can't support 
 much of its high tech graphics but looks cool though. And you would need atleast 1GB RAM and a 
 good CPU, without all this this game looks awful.
  THERE ISN'T MUCH OF A STORY IN THIS GAME. I got kinda confused in but its kinda okay. I would have 
 expected a much more impressive story line. If you don't go and bug around the laptops in the damn 
 map you would understand the story at all. And you have to be listning to every message from this 
 guy on radio to get to know the story. THERE ARE NOT ENOUGH CUT SCENES EITHER. So that sucks a 
 bit but not much. And this game is kinda short as well.
  
  To conclude my review, I would say this game really really rox in Graphics, Sounds and the game 
 play sectors but this game dosen't have an impressive Story line. And if you have the latest gaming 
 PC in town, this game is the best one for you for the price you paid, and is only for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magusat999
Rating: 4.4
Date: May 13, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  I've been looking at reviews and reader opinion of this game, and it befuddles me how so many people 
 can rate this sorry game so highly, it pales in comparison to just about all of the major FPS' 
 that were released about the the period in length, controls, story, even artwork. I found nothing 
 outstanding about the game and in fact felt cheated after playing it because all of the advertising 
 made it look much better than it actually was.
  
  The enemies in this game had "fake A. I." they didn't actually know where you were or detected your 
 shadows or movements - they were just positioned to patrol a certain way depending on where you 
 were. In the whole game, I was never chased by an enemy, The most they would do was to position 
 themselves so they could get a better shot - and they didn't do that too well either. One advantage 
 the enemies did had was that they could see around the corner a bit too much. The angle of vision 
 should have been reduced just a bit so that the player could safely hide and peek around walls 
 - you have to back up too far to see in many cases.
  
  The camera could have used a little tweaking, there were times when I was in close proximity firefights 
 and had to take time to adjust the camera because I would lose the enemy.
  
  The environmental music is the only thing done right. They did a good job making the game's atmosphere 
 "spooky". Unfortunately, that was the only spooky thing about it.
  
  The game took me about 8 hours to complete, including stopping for phone calls, eating and other 
 normal functions - one of the the shortest ever of this genre. The ending was abrupt and... well 
 I won't spoil it for you, but it was predictable. Replay value - none.
  
  Lastly, the character actions needed some beefing up - you know; jump, run, roll, climb, pullup, 
 interact with objects. I just felt he was a bit, crippled.
  
  The weapon selection and animation wasn't too exciting either, nor did I enjoy the limited carrying 
 capacity. The game didn't play like survival horror, so that wasn't necessary. There were weapons 
 all over the place - you just had to keep exchanging them. Stupid. some of the more powerful guns 
 were stifled by being slow. And the smaller guns were faster - but not Clint Eastwood fast - and 
 not effective on some enemies. Accuracy was an issue too - should have been a lock-on feature...
 
  
  The mapping needed help. Although it wasn't easy to get lost overall, you could get lost in a small 
 area - in other worse, you know your general direction, but there was no indication of you exact 
 position. Since the game is so repetitive, it was not uncommon to end up in the same office, storeroom 
 or other area two or three times.
  
  The repetition of backgrounds was bad enough, what was worse was the repetition of enemies. I could 
 probably say there were no mre than 8 different enemies in the entire game. There may have been 
 more, but the ones you face often (non-bosses) didn't have much variety at all. I got real bored 
 of fighting the same enemy over and over again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havokk
Rating: 7
Date: May 12, 2006 11:12 pm PT
Review:  It's a run of the mill shooter. Good-looking but still run of the mill. No surprises here (apart 
 from the little girl and all she did was startle me rather than surprise me) . 
  
  Enemy AI was good but not awesome. There were great moments, like when one of the officers orders 
 a soldier to advance on me and the soldier answers "no way!". He actually answered with something 
 a lot more explicit but I probably can't post that here.
  
  There was enough ammo and health around that I felt challenged but not frustrated. I felt I had 
 to practice good ammo conservation but not that I had to be stingy with every shot. I was playing 
 on Normal for half the game then switched to Easy (after the encounter in the courtyard where the 
 game does not allow you to go back and collect ammo you dropped) .
  
  My bias: I like shooters with lots of choice. Deus Ex. System Shock 2. In hindsight I should not 
 have bought this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gman341
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 12, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Monolith did a great job with this game. You'll literally get chills playing this from the beginning 
 moments on into the game. Even without the highest of high end hardware it still looked respectful 
 although if you're like me you'll be curious just how well your pc holds up on the higher settings. 
 Ouch! Some of my favorite moments in this game would be when going into bullet time and using your 
 nail gun to pin enemies by their limbs onto the walls. Its something that must be experienced by 
 any FPS fan.
  
  Pros: Graphics! Weapons (nail gun!) , Compelling story
  
  Cons: Lack of enemy variety, there are parts that drag on without much suspense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eugenioteran
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 12, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  I decided to get FEAR when I entered GameSpot and saw that it had a 9.1 score. I figured it would 
 be a cool game to play. I was wrong. It was an INCREDIBLE game. I'm a big fan of first-person shooters; 
 I started as one with the very first Wolfenstein, then to Doom, Doom 2, Quake, Unreal Tournament, 
 etc. But I've never (and I mean NEVER) seen a game as cool as FEAR.
  FEAR has it all: sound, graphics, story, dificulty. And it is not only a good shooting game: it 
 rivals Silent Hill on the spook department, because FEAR does justice to its title: it certainly 
 gives you the chills!!!!! I'm not afraid to admit that more than once have I jumped from my seat 
 in terror. And it keeps that way, you know.
  
  I say that last thing because I heard once that Doom 3 creeped you out so much that you couldn't 
 play it at night. It was absolutely true, but by the third level, spooks were reduced to the minimum 
 and were even redundant. FEAR does no such thing. The first level is great, the second, great. 
 And so on, and so on. They rarely go with the same method to scare you twice.
  
  The AI in FEAR is something you NEED to write home about. Never have I seen such intelligence from 
 my foes. They duck, jump, take cover, use furniture as covers, throw grenades, help each other, 
 communicate, take lost of bullets to die, call for backup, ambush, hit you when you're close. Everything 
 I could ever say falls short to compliment the brilliant AI that the programmers built for this 
 game. If you're tired of the easy to kill alien foes and want to kick some human ass, this is ABSOLUTELY 
 your game.
  
  Sound. I hate it. It is too good. It sends chills down your spine... at one moment, total silence, 
 then, EEEEEEEK!!!!! Sound has proven to be very effective when recreating a dark scenario. It makes 
 you imagine things, things that could not be there, or be just around that shadow filled corner. 
 By the time you reach that corner, your heart will be beating so fast you'll need a CPR in a minute 
 or two.
  
  One thing that FEAR tends to fall short is the gun department. I'm not saying that it has little 
 variety (it has just enough for you to drool) , but since the game is so real, guns act like in 
 real life too. So the shotgun is absolutely ineffective at long range (and I mean asolutely because 
 it does NOTHING!) , pistols will die soon enough, and there is no sharpshooting weapon worth keeping 
 (I HATE that!! I love sharpshooting!!!) . At the end of the game, trust me there is one gun you'll 
 ever need. This doesn't make it less exciting. Testing weapons as the enemy drops them will always 
 be fun. Oh, I forgot.. you can only carry three guns at one time, so choose wisely!
  
  As I said, FEAR is a great game. It is almost perfect. But such perfection requires power. I have 
 a very respectable processor (64-bit) , a PCI Express 128 Mb Card, and 512 Mb RAM, and the game 
 uses it all, and not even close to the highest resolution. But if you have that horsepower, believe 
 me, FEAR is the game for you.
  
  I hope this worked for something. Sorry about my english, I'm from Argentina. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chinesehaohot
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 10, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  There was never a FPS game after Half-Life 2 so sucessfully attracted the player into the mood 
 and story like FEAR does. 
  
  I am not going into Graphic and the gameplay because by looking at screen shoots most people already 
 know this is a beautiful if not one of the most beautiful game which require you shoot you way 
 out of every level. What so sucessful about FEAR is not about its game play or Graphic but rather 
 it uses those element well in the game's story and mood. 
  
  I had nightmare after finishing F. E. A. R that is how much this game had gotten into me. It is the 
 litte things that in the game make this game so scary. tricks from Hollywood and Japanese horror 
 movies. The noise and movement out of no where always make me jump out of the seat. I run this 
 game on my Dell 24'LCD monitor and the impact is unbelieveable. 
  
  The only complain I have against the game is that its reply value is not very hard. The multi-play 
 design is not innotative. But for a game looks this good, scarier than the remake of Ringu and 
 last 15-20 hours of entertainment no other Hollywood movies can offer these days? I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Craig_J
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 18, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  There have been a bunch os"scary" first person shooters brought out recently but by far the best 
 is..... no not doom3 it's F. E. A. R. The sequences involving Alma and the ghosts are very atmospheric 
 and tense. And they contrast sharply with the violent firefights. The graphics engine is beautiful 
 especially the explosions and water effects. The enemy models are detailed and their A. I rules, 
 they kicked my a** a few times before I completed the game. The sound is immense and can change 
 from cool gun sounds to eerie voices and bangs. Gameplay, well what can I say it is the coolest 
 game since may payne 2, slo-mo firefights and a few puzzles to break up the action. All in all 
 a great achievement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assassin314
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 10, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  I cant stress to u how much of a system hog this is, i seriously reckon that if your not packing 
 at least 2Gb of RAM and a 256mb gfx card then this will be a total waste of your time. I played 
 it with a 128 nvidia and despite having all the graphics settings on near lowest, the frame rate 
 was pathetic and it was the choppiest screen i have ever looked upon. Despite the frame issues, 
 it had some amazing atmosphere and i was almost beginning to get sucked in the "fear" when again, 
 the screen lagged horribly and made me realise that alas - it was just a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joubei2000
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 9, 2006 10:40 pm PT
Review:  If you want to immerse yourself into a world of terror and supernatural this is the game for you.
 
  on the contrary of what all the instructions say try to use slow motion as little as you can, 
 because the best action is in real time chaotic show-down
  the way you get to fight against up to 10 very very tough ruthless and SMART enemies makes this 
 game amazing, 
  but the creepiness between fights and the sheer beauty of everything makes this one a Masterpiece!
 
  
  this one is a MUST PLAY!!!
  
  takes the First Person Shooters one step ahead from everything out There! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 9, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Everything you want in a shooter. The graphics= to DOOM3, FPS story= to HL2, and the Fun factor 
 of Max Payne. Excellent character development and incredible sound. The absolute best part of the 
 game would have to be the AI. Even though Im only at the mid point, I would have to say these 
 are the smartest foes yet in a video game. Many times you will walk away from a firefight low on 
 heal, empty, and jumping over the wreckage left behind. For those how live by a Frys Electronics 
 (thanks to a buddy for the early release) the game will be on the shelf tomorrow morning for $36.99. 
 Even at a full price this game is well worth it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwells
Rating: 5.4
Date: May 8, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  I was promised a compelling story and an amazing AI. I was promised hordes of enemies. Unfortunately, 
 I did not get any of these things. As the man said, I will show you fear in a handful of dust.
 
  
  OK, at the beginning of the game, I did get creeped out by the rattling of objects, the freaky 
 intangible characters, and by the general milieu of the game. That lasted about an hour. After 
 I figured out the one AI trick (flanking) there was nothing else there. After a while I began to 
 ignore the rattling flotsam. But when will one of these action games have an adaptive AI? One that 
 starts slowly, but learns about me as a player and gets smarter as the game goes on? I guess I 
 ask too much.
  
  I was hoping for one of two things from this game: either (1) an engaging store or (2) so many 
 baddies that my brain had to shut off (Serious Sam, anyone?) . Let me address the second thing first. 
 I never had the crazy, turn off-the brain, shoot and hope experience I have had with other FPS 
 games. And, due to the rating and the review, I was expecting to have that. Oh yes, there were 
 enemies. And yes, they did flank (but I had already figured out how to deal with that) . But there 
 was never a time when it was so difficult that I just had the run screaming, sweat dripping off 
 the brow kind of excitement I was hoping for.
  
  And even then, with a good story-line, the game might have been saved. Too bad. One thing that 
 makes a story-line good is that it has twists and turns. Some characters that you thought were 
 evil turn out to be good. Characters that seemed kind and good turn out to be crazed axe-murderers. 
 None of that in this game! There was a freaky little girl, there were people from the corporation, 
 and there was Paxton  a weirdo baddie to the end) . Family relationships seem to be where people 
 thought the twists came from  except that ever since Darth Vader revealed he was Lukes father 
 Ive pretty much assumed everybody is related to everyone else  get over it!
  
  So, I didnt like the story, or the gameplay. Im surprised this game was rated as high as it was. 
 I guess it is a passable FPS, but why then would it crack the 9.0 barrier (which the barrier at 
 which I become interested in FPS) ? I guess Im expecting too much. Just like Black & White, this 
 game is overrated, seemingly hyped beyond its value for no good reason.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jordanbarrantes
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 7, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is an attempt to bring the horror genre to a whole new level on the pc. The first thing 
 you will noticed in F. E. A. R. is the amazing graphics... if your computer can handle it. F. E. A. R. 
 has extroidnary graphics that needs an extroidnary computer to handle it. While the steep requirments 
 may turn off a few people, even on medium the game manages to amaze me. One thing that should be 
 said is that fear is extremely bloody and violent, but the level of blood and gore is what makes 
 fears firefights so satisfying sometimes. fear does what it came to do. Give you crazy first person 
 shooter action while looking good doing it. The game is very tense and the firefights are on a 
 level of satisfaction beyond comparison of lots of other first person shooters. The game does a 
 good job of making a creepy atmosphere and i actually found myself jumping at times. The gameplay 
 of F. E. A. R. is awsome. From the insane firefights to the entertaining slow motion ability you are 
 always entertained. The particle stystem of the game is amazing and by the end of a firefight of 
 5 guys there wil be blood, bullet holes, debris and a couple of corpses and maby some arms and legs. 
 The slow motion ability in the game is extremely fun to mess around with and perfectly blend in 
 with the game. The games AI are incredible and are challenging. One firefight i was searching down 
 the last enemy. When he spotted me he threw a gernade to knock a box down and ducked behind it 
 and started firing at me. Of course that wasnt enough to bring me down as i simply tossed a gernade 
 and shot it before he could run away in slow motion. The game is pretty lengthy and will give you 
 about 14 hours of gameplay. The multiplayer is fast and furios and can be a good challenge, but 
 most likely that your computer wil have a hard time running it even if it is a super computer. 
 The sound in this game is amazing. From the sounds of metal and wood etc being hit with bullets 
 to the extremely helpful radio talk to the creppy sounds such as door slowly opening, you will 
 always being listening to your speakers to see what new sounds will come before you. 
  
  My final thought: F. E. A. R. is an amazing game with amazing graphics sound and gameplay to back 
 it up. Though having steep requirments the games awsome single player and average multi player 
 will keep you satisfied from the begging to the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petermavreas
Rating: 3.6
Date: May 6, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  two wordsbad programming" when the benchmeark is telling me that I am running the lowest at 
 49fps and the highest at 239fps with everything turned on max, and then I play the game and every 
 30 sec there is chop there has to be something wrong with the game. This game and condemned both 
 have the same issue it even goes through the auto detect and gives me what it thinks I should run 
 still the same amount of chop. I can understand if i had a ok system but thats not the case is 
 anyone else having this problem.
  
  amd fx-57
  ocz plat 2gb ddr3200
  a8r32-mvp deluxe
  x1900xtx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: end15
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 6, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  I don't think I have as high of an opinion about this game as others do. I thought the enemy AI 
 that was raved about was very good. However other than that the game was boring. I did not enjoy 
 the simple puzzles set out and the environments lacked any flavor or style. It just seemed cheap 
 in the end. I was not scared much by the horror aspects because throughout most of the game they 
 didn't actually pose any sort of threat to me. I could just keep going through the sequence. Bullet 
 time was fine but it worked better in Max Payne. As well I played through the game on hard level 
 and found few challenges (other than running low on ammo on occasion) . In the end I would love 
 to see smart baddies placed in a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeCReT_
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 6, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the single player it has some nice plot twists and it has many features to keep 
 you alert and not bored ..
  The multi is great .. you can start your own server with many players and many game types..
  excellent 
 graphics..
  What really amazed me is the computer AI.. it reacts really amazing to your presence and jumps and 
 hides..
  There are very cool kinds of weapons that I find to be original and cool..
  It has a weapon for each person so that everyone would use their own style..
  The multi player 
 has CTF, DM, TDM , SLOW-MO and so on..
  I really recommend this game and hope you would buy it and enlarge the community 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FSCK
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 6, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  FEAR is here i personally dint dicobered this game until i got a laptop but back to the game this 
 game has one of the best grafics id ever seen and the gameplay is fast pace and the guns are blazing 
 fast when you fire a gun its like the gun its awsome when you kil somebody they die in a fastpace 
 dance of death you could go in slo-mo that means they go in a slomotion dance of death the guns 
 make a mess and the game is not only a fastpace game with a awsome story line is also a creepy 
 game it has one of the scariest parts id eer seen the game last aout 10 hours but ten you could 
 play the superb multiplayer and its awsome you could also kick people in the head with super cool 
 martial arts moves in firstperson thet means is really cool if you always wanted to see how does 
 ti fell to kick somebody in the head like in the matrix now you can in this game the guns and the 
 enviroments make a mess the enviroments are destructable that means pieces of concrete get there 
 off blood flyin g trought the air FEAR is one of the best games you will play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimson_axe
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 6, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  Alright, first the obvious - its got some scary moments, and it does a pretty good job of giving 
 you that creepy feeling, so basically, there aren't any complaints in this department, except for 
 the fact that this also happens to be one of the reasons I personally didn't enjoy the game.
  
  I would just like to say that if I liked playing games that constantly try to creep you out, 
 then this would have gotten a hgiher score. However, since I feel like having that creepy sensation 
 throughout the entire game gets in the way of me actually enjoying the game, then I had to knock 
 points off.
  
  Basically, I don't like constantly wondering when my flashlight is goign to shut down, and then 
 that crazy girl pops up for no other reason than to make me waste ammo at nothing. At first, it 
 was kind of neat, but then it got to where I just wasn't having fun with the game because I was 
 more worried about that girl than I was what I was doing, or where the story was going. That isn't 
 even getting into the truely weird stuff that happens.
  
  Aside from that, the graphics are pretty good, I'll give it that. I should say, theyre rendered 
 well. The downside is that you feel like you're runnign through the same hallways over and over 
 again. The only thing that saved it is that it had soem really nice Level Design and Layout. There's 
 always more than one way to get somewhere, which is a nice tough, but it also means there's a lot 
 of places for Alma to hide -- that little girl.
  
  The storyline; many will argue its great. Truthfully, its borderline passable. Basically, its your 
 standard "Something goes wrong - send in the Super Soldier" scenario. It gets extra credit for 
 adding flare though. Other than that, its like they cant come up with anything good these days.
 
  
  The gameplay I found to be severely lacking. The game reminded me a lot of Half Life 2 in this 
 regard. Your weapon is supposed to be the defining factor of characterizing your avatar in an FPS, 
 and just like in HL2, they felt lacking. Just soemthing abotu them didnt have that kick they should 
 have. Whatever it is, HL2 and HL had the same problems, which is a big thing that turned me off 
 abotu both of those games as well.
  
  Value? I suppose it has high enough production value, but the truth is, it depends on how much 
 emphasis you put into it. I personally could have left this one on the shelf, but needed a serious 
 game to test my new PC... this was more or less the only option.
  
  All in all, its a good game thats worth buying if you like Shooters and more so if you like Horror. 
 Personally, I found the shooter portion lacking, and the Horror portion distracting - but that 
 isnt to say it wasnt good... the Horror part I mean. It really was good Horror... Im just not a 
 fan of it, and so I couldnt enjoy this game.
  
  Addition:: I should also note that this game has pathetic MP. Seriously.. its realyl quite boring. 
 It feels like Counter Strike, with shadows. If you liked CS, you would probably like this though. 
 Still, I hated CS and I also hate this... go figure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pakitoxocolater
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 6, 2006 3:13 am PT
Review:  When I played the demo for the first time I knew it was something new, the graphics and the intelligence 
 of the enemies are really good.
  There's also the terror that envolves you during the game, the atmosphere is incredible.
  The 
 weapons are also very good, specially, the penetraror rifle, and the laser gun, and the enemies 
 are very clever!!
  The story is also very good, you never know what would happen next.
  Simply, the best first-person shoter at the moment.
  I am waiting right now for the second part, 
 ther would be one?? I hope so, because it wolud be very hard to make this better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jestah
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 5, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is in many ways, a game deserving it's own genre, it has great end to end action, and some 
 jaw-dropping graphics, from sparks flying and bullets taking chunks off the wall to amazing ragdoll 
 physics. The AI in this game is incredible, enemies will make use of their numbers against you 
 and flank you from all sides, the only thing that lets you stand a chance is Slo-Mo, which sometimes 
 can make the game too easy. The character you play is supposed to have reflexes that are "off the 
 charts", thus Slo-Mo.
  
  There are many features to this game, wether it be leaning around the wall to verify enemy positions 
 to sneaking up behind your enemies and attacking them with deadly one hit death melee moves. The 
 arsenal you have in this game consists of about 8 different guns, from some dual wielded pistol 
 to an butt-kicking rocket launcher.
  
  Overall the action is great, although sometimes too easy, as you will be using SloMo very often 
 and it recharges too quickly... What also makes this game easy is that you'll probably be walking 
 around with 10 medipaks in your inventory that you can use instantly and will increase your health 
 by about 50 immediately.
  
  There is one more aspect to this game than Action though.
  Horror.
  Depending on what you think is scary or not, this game will have you cowering under 
 your pillow or have you jump everytime the telephone rings in your house (Which me and Deagle-Eyes 
 have heavily experienced) .
  
  There are some people who say that F. E. A. R is not a scary game, well that depends on your views, 
 but all in all this is one epic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnoel809
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 5, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  I started playing FEAR, not knowing exactly what to expect. I had read a couple of short previews 
 of the game, but nothing in-depth. I was very pleasantly surprised, this is a great game. While 
 it's kind of an old-school shooter, it's got some newer features, like their own version of bullet-time 
 and good enemy AI. There were several occasions throughout the game where I nearly jumped out of 
 my chair when something in the game jumped out at me or exploded near me. Much scarier than Doom 
 3, since it wasn't as repetitive. 
  
  The only thing I didn't like was how slowly the game started. Nothing really happens at first, 
 you seem to just walk around. This is probably the game designers' version of a practice level, 
 just to get you used to in-game movement. Don't let the first level or so make you stop playing, 
 it gets much better.
  
  I highly recommend the game to anyone who enjoys shooters and also likes a good scare. There's 
 a good mix of weapons, though as always you don't get nearly enough ammo for the great weapons 
 (a balancing issue, I'm sure) . For those who care to, there are cheat codes available on the net 
 to get extra ammo for the really good guns. 
  
  You need a pretty beefy computer and graphics card, otherwise the game bogs down a bit in places.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AcydRaine
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 4, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  When you first play "F. E. A. R.," you'll think to yourself: "What a rip-off!" And it's true. You're 
 placed in the role of a character with superhero reflexes and psychic abilities being stalked by 
 an angry little girl who bears resemblance to Alanis Morrisette crawling out of a well. But if 
 you read between the lines, you'll find a thoughtful story of a forgotten past, which I will not 
 reveal.
  
  Basically, it's you first day on the job with F. E. A. R., or First Encounter Assault Recon, a government 
 special forces unit formed to battle paranormal threats to national security. Your first mission 
 is to hunt down Paxton Fettlel, a wacko with psychic powers over his clone army, and for some reason, 
 he has a habit of cannibalizing his victims. If you destroy Fettel, the clones linked to him will 
 shut down.
  
  Yes, the story seems ridiculous, but aside from the underlying themes which you will discover as 
 you play the game, the real stars here are the fierce gun battles. While most first-person shooters 
 rely on the protagonist being stronger than the bad guys as well as bad guys with running-and-gunning 
 tactics, "F. E. A. R.'s" AI is much more sophisticated. The soldiers here will run for cover if hurt, 
 and they will often play cat-and-mouse games with you. They also possess about the same strength 
 as you; it takes about as much time to take them down as it does for them to take you down.
  
  Which brings me to my next point. "F. E. A. R." marks the first time bullet-time effects are not 
 used as a gimmick. Here, not only does slow-mo display your superhuman reflexes, they are a necessity 
 for completing the game. It's virtually impossible to win a battle, as the AI characters are always 
 moving and running for cover.
  
  And needless to say, the slow-mo looks magnificent. The attention to detail is astounding; a speeding 
 bullet in slow-mo distorts the environment like in "The Matrix." There is also much attention to 
 detail placed in the rest of the environment, particularly when bullets hit the walls; they don't 
 create holes they blow chunks of concrete out.
  
  The environments also have surprisingly realistic lighting, which is appropriately atmospheric. 
 Unfortunately, you only occupy three or four major environments, and their designs are actually 
 quite boring, leaving you want more. For example, I would've loved to have more outdoor battles 
 and, in general, more open environments.
  
  Despite the great looks of background objects, the same cannot be said about the human characters 
 -- particularly the females. Most of them look more like plastic dolls than real character ("Half-Life 
 2" beats them in terms of realism) , and the polygon count isn't all that high. And for a game with 
 such steep system requirements, I was disappointed in how flawed some of the graphics were.
  
  But that's no reason to spoil our fun. The game plays fantastic and there are plenty of spooky 
 moments. Though there are very few scenes that make you jump out of your seat, the real fear here 
 is in waiting for things to happen, making your character remain vigilant. "F. E. A. R." certainly 
 qualifies as a game to play at night in a dark basement.
  
  -AcydRaine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cc_jjaayy
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2006 4:39 am PT
Review:  evrything is perfect. there is nothing more i can say. NOTHING! so im gonna do this: evrything 
 is perfect. there is nothing more i can say. NOTHING! so im gonna do this: evrything is perfect. 
 there is nothing more i can say. NOTHING! so im gonna do this: evrything is perfect. there is nothing 
 more i can say. NOTHING! so im gonna do this: evrything is perfect. there is nothing more i can 
 say. NOTHING! so im gonna do this: evrything is perfect. there is nothing more i can say. NOTHING! 
 so im gonna do this: evrything is perfect. there is nothing more i can say. NOTHING! so im gonna 
 do this: evrything is perfect. there is nothing more i can say. NOTHING! so im gonna do this: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rajahkarthik
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2006 2:14 am PT
Review:  To start off with me, I found the game very difficult to master and took me quite a long time to 
 really enjoy. It all depends on how excellent a gamer you are. 
  
  But once you have hold of the game and then understand your way through. WOW oh WOW oh WOW. fasten 
 your seat belt mate you are on your one way ticket to the greatest fuel for your game cells of 
 your brain. The Graphics are superior till to date of what i have experienced and i am amazed again 
 and again. The best part is that this game so seamlessly inter weaves horror and the action genre 
 with one of the greatest AI's i have experienced. I simply had to find excuses to procrastinate 
 other jobs (which happen to be my real work) and got in so involved with FEAR that i had to finish 
 it.
  
  The game though was quite long was very delicately designed for the gamer to experience the thrill 
 in the hiatus that exists between encounters and battles.
  
  Coming to my utmost favorite part of the game, THE PHYSICS.
  In my opinion this game is so refreshing 
 and is addictive and awes the gray cells because of the very physical laws it obeys and depicts 
 then so very beautifully, that it had me shouting and crying for most of the time. Though your 
 team men are good enough but you are the best and this game definitely makes one feel heroic and 
 ecstatic after every battle that is so deliciously designed, which plays on the gamer with its 
 rare horror perspective and kicks him from behind with one of the best AI that the enemy puts forth
 
  
  A must have for anyone. A challenge that any gamer should feel proud of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JL2K6
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 3, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  FEAR has got to be the freakiest game available right now. i love resident evil, but i play it 
 for the gameplay, because frankly, they arent scary at all. resident evil 4 is a little at times 
 when you first play it. but FEAR is different. it throws things at you that you don't see coming. 
 whats funny is that when you really start getting into it (like you're in a room and dont know 
 what will happen) if you hear a sudden noise (like if something in your house falls) then it will 
 give you a jolt. i havent beaten it yet, but i am getting near. the sheer style of killings in 
 this game is freaky. if you cant handle horror movies, you'll never handle FEAR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damoncecil
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 2, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Hands down the best FP Shooter out there today. Graphics and Gameplay are amazing and the sound 
 is excellent. I would have the say that the difficulty level was pretty much exactly what the game 
 needed. A couple of levels could have been more fun if they were harder, but still; a job well 
 done. This game brings a certian level of creepiness that keeps you wanting nothing but more. The 
 Graphis are amazing and the detaail and texturing are SICK! The last FP Shooter I played was the 
 original DOOM on PC. I can safely say that I am a new believer in the FP Shooter Genre! An expansion 
 pack and/or sequel is a must here freinds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spawnleon
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  man the game is a total masterpiece! me myself i love horor and this game is like the ring mixed 
 with the milatary situations, man the multiplayer if super fun i played it like 24/7 at my freinds 
 house, I WOULD'NT GET OFF THE DAMN COMPUTER!!!!! man i love shooting down people in these games 
 with lots of blood, and i would never sell this computer game if i owned it!!!! i will let go of 
 F. E. A. R., if u want to see some comedy of fear go to www. roosterteeth. com and it is called PANICS, 
 ROCK ON FEAR!!! I WILL TELL EVERYONE THAT THIS GAME KICKS TOTAL  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudezer88
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 1, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I didn't really believe this game would actually scare me but it's seriously intense. This is definitely 
 not the one note monsters jumping out from behind you experience that Doom 3 was. This game is 
 just plain creepy to start with and it adds some seriously jump out of your seat, crap your pants 
 moments. The first time through the single player game is scary as hell. Replaying the game isn't 
 as scary but the atmosphere is still very creepy and immersive.
  
  The combat is just as intense as the scares. Slo-mo is awesome. Every bullet cuts holes through 
 the air and blow the whole place apart when they impact. All the effects associated with combat 
 are incredible. Bullets blow chunks out of walls and send dust and particles flying into the air, 
 grenades and bombs have a great ripple effect that rushes through the air. The models, textures, 
 and lighting all look amazing. That being said, you'll need quite a machine to max out the games 
 effects, but the game still looks absolutely great with only medium settings. There are a few clipping 
 problems and the gun models are a bit more aliased than they should be.
  
  Enemy AI is also very advanced. You'll often lose enemies in firefights and find them behind you 
 blasting away. Still, the game is a bit easy for veteran players, so experienced FPS players should 
 play on Hard or even Extreme difficulty to make the game tougher. Slo-mo can also be turned off 
 for some extra challenge, but it's almost too cool to give up. 
  
  The sound is generally very good. The voice acting is all done very well, though there are a few 
 characters who seem a little unconcerned by the amount of danger they're in. The gun sounds are 
 pretty good, the SMG and AR sound a bit underpowered in my opinion but still suitable. The music 
 is a big addition to the creepyness and it works excellently.
  
  F. E. A. R.'s multiplayer is just as intense as the rest of the game. It has its own flavor, it can't 
 be categorized as a CS or Halo clone. The slo-mo games are different but there usually aren't a 
 lot of servers playing them. The multiplayer is so fast paced, with nearly no spawn wait times 
 which makes the game much less frustrating as opposed to CS where when you die you have to wait 
 out the rest of the round (sucks if you get killed first) .
  
  The bottom line is, if you have the hardware, and are a fan of FPS games this one should be on 
 your list. Also, if Doom 3 left you wanting more in the scares department, give this game a go. 
 All but the most desensitized will jump back from the screen at least once or twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noleander
Rating: 4.7
Date: May 1, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  FEAR for PC was very simple and repetative. I dont know how it got hyped as "best shooter of the 
 year".
  
  The game is inferior to Halo 1, Half Life, or even James Bond Nightfire. 
  
  Specific problems:
  
  The settings are all very simplistic and boring: Most of the time is 
 spent inside office buildings, or dull warehouses. Even the office buildings are simple and tedious: 
 The designers didnt have the time or $$ to come up with unique, inspiring interiors. If you play 
 FEAR, you'll spend hours wandering up and down hallways thinking "gee, that's the 400th time Ive 
 seen a couch like that".
  
  The challenge level is very low: First, the shooting tools make it easy to kill the bad guys: all 
 you have to do is lean over, put on the zoom, and go into slo motion. Every time. Over and over. 
 Again: no unusual situations that require creativity.
  
  Second, there are no puzzles or problem to solve. This is 100% shooting. Im not asking for Myst/Riven 
 puzzles: Just an occasional obstacle that requires you to think a little bit.
  
  FEAR is very non-memorable. One of the reasons is that the colors are very muddy. Nearly the entire 
 game takes place at night and/or inside buildings. The colors are predominantly grey or brown. 
 
  
  No where in the game, and I mean no where, is a special scene that makes you go "oh wow" and sticks 
 in your mind forever (in Halo 1, think of the ring itself; or the final scene of Half Life) . The 
 sets are very mundane.
  
  Sure, the horror-movie aspect of this is potentially interesting: "The Ring" meets "Friday the 
 13th". But guess what: 95% of the bad guys are normal humans with normal guns. Except for a handful 
 of ghost-things, it is very conventional.
  
  Another huge problem with this game is the linearity: there is no choice; there is no thought, 
 there is no option. You go forward .. down the hall, down the tunnel. Compare to, say, Half Life 
 which has more open-ended scenarios.
  
  Bottom line: This game is a normal, old-fashioned shooter that you will forget as soon as you move 
 on to another game. The sets, colors, bad-guys are what I would excpect from a game created 5 years 
 ago.
  
  This game is no where near as good as Halo 1, James Bond Nightfire, or Half Life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franco_atirador
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 28, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  This game scared the living crap out of me !I am a man and i admit its a scary game! At first looking 
 at its graphics you think they are quiet good ,once you play you will be marveled by such incredible 
 light and shadow effects ,mind-blowing story that seems to have some links with the Rings (the 
 movie) little girl. The sound is spectacular it really helps to create ambient and dramatic action.
 
  well all in all, its wonderful game ,but nothing new about it anyway I recommend it to anyone 
 up for both a good scare and a solid shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhatanhle2003
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best FPS game ever. I will recommend it to anyone. Easy, hard sometimes but always 
 fun. Gameplay is easily the best, but CS is better. Great graphic, fabulous AI and good landscape. 
 AI is the best ever. Sound is so good, making the game creepier. Great value for the cost $50. 
 But the system requirement is very high and you will need a good graphic card. My computer's FPS 
 is very high, at 100 fps using 2 Nvidia Geforce 7900. My RAM is 4 GB and processor is Dual FX-61 
 so it is the best. Over all, a surprising masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killercortez88
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 27, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Many games have tried to been crap ur pants scary in dark but its usally been boring in the light. 
 Now we have a game that brings out the F. E. A. R. in all fo us. F. E. A. R. is a first person shooter 
 that puts u in the role of nameless person wroking for an organization that deals with paranormal 
 threats. now Im not going to give away any spoilers but i just want to point out that there is 
 a little girl who tourtures u with FEAR looks like the girl from the "ring", coinsdence or a conspieracy 
 
  
  The grapics are simply amazing with nice lighting effects and visual eye candy. Explosions, bullets, 
 especial in slo-mo, every thing look great. U do need a good PC to get the most out of this. Things 
 like bullet holes in walls won't show and when ever u punch someone, square blocks come out which 
 is a problem. Plus sound which is very well done and u got a truly peforming title. 
  
  Gameplay is fun and satisfying. See ur character is enhance with slo-mo and... u get the picture. 
 Many games have done this before but not as fun. Like whenever u shoot someone with a shotgun in 
 slo-mo, he goes flying which is totaly cool. If guns are not doing ur thing u can always pull out 
 ur fist and start beating the crap out of ur enemies.
  
  Now this game will scare the crap out of u. With haunting music and cheap scares willgive u nightmares 
 for a week. 
  
  What keeps this together is the outstading multiplayer, sure u got deathmatch, team deathmatch, 
 and capture the flag, but there is a game mode where there is a slo-mo on the map and the person 
 who gets it can slow down his/her team and move faster than the other team.
  
  This is a solid title with a great multiplayer, great graphics, this one is worth the fifty dollars 
 of cash. So pick it up now... if ur afraid????????
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Code
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 26, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Probly the scariest game iv ever played no joke while also probly one of the best shooters iv played. 
 The game starts off with a man named Paxton Fettle going nuts and killing everyone in this facility 
 but theres more to it than that a small girl is seen befor Paxton goes haywire. Ends up Paxton 
 is a psycic commander of an army of clones that has now taken over the once mysterious Armachan 
 facility. Thats when you come in you are new to a task force known as F. E. A. R. (First Encounter 
 Assault Recon) . You and your two comrads are not alone in this endeavour as there speacial forces 
 with you. The constantly unfolding story goes from there.
  
  Graphics are great..... if your computer is top of the line which mine isnt so i had to play on 
 half of what the medium setting is but it still lookd good just the occasional framerate dip. The 
 game does a good job of making things seem real such as bullet holes blowing chunks out of the 
 wall. and plood spraying on walls you get a real feel of carnage after every battle. The slo motion 
 effect adds some great looking effects as bullets leave sound trails behind them as well as a sort 
 of light up the screen effect. The lighting is good as well but i cant imagine how it looks on 
 the highest setting.
  
  Sound excellent work here this is the scariest thing about the game the sound is so good when you 
 get to your encounters you will need to use sound to tell where enemies are without having to look 
 or at least assume where they are as they will knock over objects making noises or brodcast a command 
 to another unit. The ambience keeps you paranoide as you will here the occasional static over the 
 radio when she gets near also the she will make sure to whisper to you and make you just scared 
 to move (keeping her name secret no spoilers) . The music also gives you a sense of fear and paranoia 
 as it is very well done and gives off a creepy feel when you near certain points.
  
  Gameplay first of excellent presentaion the opening is excellent and really gets you ready to play 
 this game. The best part about the game is the fact it does a great job of making you jump and 
 after that moment you will be on your toes for awhile cause the game doesnt let up on those moments. 
 And you never dont have controlle of your character except when on the helicopter flying to a new 
 building. The game pulls off the gripping blockbuster film feel you feel like the intensity when 
 you play and you get suckd in almost like you are the character in the game which are technically. 
 The story is compelling and very well written and keeps you thinking even tho in the end there 
 are a few loose ends that are left there but the ending makes your jaw drop. The gunfights in this 
 game are intense as running out guns blazing doesnt always work this is where reflex mode comes 
 in handy. Your character has a thing called reflex mode which basically lsows down time around 
 you allowing you to move up on an enemy and him have no time to react this comes in handy when 
 taking on multiple foes. Tho the gunfights are good sometimes they feel bland and just killing 
 the same guy over over agine. THo the A. I. is extremely smart at times at others not so mutch enemies 
 will take cover and try to get you out of yours most of the time but at times you will see that 
 one idiot running out in the open shooting at you.
  
  Overall this is an excellent game that has a great sense of horror and feels like your playing 
 as movie if only games based on movies could learn from this. Even if your computer isnt top notch 
 thestory alone makes this game a must play. I look forward to the sequel and by then i hope to 
 have a new graphics card. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martbigz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 24, 2006 4:04 am PT
Review:  When F. E. A. R. hit the shelves last year, I had high expectations for the game. I had been reading 
 a lot about it, seen a lot of screen shots, watched a lot of videos. To keep it short; I was hoping 
 that this would be a game worth playing. And I was right.
  
  I know there are people claiming that this game is not scary, it doesn't have the graphics, it 
 has poor game-play etc. Well, that's not at all true.
  F. E. A. R. does seem like your average FPS at first. It has guns, it has violence, it has action. 
 But that's something to be expected from a FPS, nothing amazing there. But then, when you have 
 played for about 30 minutes, you'll find that there's a lot more behind the game than just another 
 low-quality first-person shooter.
  
  The first thing that hit me when playing F. E. A. R., was that the graphics are amazing. I mean, it's 
 not just good, or pretty good, it's incredible. Monolith did a good job with this. It looks pretty 
 realistic, everything from the player models to the big houses you go through. And it has some 
 nice looking effects too. Like, for instance, the hand grenades. Looks pretty cool when they hit 
 their target. 
  I read someone claiming that Doom 3 had better graphics, and that this does not even compare. Not 
 true at all. Doom 3 looks crappy compared to what F. E. A. R. does, if you have the right computer 
 for it. Because this kind of GFX will surely crave something from your PC. 
  
  The game-play is almost just as great. as you go through the game, you'll feel more than your average 
 jump scare once every hour. This is no Doom 3, or any other game that's all about that one moment 
 where they get you, and then it's over. This game is frightening and will keep you pinned to your 
 chair, and making you want to go away at the same time. Encountering small girls in tight, dark 
 corridors, and freaky guys popping up saying disturbing stuff. This is something that must be experienced.
 
  
  And of course, putting the scary part aside, it has some insane fire fights. Since the A. I. was 
 programmed to see what you do, and adapt to that, there won't be two identical fights in the game. 
 You'll be surprised by how smart the A. I. really is. Combine this with the Slow Motion effect, 
 and you'll get the best action in years. Believe me, the Slow Motion effect is no longer just for 
 show, Monolith implemented it pretty good in the game-play. Once you start using it, you'll never 
 be able to do without again.
  That aside, not only are the fights entertaining, they look fantastic too. F. E. A. R. has the vest 
 visual fire fights of all time.
  Yes, some might claim that this is just like any other game, with weapons lying around, and tons 
 of people you need to shoot to advance towards a final goal. But if that was removed, it wouln't 
 be a first-person shooter now, would it? Go play Splinter Cell instead then.
  
  Another part of the game that i find cool, is the story. It's pretty freaky by itself, and as the 
 game progresses, you'll find out a lot of sick stuff. For those who have played for 30 minutes 
 and still don't get it : you aren't supposed to get it after 30 minutes! Not after 3 hours! What 
 game would reveal it's story after only a hour or 2 of playing? Keep playing. Don't worry, it'll 
 all come clear, eventually. 
  
  When you have finished the game, and want to do something else, the multiplayer part has to be 
 tested. I found the F. E. A. R. multiplayer insanely entertaining. Seeing as I am a former Soldier 
 of Fortune 2 player, I can say that F. E. A. R.'s multiplayer is pretty similar, but a lot cooler 
 and more action-filled. It has some of the best guns out there, and tons of game modes to test 
 out. But, of course, the SloMo Deathmatch is an instant classic.
  
  And there you have it. A more or less complete review of the game and it's possibilities. I'd recommend 
 every horror-fan out there to try this. Of course, if you are in doubt, download the demo and try 
 that first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: htrk2
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say, WOW!
  When I first saw a video of this game I knew it would be the type of game that I would enjoy at 
 high levels.
  I`ve never saw a combat experience like this before because of the smoke and all, This game contains 
 lots and lots of blood.
  But the graphics, Well because of my computer I couldn`t play it with the graphics at very high 
 levels but because of the photographs that I`ve seen of the game, I can say that those graphics 
 are amazing.
  The sound effects are also beautiful and this game is highly replayable.
  The lights and shadows of the game are beautiful because the give more atmosphere to the game.
 
  The falls of the soldiers may sometimes be a little stupid but when you dismember some parts of 
 ther body they are very cinematographic (also when you shoot a soldier that is very close to you 
 with the shotgun.
  The AI is definitly the best AI on a shooter because they use advanced war tactics like this one: 
 The soldiers sometimes divides themselves on 2 teams, one teams provides covering fire while the 
 other team flanks you (appears behind you) , that`s awesome.
  I really love when you kill a soldier and the fall to the ground shooting at everything and then 
 all the walls and stuff around there makes a lot of smoke, sparks and everything.
  But one thing I didn`t like was the end of the games because when you eliminate Paxton Fettel there 
 are no more soldiers and the enemies are some phantoms or something that flyes, I really liked killing 
 soldiers, not phantoms.
  Well I guess that these are enough reasons to put a 10.0 to this game
  Hope my review has helped 
 the readers 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: heborress
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 23, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is in my opinion one of the greatest FPS's that has been released in a long time.
  The game starts with a cool (and a bit scary) intro, and after that you are thrown into the shoes 
 of a newly recruited F. E. A. R operative.
  Your mission is to track down and kill a mad man with paranormal abilites who has taken control 
 of an army of super soldiers.
  Things starts to go wrong pretty soon and the situation gets out of control.
  I won't say anything 
 more about the story, but a thing that i can say, is that the story is great and frightening.
 
  And the game itself, is one of the scariest games i have ever played.
  Alma has to be one of the most frightening characters ever made in video game, and Paxton had some 
 scary moments as well.
  And the sound effects and music are amazing 
  
  But the game isn't just about horror.. there are a lot of great action sequenses with great enemies 
 (with awesome A. I) , cool weapons and bullet time. 
  And something that i liked pretty much was the hand to hand combat.
  
  All in all this is a 
 great game that everyone (who can handle it :p ) should play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sZZZlepy_101
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 23, 2006 5:22 am PT
Review:  GOODS
  
  awsome creepy style graphics especially during fire fights wiht alot of sparks and smoke 
  
 
  one of the most fast action game ive ever played
  
  cool hallucinations 
  
  scary little girl (something like the one youve seen in the movie THE RING)
  
  creepy atmosphieric 
 sound
  
  slomo males it easier to aim 
  
  nice shadow detail
  
  shocks
  
  nice creepy level desgins
  
  u may fight alone but its still an awsome action game
  
  BADS
 
  
  ammo can run out fast
  
  weird story 
  
  your allies are preatty much useless
  
  needs alot of hardware to get the most out of it 
  
  MY LAST WORD
  
  if you at least 
 hav a fast or medium computer get this game! its awsome!
  
  if you are a FPS type gamer i would reccomed this game!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_TreeFrog
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 22, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game. It has the awsome graphics and great sound that they use to scare the **** out 
 of you. I feel almost complete just playing a game with graphics as good as these. Its almost like 
 I could die today and be happy about it just because i played this game. You probly should play 
 at night to get the full experience and if you are a big fan of scary games then this is one that 
 i recommend. Overall this game is one of my favorite games of all time and I've told all my friends 
 to go out and buy it. yum yum yum. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfx_fan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 21, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  When you first play "F. E. A. R.," you'll think to yourself: "What a rip-off!" And it's true. You're 
 placed in the role of a character with superhero reflexes and psychic abilities being stalked by 
 an angry little girl who bears resemblance to Alanis Morrisette crawling out of a well. But if 
 you read between the lines, you'll find a thoughtful story of a forgotten past, which I will not 
 reveal.
  
  Basically, it's you first day on the job with F. E. A. R., or First Encounter Assault Recon, a government 
 special forces unit formed to battle paranormal threats to national security. Your first mission 
 is to hunt down Paxton Fettlel, a wacko with psychic powers over his clone army, and for some reason, 
 he has a habit of cannibalizing his victims. If you destroy Fettel, the clones linked to him will 
 shut down.
  
  Yes, the story seems ridiculous, but aside from the underlying themes which you will discover as 
 you play the game, the real stars here are the fierce gun battles. While most first-person shooters 
 rely on the protagonist being stronger than the bad guys as well as bad guys with running-and-gunning 
 tactics, "F. E. A. R.'s" AI is much more sophisticated. The soldiers here will run for cover if hurt, 
 and they will often play cat-and-mouse games with you. They also possess about the same strength 
 as you; it takes about as much time to take them down as it does for them to take you down.
  
  Which brings me to my next point. "F. E. A. R." marks the first time bullet-time effects are not 
 used as a gimmick. Here, not only does slow-mo display your superhuman reflexes, they are a necessity 
 for completing the game. It's virtually impossible to win a battle, as the AI characters are always 
 moving and running for cover.
  
  And needless to say, the slow-mo looks magnificent. The attention to detail is astounding; a speeding 
 bullet in slow-mo distorts the environment like in "The Matrix." There is also much attention to 
 detail placed in the rest of the environment, particularly when bullets hit the walls; they don't 
 create holes they blow chunks of concrete out.
  
  The environments also have surprisingly realistic lighting, which is appropriately atmospheric. 
 Unfortunately, you only occupy three or four major environments, and their designs are actually 
 quite boring, leaving you want more. For example, I would've loved to have more outdoor battles 
 and, in general, more open environments.
  
  Despite the great looks of background objects, the same cannot be said about the human characters 
 -- particularly the females. Most of them look more like plastic dolls than real character ("Half-Life 
 2" beats them in terms of realism) , and the polygon count isn't all that high. And for a game with 
 such steep system requirements, I was disappointed in how flawed some of the graphics were.
  
  But that's no reason to spoil our fun. The game plays fantastic and there are plenty of spooky 
 moments. Though there are very few scenes that make you jump out of your seat, the real fear here 
 is in waiting for things to happen, making your character remain vigilant. "F. E. A. R." certainly 
 qualifies as a game to play at night in a dark basement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boriscoolman
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I dont have the game, I got it from a friend for a few weeks. I played only the first level of 
 the game and the first part of the second,......... yes, I played only the first part of the second 
 because the game scared the HELL out of me. I have to admit, I was scared. That is really a big 
 part of the game. The graphics are amazing, although you need a really good computer if you want 
 to avoid gliches and laggness. You might want to have recommended system requirements because I 
 had minimum and I couldn't hear any voices. I didnt have enough RAM for that. The graphics are 
 a big part of the scaryness in the game because it doesnt just scare you when the little girl pops 
 in front of you, it uses the enviromental creepyness to keep you in constant suspense. I recommend 
 that people who are easily scared do not play the game. People that enjoy scary movies, FPS's and 
 total destruction of your surroundings should have a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: POJO_MOFO
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 20, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  There is a lot to like and a lot to dislike about FEAR. 
  
  The gameplay is very top-notch, as well as the visuals. Sounds is pretty good, although I dont 
 like the fact you always no when an enemy is coming because you can hear them talking first. There 
 are some nice battles that take place and the story line is done pretty well, though I feel it 
 is a little thin.
  
  My biggest complaint is the lack of overall diversity in the game. Diversity in the atmosphere, 
 enemies, weapons, everything was just one-dimensional. You are in an office building the entire 
 game (a la Doom 3) and it gets very boring. The weapons are pretty standard, the only ones that 
 stand out are the railgun that fryes people, and the nailgun is fun. There are literally like 5 
 enemies the entire game, and the AI is pretty lackluster, especailly when you can just hit slow-mo 
 and run circles around dudes.
  
  So overall, I enjoyed it but it is not the game GS or fanboys say it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -PureDemon-
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 19, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  Personally I was looking forward to this game, but I felt kind of let down when I first played 
 it.
  
  F. E. A. R. starts out with the main character, who doesn't seem to have a name, who is off to his 
 first mission in the First Encounter Assault Recon unit. A unit made to be able to counter paranormal 
 activities, you are send out to find and kill Paxton Fettel who has gone insane and taken command 
 of a battalion of elite soldiers.
  
  The firefights are great, and then enemies in the game are very smart and often react in very different 
 ways. It's also quite realistic because when you fire on a wall you can actually see dust appear 
 while the bullets pierce through them. You have a fair amount of weapons in the game, but you will 
 only be able to carry 3 of them at the same time, these include a pistol, a submachine gun (SMG) 
 an Assault Rifle and ofcourse a shotgun. There is also the Rocket Launcher and a burst fire rifle. 
 Each of these guns do their jobs well and all of them are quite usefull in different ways.
  
  You also have the ability to melee enemies you can do a one hit jump kick, a bicycle kick and 
 a sliding kick and also some punches moves, not to mention you can feed the enemy the back of your 
 gun. You need to holster your weapon to punch though. You also have and here it comes the Bullet 
 Time ability, this ability sounds familiar to those who played Max Payne. Upon activating this 
 ability you slow down time, and this gives you a tactical advantage in the battles.
  
  This Bullet Time however makes the game a bit too easy, giving you too much of an advantage not 
 to mention it reloads quite fast. You are going to need it in some situations, because most enemies 
 hide behind cover and throw grenades at you. The enemy seems to love flanking you and attacking 
 you from multiple directions if possible not to mention they jump over railings and such.
  
  The game becomes a bit too easy, instead of having to run to get a health pack the game lets 
 you carry 10 health-packs. You are also able to increase your max health and max Bullet Time. Because 
 of this effect there is quite a big chance you can get a little overpowered and being able to heal 
 whenever you want to makes it way easier than other shooters.
  
  There is however a nice amount of tension in the game since the whole time the main character suffers 
 of hallucinations, and sees a little girl and his main objective Paxton Fettel. There are moments 
 where you will get scared a bit because of these hallucinations, but its not really scary since 
 its more of a "surprise" then the actual "aaaahhhh" thing.
  
  Your skills are put to the test in Multi-player however I find that in the Multi-player levels 
 you are too close to your enemy and the often claustrophobic levels and small hallways get quite 
 repetitive. The biggest point in this case is that someone can easily sneak up on you and kill 
 you, also since melee moves are available and they seem to be a one hit kill most of the time, 
 these small hallways seem to encourage switching to melee .
  
  Because of the games nice atmosphere and stunning visual effects, not to mention the wonderful 
 gun battles it is a great game to purchase even though its a system hog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewer74
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 18, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  This game was bought as a toss up for me. I was either going to get COD2 or FEAR. I chose FEAR. 
 I still think that it was the right choice as it has brought me around 30-35 hours gameplay so 
 far. Its days are numbered though. The game has a geat action feel, with the weird horror stuff 
 thrown in. The horror theme is kind of lost in parts but offers dome of the most bloody and greusome 
 images founf through the game. The gun-fights, especially towards the back end of the game, are 
 fantastic. Sparks fly, dust particles and iems fly through the air, and the shottie, my god. IT 
 has set a whole new benchmark for the way single-player shooting atmosphere is handeld. The graphics 
 and sounds all add to the enhancment of this feeling of carnage. The bodies fly and stick to walls 
 (Penetrator!) , and this really adds a cool element to your gun-fights. The slow-mo feature is there 
 and in some cases it is relly useful, bhut on the whole I found myself using it only when I really 
 had to. The weapons are great too. The combination of only 3 guns at one time, I think, works well 
 with the overall sense of the game. The story is a bit choppy in bits but overall it holds together, 
 just. The game just diidn't seem to capture me as much as a HL2 or similar games. The game really 
 did seem to come to life a bit more in the back-end of the game, and then it was over. The nultiplayer 
 int his game was what got to me. The franatic pace of it, and randomality of the hits is so anoying. 
 Maybe they should have had a round system, likle CS, to combat this. IT allseems to happening too 
 fast and its just too hard to know what your, or your teamates, are doing. Didnt like this aspect 
 of the game at all, which really puts a question mark over the longevity of the title. Overall, 
 its was a good game with some brilliant ideas spreaded throughout, it needed to be longer and maybe 
 a little bit more intense in places. Multiplayer was a big let down too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  When you get down to it, the gun is the heart and soul of a first-person shooter. Even the genre's 
 name alludes to this fact. Yet while shooters have been around for more than a decade, very few 
 of them have actually captured the visceral experience of firing a gun. It's an intense and violent 
 act, not to mention loud. Enter F. E. A. R., the highly anticipated action game from Vivendi Universal 
 Games and developer Monolith. F. E. A. R. is a shooter that captures the sensation of being in wild 
 and desperate firefights like no other game before it, and it's an incredible, kinetic, almost 
 exhausting experience from start to finish. More than that, though, is the fact that it's also 
 one of the most atmospheric and creepy games ever made, as well as one of the most intense shooters 
 that you'll play this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: god619
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R the game to have in your hands. In this game , you would ike to have a good pc because you 
 want to play it in maximum perfomance ,I tell you this game has the best graphics I have ever seen 
 since Doom3 and the sound WOW its perfect. Synchronized to everything , you can ear the breathing 
 of the enemy to the bullets falling to the ground. this game comes more and more intense, scary, 
 addictive when you go deaper in the story and so the A. I of the enemys. The A. I is great, for example 
 , when an enemy sees you he starts calling for backup and goes searches for cover like pulling 
 a door and stand behind it. It has a lot of weapons of masse destruction (when I say "weapons of 
 mass destructionI mean for the damage that they can do to certain objects like shooting in front 
 of a wall it opens a big hole) . The difficult of this game is hard (playing in hard of course like 
 I did) but you can still stay alive (for some time) and the durabillity is good (i took about a 
 week to finish it) . So I hope with this review I gave some ideas about this game (you have been 
 warned) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 200006
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 23, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is by far the scariest and the most fun game I've played so far. I didn't buy it, but my 
 friend allowed me to borrow it for a couple weeks.
  
  The story is a little too complicated. A military officer named Paxton Fettel goes crazy and commands 
 a whole bunch of clone soldiers that obeys him... telepathically. So it's up to you, the new member 
 of the F. E. A. R team, to stop the madness from these soldiers.
  
  The core of this game is Alma, this bizarre girl who wears red dress and long hair if you want 
 to know how she looks like. She messes with people's minds or kills them instantly. You'll see 
 hallucinations of her throughout the game. Or whatever you think is a hallucination of her. Her 
 intentions are somewhat unknown even after you beat the game, except to kill you, which you'll 
 find out why in the climax of this game, which I just wouldn't spoil for you.
  
  And, in my opinion, there will be a sequel to this game. I think that way after I saw the ending.
 
  
  The graphics in this game are awesome. When you shoot something, it feels like you really are taking 
 action with the current weapon you are holding. And these guns totally make mess around the room. 
 And you'll see lots of blood in this game as well, which makes it more violent. No wonder this 
 game was rated M. The graphics in the game are seriously brutal.
  
  The sound is also great. The music is sometimes creepy, but also serious at most times. And the 
 sounds of guns firing is almost like firing a real gun. Plus the voices of the people talking to 
 you with some sort of radio makes you feel like you really are on a mission. But there are coarse 
 languages in this game as well, and the game never censors them. And you'll hear some creepy sounds, 
 and turn around to see that there isn't anything there.
  
  The game play is okay. You have tons of weapons at your disposal to play with to shoot stuff. But 
 the game has downsides. It's kind of repetitive. You fight the same kinds of enemies over and over 
 again, and the same sort of obstacles from previous levels may make you feel like you've seen them 
 before. So if the game wasn't that much repetitive, I guess it would have been so much better. 
 But oh well. As long as this game is fun, I like it.
  
  The game also has a good AI. These guys really act like human beings. They open doors by themselves, 
 break windows so they can finally shoot you, knock stuff down for cover, or work together to pretty 
 much kill you, which makes the game even more fun.
  
  For those of you who are easily scared, however, please, please don't play this. The game is somewhat 
 scary in some ways. You might really be gasping in horror as you see something scary in the game, 
 or go, "What the...!" when you see something that might surprise you that just flashes in the screen 
 for a few seconds.
  If you're intending to go shopping later or some other day to buy computer games, then buy F. EA. R. 
 It's definitely super good game. But you need the latest computer systems to play and enjoy this 
 game well.
  
  If you want any more info about this game, or other games, then check out my Union Board or Email 
 me.
  
  Union Board: http://www. gamespot. com/pages/unions/forums/show_topics. php? union_id=Greg
  
  Email: 
 gregatkinson99@hotmail. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deveousdevil
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  WOW!!!! This game is so dam scary. That creepy little girl, and the ghosts and everything. But 
 this game is really a masterpiece FPS. The graphics are so incredibly detailed and the color is 
 so clean and crisp its hot. the blood looks like real blood and the weapons are revolutionary. 
 the nail gun, grenade launcher etc. My favorite part is how you could use the slow-mo option to 
 aim better then use the rail gun to shock the skin of your enemies. MY GOD IS IT HOTTTT!!!!!!!!! 
 But this game is so hard, and so scary. But the scary part is what makes the game so fun. Another 
 hot part are th bullet holes in the walls when you shoot them, unlike other games, the bullet holes 
 stay where you left them. Also those scary visions you get are so SCARY, and the music is also 
 really creepy. The AI is another amazing thing. The enemies are so cool, and smart. your enemies 
 will jump over things while shooting you!! And they didnt stand and get blown up by the grenades 
 you throw, they're smart enough to runaway. The story is also really twisted. It's about this sick 
 cannibal and something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spenser0220
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 16, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R., Monolith and Vivendi Universal's new horror-themed shooter, is a magnificent game that 
 all PC gamers should pick up- if your computer can handle it, that is.
  
  F. E. A. R. (First Encounter Assault Recon) draws its name from the team of elite soldiers that the 
 nameless protaganist of the game has recently joined. The F. E. A. R. operatives work solely in the 
 areas of supernatural occurences that the government wishes to keep quiet (think Men in Black, 
 but with ghosts instead of aliens) . In Half-Life fashion, you never hear or see your character, 
 although unlike in Valve's excellent franchise, you do learn the back-history of this anonymous 
 killing machine. Indeed, although it may not be apparent at first, F. E. A. R.'s plot very much revolves 
 around you and the forces that seek to exploit your talents. The game begins with a non-violent 
 mission that has you and another operative exploring an abandoned building in search of Paxton 
 Fettel, the escaped subject of military experimentation into psychic soldiers. Fettel, who was 
 originally intended to telekinetically control soldiers in battle, has now gone berserk, using 
 the REPLICA soldiers to attack and kill his benefactors. This is where you come in. As the story 
 progresses, you also learn of a mysterious little girl influencing Fettal, named Alma, who has 
 the ability to seemingly massacre legions of soldiers in pursuit of her unknown cause.
  
  F. E. A. R.'s style is one of the main high points of the game, combining the Japanese horror, first-persion-shooter, 
 and Max Payne/Matrix slow motion action genres into a new, interesting experience. Alma is an obvious 
 reference to such characters as Samara from 'Ringu' and its American remake, 'The Ring', while 
 many of the non-violent, exploration sections of the game will remind you of the Shalebridge Cradle 
 level from 'Thief: Deadly Shadows.' Unique melee for every weapon is reminiscient of 'Halo', and 
 the squad-based enemy A. I. feels so realistic that it would fit right in to tactical shooters like 
 'Rainbow Six'. The story is told subtley but masterfully, and the end of the game is both shocking 
 and begging for a sequal.
  
  The game's gameplay is unique in videogames. Although there are exceptions, one can basically divide 
 the gameplay into three distinct sections: the nonviolent parts that include either puzzle-solving/exploration 
 or some brief time spent with your allies, the fast-paced, frequent shootouts with REPLICA forces, 
 and, perhaps greatest of all, the supernatural sections. The latter can range from basic shadows-behind-doors 
 sightings to full-blown hallucinations, often incorporating Alma. Speaking of the little girl, 
 she appears quite frequently in the normal course of the game, always just out of reach. One fantastic 
 example is an instance early in the game, where you must climb down a ladder into a tunnel. When 
 you turn around to climb down, Alma appears right in the spot where you just stood, quickly evaporating 
 before you can get off the ladder to get at her. This situation never happens in the game again, 
 but every time you climb a ladder, you'll find yourself trying to get off as quickly as possible. 
 Its things such as this that give the game such a creepy atmosphere.
  
  The shooting sections are some of the best in modern FPS's. Hitting a buttoon (CTRL by default) 
 will shift you into slow-mo, allowing you an edge over your oppenents. The game has a wide assortment 
 of weapons, and you can carry up to three at a time. They're all standard FPS fare, with a few 
 interesting exceptions such a plasma sniper rifle that liquifies enemies.) The enemies have quite 
 possibly the best AI in any shooter to date, and over your intercom, you can pick up their radio 
 chatter. Unlike most shooters, the enemies actually feel like they're working together, yelling 
 out your position and callign for backup. An interesting feeling I got while playing was the idea 
 that you are in the middle, combat-wise: you crush a platoon of soldiers with your mighty skills, 
 but then are quickly put in your place by either Fettel or Alma, the latter of which has an annoying 
 habit of either throwing you out of windows or melting the flesh off the bones of any allies the 
 game may give you (you never acutally fight alongside a friendly) . The game also features some 
 basic exploration and button-pushing puzzles, although the focus is on the action and the supernatural 
 sequences.
  
  Graphics and sound are equally impressive. The game features a visual style reminescient of Half 
 Life 2, although F. E. A. R. puts more into efefcts than HL2's physics system. That's not to say that 
 F. E. A. R. doesn't have physics, as your weapons will knock over barrels and blow chunks out of concrete 
 walls in a satisfying fashion. Characters look fantastic, although some of your allies, like Doom 
 3, have a plasticy appearence. Blood effects are amazing, and a close shotgun blast will literally 
 liquify an enemy. Lighting successfully provides the atmosphere of a horry game. The only problem 
 is that many of the environments seem repetitive, with corporate hallway after hallway leading 
 to slight boredom. Thankfully, the gameplay is fresh enough to keep you going. Voice acting is 
 perfect, and ambient noises, like lighting, set the scene for horrific events. The music, while 
 very good, could have been more prominent- many times are totally devoid of soundtrack, and as 
 all Halo players know, music can gretaly increase the drama of a situation.
  
  The game feautures a well-done multiplayer mode, with CTF, deathmatch, and team deathmatch options 
 available. The gameplay basically imitates the single player, even incorporating the slow-mo. However, 
 like many shooters, Monolith seems to have put so much stock in the single player that the multplayer, 
 while very fun, wont last for long. Also, no mod support is included- too bad, because the mutliplayer 
 phenomenom of games like Half Life is due largely to the ability to change and stay fresh over 
 time.
  
  In conclusion, F. E. A. R. isn't a game that you'll play over and over. It isn't a game that you'll 
 invite your friends over to play. Instead, it's an excellent one-man romp through multiple genres 
 that provides truly innovative gameplay. LIke the silent hero of the game, you don't need anyone 
 but yourself to play F. E. A. R.- play it, love it, wait for the sequal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharkfuker
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2006 3:45 am PT
Review:  Absolutely great game!!!10 out of 10!!! I have played it 10 times and i am still playing it!!! Don't 
 play anything else!!!
  
  The game is great!! The gameplay is superb!! The AI is unique!!! The phisicues engine is super!!! 
 The engine is a bit too heavy thought... The sound is terrific!!!
  It is worth playing the game!!! I have played it 10 times all over and im still playing it... I really 
 liked the way the bad guys scream when you kill them... c00l!!!
  
  If you still have not played it i have only two words for you:
  "Kill them! Kill them all!!"
 
  
  By Shark ****
  -fuckers- crew
  part of the MADAFAKA crew!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfender_raven63
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  I can't say enough... I've been playing PC games since the beginning. This game has it all: superb 
 storyline, amazing graphics and cool weapons like no other game! 
  
  From the opening moments to it's fantastic ending, this game has you drawn in, forgetting about 
 the real world around you. You'll never hear the kids wanting you to play ball, the dog needing 
 to go out and the wife nagging you about the broken toilet that doesn't work. You'll be immersed 
 in the game like no other.
  
  But who cares about them! You are on Paxton Fettel's ass and all his mind-controlled clone armies 
 aren't going to stop you. 
  
  Well worth the money needed to upgrade your current PC or to buy a whole new one. The Director's 
 Edition is worth the extra few bucks, too! Get it... Get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nico4
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 14, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  One of the things that made people looking forward to F. E. A. R. is because, it blends Survival Horror 
 with First Person gameplay. Now its finally out, but is it any good?
  
  The story in F. E. A. R. is one of those that i dont want to spoil for you, what i can however tell 
 you is: your playing as a member of F. E. A. R. (First Encounter Assault Recon) , which deals with 
 paranormal situations. A military commander named Paxton Fettel has gone insane and has taken command 
 of a serect army of clones. Its up to you and the rest of F. E. A. R. to elimnate or capture this 
 threat.
  
  The gameplay is First Person gameplay blended with Survival Horror. This dosent mean that your 
 going to run around sovling puzzles, and finding keys, but the creppy atmosphere is there, and 
 you find some dead bodies and all, which really make this game scary. F. E. A. R. is also borrowing 
 from action movies, like The Matrix and Face/Off, because you can do hand-to-hand combat, and bullet-time 
 (reflexs as its called here) which makes you run faster. All of these things works pretty well, 
 so its very fun to kill these clones and all of the other bastards you encounter. The emenys behaivor 
 are just like humans, they will find cover, and they will try to ambush you and tear down shelves, 
 tables to get cover, and they are hard to defeat.
  
  F. E. A. R. is around 10-12 hours long, then theres multiplayer for up to 16 players, which is both 
 fun and fast paced, you can play in the standard modes as deathmatch, but you can also play a F. E. A. R. 
 version of, for example: Team Deathmatch, where one item gives one of the teams the advantages 
 of Bullet-time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 14, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  fear is an amazing game with a stunning visuals, the enviroments, weapons models and everything 
 it's something we've never seen before but just the weapons models cause we've seen some of the 
 awesome envioroments that fear has in other games i think. the sound is awesome when characters 
 speaking, when you fire a weapon, soldiers screaming and all kinds of stuff. the sound is amazing. 
 and you have a lot of weapons available in this game like the sub-machinegun and the assault rifle 
 and the nailgun and your dual-pistols and you combat shotgun and so on. and you not only running 
 around and shoot soldiers, you also has some creepy moments as well. after you're done with the 
 singleplayer then multiplayer is a blast, it's extremely fast-paced as well. you get lots of kills 
 but you also die a lot as well. fear is an increible game that you won't soon forget!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamidg
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  First-person shooter specialist Monolith has a habit of popping up out of nowhere with esoteric 
 and often outstanding shooters... before disappearing for years at a time. So is the case with 
 its new release, F. E. A. R. Breaking new ground in presentation and AI, it's a sometimes-terrifying, 
 always-gripping tour de force that easily ranks among the best single-player shooters of the year. 
 
  
  F. E. A. R.'s plot isn't the deepest, but it manages to keep the standard-fare first-person shooter 
 action in context and be reasonably coherent. As coherent as a tale of psychic (and psycho) little 
 girls and armies of clone soldiers can be, anyway. As now seems to be fashionable, it's mostly 
 told through voicemails and computer files left by the previous occupants of the levels. 
  
  But is it really scary? The whole spooky little girl thing is getting a bit tired, but it would 
 be a strong spine indeed that F. E. A. R. can't chill now and again. Far from being constant action, 
 you're often walking eerily darkened corridors hunting for... something, and minutes often pass 
 without seeing an enemy. With careful sound effects and a flashlight battery that never quite seems 
 to last long enough, your nerves will be as taut as piano wires in no time. 
  
  Run into a gunfight, and that tension explodes into life. F. E. A. R.'s gunfights are alive in a way 
 no other game has matched. Stray shots blast chunks of masonry loose from the walls or floors. 
 Smoke quickly fills the air. Sparks fly as your shots ricochet off armor plates. One weapon even 
 pins enemy soldiers to the wall with wrist-thick metal rods. F. E. A. R. also deserves kudos for not 
 only including a range of melee attacks, but also for making them useful. 
  
  Most times, using stealth is either a primary function of the game or it doesn't work at all. F. E. A. R. 
 lets you play both ways. Sometimes you're the spider, picking off unbeknownst soldiers; and sometimes 
 you're the fly on the other end of the punishment. The enemies are good at spotting you, but not 
 unfairly so. Be careless with your flashlight, or linger in well-lit areas, and they'll pick you 
 out no matter how far away you might be. 
  
  Once they find you, they pounce with ruthless efficiency. F. E. A. R.'s smart and convincing AI breaks 
 new ground for FPSs. It's not unusual to see them performing flanking moves, covering each other 
 as they advance, using grenades with devastating accuracy, and generally behaving like a coherent 
 and dynamic force. They're stiff opposition on the higher difficulty levels, where you can be blown 
 to pieces very quickly if caught out in the open. 
  
  Assuming you haven't been living under a rock for the four years since Max Payne, you'll be all 
 too familiar with the "bullet time" gimmick by now. But in F. E. A. R., it somehow seems fresh again 
 -- maybe it's the way it recharges quick enough to be on tap for nearly every fight. Maybe it's 
 the gorgeous bullet-trail effects. Maybe it's the way the slow-motion really lets you see the breathtaking 
 amount of work that's gone into making F. E. A. R.'s gunfights look as convincing as possible. 
  
  Another particularly strong point (and it's as much a nod to the AI as to the graphics) is 
 the range of moves the enemy soldiers can perform. You'll see them vault barriers, kick down furniture 
 to use as cover, and peer round corners to search for you. Catch them in a shotgun blast, and they'll 
 crumple into the wall in a superbly satisfying way. 
  
  We're only docking its visuals rating because the game is quite a system hog -- similarly pretty 
 games run smoother on the same hardware. You shouldn't have serious problems if you're on a new 
 system, but you might have to turn down the graphical bells and whistles a notch lower than usual. 
 
  
  No such gripe applies to the audio. It's outstanding. Much of F. E. A. R.'s gripping effectiveness 
 is down to seriously good sound design, whether it's ambient noise in the hallucinations, the well-acted 
 voice-overs or the just-right weapon sounds. When you're in the slow-time mode, the sound slows 
 down with you, and there's something incredibly satisfying about hearing the pitch go back to normal 
 as you flip it off, leaving nothing but the tinkle of brass as your spent shell casings fall to 
 the ground. Gunplay doesn't get much better than this. 
  
  Multiplayer features the standard range of deathmatch and capture the flag modes we've come to 
 expect from FPSs, but there's one twist: The slow-time feature is available in some modes. Before 
 your brain melts at the thought of how you could possibly implement such a feature in a simultaneous 
 multiplayer game, Monolith has a solution: 
  
  Time slows down for everyone, but your enemies' movements are slowed down far more than yours. 
 You need to hold a special power-up for some time to charge the ability, and this marks you as 
 a target to everyone else, so it comes at a considerable price. This aside, it's standard stuff, 
 although the fast pace and powerful melee attacks should make it appeal to the adrenaline junkies 
 among us. 
  
  Nothing's perfect, and F. E. A. R. does have a few niggling issues, mostly boiling down to lack of 
 variety. The levels blur together quickly, without much to distinguish them in either objectives 
 or surroundings. A few more enemy types wouldn't have gone amiss, either -- and at around 10 hours, 
 it's not spectacularly lengthy. 
  
  Nevertheless, F. E. A. R. is the game that Doom 3 should have been. While it can't touch the haunting 
 potency of survival-horror classics like Silent Hill or Resident Evil (thanks to the scare-dispelling 
 power of a semi-automatic shotgun and a belt-full of grenades) , it makes up with more adrenaline-pumping 
 moments of sheer destructive glee than anything else on the market. Whether you're a serious first-person 
 shooter aficionado or you just like to tear stuff up on the weekends, it's unmissable. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yozee306
Rating: 2.4
Date: Apr 12, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  it's just to bad i was just like everyone else i was so hyped about this game i even bought a new 
 videocard so this would play perfect with no lag or anything. don't get me rong the graphics are 
 amazing probaly the best graphics for game in the last to years but that's and the effects is about 
 the only thing that is amazing. don't agree with me on this one buti felt like it was just not 
 right like the first shot i fired in f. e. a. r at the heli mission was one of the coolest moments 
 i had ever experienced in a game but like black that where's off reallll soon after a 3-9 hour 
 curve you'll fell like you really aren't doing anything just shooting for no reason and the story 
 is just a ripoff of you know the ring maybe? and the multiplayer is just boring only a few maps 
 so i won't even get into that well all in all if this game is 20$ i guess you should pick it up 
 cause of its graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevo_the_gamer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 14, 2006 12:17 am PT
Review:  FEAR  is a very well put together game and is very fun to play.
 
  
  First off, the gameplay rocks. The single player centers around an elite soldier trained to deal 
 with situations others can not even imagine. You are the hero in the spine-tingling epic of terror 
 and tension/action. You fight against over a 1000 super soldier clones led by a creepy supernatual 
 man.
  
  There wasn't really a wide variety of enemies though, from just soldiers with the assualt rifles 
 to the ATC to machine robots and the other type of soldier along with the demons. So really, only 
 about five types of enemies isn't really that great; however, the way each mission is put together 
 is slick and clean.
  
  You need a great PC to see this game in best action. That is the only problem with this game to 
 me is that it is a system hog. Therefore, if you have a great PC, this game looks astonishing and 
 very sweet. From the blood splatters to the bullet fragments and the dust from the walls. Everything 
 looks sweet.
  
  The sound is very good, probably some of the best voice acting I've seen, other than Halo 2. The 
 music is creepy and the voices are creepy. The sound of all the weapons and the sound from the 
 environments are superb.
  
  The Multiplayer adds to the replay value and keeps you playing for a little longer but it isn't 
 as fun as you would think. I personally, enjoy it but I would rather play the single player again.
 
  
  This game is a great game and if you like creepy first person shooters on the PC and you have High-end 
 PC, you need this game to be added to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmalyan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 12, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I liked this game. The game ran smooth, looked very pretty, and had good sound. 
 The AI for the enemy was excellent. Weapons were interesting and each felt they had purpose. Only 
 being able to carry three weapons at a time made the game a lot more challenging than being able 
 to carry everything around. 
  
  The levels started to feel a little repetitive and it was all set in one building or another - 
 a little drab. However my main gripe is with the ending. Not to give away any spoilers but there 
 is no end boss. It feels like there will be some big climactic showdown but it never eventuates. 
 I hoarded the ammo for one of the best guns, only firing of one shot to keep for the supposed end 
 boss, but none eventuated and my hoarding was for naught. I felt a little cheated at the end, not 
 being able to savour my victory as I had finished the 'game' but not a final enemy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fl4rty
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 11, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  so heres a fps game that has been built with one thing in mind. to kick major arse (sorry im british) . 
 the a. i makes for some amazing gun battles and some of the visuals are breathtaking, i could sit 
 here and talk about them all night but i think you should invest in a high spec graphics and this 
 game to find out for yourself. the story is pretty good to, with a few moments of creepyness even 
 though the story doesnt really get to intresting till the later levels but the final climax is 
 absoulutely (insert foul word here) awesome. now here are the only quarrels i have with this game.
 
  boring surrondings and not enough variety in enemies. but hey thats it and who care with the brilliant 
 A. I and the slow mo button, this is like playing the matrix lobby scene for hours on end and thats 
 why its pretty F$king fantatstic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skebo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  FEAR contains some of the best action in the FPS genre with a spooky element that requires you 
 to leave the lights on and play only when you're not home alone. 
  
  The graphics and physics of the game are just amazing. The lighting effects are superb and create 
 an atmosphere that is unrivaled in the genre. The single player story line is compelling and complete, 
 while not being too cheesy. The AI is fantastic. The baddies will attempt to circle behind you 
 if possible and try to catch you in a crossfire. I've even seen baddies flip over tables to gain 
 extra cover. That's a nice touch that you don't see in other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jporter313
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 11, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Amazing in every way. Great combat, extremely immersive, incredible art direction, engaging story, 
 awesome effects, genuinely creepy atmosphere. Blows everything else out of the water!
  
  Only thing I could criticize is that the environments get a little repetitive, it feels like the 
 designers were pressured to make the game long, and they put a lot of needless twists and turns 
 into the levels so gamers wouldn't complain about the game being too short. But it's a minor gripe.
 
  
  
  
  (Why do they make reviews a minimum of 100 words? Oh yeah, I work at Gamespot, I'm going to go 
 yell at someone for it, but for now I think I'll use this nonsense to fill the space.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skinny_man_69
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 11, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is one of those games that just make you stare at the screen after blowing the legs off 
 of a clone, rocketing a clone into the air, and peeling the skin off of a clone. O. K. so there 
 is a TON of recycled baddie models but its fine when parried with amazing gameplay, awe-inspiring 
 graphics, intense gore and language, and ear-shattering sound. This game can and will scare the 
 living crap out of you. (Especially when you have the vloume on full and turn off all the lights.) 
 The story is a little on the well... no story side but that doesn't matter when your destroying 
 your enemies with the tons of weapons and grenades you will be getting through the game. Now there 
 are your basic pistol, shotgun, and submachine gun. But even those gun give so much of a punch 
 that you'll find yourself using those guns near the end of the game. Every gun has its strengths 
 and weaknesses. Pistol is deadly accurate but shots kind of slow and isn't that powerful. A shotgun 
 is limb-shattering powerful but has poor aim and slow firing. So it all depends on the situation 
 your in to use what gun. Latter on you will be using futuristic guns like the goretastic (that's 
 right I said goretastic) Particle Gun, and the funniest weapon EVER the Nail Gun. This game is, 
 as i said, scary as hell. You'll find yourself hunting down Paxton Fettel who has a weird fettish 
 for eating people. As well as a cannibal a little girl that can rip the flesh off of people. There 
 is practically only three baddie models in the game. Clone, Security Guard, and an armored guy 
 that is EXTREMELY HARD to kill. Rinse and repeat and that sums up F. E. A. R. On top of all that there 
 is an insane multiplayer with all the weapons and gore from the single player. This is a wicked 
 game that has intense visceral action, you can interact with EVERYTHING, bullets ricochet off of 
 walls, walls deteriorate, people fall apart, glass shatters, this is just an amazing and innovative 
 game.
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 10
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maj_Kelso
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 10, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredible. From the beginning, you get hooked on the creepy atmosphere and the incredibly 
 intense action. The seamless blend of martial arts action into the game was one thing that made 
 it stand out against other games, because I've never seen that in one before. The AI is outstanding, 
 and the graphics are freakishly good. Its an intense shooter with an intriguing storyline and downright 
 spine-chilling horror the first time you play it. The multiplayer was pretty fast paced and I found 
 that it was chaotic at times, but I didn't play it that much. Most of my time was playing the single 
 player over and over again, understanding the story a little more each time. Also, battling the 
 never-the-same AI each time, laughing at some of the hilarious stuff I could pull off, like running 
 into a room in slow-mo and jumpkicking an unsuspecting guard, then shotgunning his pals in slow 
 mo. The sound in the game is top-notch and the AI's send profane insults at you. It was a totally 
 immersive experience. A definite recommend for any First Person Shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nascarfan123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 10, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  If you combined the crazy action from Half-Life 2 and the creepy horror from Doom 3 the resulting 
 game will be F. E. A. R. F. E. A. R.'s storyline deals with paranormal intelligence. The main storyline 
 is about a girl who controls an army of cloned soldiers through her mind. Also that you are the 
 first prototype of a "super soldier."
  
  The action, gore, and the creepyness of F. E. A. R. starts right off and doesn't stop until the end. 
 There's a variety of weapons you can choose from and for the most part are well balanced. You'll 
 start off in the game with just a pistol and a SMG. But later you'll be fighing with shotguns, 
 assault rifles, and rocket launchers. If none of these weapons work for you, then just simply melee 
 attack them. You can do a few cool martial arts techniques or just plain punch them. The coolest 
 feature in this game is your "reaction time." That is when you create this bullet-time zone for 
 yourself and the enemies that gives you an upper hand on them. Its sort of like being able to slow 
 down time in a temporary basis. The AI in this game is some of the best. They change their tactics 
 based on their surroundings, how many of them there are, and also how you handle the battle situations. 
 If you always rush them they will take cover and flank you. Or if you camp at a certain location 
 and try to wait for them they may try to flush you out with a grenade or just rushing you. The 
 bad thing is that you are mostly fighting the same people over and over. Every once in a while 
 you will have to fight other foes but for the most part its just you versus the soldiers. So despite 
 how smart they are, you are able to learn how to overpower them and kill them easily. Also you 
 are mostly fighting in the same environment, enspecially through the mid portion of the game. It 
 seems like you are in an endless maze of walls and hallways. Both of these elements combined make 
 the game feel a little repetitive.
  
  Now does this mean F. E. A. R. is a bad game? Of course not, F. E. A. R. has some of the best visuals 
 and sound that you can find in any game. Its really fun to throw a grenade then hit the reaction 
 time button and watch the explosion (and your enemies fly) in slow motion. The neatest part about 
 this game is just being able to watch your surroundings get blown apart during battles. You can 
 blow chunks out of walls and destroy things sitting around in the room. Also if you need some cover 
 quickly, shoot out the wall next to you and create your own smokescreen. You'll watch dust fly 
 as you continue to destroy things in your battles.
  
  The campaign in F. E. A. R. takes about 10-15 hours. When you are done with it its time to jump into 
 the multiplayer. F. E. A. R.'s multiplayer is a lot of crazy fun-paced action and fun. So expect to 
 get a lot of kills and to die a lot as well. All of the great featurs in the campaign are in the 
 multiplayer as well. There's only a few gamestyles with a variety of maps but the result is the 
 same.
  
  F. E. A. R. is one of the best games you can play. It is recommended to just about anyone who likes 
 FPS or just creepy horror. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RustyBolt
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 9, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is first encounter assault recon. F. E. A. R, unlike other first person shooters, combines 
 3rd person gameplay with the classic 1st person.
  
  Gameplay & Story & Atmosphere: 
  
  As far as the story goes (I don't want to spoil anything) , all you need to know from this review 
 is: KILL PAXTON FETTEL. 
  At it's heart, F. E. A. R is essentially a kung fu shoot 'em up. You go into a room, and you blast 
 everything to smitherines. It's a one-person army.
  You can slow down time and watch all the violent glory in high detail. You'll see bullets flying 
 all around you, and little sparks of kinetic energy.
  The game mainly takes place indoors, industrial officies. There's much glass to break, and many 
 computers to destroy. The environments are recyled a lot, and that's one of my only complaints. 
 The repetive nature of the game could've been mitigated, had they made some more interesting locales. 
 
  
  Graphics & Sound: 
  
  The highlight of the game, obviously. This is by far, the best looking game I have ever played. 
 From now, this game has the best lighting engine ever seen in a video game. Which means, realistic 
 shadows, and tons of them. When you punch a lamp, the light beam moves. The shadows are realistic 
 and bump mapping is everywhere. Objects are reflective, and texture quality is good as ever. You'll 
 need a decent computer to experience this. If you exceed the recommended requirements, this game 
 works like a dream. Now if you wish to play this game at 1600 resolution, you'll need a supercomputer. 
 We'll see how Far Cry 2 and Oblivion stack up to this game.
  As far as the sound goes, all the guns in the game sound crisp and realistic. Voice acting is execellent. 
 The guards tent do cuss a lot for some reason. The music changes depeding on the tone of your game. 
 Sometimes, you will treated to an orchestralral extravaganza. 
  
  Overall, this is one hell of a ride.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trakan
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 7, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  I like the dead child particularly.
  F. E. A. R. Well. I must admit I haven't played it that much, and the parts I did play I got stuck 
 on fairly quickly, but this is a very fun game, with a good solid gameplay system and lots of creepy 
 action. I especially enjoy the slow-mo matrix moments that your character can snap into. 
  This game is also very scaarrryyy......
  In the beginning you're running through a house with 
 a gun and you see someone walk by, but you can't see his face and he disappears. There's a lot 
 of stuff like that, where you walk into a room and see something just for a second, and then it 
 disappears. 
  There is some bad language, though.
  I recommend this game to all those who are sixteen or over. Alright, fourteen and over. Better 
 buy some clean underwear, you'll need it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belimedvedxd
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 7, 2006 1:07 am PT
Review:  Wow, that is only I can say, I played the demo over and over again until i Bought the whole version. 
 It is grate game, first person shooting and horror parts and psychological parts, all is grate. 
 Story is grate and I advise everybody who like playing that kind of games to play. I loved it from 
 the moment I started playing it. I think Monolith done a grate job and that they should made more 
 of the same games. Just one thing it is not recomanded for under 18 persons. If somebody has another 
 opinion ne could write me so I woul consider his opinion to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfik41
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2006 12:06 am PT
Review:  A great shooter with amazing graphics that gives tons of pure fun. When I first played it I was 
 amazed, it's a new generation game with one of the best AI ever. FEAR is a bloody combination of 
 a tactic shooter and a Japanese horror (the girl reminds me of that one from the Ring movie) . The 
 game play is stunning and it's highly addictive so U might have problems with giving it up even 
 after couple of hours. Monolith's product is new and different from what we saw in the last few 
 months, it's a game that brings new possibilities and brake some barriers created by the game producers. 
 Of course FEAR is a very demanding game as far as hardware is concerned, if U want to enjoy the 
 game in full details, keep in mind, graphic cards such as Radeon 9550 or GeForce 5200 won't do 
 the job. Going back to the game, I think it was worth the waiting time and guys from the Monoloth 
 Studio did a great job. If you like Japanese horrors and fast dynamic shooters U will love this 
 game. It's perfect for me and remeber : "She's watching You....
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbsbyte
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 21, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  I am a little disappointed with this game. With all the fanfare and hype, one would come to believe 
 this is the best game ever created. However, it is not. I will tell you why. 
  
  The positives: 
  It has excellent graphics, and the sound is amazing. When you brush by a shelf, 
 you can hear the containers or paper work rattle or rustle. You can even judge how far away an 
 opponent is by his footsteps or voice. Plus the musical score is created by a Czech orchestra, 
 which adds a lot to the tension in many intense battle scenes or when needed it adds some comic 
 relief. I expecially like the corny Muzak from the Blues Brothers movie in the elevator during 
 a certain fight sequence.
  
  One is amazed with the textures on the tile floors, painted wallsand even drywall panels looks 
 very real. Then the ablity of bullets, and grandes to destory all this beauty. I do not have my 
 graphics maxed out. During fight sequences the air will be filled with dust, granade smoke, shredded 
 paper and blood vapor. 
  
  The computer AI is very good though not any where near human. The Bad guys have some new tricks 
 they learned, compared to other games, such as the ablity to knock over tables, boxes, shelves 
 to use as cover, and jump through windows to either flee or attack you. They will give one hell 
 of a fight, as they unload on you and since many scenes have mulitable BGs you will really need 
 to use your slow motion wisely. And if fired upon most times they will seek cover. However, the 
 friendly forces are there to just move the story along and most die trying. Though I rarely use 
 the special attacks, after the first part of the game I like the ability to bicycle kick and/or 
 melee attack opponents when needed. Many FPS games leave this ability out. The game's story though 
 slow in developing throughout most of the game, does pickup the pace towards the end. Most of the 
 plot does tie together pretty well at the end level. 
  
  The negatives:
  Many of these are just nit picks but some should be addressed in the sequels. If there are any. 
 First as most already know the game is a system hog, and to enjoy the game one does not need a 
 top end system but at least a excellent graphics and sound card. One of the biggest faults I find 
 in the game is the story. It is just not scary or well thought out. Even in a darken room with 
 the sound up. Yes, I am startled many times with a flash of Alama, Fettle or a bloody body. However, 
 in the end this does not make it frightening. At best I would call it creepy, with the music score. 
 
  
  The main characters, besides Fettle are very one dimensional with little to no background information. 
 The story also moves along very slowly, with just bits and pieces strung along, and many times, 
 you hit a section of the game where no new evidence is brought forward. I never found the story 
 or characters engaging. It all seemed to be an after thought to the gamplay. 
  
  In addition, the action always is taking place inside, in darkly lit corridors of an office building 
 or warehouse. Rarely are you ever outside. I understand why they are doing this to make you feel 
 Closter phobic. Which seem such a waste since they could of created some very nice outdoor locations. 
 However, like fighting the same soldiers repeatedly it just makes the game repetitive. Most of 
 the soliders, beside the specialist, are not hard to kill if you correctly use your slow motion 
 with headshots. You can lay waste to entire squad in no time with headshots and a swift kick to 
 the head. Though the last two levels are more diffucult. It does not make up for the rest of the 
 game. Also the game play is short. I believe a good gamer on the hard difficuilty should be able 
 to beat the game within 10 hrs. 
  
  In the end, the game is fun to play due to the excellent gameplay, and graphics. The story is contived 
 and seem to be an after thought to the game creators. The maps are well done, but very repetive 
 and become very disorinting. The dialogue is just corny, and I could really care less about the 
 story. You will enjoy it as long as you do not pay attention to how you are fighting the same soldiers, 
 in the same dark room for hours. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: terminus
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 5, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  This fps packs one hell of a ride, I finished the game in two 7 hour sittings, that's saying alot 
 since there are many games that will never get my attention like this one did. It's right there 
 with far-cry , riddick, and halflife 2. I'm not much of a story person, but the story was interesting, 
 and kept my attention through out the game. This IS your typical fps shooter, but were it excels 
 is in it's presentation, and fluid play. This game is a system hog, and I recommend the game to 
 be played with 2gb's of memory, and atleast an x800 series and up graphics card. I played with 
 only 1gb ram, and only experienced minor hic-ups along the way. Settings were maxed.
  
  pros
  
  great graphics, excellent sound and music, intense action and ok story.
  
  cons
 
  
  very easy.... very straight forward, if that's a con. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HamanZz
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 7, 2006 3:48 am PT
Review:  As I mentioned in the impressions piece, I was worried about FEAR, because Monolith and gang had 
 been so tight-lipped and mysterious, which I've learned isn't always a good thing. I expect certain 
 other developers and publishers to be reticent, but Monolith is usually happy to talk about their 
 latest project. After playing the game, I understand the air of mystery, because there's plenty 
 of surprises to be had -- and questions they can't answer because the game leaves a few loose ends, 
 mostly intentionally. I look forward to a sequel with derelict sea vessels and voice mail passwords. 
 I don't need new, flashy weapons or new, flashy bad guys. That would be neat, but would be better 
 would be to further explore this story that Monolith has done such a great job of setting up. I 
 feel like I've been waiting since Half-Life 2 for a really good, story-based shooter, and that's 
 a lot of competitors in between there and here, for a guy in my line of work. FEAR has that immediacy, 
 and that ambition to suck the player in with vivid immediacy and top-of-the heap production values. 
 
  
  And furthermore, in this age of sequelitis and franchise pimpery, it's great to see someone take 
 the leap with an all-new property, and not in the form of a rip-off of something already established. 
 Monolith forges new shooter territory with some truly freaky elements, challenge, fun, and beauty. 
 If there is a fly in the ointment, it's that the environments aren't too varied, and the game is 
 kinda short. And there are a few plot holes (where did this army come from?) and logic holes (how 
 can I access all of this voice mail?) . Otherwise, I was sucked in to the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Royas
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 5, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Nowadays, it's hard to stand out in the crowd of FPS games that seem to breed in the market like 
 rabbits. More and more, developers are turning to new gimmicks to try to get their games to be 
 noticed, often with very mixed results. The crowded conditions in the field has led to a greater 
 emphasis on interesting storylines and mood setting graphics. FEAR succeeds on most counts, showing 
 that good quality FPS games can still be made today.
  
  The basic plotline of FEAR is one that doesn't sound too unfamiliar to FPS veterans: First Encounter 
 Assualt Recon is an elite force of soldiers dedicated to dealing with paranormal and unnatural 
 threats. You are the newest recruit, in your first week of service. FEAR is called in when a disaster 
 strikes at an odd military project, namely a project involving a telepathic commander and about 
 1,000 cloned supersoldiers. The commander has gone rogue, and the controlled soldiers have turned 
 on their masters. You are tapped as point man, given your amazing, off the chart reflexes. Your 
 mission is to take down the commander, thereby shutting down the soldiers. Along the way, you begin 
 to encounter strange events, odd memories, hallucinations... and the sudden deaths of nearly everyone 
 who dares to accompany you. These events begin to weave a strange tale that would be best left 
 untold.
  
  FEAR plays much like many other FPS games today. You have the usual assortment of weapons (you 
 can carry three at a time) , grenades and body armor. First aid kits scattered around the levels 
 allow you to regain health. A twist to the gameplay is FEAR's version of bullet time, here justified 
 by saying that your character has nearly superhuman reflexes. This really isn't unusual, bullet 
 time is becoming a popular feature in many games since Max Payne. Many objects in the game react 
 with good physics, and bullets and grenades kick up a lot of dust and smoke that obscures vision 
 until it settles.
  
  The actual graphics are well done and realistic looking. You get to travel through multiple different 
 environments, from an abandoned, run-down tenement building to the executive offices of a modern 
 corporation. Each area has very different architecture and textures, and look very good. There 
 is an excellent use of lighting and shadows to manipulate the creepy mood, and you will be forced 
 to use your flashlight more than once. The sounds in the game are high quality. The guns sound 
 real, and the voice acting is well above average for a game. The enemy chatters to one another, 
 and you can often get clues to their status by listening to their commands (when one of them yells 
 "Fire in the hole", best to move away from the grenade coming your way) .
  
  The enemy AI is a fair treat. These guys are pretty smart, and will not just charge blindly into 
 your guns. They will take cover, try to flank you, and use grenades to flush you out. They react 
 to what they see and hear. If you are using your flashlight, they will see it. Run too quickly, 
 they will hear you. The key to this game is careful movement and thorough observation, because 
 the enemy will sometimes try to ambush you. Tactical thinking, good use of "bullet time" and smart 
 grenade use are all critical to defeating the skilled AI opponents you will be facing.
  
  There are one or two minor bugs you may encounter. I did get one savegame corrupted for some unknown 
 reason, and there was an occasional problem getting the game to acknowledge one of my keybindings. 
 The graphics on high settings can be a strain for many computers. I run an NVIDA 7800GT SLI setup 
 with 2Gb of RAM, and there were points where I got some hesitation and slower framerates. These 
 were uncommon, and really only occured at two places in the game with all of the options turned 
 to the highest level.
  
  Playing FEAR was an overall positive experience. No show stopping bugs, great graphics and sound, 
 good level design and good opponents, there really isn't anything to hate here. Like most of the 
 FPS games around, it doesn't really innovate or revolutionize the genre, but it is one of the better 
 examples of the field, and well worth the time to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jd1680a
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 5, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  this truely is the best FPS on the market right now. the combat is very good. you will often fight 
 against a 3-4 squad that will use intelligence to find the best way to kill you. i think this is 
 the best FPS i have played since goldeneye (n64) . there is alot of fun with it and the replayability 
 with multiplayer and with it having four difficulty settings for the single player part will do 
 you fine.
  
  if you like horror movies, this is also a great for a few who is looking for a good scare. there 
 is few good moments that will give you a good spook. the story line is very nicely written. almost 
 the whole game is under low light conditions and the music helps make the game feel really spooky
 
  
  the graphics is great too. the physics of the game makes you feel like you were there. letting 
 a grenade explode, you will see paper fly, glass break, cabinet doors blow off its hinges, and 
 dead bodies move that might be around would move from the explosion.
  
  only problem is this game does require a pretty high end computer to run the graphics really high. 
 you will need a system that is better then what the recommanded specs that is stated on the box. 
 setting it on medium graphics makes that game look just fine.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellraisinkilla
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 5, 2006 3:10 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a great game to begin playing. the graphics hav a unique quality 2 them though not groundbreakin 
 as in the case of HL2, plot pushes u to explore the dark corners 2 figure out y u r playin the 
 game (i mean to 'make sense ') . the bad guys do not rush towards u like chargin bulls, but wait'n 
 watch an move intelligently forcin u 2 use ur head. despite all the features the game is finally 
 too dark and sober, u'll feel totally depressed if u finish it in 1 go. there will b long hours 
 of runnin in and out of dark alleys and underground buildings bfore u see any action. definitely 
 not a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackCanopus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 4, 2006 10:17 pm PT
Review:  FPS games have been around for too long. They are the oldest type of 3D games; nearly every developer 
 is capable of creating a first person shooter and there are an outraging number of FPS developers 
 out there, which only a few of them have mastered the art of making FPS games. In an industry which 
 competition is so tight, making a top product is a lot harder. FEAR uses the same basics, and gives 
 the same sensation as you start playing. You may feel that those environments are a little too 
 realistic, but you havent seen anything.
  Opening cut-scene of FEAR is a deep, chilly experience which retains its sense for a long time. 
 It is just odd to see how cinematic this game is. The story in FEAR starts overwhelming, but the 
 pace drops as soon as you complete the first level and retains it for the rest of the game. Good 
 use of elements like telephone messages, help in shaping to overall atmosphere of the game.
  FEAR postpones high polygon counts and focuses on high-detail textures, advanced lighting and full-screen 
 effects. Character models have fewer polygons. Facial motions and lip-sync is not done as well 
 and you get to talk with dolls instead of realistic characters. This is not a big deal however, 
 because most of the characters you meet (your most beloved enemies and those poor military guys) 
 have helmets. Environments, in the other hand, are amazing. Texture work in FEAR is masterfully 
 done and combined with advanced lighting system of the game; creates some of the most realistic 
 environments ever seen on any computer game.
  When you progress further into the game, you start to realize the sensation is getting a little 
 different. FEAR, as is obvious, is a scary game; but it does not scare you by screaming monsters 
 or shredded cadavers. FEAR is like a whisper in the ear that gets louder. But it is not the whisper 
 that is frightening; it is the silence between those whispers. Monolith has noticed that people 
 are mostly frightened by their own nightmares, and thus, has left the scary parts of the game to 
 the players imagination. In many places, a simple ghost-house event happens, and combined with 
 the masterfully designed environments; creates an enigmatic, frightening atmosphere. In one of 
 the parts of the game, I saw a cactus in darkness. Resemblance of the cactus with a little girl 
 was so terrible I stayed there for a long time, waiting for the girl to move.
  As soon as you engage the first firefight however, you forget everything else. It is here that 
 you notice the difference between FEAR and other traditional shooters. Here, you are fighting for 
 your life, and you do that most of the time. Shootouts are violent, intense and life-like. Guns 
 are loud and incontrollable, grenades shake the earth to its very core (especially inside buildings) 
 and enemies are cunning and relentless. In FEAR, battles are not won by bigger guns or more ammo, 
 but good use of environment and clever maneuvers. Leaning around corners, hiding behind walls and 
 crouching below objects is just necessary and your enemies know that as well. Since enemies are 
 the same most of the time, battles are difficult to win and the shootouts get repetitive and boring 
 sometimes. Structure design changes constantly and while looking similar, require completely different 
 battle strategies. The game has a slow-down feature (similar to Max Paynes Bullet-Time) which 
 greatly helps you in difficult battles. This feature is limited however, and recharges by time.
 
  This game utilizes one of the most advanced AI systems on computer games. The enemies communicate 
 with each other just to organize their excellent teamwork, turn around and attack you from behind 
 and use the environment to create obstacles and hide behind them. It is just scary to see those 
 intelligent characters move around and attack. The AI is not perfect however. It gets goofy in 
 rare occasions, for example when an enemy spots you and moans just my imagination.
  FEAR is a totally impressive but exhausting experience. The combination of difficult and long battles, 
 countless emotional shocks and extreme realism leaves the player depleted and tired. It is just 
 too strange that in the end, the player is still asking for more.
  
  Just like life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2243bearwallow
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best shooters of the Year! Never thought I would say this but this is 
 way more entertaining than Half-life 2! Although short it kept me on the edge for some time. Its 
 graphics where astounding and its Multiplayer had me coming back for more! Though it was very short, 
 i played the Campaign over and over again. This is a must have for those of you that have a newer 
 video card, otherwise, stick to Hl2 (not that thats a bad thing ; ) , also if you have a 3d sound 
 card then this is a definite for you (Otherwise sound mite be a bit choppy at times and guns will 
 seem to muffled) over all I'd say if your looking for a Graphical Senses drencher and still have 
 something like a geforce 3, then its not for you, but if you have a newer video card, then its 
 perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_rocks29
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 22, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is by far one of the best FPS's out there, setting a new style of gameplay. Every minute 
 of F. E. A. R. is spectacular, from the shoot outs to the spooky encounters.
  
  F. E. A. R. is like 'The Matrix' and 'The Ring' put shoved into a game. The style of shooting is amazing, 
 you are able to go into slow-motion and shoot your enemies, you can see every single detail from 
 the bullet trails to every spurt of blood. 
  
  The game isn't just about shooting, it's also very creepy. I got the most jumps out of this game 
 out of any other horror games I have played. The game is spooky because when you are just say walking 
 through a corridor, at the end of the corridor, someone will suddenly walk pust and the game will 
 make a loud, frightning noise to scare the crap out of you.
  
  F. E. A. R. would have to be one of the best shooting games I have ever played, but to get the most 
 out of it, you need a very high-end PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeeeeee9
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  game like fear when you see the cover make you feel strange and make you search in web to find 
 what this game, the cover with girl they steel it from film (THE RING) and some fighters from counter-strick 
 you will confues what the hell these game come from???? 
  when you played the first problem you will find the performance WHAT!!!!
  don't think that card 
 you have from nvidia or ATI that help you you can't play the game with hight perfomance WHY??
 
  you know i have card from nvdia 7500 (PCI Express) with 3.0 giga CPU the game cannot work with 
 high per. , because the company have abig mistakes and make the game counting in cpu not on graphic 
 card like other new games.....
  if you buy acomputer from bell gates then play it otherwise **** yourself yep
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: devildweller98
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 1, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Holy sh*t what cant i say. This game is amazing. The graphics brings sweet tears to my eyes. Bloody 
 beautifull. The gameplay and character animation is fantastic. Brilliant slow-mo action. Amazon 
 background effects. From bullet ring in slow-mo to bits of paper falling on to the ground. But 
 for me its not just the graphics and the gameplay i look for in a game. Its the story. And the 
 story in F. E. A. R is good. Much like the ring. Im not a big fan of the ring. But the story in F. E. A. R, 
 i liked. And now the terror. The terror in F. E. A. R is amazin. Playing it in the dark with the sound 
 right up give and a nice worm fellin. Doors slam in your face. Seeing weird things really f**** 
 up your mind. Plus i have to say at the end where the city was getting blown up was so cool and 
 amazin. The only thing i did not like in the game (no game is perfict there is always something 
 in a game you dont like. You cant say you like everthing.) is the end, how it cuts. But F. E. A. R 
 is amazin. And i really do feel sorry for people who say this game is crap. Cos really, they wouldn't 
 no a good game if it smack them in the face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankJaeger
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 1, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  "Wheres Alma?" "What are you talking about, i dont know a Alma!"
  "Your tonuge doesn't know, But your flesh does........ "Wait please!"
  "Hush now...."
  
  
 Pretty Creepy huh?
  That is just one short cut scene from the ram-jet Awsome game F. E. A. R!
  The game puts you in the shoes of a super fast reflexes super solder.
  It starts you off finding 
 a guy named Paxten Fettel.
  This dude is a physic commander of a army of super clones!
  So, you and the F. E. A. R squad have to go detain the guy.
  But the problem goes from bad to worse.....
 
  
  Thats were i am gonna leave the storyline in the dust.
  
  First lets talk about the "Frickin Sweet" gameplay.
  
  The gameplay starts off really quick, 
 as you are:  every super clone that gets 
 a cross your path.
  If the AI wasent that smart, then the gameplay would bomb.
  Infact the whole thing would bomb.
  Since most of the time you are killing some pretty smart 
 clones.
  They  when you'll reload, and call for backup.
  
  BOTTOMLINE: 
 These dudes are tough!
  Score on Gameplay:9 (Single Player too short!)
  Next up is........ Graphics!
  
  This game did'nt just when Gamespots Best Graphics Technical 
 just becuase the gameplay was awsome. This Game pretty! From the quality of blood on the walls, 
 too the looks of that corpse on the first mission!
  The Walls will shater after a long gun fight with the clones.
  Not to forget about the creepyness 
 of Alma!
  This is, Honestly, The best looking FPS in the history of FPS'S
  
  BOTTOMLINE: Its sooooooooooo Good!
  Score on Graphics:10 ( Don't forget your new graphics card! 
 )
  
  "Sector Two come-in!"
  "This is Sector Two nothing to report.."
  "Roger That Sector Two."
  
  (CRUNCH!)
  
  Yup..... thats the beatuful sound of sneaking up 
 on a clone and whacking his ass six ways to sunday.
  If only all games had such good qualitiy sound of: Explonsions, Screams, Whacking Souunds, Thumps 
 of the corpses, "Wheeew" sound from the matrix , and Little Children. *Cough Cough MJ*
  this game has some pretty good gun sounds too.
  The Chattering of the clones seems almost to 
 realistic.
  
  "Covering-Fire!"
  
  ( RATATATATATATAT)
  
  ****
  
  BOTTOMLINE: Its so good i eat sound cards!
  Score on Sound:10
  
  
  Value...... Ah sweet 
 sweet value.
  This game has more value than my mom on crack.
  Not relly.
  All of you hate mailers leave the review now.
  None of you left did you?!
  All right here i 
 go.
  The Singleplayer is way too short!
  Infact, it only took me 7 hours too beat F. E. A. R
  Ohhhhhhhh..... Bad Value Review away!
  But 
 wait! Theres multiplayer! YAY!
  Multiplayer and singleplayer will easily last you 20 to 40 hours of gameplay before you go buy 
 Obllivion.
  I Also have to say that this game can be very frustrating at some levels.
  Oh well....
  BOTTOMLINE: Enjoy the signleplayer.
  Score on Value: 8
  
  What the heck!
 
  Whats Reviewrs tilt?
  PM me please!
  
  
  
  BOTTOMLINE: PM me please about RT!
  Score on Reviewers tilt:9?
  
  Overall this game is a must buy if you love shooting the crap 
 out of people!
  
  OVERALL: 9.1!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gusmt66
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  This game really rocks!, but i don't like the way you shoot, I mean, I think it's a little bit 
 imprecise cause' when I aim my enemies and shoot, bullets doesn't hit them at all, f. e. if i shoot 
 10 bullets, the enemy only take 4 or 6....
  
  The scenario is very good and scary. The sounds, the ghosts, every thing is appropiate to this 
 kind of game. In fact, i haven't seen any other games like this one, mixing horror and action. 
 Original!! :-)
  
  That's all, the rest of the game is really really nice!... so scary for being a most action game! 
 :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadlytoque
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 30, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is an excellent addition to the shooter genre. What it isn't is a very good horror game. Other 
 than a few cheap startles, the game doesn't do a great job in building tension or, well, actual 
 fear.
  
  It also isn't a great story. The dialogue is strong in most places, and the voice-acting is solid, 
 but the plot really lets you down, especially told as intermittently as it is, and especially at 
 the end.
  
  But, of course, if you just want to know how much fun you can have shooting things, the answer 
 is: "a lot." The enemy AI is solid, makes good use of cover, and is more than qualified to flush 
 you out with grenades. There are only four basic enemy types, though (shooty-guns, punchy-guys, 
 missile-robots, and laser-robots) and at lower difficulty settings, consdiering that you can slow 
 down time, none of them provide a very satisfying challenge. Another problem is that in order to 
 build tension, you often go long stretches without shooting anything. This would be fine if there 
 were puzzles or something else to occupy your mind, but usually you're just running to the next 
 firefight, tediously peeking around every corner looking for baddies.
  
  The sounds are good overall, although the guns sound a little piddly, and the screams in some of 
 the cutscenes are irritating rather than scary. The game handles well, and I never found myself 
 stuck on a piece of scenery or confused as to where to go next.
  
  Is FEAR worth your money? Probably. I haven't played the multiplayer, but I expect if it's anything 
 like the single-player, then it makes for some tense, quick firefights, and it really is stunning 
 to look at.
  
  A longer game, with a wider variety of environments and enemies, as well as a better feeling of 
 actual fear would have been better, but what we got is still pretty darn good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternal_dragon0
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 30, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10/10
  I'd say this is the best component of FEAR. The time-slowing action is fun and innovative. Also, 
 the AI isn't the omnipresent gods of CS or COD2 where they could tell where you are no matter where 
 you're hiding. Now, the AI actually has to see you in order for them to detect you (which is a 
 good thing) . The guns are also unique, allowing you to interchange your armory whenever you encounter 
 fallen baddies. However, a small inconvenience is the tendency for you to get stuck in corners 
 and such. An annoying instance is when you could actually get stuck stepping onto a body (I guess 
 your boot might get caught up in the mess) .
  Graphics: 10/10
  Here's another 10 for Monolith. The gritty graphics doesn't get any more realistic than this. The 
 grainy images evoke a sense of realism and the "haunted-house" feeling, thereby adding even more 
 punch to the story. Other than this, the combat graphics are simply a treat for your eyes. For 
 example, a grenade actually sends out a shockwave as it explodes. As well, any high impact weaponry 
 can blow back enemies (and yourself included) , sometimes even plastering the corpse onto the shattered 
 concrete. Another spooky aspect added to the game by these stunning graphics is the rag-doll effect 
 of the bodies, where if you so much as touch them, a dead body can come "alive". By alive, I mean, 
 bouncing around, which actually fooled me a few times. I was caught emptying my clip into a completely 
 lifeless corpse simply because I stepped on it.
  Sounds: 9/10
  Another success in this department comes from the futuristic chop of the gunfire and the seismic 
 booms of the grenades. If you've got a surround sound system hooked up, this is a game where you 
 could truly ramp up the volume and let it ride out.
  
  Note: the only reason I wouldn't recommend this game is not due to the gameplay, but simply because 
 you'd probly have nightmares after playing it.
  
  Pros: Graphics, Sound, Physics, Storyline, basically everything in a game.
  Cons: Little strategy 
 involved, No teamwork, short story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeldead
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 30, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what to say for this game... It's the best FPS i've ever played! And the best part is 
 that i don't really like FPS although i play the worthy ones! You'll really going to get addicted 
 to it from the first levels!
  The graphics are amazing, the psysics rule, the sound will creep you out, and of course as i said 
 you won't get of your computer chair till you finish this one.
  And probably you'll want more after it's over... Well you can try your skills on a higher difficulty 
 and of course don't even think missing the multiplayer part of the game!
  Play it with low lights or even better in the dark and normally maxed out volume for maximum gaming 
 experience!
  Be sure that even the bravest one will get scared to the bone.
  A must have title for every collection, have fun playing;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redwizardpt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  this is a futuristic shooter with some adrelanine. When you see 4 enemys and start shooting... 
 the shots, the woles in the wall, enemys diying and the sound of tour fire, it's what makes this 
 game awsom...
  
  the weapons are good, but few... grenades are nice... 
  the sound is awsom, when you fire your gun you don't wanna stop firing and killing...
  
  i 
 think the AI is just great, enemys are smart as they call for backup, if you make too much noise 
 behind them they will caught you, when you are stealthly trying to kill them, and they can still 
 see your flashlight on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RUSKULL
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  And what it was worth was:
  
  1. Amazing A. I.
  2. Super creep factor
  
  The problem? Bland, repetetaive environments, repetative gameplay. After finishing it, I realize 
 that, really this game could probably be better had they taken out 60% of the combat. Or, add more 
 unique gameplay moments to 60% of the game so that it's no longer just a first person version of 
 Max Payne.
  
  The scary parts were indeed awesome, but there were just not enough of them. I am however, having 
 a fun time hearing about my friend getting scared big time by playing this game. Hahaha!
  
  Anyhow, overall this game brought some amazing A. I. to the table, but the game it's self is kinda 
 dry. I'm sure this A. I. will find a nice home in any other future game Monolith develops.
  
  I would reccomend playing this game, for sure. Just don't expect the second coming.
  
  
 -Russ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nauman_97
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 30, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  This game is what a PC should be. Heartpunding action with suspecful creepy horror atmosphere and 
 more kickass moments than you can count. 
  The acton is something that will amaze. Amazingly smart AI with crazy weapons and Slomo to add 
 an extra gameplay and storytelling element. The firefight will leave hundreds of bulletholes and 
 objects broken and busted everywhere. Using your environment to take down your enemy with fuel 
 barrels, fire extinguishers and other stuff. This time its not just one melee attack, you can do 
 a normal rifle whip or a jump swing kick, slide kick or flyinh kick. Plus in a firefight enemies 
 disentagrate with the right shot. The enemies are crazy from replica soldiers who yell out commands, 
 swears, what you are doing and their squad status. The weapons vary from smg to assault rifle to 
 a sweet shotgun, a scoped three-shot rifle, a crazy particle weapom that will turn your enemies 
 to a skelton with on shot, a cannon thing, and a mini rocket launcher that shoots 3 small rockets. 
 Now the horror is creepy and surreal from the girl to the atmosphere in these pseudodreams that 
 you have that leak some story along with laptops and voice messages off phones. All this can happen 
 within 10 minutes of gameplay and then some. Multiplayer is as hectic as you expect if this stuff 
 it true and you better believe it is. This game is a game that will say "forget all that other 
 crap and play me until you crap yourself." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimatesamuri
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  what can't you say about this game. It has the best weapons, the best storyline, and the best part 
 is that ammo is plentiful. The enemies signifigantly get better as you go on, for example, after 
 the troopers you meet the troopers with bigger guns, and then the heavy armors. then comes the 
 power armors, which make you look like an ant. there is so much variety, and the ways you gan accoplish 
 the goals are endless. placing prox mines around doorways and getting to cover and draw them in. 
 There are tons of visuals, like limbs blown off. on thing i have to say ias that you have to play 
 it, it is worth the money. one moment you could be killing off guards or running from alma. that 
 is one scary little girl, i mean she has no eyes! she walks through your backup and boom, just 
 blood and skeletons. it is an awesome game, and it is absolutely worth the money. replay value 
 is exteremely high. i am a casual gamer, but i played for about four hours straight one day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NEROROKS
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  ... It starts out scary enough and the graphics are amazing even on my flintstones rig but the clone 
 soldiers take the tension away, dont get me wrong there double hard and quite clever but it feels 
 like "ooooo they trying to scare me" and not "aaaarrrrrgggghhhhhh what was that" like doom 3 had 
 me.
  a must for any fan of horror movies and still a damn good game even though its sooooooo resource 
 demanding. the only other thing i can complain about is the load times......... although it still 
 loads quicker than Marc Ecko's Gettin Up and looks a million times better.
  
  a good game that just misses being outright scary perhaps because of the 
  "human" enemys 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer-Insticts
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: the gameplay is awesome becuz of 2 things... the fear and the wild and woolly gun fights. 
 Sure, fighting the same dudes might get repetettive, but the rag doll physics garantee that the 
 guys will die in different ways. The gun fights are also a great attribute to F. E. A. R. they add 
 suspense (like trying not to die suspense) and are simply plain fun! The only thing in F. E. A. R. 
 that I thought would be better was the fear... dont get me wrong this game will make u flinch and 
 jump out of your seat countless times but the fear in this game should be fear that CAN KILL YOU! 
 But I have to mention this again THE SUSPENSE MAKES THIS GAME AND CONDEMEND GREAT GAMES (i. e. is 
 he or she gonna die or not, whats going to happen next ect.)
  
  Graphics: even though my graphic card can run only on medium ( the graphics go from minimum, low, 
 medium, high, and maximum) the graphics are still beautiful on medium! When you throw a , a vortex 
 of matrix-like waves appears and when you fire any gun it sounds, looks, and feels perfectly executed.
 
  
  
  Sound: THE SOUND IN F. E. A. R. IS THE BEST I'VE EVER HEARD FROM ANY GAME! You can even tell from 
 the footsteps from a dude were he is coming from or where he is. The music relly sets the mood 
 for scary moments in the game, without it it would not be that scary.
  
  Story: (for me) great story (cuz I actually understood it) It's about that you are a recruit for 
 a secret unit named FEAR ( duh) and your sopposused to track this guy who has a telepathic link 
 to 100000 supersoldiers namedPaxton Fettel" ( WTF with the name) and and kill him becuz if you 
 kill him, the soldiers will stop being under the telepathic link... yea, I guess...
  
  Value: I bought it in 2006 and it was 49.99$ ( no, it was'nt the director's edition) so I guess 
 it is great...
  
  Reviewer's tilt: a lot of poeple liked it do great too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webchuzz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  This first-person shooter was one of the most played games in this and the past year. F. E. A. R. 
 has a combination of outstanding graphics quality with an amazing performance. Close to the reallity 
 (in some cases) , F. E. A. R. is a game full of surprises; you never expect when something will happen. 
 The game is full of special effects, and its history is a bit confuse at the beginning. You're 
 a supersoldier that will have to kill his "master". Curiosly, all the other soldiers respect and 
 do everything that Fettel wishes, except you. This is the principal objective, excluding the fact 
 that you will have to kill too Alma, a girl that appears from nothing during the game. And believe, 
 this girl will trick and scare you everytime she can... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dylr291
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 26, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is an amazing game, and the name sums it up for you. You will be pretty scared in parts 
 of the game. The graphics and sound was astounding. I'm playing on a bad rig, but it still looks 
 GREAT. 
  The Storyline was decent also. You have to do a little searching to find the telephones, and laptops 
 to get it though. There were a few things I didn't understand that were keypoints in the game, 
 but the wiki helped me out with that.
  The gameplay single player experience was great too, the slow mo effects, along with some new melee 
 attacks made it play like a good FPS. There was some things that could have been better though, 
 like even on extreme difficulty, the game was a breeze to go through. There are no bosses, and 
 it was fairly short. One thing that did get me upset with gameplay was the multi-player. It was 
 just bad. It is a straight up deathmatch that does get very boring after just one time of playing 
 it. One stage I played was just too big to find anybody. 
  Taking all aspects into view, this game was very good. If you want an interesting, fun, and great 
 looking FPS that you don't need to last too long, get F. E. A. R.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: walid-owns
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2006 5:40 am PT
Review:  I have the demo version and it only gives you two maps and like five weapons and am still addicted 
 to this game. I wonder how good it is full version. Team death match is my favorite one. Just running 
 through bombs explode around you the, screen shakes ,sparks ,and wall pieces flying around. Playing 
 with mines is fun to, you can pick up frags, remote bombs (my favorite) , and proximtiny mines. The 
 models look good and very detailed. THE GAME IS SCARY playing this game at night loud sound in 
 the basement YOU WILL PEE YOUR PANTS. Even in multiplayer i get scared when someone flys by me 
 in darkness. I recommend buying a good video card then buying this game so you get all the benefits 
 of the graphics. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -hallo-
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 26, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  Gameplay, 9/10: 
  I could easily give F. E. A. R. a 10 in this section; the game features a great storyline (which is 
 not common in the horror genre) , amazing atmosphere and the best combat scenes I've ever seen, 
 there are just two things that kept this game from being perfect:
  1. Sometimes, before something scary is about to happen, your HUD will flash, ruining the element 
 of surprise, which is of course, the most important thing in horror games.
  2. While the combat scenes are amazing, they are too short and not happen often enough.
  
  
 Graphics, 10/10:
  The graphic aspect of F. E. A. R. is absolutely astonishing; the effects are awesome, the environment 
 looks great and although that the graphic engine is a huge system hog the game looks unbelievably 
 good even at medium settings. 
  
  Sound, 10/10:
  The sound in this game is among the best I've ever heard in a video game.
  The screams, the ambient 
 sound, the voice acting, the sound of a gun firing away  F. E. A. R.'s sound. is perfect by any standard.
 
  
  Value, 8/10:
  After playing the game once, you'll probably want to play it again and again, plus that, the DVD 
 version of the game features some very nice additions.
  
  Tilt, 9/10:
  Great game although very short, minor details in gameplay kept it from perfection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soad_kickass
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 24, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  There are two things that makes F. E. A. R so unique. First, it's the fantastic action. It's unlike 
 any other FPS yet, the action is incredibly intense, rough, violent and most of all, fun. This 
 is what alone grants F. E. A. R such high score, because it nails the Shooter Aspect of the FPS title. 
 
  
  The guns feel right. They sound right. They look right. They kill right. Going crazy with the guns 
 available in F. E. A. R is a true feast for the eyes, as they brutally slaughter anything in the way. 
 You are only allowed to carry three guns at the same time, so you have to choose carefully what 
 guns to bring. Luckily, there are no bad choices. In most other games, the earlier guns becomes 
 obsolete and isn't usable for anything, but in this case, all the weapons works great. There's 
 no clear choice in what guns to use, and most of the time, you'll be able to swap the weapons during 
 the levels by finding new or taking the ones the enemies drop. Some guns is more tempting than 
 others, and it's easy to find some favorites after a while. The Shotgun offers the best visual 
 experience of them all, as it has a nasty habit of shooting off bodyparts, heads or splitting people 
 in two, but in common trend, it's only really usable in close range, and with many of the enemies 
 you don't want that. The various machineguns feels okay, but slightly unprecise, making them better 
 for ambushes when you have the time to aim carefully. There are more advanced weaponry, a very 
 powerful boltgun that rapidly fires large metal bolts. It has the amusing effect of nailing people 
 to the wall in various hilarious and gruesome positions, often leaving them hanging two feet up 
 from the ground with three bolts sticking out of their heads. Another gun simply burns all the 
 flesh and organs of people, frying them down to the skeleton. As said, the guns are varied, fun 
 and good. There are no bad choices, which is an amazing feat considering the amount of different 
 weapons available. And even if you run out of Ammo, you're not completely helpless, as you have 
 some quite nasty melee attacks, including slapping with your equipped gun, or jumpkicking. With 
 a good hit, this can actually cause instant death to the normal soldiers, so it's definitely worth 
 it if you are able to sneak upon any.
  
  Then there's the Slow Motion. Just like Max Payne, You have the ability to slow down everything 
 apart from your targetting, giving you a huge advantage over your enemies. In many situations, 
 it's almost a must because of the A. I (More on that) . But not only is it a very handy ability, It 
 really highlights the capabilities of the engine, as you'll see blood splatter, sparks fly, dust 
 and debris shatter over the whole place. You'll see bullettraces, shockwaves and all sorts of special 
 effects. The Slow Motion will drain as you're using it, and recharge slowly when not. You can upgrade 
 the duration of the slow motion by picking up Reflex Boosters (and Health with Health Boosters) 
 scattered around the level, and in the later levels this is very handy.
  
  The A. I is outstanding. It's hands down the best A. I in any FPS game yet, and you'll often find 
 yourself outsmarted by the enemy soldiers, as they will constantly react to the current situation 
 and your actions. As someone once said, every action has a reaction, and that's certainly true 
 for F. E. A. R. The Soldiers moves constantly in a unpredictable fashion, they wont simply just come 
 around the corner for you to pick them off. If they see you first, you're in for a bunch of trouble 
 and things will get a whole lot worse before they get better. They will attempt to flank you from 
 each possible side, they will take shortcuts, using the environments to either reach or hide from 
 you. They will retreat, pick another route, use grenades, split up, give orders, and if you get 
 too close, they will engage in close combat. Throw a grenade at them, and they will shout out "Grenade!" 
 and run for cover and then wait for you to advance. They are patient, brutal and intelligent. They 
 won't simply rush you since that's one of the most common problems with A. I. They will use corners, 
 furniture and walls as covers, jump out of windows, crawl under obstacles and generally act like 
 normal players, but often even smarter. Some of the later enemies are really hard to take down, 
 the Watchers. They showcase an absolutely brilliant A. I, and they climb the environment like an 
 invisible Spiderman. The level where they first appear shows how impressive they are, and how they 
 use darkness and confusion to their advantage.
  
  True, the A. I isn't perfect, but that's a little too much to expect yet. However, F. E. A. R is the 
 best A. I to date, hands down, period. All other FPS so far seems primitive compared to F. E. A. R, 
 even Half Life 2. The only upcoming game that could possibly compete with it would be STALKER, 
 but it's so far off at the moment that F. E. A. R takes the crown as the game with best A. I.
  
  With the heavy A. I, it's good that the game is very userfriendly when it comes to saving and 
 loading. It uses checkpoint based and quickpoint saving, both which will be used very commonly. 
 And thankfully, the saving is quick and good, reloading a quicksave is painless and very fast. 
 
  
  Then there's the other part of F. E. A. R... the other meaning of the word. In serious competition 
 with the System Shock series, F. E. A. R is definitely one of the scariest game to this date. Personally, 
 I found F. E. A. R to far succeed System Shock, but each to his own. Borrowing from movies like The 
 Shining and The Ring, F. E. A. R really manages to be scary, at least on the first time through. It 
 should be mentioned that the shock value is reduced quite alot during the second/third playthrough, 
 but that's just like all other horror movies. However, even then F. E. A. R manages to creep you out. 
 The scares still linger on. And even when the fear and horror is thinned out, the action will be 
 just as fun, keeping the game as good as the first time. But, enough about that, we're talking 
 about the first time playing the game.
  
  One of the reasons why F. E. A. R succeeds compared to even most horrormovies these days, is that 
 it knows that the scariest things are the ones you cannot see, but feel and imagine. Most horrrormovie 
 starts out like this, but ends up in a computer animated monsterparty at the end. Not F. E. A. R. 
 It keeps the scares simple, but never, ever cheap. There's no monster out of the closet like Doom 
 3, new weapons and dark places does not mean that there will be anything to scare you. It messes 
 with your head and your perception of how things work. You'll expect things to pop up and nothing 
 will happen, and you'll expect nothing to happen and things will go bump in the night. It manages 
 to stay fresh throughout the game, and has some scenes and moments that are quite unsettling. Without 
 spoiling much, the little girl called Alma is the center of all the disturbances, and she'll appear 
 when you least expect it, and to great effects for most of the times. Some call it a complete ripoff 
 of The Ring, but I disagree. If anything, the visions of Alma is much more like the twins in The 
 Shining. Much more subtle, much more spontaneous. She'll appear and disappear, and sometimes you'll 
 see her and just get downright scared. 
  
  But even more than Alma, it's your own fears that is the star of the show here. The game is like 
 a playground for all your fear, a twisted amusement park where you are forced to fight your fears. 
 You can't look away from the screen because then you'll either get nowhere, or get killed. It forces 
 you to look. It forces you to look even when nothing happens, and your mind will play tricks on 
 you. Will that window shatter when you go past it? You know it might, you know it will, and you 
 go past it and nothing happens. Relieved you round a corner and another shock slaps you in the 
 face. Later on you face similar situations, and safe and sure about how things will be, you end 
 up jumping when something suddenly breaks the trend of how things should be.
  
  The F. E. A. R works. It works so great. It deserves the name, it deserves to be called the scariest 
 game ever, because it is. And not just because what the game shows, but how it plays with you and 
 allows your own fears to make the situation far worse than it could be.
  
  The Multiplayer is also another fun and very hectic component of the game. It's fast and easy to 
 get into, there's no advanced gameplay modes that ruins for the fun. There's Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch 
 and Team Deathmatch with Slowmotion, which is quite an experience. If there's anything to complain 
 about the Multiplayer, it's that the levels are far from memorable. They pick elements from the 
 singleplayer maps, but without the ambience and atmosphere, they become quite uninteresting. The 
 gameplay itself is good, but it does almost become too fast to be enjoyable like the singleplayer. 
 You spawn, run, fire, kill or get shot, die and respawn, and it usually happens within 10-20 seconds. 
 It's almost a little too quick, and it becomes tiresome after a while. It also looses some of the 
 visual enjoyment since you'll be too busy killing or dying without really getting anywhere. Apart 
 from the Slow Motion Team Deathmatch, it's pretty standard fare, although the melee kicking and 
 slapping is quite amusing. Some of the spectator moments are hilarious, and it's often more fun 
 to watch other's than fighting yourself. 
  
  And the environments in the Multiplayer is also one of the only negative things about the Singleplayer. 
 While not as bad as certain other FPS lately, F. E. A. R do suffer a bit from buildings and locations 
 looking quite similar. But it's not a gamebreaker, and the levels do feel slightly different from 
 eachother, and some of them are great looking and unique. Overall that's the biggest weakness of 
 the game, and that says alot.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are great. The models are nicely detailed and animated, and even more, they are not 
 the static dolls from earlier games. Limbs and body parts can be shot off, causing some hilarious 
 scenes where the enemy soldiers falls to the ground with guns blazing and the chopped off body 
 parts flying in different directions with blood squirting out. It's a visual experience unlike 
 anything else in a FPS. The fact that everything looks fantastic, from textures to lightning, wraps 
 everything up in a graphical package that's just impressive. The Environment is affected by the 
 action, kill a soldier and blood will be painted on the walls, debris will by flying over the screen, 
 dust, sparks, smoke, bodyparts and all sorts of objects will be covering the screen. Each gunfight 
 looks like it was taken out of a John Woo movie like Face/Off. It just looks amazing. 
  
  The horror elements also manage to scare, and especially Alma, which never fails to scare whenever 
 she pops up. Her presence is much more powerful than ten thousand soldiers together, and it's so 
 impressive how that little girl, despite being animated, can look so scary. It's scary because 
 you feel like you are watched by her. She is standing in the darkness, constantly watching you, 
 sometimes toying with your mind, sometimes creating special graphical effects that resembles that 
 of Poltergeist activity, and it all looks just right. There are times when you simply feel her 
 nearby, but you don't want to look in fear of she being there. And when you look, you'll see nothing. 
 And then there are times when you don't expect her and look around until you suddenly see her.
 
  
  The lightning helps too, and lights will flicker and sway, rendering everything in a dramatic light 
 and atmosphere. You have a flashlight that you can use as much as you want, and that only requires 
 a short reloadtime. 
  
  And finally, there was one scene near the end that impressed me so much, that it is a shame to 
 not be able to talk about it. It was definitely one of the most visually impressive ingame sequences 
 I have ever seen in any game, and it's hard not to feel both afraid and impressed as you gaze upon 
 the visual terror. Unbelievable. A Testament to the fantastic capabilities of the game engine, 
 and to the designers.
  
  Sound
  One of the prime reasons why F. E. A. R is so scary, is because the sound is dead on. Even more than 
 the graphics, the sounds manages to keep you tense every second of the game. Without the sound, 
 the game quickly looses the scarefactor. Just walking around listening to the ambience can easily 
 creep you out, things can happen offscreen with the sounds only giving you clues about what's happening. 
 The game knows how to both do in your face events and subtle hints and atmospheric situations, 
 it masters them perfectly. 
  
  Guns sounds right. This is one of the most important parts of a FPS. You should feel and hear how 
 powerful the guns are. That's where Doom 3 failed, but where F. E. A. R succeeds. Crank up the bass 
 and enjoy the weapons. Especially the more exotic weapons, like the one who burns the flesh of 
 the enemies sounds awesome, but even the pistols and machineguns sounds right. 
  
  The Voiceacting is also very impressive, and especially the enemy soldiers, which will constantly 
 shout orders. While you can turn on subtitles, the best part is to just listen to how they react 
 to the situations that occur. Take down a few soldiers, and they'll call for backup and rearrange 
 their strategy, and inform the other's if you're trying to flank them or where you are. 
  
  In short, just as much as F. E. A. R is a visual experience, it's also an Aureal that has to be heard.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 24, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  I have to say something. Ahem. I have little fear and so the main element of this game has removed 
 itself from me. What is it? Rather crap. Most of the stuff I feel was just chucked in. And the 
 story line just isn't that good. With the odd iritation from the random girl, I feel this game 
 just was first made, realised how bad it was and remade but with stuff thrown at it and for me 
 that does not make a game. A game has something to keep you intrested naturally, not something 
 to 'scare you' which is how games like resident evil suceeds. They SHOCK you. 
  
  This is gaming, not hollywood!
  Gaming = shock
  Movies = scare 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diskball
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 1:02 am PT
Review:  What characterises F. E. A. R. and makes it so special for me is that it is something like Far cry 
 or something like Half life, meaning great shooter great graphics and all, but manages to get something 
 more. The FEAR feelling. In the beginning you might think it is a little difficult to learn the weapons 
 or how to kill properly but as soon as you get familiar with it you will enjoy doing so. Also it 
 is of great fun to surprise your future victims. In general it is not a title that you will fall 
 in love with female characters of the game, espesialy the little girl, but you will for sure remember 
 them. One last thing about F. E. A. R.. Play it in a dark room with a loudy surround system! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davidhalo18
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 22, 2006 11:20 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R or First Encounter Assault Recon is a story about a new recruit into the F. E. A. R squad 
 performing a mission to eliminate a Super Soldier that psychic ablitiy allows him to control a 
 regimine of soldiers.
  
  Crazy already ?
  
  Without giving any plot away I'll just say the game is basically The Ring with a dash of Tom Clancy-esque 
 narrative.
  
  Graphically the game is superb. Boasting some of the best visuals based around the Doom 3 style 
 and showing them off at every chance. The animation and gunplay is pretty much on par with most 
 first person shooters if not a little more impressive.
  
  The sound fx are just right for the guns and for theo people as well so this gives that game the 
 extra oomf it needs to make it more then what most other first person games offer audio wise since 
 every sound is basically perefect.
  
  The best part of F. E. A. R though is the fear. The intensity of the firefights is matched by the 
 mental state you are in which the game takes advantage of at every turn. What's bad about this 
 is the game started to lose it's more Fearful touch after a while and plays like an average FPS 
 with nothing really over the extraordinary occuring other then checking phones for story revealing 
 messages and so on. This isn't to say these all aren't nice and interesting it's just that maybe 
 adding a Ghost like effect as seen in System Shock 2 or something of the other may have been more 
 Fearfully interesting then answering messages. 
  
  The story is your normally over the top action shooter story with super powered soldiers, massive 
 over the top weaponry and special little moments ( in this game ESP moments) and is more often 
 enough just enough to induldge you into the game.
  
  What's with the burly men posters and calenders everywhere anyway? Signing off now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewleggee
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 10:38 pm PT
Review:  I waited probably around 6 months, slowly but surely upgrading my PC piece by piece. All of this 
 being done over playing the first level of F. E. A. R. And once I was finally finished I assure you 
 it was well worth the wait and then some. F. E. A. R is not only the greatest fps game that I have 
 ever played, and trust me i play them all, but it is also the most terrifying game to date. The 
 graphics blow away anything you will ever see put out in the next few years and the story line 
 will make you keep you night light on when you go to bed.............. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bf2expert
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the scariest games ive ever played although the way alma (the scary little girl) 
 scares you takes away from the shooting aspect of the game. Apart from alma this is a really great 
 shooter whicch combined with really smart enamies and really cool weapons makes this a freken awsome 
 game. The sigleplayer is fun and really the reason for getting the game but the multiplayer has 
 some really great and fun moments also. There are many different modes in the game also. All and 
 all this is one game you dont want to miss unless you scare easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shalock
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. its a great first person shooter that enjoys the advantages of a powerful engine and excellent 
 graphics.
  
  The difficulty of the game its directly proportional to the AI of the enemy, which its a very good 
 one, the bastards never face you like madmen running and shooting directly to you, they use a variety 
 of hide and run and assault manuvers to kill you, sometimes, very effectively, so, the game may 
 be very though sometimes.
  
  The game itself adds only TWO element that i always wanted to see in a FPS, that you can see your 
 feet! (actually you can throw kicks!) and it adds to me a very accurate sense of realism. The story 
 didnt seemed so impressive nor innovative nor scary as the people says or as i expected, its seems 
 to me (at least at the point ive played) very clich. The levels are very extense, and because 
 of that they become sometimes boring and repetitive in the enviroment, you seems to be forever 
 trapped in the office building with the same offices and storerooms everywhere. The second element 
 its the power of the weapons, different to any other FPS where the pistols are diminished in power, 
 here, you can really get messy with a pair of them.
  
  It has very very very nice graphics, the details are very worked, the movement of the objects and 
 the physics of the game, incluiding the way the enemy react when you iompact them with a bullet 
 its very nice, and the way the enviroment flies around torned to pieces in a firefight its great, 
 that, compensed with an amazing sound makes it a solid game.
  
  Overall, in my opinion, F. E. A. R. its a great FPS with great advantages, very worthy to play, but 
 no the diamond it promised to be... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tusa04
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 26, 2007 4:17 am PT
Review:  I play F. E. A. R....
  
  F. E. A. R. as the name might suggest brings up images of something paranormal. The title in fact 
 stands for First Encounter Assault Recon. F. E. A. R. is an extremely impressive FPS where you play 
 a part of the mentioned research team. It has a well placed story line dealing with supernatural 
 and mysterious. Your hair will always be spiked as the game gets quite creepy. Add to that great 
 sound effects and you get a perfect game for the late night play... A little bit of action All 
 that Blood and Gore... If you are a gamer that enjoys a game based on a good story line this surely 
 is the game for you. F. E. A. R also slightly reminds the player of Max Payne with its similar night 
 backdrop scenes. The combat locations are well distributed which include isolated factories, industrial 
 complexes and hotels. The Makers of F. E. A. R have made a good effort in making a FPS with a scary 
 and creepy backdrop to it and they have succeeded upto a great extent.
  
  F. E. A. R also scores on the very impressive sound and visual effects incorporated in the game which 
 lets you enjoy the feel of the game with real intensity. In-game music is quite well balanced and 
 you really enjoy the action scenes with the appropriate music playing in the background. I would 
 also like to add that the sound effects of the bullets shooting off do give a very real feel to 
 the whole thing. So the music and sound effects used are quite creepy and do give the player a 
 feel of the bizzare situations of the game, hence, scoring on the main essence of the game. Some 
 of the backdrop scenes are real awesome... Commandos getting ready for an asault in this aerial 
 view from a chopper Coming to the most important aspect of the game; THE GAMEPLAY the gameplay 
 is very interesting and will get you involved in the game making you want to replay certain stages. 
 The A. I. of F. E. A. R is just too good, making it more interesting as it gives you a tough time winning 
 over your enemies and completing the stages. I would definitely say that A. I. is so well balanced 
 in the game that you dont feel you are playing against a computer that would normaly be hendicaped 
 on guessing your moves. Infact A. I. in F. E. A. R is so impressive that your enemies dont just strike 
 you head on but use various tactics in combats. When in a group they do display some very well 
 coordinated moves and when singled out they try their best to run around, duck, take cover and 
 defend themselves while trying to shoot you out. Hence making it very much near to reality and 
 making the game very enjoyable and engrossing. F. E. A. R also has an added feature of Slow Motion 
 Mode similar to Max Payne and Matrix where you can toggle it on and face your enemies and slay 
 them with a little ease. The Slow Motion or the Slo Mo mode of this game is one of the best features 
 that has been incorporated to perfection. It brings out the real details of the game. The makers 
 of F. E. A. R have paid attention to real minute details and made the Slo Mo Mode keeping all these 
 details in mind offering great visual impacts to the gamer as you see the whole thing in action. 
 The sparks coming out as the bullets hit a metal surface and your enemies flipping and flying when 
 shot at or blown off with a hand grenade. The Slow Motion mode however is not ever lasting and 
 once it gets used up it takes a while till you get it recharged. A spooky scene with a little girl 
 Anybody seen Ring the movie? It's very close F. E. A. R doesnt really offer an extraordinary choice 
 of weaponry, The Weapons that you get to choose from are very much similar to those used in most 
 of the FPS games, such as the pistol, shotgun, a sniper rifle, sub machine gun and a few more following 
 ones. The weapon that really impressed me was the nailgun which gives you a kick when you nail 
 your enemies to the wall. The other weapon that also impressed me to some level was the plasma 
 rifle which doubles up as a sniper rifle. The special effects that you get to see when using the 
 plasma rifle are just plain awesome to watch. When you use it on your enemy it will either blow 
 him up or burn him down in blue flames giving great visual effects and a plain joy of watching. 
 The regular grenades and rocket launchers will work the best when used in slo mo mode as you can 
 see your enemies flying, flipping and exploding with a lot of blood splattering on the walls. If 
 you really want to do a lot of damage I would recommend you use the shotgun and at times the plasma 
 gun. Top game moment: My favorite moment would be sneaking on enemies in slow motion mode, throwing 
 a grenade while they would just stand there not knowing what was happening and then seing them 
 toss in the air, flipping as the grenade explodes splattering the walls with blood. It just feels 
 and looks superb Shotgun madness To sum it all up I would say F. E. A. R is a must buy for all you 
 gamers who are die hard FPS fans and who also like a good story line as a backdrop to the game. 
 This game will surely get you hooked and you would want to play certain stages of the game over 
 and over again without getting bored. Try it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thethnktnk
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 21, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. was an off the cuff purchase for me. I had heard about the game but hadn't read or seen 
 all of the anticipation around it. While it doesn't really innovate in the FPS genre, it does manage 
 to improve many aspects of the formula.
  
  Gameplay: This is where the game suffers the most in my opinion. It controls as well as most FPS 
 and has many fun features, but few of them are new. Half Life 2 revolutionized physics, Max Payne 
 popularized "bullet time", and there have been other horror-based games, but F. E. A. R. s distinction 
 is that it has managed to improve on most of these. There are other small improvements too (I can 
 see my feet!) but not enough to warrant a really high score here.
  
  Graphics: This may just be what the game is all about. This game is visually stunning. Even though 
 my computer isn't weak, it just doesn't have the power to run this game with soft shadows. Thanks 
 to my friend though, I have been able to view this game in its true beauty, and boy is it beautiful. 
 The soft shadows option really helps ambient lighting, and makes the game that much spookier. They 
 also managed to make the nightmare sequences look sufficiently surreal, but not too absurd (like 
 in Max Payne) .
  
  Sound: The game's score can definitely be chilling when that's the affect it is looking for, and 
 the weapons sound appropriately powerful. The ambient noises, like creaking floorboards and ghostly 
 whispers, are definitely spine tingling, especially if you play it with the lights out. The voice 
 acting leaves a bit to be desired, but then again it isn't typically one of the strong points of 
 the FPS genre.
  
  Value: The single player campaign is a bit short on the lower difficulty levels, so if you're looking 
 for a lengthy campaign, this game isn't it. However, on higher difficulty levels the single player 
 mode may last you a bit longer, just by virtue of its difficulty. However, the multiplayer mode 
 should last you much longer, especially if you are a fan of CTF.
  
  Tilt: In the end I am just an FPS junkie, the kind that buys almost any FPS as soon as it comes 
 out. I didn't even wait for a review before I got CoD 2. In the end, I enjoyed playing this game, 
 and I definitely think it was worth the money and the time I spent playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrystlDrgn2005
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  This game sets new standards for the FPS community of games in my book. Not only does this game 
 provide great realism of real life effects but allows the average gamer to pick it up and run with 
 it. 
  
  The modeling of the graphics in this game are phenomenal to the point that game players young and 
 old alike will look to this game in the days, months, years to come and remember it as the stepping 
 stone for games that are coming down the line in the near future and the possibilities of what 
 are to be expected from graphics designers in major game organizations. 
  
  The sound effects and music in this game are some of the best that I have heard in a game in a 
 long time. From the sounds of a rat scurrying through an open alleyway or hallway to the gunshots 
 hitting a tin can on a shelf, there is nothing left out. The background music in the game often 
 times sets the mood for the fight that is fixing to ensue around the player and keeps the player 
 on the edge of their seat. This is something that is not found any many PC games these days. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adijan
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is the mosts cariest game that is ever made. Well it is if you play it at night time, 
 with headphones and no lights, plus haveing the volume be super high then have yourself a scarey 
 game to play. 
  
  It all starts when you are called int o investigate a weird situation happening in a facility but 
 you find yourself the prey to a ghost girl stalking and wondering the halls. There is alot of gore 
 and blood in the game which well makes it good, you get a variety of weapons to choose from and 
 battle your way tot the trueth of why she is doing this?
  
  Graphics - Well the grpahics are extremely amasing for a pc game but it ca infrom on some things 
 but just the though of you watching the video's makes you think that you have to ge tthe game. 
 
  
  Sound - well some of the songs played and some sounds are scary plus a bit of wtf is that put into 
 it. Sometimes at some point you will hear someting and makes you wonder, whats that? (it makes 
 the game funner) .
  
  Gameplay is fun and pretty kool, Havening to power to blow off the enemies arms, legs, heads etc. 
 gives you the best time of your life. 
  
  This game is one of the most recommended games thta are available for the pc.
  
  So i would 
 recommend the game if i was you, F. E. A. R. is an amazing and self - estonishing game that is ment 
 to be seen from all!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sprintguy1376
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. (First Encounter Assault Recon) is an amazing game in almost all aspects. It has a lot 
 going for it and nears perfection. I will break the review up into categories.
  
  -Graphics
  Very Impressive. Plain and simple. I'm not running it on the best machine there is 
 and it was still visually astounding. The auto-detect feature in the options screen is great, but 
 if you want to customize your game, you can. You can choose the amount of textures to render and 
 of how much quality. Very customizable to your wants in this game.
  
  -Sound
  I believe the sound is the best part of this game, hands down. The music is done well but thats 
 not the half of it. While walking around in the expertly rendered areas, there are ambient noises. 
 You're constantly looking behind yourself because you think you hear something. It really adds 
 to the creepy nature of this game
  
  -Gameplay
  Great responsive controls and AMAZING enemy AI. They're just like people. Sometimes they get scared 
 of you and refuse the orders of their higher officials. They really know how attack you as well. 
 They will hide take cover, move into other positions to get clearer shots and throw grenades. Usually 
 the best way to take care of these guys are the Slo-Mo feature. It does exactly what it says, puts 
 the world in Slow-Mo. It is really helpful in this game, as the enemies are crazy hard and it recharges 
 pretty quick. Although there is the occasional skipped frame, it's playable with a good framerate.
 
  
  -Value
  The single player campaign is 11-13 hours, it can be stretched out with higher difficulties though. 
 The multiplayer is fast and furious. There are some innovations. One I'd like to mention is the 
 slo-mo game. All the players have to try and kill the only player with the Slo-Mo ability. The 
 rest is pretty standard. Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch etc...
  
  -Last Say
  F. E. A. R. is one of the best games I have played in a very long time. It performs well on any aspect. 
 Just be sure to get the patch when you get it if you have an integrated graphics chip and if you 
 don't, get it anyway, has some good updates. I highly recommend this game to anyone looking for 
 a creepy horror FPS.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HugoFromBoss
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  Fear is a game that can effectively combine intense action scenes with creepy horror scenes. First 
 off the character you play in fear can only carry 3 weapons at a time, which is more realistic 
 as some FPS games allow you to carry a ridiculous amount of weapons. There are a variety of weapons 
 through out the game with some nice exotic weapons to use like a rocket launcher. However as the 
 limit on weapons are three at a time a weapon will have to be dropped in favor of another.
  
  Enemy encounters happen regularly through out the game and the AI is very good in Fear. Defeating 
 enemy soldiers can be a real challenge at times, but Fear includes a nice feature that allows temporary 
 slow motion, which for a short time will put a battle in the players favor. However to use this 
 feature again the reflex bar will have to recharge. The soldiers sometimes come aided with what 
 they call The Heavy its a robotic soldier and can inflict a lot of damage, so its best not 
 to expose yourself to much. There are a host of other things through out the game that are going 
 to try and kill you. 
  
  Now for the horror side of Fear and its brilliant. Throughout the game the lights will flicker 
 and youll find your self in nightmarish type of scene. The makers of Fear have done these scenes 
 really well with some outstanding Graphics effects making them the best creepy scenes I have ever 
 seen in a FPS. There are also parts throughout Fear that made me Jump. If you like Horror then 
 theres plenty of it here. 
  
  The Graphics effects in Fear are breathtaking better than another FPS in my opinion. It blends 
 some decent lighting effects with realistic looking backgrounds. The characters look well crafted 
 and almost life like. The GFX in the battle scenes looks almost Hollywood with some realistic Gun 
 shot effects. Fear however does prefer a higher spec computer for those graphics to look at their 
 best. I'm running the game on a Geforce 7800GTX SLi with all the settings maxed with no problems, 
 although a 7800GT will handle the game just fine.
  
  If you like FPS and horror then I can recommend Fear as a decent purchase and like I say to anyone 
 buying a scary game:
  
  Oh yes and in order to play F. E. A. R run out and buy the following:
  
  - Projector
  
  - 
 Logitech Z5500 Speaker System and Spare underwear (and to be preferably far away form your neighbors)
 
  
  -Only play with the lights off
  
  -And speakers ON FULL
  
  Great Game thumbs up =D
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dzearing
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  I beat FEAR in about 2-3 days, playing after work. The game is not excessively challenging, or 
 excessively interesting. It is good. The graphics are decent... but there are no large vistas to 
 view like in Far Cry, just fairly linear paths to tread down. Personally not a big fan of confined 
 spaces.
  
  Graphically its similar to DOOM I'd say, except for it's actually lit up so you can see stuff! 
 :) There are lots of stylish artistic elements like slow down moments and diffuse glow and blood 
 puddling on the ceilings. But overall it's not really a sticky game for me.
  
  Multiplayer is fun, but well, generic. It's good, but nothing really sticks out that makes me go 
 WOW AWESOME. No vehicles to drive around, just run around and shoot. Meh.
  
  It didn't seem scary to me. It seemed like a generic FPS with that girl from The Ring. It felt 
 overall like a generic FPS. Good graphics, good ragdoll, decent weapons, but nothing super spectacular.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vittoriobaky
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  This game is fun. It is. But it's not what it could have been.
  
  First of all, let's look at the graphics: they're impressive! Really, they are supreme! Why 8 then? 
 Simple. Neither on demo, neither on full game, I managed to get a decent framerate, neither on 
 minimum settings on my medium PC: Doom 3 runned WAY better, and the difference between the 2 games 
 isn't that big...
  
  As for the sounds, the game is just OK, nothing special here, really. Some creepy sound around, 
 but overall nothing outstanding.
  
  As for the gameplay, we touch a hard point. It has a cool AI (far from being impressive, though) , 
 and nice variety of situations, but it's keep being dark, and almost every space is closed. It's 
 fun to use slowmotion and grenades, but difficulty isn't well balanced. Overall, it's a nice time 
 playing.
  
  The single player is quite well done, even if the story looks a rip-off of some John Woo stuff 
 with The Ring added in, but overall it's OK. The multiplayer though, after you got used to the 
 slowmotion, isn't anything special at all, and as the graphics are hard to run already in single 
 player, it's a total pain on multiplayer, where lag makes you put even lower settings on.
  
  It wasn't quite worth the full-price for the not-so-long single-player, and the not-so-good 
 multiplayer, but if you find it in the next months for around 20$-30$, don't miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hair_So_Spikey
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  The shooting is tight and the addition of Slo-mo adds to the high lvl of tactics you'll need to 
 defeat these super soldiers i say super soldiers cause these enemies are insanely smart mindless 
 elite led grunts these are not.
  Graphics
  The graphics are great if you have a good enough machine bt if you do the lighting and surfaces 
 look great and the enemies get blasted around realisticlaly.
  Sound
  The sound in my own opinion is just great the music picks up when it should and I love creepy things 
 whispering in my mind and the tense sound of the gunplay keeps you immersed in the battle.
  Value
  The single player mode for hours and hours but the real fun comes from the online play 
 i personaly think it has some of the best multiplay of any FPS any game where you can blast one 
 dude with your gauge then do a flying double kick into a slide then blast this other dudes arm 
 off is a good game to me!.
  Tilt
  Personaly i like horror games like this even though if i thought about all the sequences and took 
 it very slow i probably wouldn't be scared at all but that's not the point of this game it's best 
 played if you can immerse yourself in your characters scenario and allow yourself to be startled 
 and feel a little... F. E. A. R.... that was horrible sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xlaten
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  To date this has to be the scariest game I have played.
  
  FEAR is a great first person shooter, its one of the fastest paced or slowest paced FPS games you 
 will play. This game is also very creepy, you will be constantly followed around by a small girl... that's 
 all im going to tell you.
  
  The gameplay is fantastic the addition of bullet-time to this game is amazing, I especially like 
 the way the colors all change and it gets partially blurry when you enter slow-mo mode. There is 
 also a martial arts element in this game your able to do a variety of jump kicks, punches, slide 
 kicks or you can just bash their heads in with the butt of your gun. You can also peak around corners 
 by bending over to your left or right which can be useful.
  
  The graphics in this game are decent, but everything in this game seems a bit blocky.. not an incredible 
 amount of detail on destructible items. But when the smoke is in the air and sparks are flying 
 you won't care!
  
  The sounds are great, all the guns sound realistic except they are a bit quiet. The ambience music 
 tracks are great, they really get you in the mood to be scared straight. 
  
  This game has alot of value in my opinion, the campaign is pretty short but its challenging enough 
 and the AI offers many different combat scenarios that you can play through it numerous times and 
 not get bored. The only problem is it loses the scary element after the first time because now 
 you know where that little girl is going to show up. The multiplayer is nothing out of this world 
 but its so fast paced and explosive you might get hooked.
  
  If your looking for a fast paced shooter that can scare you out of your seat, Pick this up now!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killdread
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 4:27 am PT
Review:  this game when i first played it made my eyeballs go in different directions as i could not control 
 the beauty of the game. what i like about this game is that it combines an active gameplay, a storyline 
 and above all the chill factor that made me play with the lights on ( just kidding) but it really 
 scared me. i really enjoyed this game but there is a problem. the requirements are to high, of 
 course people say well if you want a superb game you need a powerfull machine, but come on who 
 are we kidding engines like source and x-ray have beautifull grapichs physics and smart A. I. so 
 that is the only part were i didnt enjoyed it. second thing i like about the game is the realistic 
 sounds of the gunfire, never in my entire life have i ever heard such excellent sounds for the 
 weapons, it added a little more spice to the game as you feel yourself in a real gun battle. one 
 very cool game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psfreak03
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 19, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a game that has to be played to be believed. Even on my fairly low-end system, I was 
 able to play and enjoy it all the same. Instances of hitching here and there, mostly before huge 
 firefights. There are some very creepy moments in it. The fact that your flashlight doesn't always 
 light to the end of a dark corridor only adds to that already creepy ambiance. The multiplayer 
 is great too. Plenty of game types and competitive players. If you don't mind a scare in favor 
 of blasting people with a shotgun (which kinda sounds pretty overdone, but extremely well-accomplished 
 in F. E. A. R.) , then you should really play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  I waited for this one to drop in price a bit before I bought it.... like most!! lol. Anyway I love 
 the outstanding graphics that this game holds, and the AI is superb. Knowing they just don't come 
 out running at you! They actually run, and hide, back track. They actually try to flank! Shoot 
 above barrels aimlessly, which they are incredibly accurate! lol. The game has some moments of 
 shock, and creepiness. Unique plot as well. I'm not totally finished with this game yet though 
 so far I'm very impressed with game mechanics, and graphics. The flashlight as in Doom 3 adds to 
 the dark aura creepiness that I find attractive in most games these days. Wait there's only two 
 I know of. Anyway this is a definite buy for those who love FPS!! I have one complaint though.... no 
 prone!? Not a big deal.... who would want to prone anyway?...? Very demanding on the Rig I might 
 say! Get yourself a 78, or 79 series card! Oh yeah and you ATI fans..... get yourself the latest 
 and greatest! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 19, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. definately takes the cake when it comes down to first person shooter games because it 
 is just simply stunning. The game play and the feel behind the game just take first person shooters 
 to a brand new level. The game takes everyone's general favorite of big fire fights to the extreme 
 level where you will engage in gigantic fire fights with multiple oppositions within the story. 
 First of which is the realistic detail that this game boasts. The guns that you use in the game 
 feel much more powerful than many of the guns in other shooters. The most probable reason behind 
 this is the fact that they deal a lot more damage, and their damage actually lasts. Dust will fly 
 into the air and the environment will be shattered when a bullet hits a location. Not to mention 
 people tend to explode and die in much more realistic ways. There is also a much more realistic 
 factor as you are only allowed to carry a total of 3 weapons at a time which generally means that 
 strategy is very important here. Overall the gameplay is very fun and I would definately recommend 
 this game to anyone who loves first person shooters. One downside is that you really do need a 
 very good computer for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shurikenmaster
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 19, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Fear scared the **** out of me. I really loved the game though it's almost as scary as Condemnd: 
 Criminal Origins. As you play through the game it just gets scarier. New weapons, new levels, and 
 bosses all the essentials of the game with an odd twist. The music was the best part about this 
 game. With the chill of the unknown too. I just did'nt deliver enough though so I could'nt give 
 this game more than a nine point one. You might not want to buy this game right away. There is 
 defenitly better in stores. But borrow it or something to see if you like it first and have fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PillarofFaith
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 19, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  I'm sure anyone looking at this already owns this game but if you don't, go get it right now. Story 
 is awesome, it does get a little repetitive though. You spend way too long in certain areas. Multiplayer's 
 a lot of fun as well. Without a doubt a terrifying game though. If you like horror movies then 
 buy this. It's ALMOST as terrifying as DOOM 3 and that's saying something. This game look asolutely 
 amazing so make sure you have a beast of a graphics card when you play this. Overall a creepy game 
 that keeps you on the edge of your seat but quite possibly the most fun I've had gaming in a long 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunman357
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 19, 2006 12:39 am PT
Review:  Ah F. E. A. R................. This game is one freacky intense thriller.....
  
  People are always comparing this game to DooM 3, and all I have to say about it is this.
  
  
 F. E. A. R. and DooM 3 have different kinds of scary.
  DooM 3 is that sort of scary when something jumps out at you.
  F. E. A. R. is that sort of scary 
 that's like the ring and the grudge..... Sorta like a japanese horror flick.
  
  Getting that out of the way, F. E. A. R. has the ability to force you to try your best, even on easy, cause 
 those enemy replican soldiers are NOT messing around.
  
  Using your "reflexes" you have the ability to make the game go into slow-motion, therefore oftenly 
 giving you that edge you need in combat.
  
  As your fighting enemies, every bullet you miss is gonna hit somewhere else, not just leaving a tiny 
 bullet hole..... It'll sometimes take a chunk of concrete out of a wall, which creates a near realistic 
 feel to the game.
  
  This game is also a horror game, due to a little girl named alma, and a cannibal named paxton fettel....... Which 
 both haunt you till the end of the game.
  
  I don't want to spoil anything for my readers, so if you'ld like to know about the storyline, but 
 the game and play it for youself!!!!!
  
  Enjoy!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldenSilence87
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I am not going to mince words. FEAR is the best PC game I have ever played. Ever. Yeah, its that 
 good. Its everything a first person shooter should be. 
  
  I'll start with the story, in 2002 the US Army creates a special task force (FEAR) to deal with 
 paranormal enemies. Naturally, you are one of these guys and its your job to stop them. Monolith's 
 story has some weak points (In parts it feels that every other word is the F-bomb) but its still 
 head and shoulders above anything else in the genre, today. I love the story (And the hidden labtop 
 and phone conversations) that spin a tale of Corperate America gone bad and a really, really, dark 
 evil. It works perfectly. 
  
  The story leads into the atmosphere. I dont think another game creates a good tension when searching 
 corridors and hallways as this one. Enemies (for the most part) converse over radio about their 
 postions, tactics, and reinforcements. I love it when, if you wipe out most of a squad the remaining 
 guys will plead for reinforcements over the radio and, even better, the enemies recogonize when 
 you have your flashlight on or when you break glass to reach a lock. The enemies also give a great 
 impression of fighting against you (Uttering Sh**! when outflanked or screaming "Get to cover!" 
 and "Down") . Their example creates an almost movie like atmoshpere of combat. 
  
  The graphics are fantastic, especially when in Slow Motion. During a gunfight, bullets richoet 
 everywhere, leave craters and kick up dust giving the impression of being in a real gunfight. The 
 gore is not overdone but enough to hammer home the point of a pitched gun battle. The physics are 
 well done too, (As anyone who has shot the enemy clone when you have to eliminate Fatel and he 
 falls from his balcony can attest) and the voice acting, is mostly, on the higher end. 
  
  Its creepy as hell too. FEAR is the only video game that has made me yell in shock. Thats how good 
 this game is. Not once did I feel as if I was being led on by a "out" plot. The plot is smooth, 
 to the point, and with enough backstory to really an almost Hollywood-esque scene. The cutscenes 
 are fantastic, too. 
  
  Multiplay is an added bonus, and fun too, but the single player is worth the price of admission 
 alone. Go get it, now! You wont regret it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: unrealhalofan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 18, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  I played F. E. A. R. On 
  x1900xtx
  1gb ram
  Opteron 165 @ 2.6 ghz
  20.1 inch Wide Screen Monitor
  Audigy 2 Zs sound card
  Logitech Z-5500 Speakers
  
  F. E. A. R. 
 was one of those games where any EB games or Game Stop you went into all they talked about was 
 one certain game. I was promised that F. E. A. R. would be WAY more scary than Doom 3 and the physics 
 and graphics would be much better than Half Life-2. I was very happy to find that they were correct! 
 
  At the start of the game your a noob to the First Encounter Assault Recon squad and have to stop 
 Paxton Fettel a crazy man with an army of clone troops. You go into the first level (like most games) 
 which is a tutorial. In this level you enjoy one of the scariest moments of the game, your characters 
 first encounter with the monster Paxton Fettel. 
  The games effects are absolutely stunning. I love going into a room and throwing a nade and watching 
 things fly everywhere. Then I jump into the room in slo-mo blasting everything I see watching chunks 
 of cement fly from the walls. I see an enemy A. I. dive behind a column but Im out of slomo so I 
 sneak behind him and kick him in the back but after he dies his friend behind me sends a rocket 
 right next to my face and barely misses me. Its moments like these that made this game great. Every 
 battle seems unique. 
  The story is great. Im not going to ruin the story for you who havent played it yet but I'll just 
 tell you to look out for it. Listen to all the phone mesasges and pay attention in cut scenes. 
 They do NOT just hand you the story. If you don't pay attention you will be confused in the end. 
 This is great though because it keeps it more than just a FPS, you actually have to do what in 
 other games ( like in doom 3) a lot of the little messages were just jokes and the rest were codes. 
 If you don't get the ending in the end though, its okay. The last level is amazing and the graphics 
 are mind blowing in the outside. The last scene lets you know there will be a sequel but the game 
 doesnt feal incomplete when it ends. 
  I loved the game and you will too!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 18, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  3 words to describe this game.... THIS GAME ROCKS! Everything in this game is so immense, so intense 
 and so beautiful. 
  
  F. E. A. R is one great shooter, what makes this game great you ask. Well first off, the sounds in 
 this game are ballistic and it feels like your actually hearing bullets flying in your room, and 
 that the explosions are extreme. O and that you can use slow motion to knock out your opponents 
 easy, the slow motion in this game is astonishing. Not to mention that this game does scare you 
 in some parts of the game. I don't get scared that easily but F. E. A. R did make me jump and scream 
 at some parts of the game. But what got me to say wow in this game is the A. I. People were saying 
 how smart the A. I was in this game and they were right. In single player, the enemies aren't stupid. 
 They don't just stand around in the same spot and shoot you. The soldiers in single player work 
 as a team, they will jump through windows, they will trick you where they are and that they aim 
 pretty accurate. F. E. A. R has the next gen of A. I.
  
  F. E. A. R does have gorgeous graphics, although if you have a high end pc then this game would look 
 very impressive. 
  
  Although the only problem I found is that the single player will only take you 2 or 3 days to beat. 
 That's why they have an awesome multiplayer to keep you busy. F. E. A. R gives you a fast pace multiplayer. 
 The people online are tough, if they find you first then your dead already which gives quite a 
 challenge. F. E. A. R multiplayer has CTF, TDM, DM and you can also use slo mo on DM and TDM. 
  
  If your a shooter fanatic with a good pc or if your looking for a game to scare you then just 
 buy this game, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nodham
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 18, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  I'm led to believe that many people don't know how to play this game. You're not supposed to play 
 on a sunny day at 4pm after school with your orange juice. This is a game meant to be experienced 
 at night, preferably late, in an empty appartment, with headphones on. Also, a certain degree of 
 imagination is needed, to help you get into the game more. 
  I play games to experience things I never will in my day-to-day life. I am a defensive driver, 
 so I play GTA. I am always calm and friendly, so I pin people to the walls in FEAR. But mainly, 
 I play FEAR for the adrenaline rush. You will get a rush from trying to outsmart and outshoot excellent 
 soldiers, you will get a rush from the graphics and slo-mo effects, and you will get a rush from 
 the strange apparitions that will plague you until the endgame. And you will get a rush from ... 
 nothing? The thing is, you never know exactly when you'll be attacked or visited by an apparition, 
 and a lot of the fun in the game comes from the omnipresent feeling of unease that accompanies 
 you. Half Life 2 was great fun but when you entered certain areas you could be sure you'd get attacked 
 - not so in FEAR. An area will look like it was made for an ambush and you'll stroll through unharmed, 
 or you'll find yourself crawling through some damp, dark tunnel when ... nothing will happen. Brilliant!
 
  My only complaint with the levels is too much time spent in grey/green industrial areas at the 
 beginning. A little variety would have been nicer - if I'm playing one of the most innovative FPS 
 I'm expecting the levels to be a little more interesting. Also, it doesn't have the best ending, 
 but the strands do come together and the story makes sense, it just isn't told to its completion. 
 Half Life 2, however, was actually more disappointing for me in the story department. Nothing was 
 really explained in that game, who works for the what now etc. FEAR will tell you who the girl 
 is and why things are happening, and that's a good ending in my book.
  Anyone with imagination and open to new game design should find this game enjoyable. However, you 
 may be one of the people who feel that there's nothing happening in the game and it's boring. If 
 that's the case, you've misunderstood the entire idea and you may as well give up. Nothing is happening 
 *on purpose*, as strange as that sounds. We've all played the games where you mow down row after 
 row of bad guys, so why not try something unconventional? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  Pros: Hell, where do I being? The AI is incredible, this makes all the battles a matter of good 
 tactics. Lob a grenade and the soldiers will dive for cover, shine a flashlight and u'll alert 
 them to your position. I've played my share of shooters n i've havent seen anything like this.
 
  
  The weapons have the oomph factor. Blast the bad guys with a shotgun and u'll see body parts fly 
 in diiff directions. Get close enough, n u'll probably vaporize the poor guy . The ragdoll physics 
 is pretty good too, as no 2 soldiers will die the same way. 
  
  The HORROR: Its not the Doom 'jump out of a dark corner' horror, rather its the feeling that something 
 is creeping up at u horror. This has a lot to do with the superb in game music & sound. I have 
 never played a game where I was so scared in my life. Nuff said. 
  
  The cons: The graphics. Yeah, I know, its the latest in graphical technology blah blah blah, but 
 u need to spend a fortune to upgrade your PC to get it to run at at the mid-high end graphical 
 range. Even at mid end settings, slowdowns n freezing of the game is assured.
  
  Verdit: Buy, beg, whatever, but get this game. But make sure your PC meets the recommended system 
 requirements. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhizzlePop88
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 18, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  DOWNLOAD THE DEMO NOW!!! its great and will keep u entertained for hours. did i mention this was 
 just the demo? Not for thew faint of heart tho, its pretty bloody. the graphics are next gen, perfect 
 lighting. the sound doesnt give the POW! factor of the guns. but the best part of the game is the 
 sssllloooooooo moooooooottttiiiiooooonnnnn. its awesome if u like how the matrix bullets look like. 
 Its just plain fun. and creepy too, scariest game i played. any RE game is nothing compared to 
 it. the little girl is creepy as with the vampire guy who umm, eats ppl. buy their necks. ........ 
 yummy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed_devil
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2006 2:42 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is the best FPS of the year so i have only good words to tell about it!
  
  The storyline adds a mystery to the game, and make you curious to see what happens next! All the 
 mystery is hidding on the little girls that creeps you out!!!
  
  The part of the gameplay is excellent! No bugs, no frustrating moments! Easy accessible guns and 
 reloads! It has an incredible system of slow motion that you must use it in order to survive from 
 the enemy waves!
  
  The sound is a part that make this game so special! The envoronment sounds are amazing! You can hear 
 screams and whispers sometimes and this make you feel uncomfortable! I cought myself jump off the 
 chair sometimes, because of the sound effects! The gunfires are like real and the explosions.... just 
 AMAZING!!
  
  Another very strong part of the game is the graphics! I'm really excited about this part because 
 it's one of the best graphics engine i have ever seen! The effects of the explosion and the gunfires 
 are something special!
  
  The AI is very smart! The enemies will hide behind boxes and walls and they will think a way to 
 eliminate you! They call for backup and they will not let themselves exposed to you!
  
  Every gamer must have this game! Don't miss it at all costs!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danimita
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 17, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  First-Person shooter: 
  The enemies are supposed to have a nearly perfect AI. And that is partially true. They do these 
 cool things, that make you believe you're actually going against other players, yet they still 
 go right at your face, uncovered. Thick-oh's! In the Gamespot movies I saw all this smoke and stuff, 
 coming out of walls when you shot them. After finishing the game, I realised I had to adjust the 
 options, for that to happen. Lol. :D
  
  Horror Game:
  This is the scariest game I've ever played. Not in the spooky way, like "I don't think I wanna 
 go in there". But in the "Oh, shi*, what the heck is that??!!" and "Jesus christ!!! Where did they 
 come from?" It's inteligent how you go walking, and suddenly two guys go flying out a window, and 
 make you jump out of your skin.
  
  Anyways, let's get to the point:
  
  GAMEPLAY: 
  Good, you can really interact with the environment. It just makes me angry you can't shoot at allies.
 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Amazing. Although it needs really good graphic cards. 
  
  SOUND: 
  It really feels like you're shooting a gun (wich makes me turn the sound of at times) And even 
 with the lack of music, it scares.
  
  VALUE:
  It's a good game, though it doesn't deserve 50 massive euros. (or Dollars)
  
  Reviewer's tilt:
 
  I enjoyed the game. The end was good, and made me smile for a long time. And have nightmares, 
 though.
  
  Mixture:
  The Ring Movie, Japanese horror movies, Doom 3, and a bit of originality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xaos_89
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 16, 2006 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever stared at the credits of a game, feeling not satisfied with the finish, but asking 
 yourself "What the heck just happened to me?!"... Well, if you haven't-play F. E. A. R. ! Play it, play 
 it, play it !
  F. E. A. R. has one thing, that other American commercial "horror" games don't have-atmosphere. The 
 chilling thrill, that every second something will jump out of the shadows, trying to fight your way 
 under a rain of bullets and always expecting the worst. I personally have never seen anything like 
 it. The music during the game keeps your adrenaline level high, even when nothing is about to happen.
 
  Two words for the graphic and level design. The graphic is... wow. It's a masterpiece, a great fusion 
 between hl2 and DOOM 3. It kinda makes you forget that you are playing a game. When you forget it 
 and when dive deeply into the game's world, you'll see "the true meaning of fear".
  But... there is always a but... but the levels are a bit ,well, the same. The only reason not to continue 
 playing the game when you weren't scared to death, are the levels. You simply get irritated of the 
 same types of corridors. In the first half-life the idea of alike levels helped to create a claustrophobic 
 atmosphere, but it just doesn't fit in F. E. A. R.
  The story is a normal American-style idea. You learn the basics at the beginning, you're understanding 
 more and more things, many of which don't concern you, and at the end you're shocked by something, which 
 has never crossed your mind. The way it's presented is very interesting. It's not the best game story, but 
 it will keep your mind busy for a while, until you figure everything out.
  The game play is nothing impressive. We're talking about a FPS and this genre has less new to show. 
 But I stand up and give a long applause to the creator of the A. I. Great job !!! Sometimes you 
 forget you're fighting against bots. They do things, which you'll only see in the movies-jump over 
 crates, hiding behind columns, trying to surround you... You can never fight one battle in the same 
 way. And just a quick word about the bullet-time. This game is maybe the first one, in which the bullet-time 
 fits so good. Playing F. E. A. R. without bullet-time is the same like "The Matrix" without the bullet-time. It 
 just can't be. Play the game, and you'll understand what I'm talking about.
  The conclusions I leave to you. For me F. E. A. R. was an experience, which I never thought would happen. I 
 couldn't believe that there is a game, which will control ME, instead of me controlling it... and 
 I'm saying that in the word for word meaning... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pbrugalett
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 16, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I finished "Fear" and I'm still asking why all the fuss about this game? For interaction 
 with your world, I'll still take "Half-Life" hands down. It also had a better, more complex story 
 that actually changed as things progressed. "Fear" was lots of clearing rooms (that all started 
 to look the same) , pressing a button and back-tracking. Rescue the girl. Get to the roof. You've 
 see it all before -- and much better!
  
  As for scares! What scares? Okay the girl startled me once. Count-em -- once. And then I had to 
 wait way too long to meet the spooks who pop out of a tear in the universe and attack. Again they 
 are the same creatures each time floating out you and it gets boring. If you want scares play "The 
 Suffering." That game had creatures I can't describe. "Ties that Bind" was okay, but the first 
 installment was richer and better all around.
  
  Maybe its the online multiplayer kill everyone in sight that appeals to most with "Fear," but its 
 not the single player first person game that works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_sanya
Rating: 2.9
Date: Mar 16, 2006 1:37 am PT
Review:  Not sure why so many peops are crazy about the game????
  It has few nice effects that are fairly new in games and thats about it.
  I love SIFI, FPS games, 
 but this was incredibly boring, repetitive imagination deprived piece of crap. 
  Game is cramped up no room to play you pretty much spend all the time in the dark and have to use 
 a shotty because it all close combat, they give you a rifle with the scope early in the game and 
 it's usless. Makes you run around the buildings back and forth to do stupid useless tasks. 
  
  Only character models look good and grenade effects everything else looks like old school graphics 
 and very plane environments. What's up with laptops siting every where waiting for you to get information, 
 pistols laying around on office desks in office buildings, Ridiculous.
  
  In my opinion this could seem like an awesome game to a 15 year old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necromace2938
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 15, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Actually now that i think of it, u wood get some stirred awesome juice with little jagged disc 
 chunks in it; but w/e. This modern atmosphereic shooter can give anyone the chills, along with 
 delivering a satisfying, yet nearly pointless, first person shooter experience. Seeing your enemies 
 blow up with blood flying everywhere is as satisfying as violent, but when put together they make 
 this double hitting combo that really is great for anyone over the age of 17. Language is all over 
 this game, so keep the volume low if there are parents or little kids nearby, plus they probably 
 wont appriciate the screams of ur maimed enemies. One main plus for this game is the slow-mo feature 
 that slows everthing down, making it easier to get out of challenging situations. Also, the weapons 
 are balanced out enough so that u dont just pick the best weapon and stick with it the rest if 
 the game. Tons of enemies, and tons of jump-out-at-u-scares. But after a while, ull feel like u 
 ve already faced these guys, and ull feel like uve already been where u r. Dont worry ur not going 
 insane, pretty much all the levels look EXACTLY THE SAME. and all the enemies pretty much look 
 EXACTLY THE SAME and all the battles kinda work out the same. Which isnt totally bad, cuz i dont 
 mind playing the same action packed battle over and over again. AI is scary smart and ull find 
 them using tools, teamwork, and aggressive tactics. The story is barely there but it has somethign 
 to do with some dead little girl named something who ends up being ur mom. Graphics are realistic, 
 and when u hear whispers, u turn around in ur chair in ur room or office swearing someone is behind 
 u. All-in-all F. E. A. R. has its draw backs, but it turns out ok. And if u beat it, u c they left 
 it off for a fear 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D4rkw4y
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 15, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely incredible, incredibly immersive, impeccable physics engine, and at times 
 utterly terrifying. The graphics in this game are very demanding, this game is the reason that 
 you just upgraded your computer and realize that it was worth every penny. Enemy AI in this game 
 is amongst the best this gamer has ever seen. I think that you will agree once you are flanked 
 by an enemy that proceeds to kick you in the face. There are some truly memorable moments in this 
 game, including a beautiful cliff hanger ending. Slow motion is executed very well in this game, 
 will get you out of many jams, and is alot of fun. The only downfalls in this game are the lack 
 of any truly interesting environments and an ending that felt a little rushed. The office/warehouse 
 environments in this game work well and add to the games creepiness, but these are the only places 
 you will ever find yourself fighting. The game is also a bit on the easy side, since you can save 
 whenever you desire. I'm a bit of a perfectionist and rarely had less than 10 health packs (the 
 max) in my inventory at a given time. It's never inconvenient to reload from your last savepoint 
 and try a particularly annoying firefight again if you aren't happy with the result. The ending 
 of this one feels a little bit rushed, which results in a highly climactic last few hours of play, 
 but leaves the beginning lacking in any truly interesting story developments. Don't expect to spend 
 much more than 10-15 hours on this one. Despite its minor downfalls, F. E. A. R. offers a highly immersive 
 shooter with a very interesting backstory that will keep you pressing on towards its climactic 
 conclusion.
  
  As far as multiplayer there isn't a whole lot of new ground here that you won't find in other FPS 
 games, with the exception of melee combat. Melee combat in F. E. A. R is not limited to pistol whipping, 
 as you will find out the first time you deliver a deathblow to your opponent with a roundhouse 
 kick to the face. Multiplayer is very fast paced and alot of fun. Its definitely worth a look and 
 should provide a few hours of fun gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akdoc
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  I took my time buying F. E. A. R. I have been more into strategy games of late, but wanted to test 
 out my new CPU abilities and first person shooters are the way to go! With a good CPU the game 
 runs flawlessly without problems at the highest resolutions. THe dteail is really amazing from 
 the spray of blood depending what gun you shoot people with to the scenery itself.
  With the ability to save often the game can be quite easy since you can keep playing each little 
 skirmish til you get it right. I almost feal it would be more realistic to only be able to save 
 between checkpoints, but that is up to the player in retrospect.
  The AI is very good and amazing in their actions. THey will flip over a couch as a baracade, they 
 will peak around corners, even hold their arm out around corners to shoot at you.
  The game sounds are realistic, even the speech method. In the heat of battle you hear the F word 
 and other mentions which is as would be expected in reality in that sort of situation.
  Drawbacks? Not really, the game was not as scary as I thought it might. I found myself getting 
 surprised more often in Half-Life 2 than this one, of course I had half-life 2 to warm me up to 
 surround sounds and things jumping out at you.
  I never played the game below its top resolutions so I can not comment on what it looks like on 
 slower cpus. But if you have the power to handle it, this is a great game to buy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brodger15
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 14, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Starting the game it looks like a lot of other shooter games. But as things move on you start to 
 get an appreciation for what the creators are trying to do different. 
  Even though a story is given to you and a task is there to complete. You can't help but ask yourself, 
 "Am I a part of all this?" The character displays abilities that make him superior to the enemy 
 and as you progress through the levels, you find that you are more a part of the story than you 
 think. 
  The music definitely gets your attention and the sudden "hallucinations" downright scare you.
 
  The more and more I play, I am getting more and more hooked. The only problem is, I now don't 
 like playing the game alone in the apartment at night. Maybe I'm a puss but it definitely makes 
 you think.
  
  Its the perfect combination of horror and gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sotnick955
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 14, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. has amazing graphics, but thats about the only thing that there is to get excited about. 
 There is too much time spent without any contact from other characters to keep from getting bored. 
 The game spends too much time trying to be scary. It may have the "scare" factor, but no more than 
 Resident Evil does. It could have used different terrains in order to provide more excitement. 
 Wondering around blown-out buildings and dark allies gets boring after awhile. They could have 
 done a lot more to make it the amazing game that it was built up to be. The game ran very well 
 and the weapons were great, but the game fell short after all the hype it had received. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sylenn_
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 12, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R combines both the first person shooter and the survival horror in a fabulous way which 
 makes the player really involve in its story and ambiency feeling he his really living in the skin 
 of the main character.
  
  The story has lots of secrets to unveil, and it will be one of the best things you will have to 
 do in this game, discover all mistery surrounding the actions of charaters that you will see in 
 the beggining and take contact after. There is also a past to unveil about you're very own character. 
 
  
  The graphics are simply incredible. The game uses a rag-dol techonolgy seen in many games but used 
 in a fantastic way which adds to the realism. The textures, the shaders, and especially the enemy 
 models are so realistic that you will even believe you were there. There is also the bullet time 
 effect that you can use to counter a difficult situation. The explosions are incredible, simply 
 try to slow-mo and then hit a barrel and you will see what im talking about.
  
  The sounds is very important because it adds to the horror felt while playing the game. The special 
 effects are well supported by the sound and the music really accompanies the action in real time.
 
  
  This game is really worth the while and is without a doubt one of the best, if not the best FPS 
 of 2005. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h0le
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Very fun game, kinda freaky at times when you play at night. Best graphics seen in a game in a 
 while. Sweet guns. Genius AI. Okay story (kinda complicated) . I love it when you shoot walls and 
 **** stuff breaks off. AI uses teamwork and cover. Better than HL2 IMO. Can be hard if you do not 
 know whats coming next. Slow-mo is cool. Dynamic lighting. Grenades/explosives are very cool.
 
  
  Overall an outstanding game.
  
  Cons:
  -Multiplayer is pretty weak.
  -Not a lot of freedom in missions. (no different ways to finish the mission)
  -Not a lot of different 
 types of enemies.
  -HUGE game.
  -Need a high end gaming computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Trav1s_
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  When you get down to it, the gun is the heart and soul of a first-person shooter. Even the genre's 
 name alludes to this fact. Yet while shooters have been around for more than a decade, very few 
 of them have actually captured the visceral experience of firing a gun. It's an intense and violent 
 act, not to mention loud. Enter F. E. A. R., the highly anticipated action game from Vivendi Universal 
 Games and developer Monolith. F. E. A. R. is a shooter that captures the sensation of being in wild 
 and desperate firefights like no other game before it, and it's an incredible, kinetic, almost 
 exhausting experience from start to finish. More than that, though, is the fact that it's also 
 one of the most atmospheric and creepy games ever made, as well as one of the most intense shooters 
 that you'll play this year. 
  
  
  F. E. A. R. is easily one of the creepiest and most atmospheric shooters ever made. You'll also battle 
 some amazingly smart opponents. 
  The challenge in describing F. E. A. R. is trying to avoid any spoilers, because this is definitely 
 a game that you want to experience unspoiled. What we can tell you is that you play as the newest 
 member of the First Encounter Assault Recon, the military's top-secret task force assigned to deal 
 with paranormal situations. And the mission in F. E. A. R. certainly counts as above and beyond the 
 regular call of duty. As explained in the opening cinematic (which is also game's only third-person 
 cutscene) , a military commander named Paxton Fettel goes insane and takes command of a secret army 
 of cloned soldiers that are telepathically linked to him. Fettel and the battalion of elite soldiers 
 then go on the rampage in a nondescript American city. They appear to be searching for something, 
 though their objective is a mystery. It's up to you and the rest of the F. E. A. R. team, along with 
 units of Delta Force, to find out what it is they're looking for and stop them. 
  
  F. E. A. R. works because it elevates first-person shooter combat to cinematic levels. And while we've 
 certainly seen games with movie-quality combat before, you've never seen anything quite like this. 
 Playing F. E. A. R. is like battling through a John Woo movie like Face/Off, because when firefights 
 happen in this game, they're downright glorious to behold. Bullets tear chunks out of concrete 
 and wood; blinding clouds of dust and debris fill the air; bodies are torn apart or slump on the 
 ground; and the deathly silence of the aftermath contrasts so sharply with the sheer chaos that 
 erupted only moments before. Gunfights in F. E. A. R. just feel right. 
  
  Part of the reason for that is because the weapons that you have in the game feel powerful, like 
 weapons should. You have the standard fare of guns to play around with, including a pistol, submachine 
 gun, assault rifle, shotgun, and rocket launcher. There's also a scoped, burst-firing rifle that's 
 a dead ringer for the Master Chief's battle rifle in Halo 2; an incredibly nasty particle weapon 
 that sears the flesh off of opponents; and a few other special toys. All of these weapons, even 
 the pistols, pack an incredibly satisfying punch and are capable of putting down opponents quickly 
 (you can even dual-wield the pistols, for that extra John Woo-style gunfight action) . This goes 
 against the genre's convention, since most shooters usually scale weapons on a curve, with the 
 smaller and lighter ones being next to useless later on in the game. That's not the case in F. E. A. R., 
 and virtually every gun you use can tear up the place. 
  
  
  Combat simply looks and feels spectacular, because the environment looks like it's flying apart 
 due to all the bullets. 
  You can't run around like a pack rat carrying every weapon, though, because F. E. A. R. limits you 
 to only three weapons at a time. This is a familiar gameplay mechanic, but it's a good one, as 
 you have to weigh the pros and cons of each weapon. Obviously, you'd like to have a close-range 
 weapon, a decent long-range weapon, and a heavy weapon for those special encounters, but it's tempting 
 when the game offers you a rocket launcher or a repeating cannon that you weren't expecting. At 
 that point, something has to be sacrificed. In addition to guns, you also have grenades in your 
 arsenal. And unlike most shooters, in which you have to equip grenades separately prior to using 
 them, the grenades in F. E. A. R. can be readily thrown at the press of a button. This eliminates 
 the need to fumble around with your inventory, and it opens up your tactical playbook, as you can 
 toss a grenade without a moment's hesitation and force the enemy to react. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaurenKowalczyk
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  I dont remember a moment in this game where I wasn't scared out of my mind! This game really lives 
 up to its name and is one of the most intense and scary games that i have ever played! I can't 
 wait for another one like it! The quality of the picture is also amazing. I remember the first 
 time i put it on; it didn't seem fake at all. The mood of the whole game is also right. You don't 
 know what will be behind the next corner and you start to get really freaked out. Alma also gets 
 creepier as you go through the game. I was so scared when she started crawling on the floor that 
 i had to back away from the computer ( I was even with my friends at the time) . You wouldn't think 
 that a game could scare you at all, but it does and i find it to be really intense! These are the 
 kinds of games that I LOVE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feyre
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay is a whole lot different on multiplayer as on single player, but both are 
 excellent. The single player experience is awesome thanks to the excellent AI, the use of melee 
 attacks, a good variety of weaponry including 3 superweapons and, which get's overlooked a lot, 
 surprisingly different types of enemies, although many look the same.
  When you use the penetrator you can pin your enemies to the wall, you can shoot enemies through 
 glass, and the game has an excellent pysics engine.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are amazing, you'll look around in the game and think OMG, the game looks 
 better than HL2, it has amazing dynamic lights, cool slowmo effects, bullets hitting walls create 
 smoke clouds. Simply the best looking game to date. In the single player, thanks to the great shadows 
 and dynamic lights (if your engine can handle them) you'll often think, did I see something? And 
 when you look directly at something creepy, you'll get scared, trust me.
  
  Sound: The sound adds to the creepy effect, the voice acting is amazing, weapons fire sounds good, 
 your enemies communicate with eachother. Excellent sounds.
  
  Value: the game is surprisingly cheap.
  
  Tilt: The atmosphere is very creepy indeed, though 
 some of the midlevels drag a bit, but this is very easily outweighed by an excellent story and 
 a climactic ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jon1233
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 11, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I didin't know what to think of F. E. A. R., with all the hype, it seemed destined to fall under the 
 "Potential" category. Needless to say, it didin't, and in fact, it raises the bar of the modern 
 FPS with groundbreaking AI, beautiful graphics, and a non-gimmicky Slo-Mo feature.
  The first think you notice when you play F. E. A. R. are the beautiful graphics that far surpass anything 
 else seen on the PC. Whoever thought firing a gun at a wall could be so entertaining, with sparks 
 flying everywhere and clumps of the wall falling out, it is very impressive and entertaining eye-candy. 
 The special-effects are some of the best I've ever seen.
  With such mind-blowing graphics, you can expect top-notch sound. And Monolith fully delivers. Few 
 things are cooler than halfway through a firefight turning on slo-mo and listening to the bullets 
 fly out of your gun as you watch them rip your enemies to shreds.
  Multiplayer is a blast. Slow-Motion and Kung-Foo really seperate this from the rest. Hiding around 
 a dark corner, waiting for an enemy to pass, and then sliding right into him is extremely satisfying.
 
  
  All in all, F. E. A. R. lives up to the hype. The dream of every game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion85
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 11, 2006 4:39 am PT
Review:  Well everybody certainly heard rumors about the amazing graphics of F. E. A. R. When you start off 
 the ambient seems mystical and a little creepy. So throw yourself into the first missions and you 
 simply go "Wow". The ennemies artificial intelligence (AI) seems incredible, if you forgot to turn 
 of your flashlight you will soon enough hear a radio message that you have been spotted and then 
 the action begins. The cool thing is that ennemies react to your attack by adapting their tactics, 
 hence if you load the game after being killed and try a different approach, the ennemy troops will 
 attack you differently. However you get used to the attack moves soon enough and then the game 
 starts to get a bit boring. Of course you have the bullet time which helps you to defeat your foes 
 more easily but after a while even this starts to get a little on your nerves because in the second 
 half of the game you wouldn't survive without it because the ennemies are too strong. 
  
  What disturbed me about the game was that it is simply too dark - the same problem which occured 
 in Doom 3. Therefore the game tries to include horror elements but somehow it does not fully succeed 
 (unless you play in the dark at night and you are dead tired) . I think the main problem is that 
 when everyone says even before the game has come out that it will be an instant classic like Half 
 Life, everybody expects the perfect game. And if you bought a brand new Computer (which many people 
 must in order to play the game) just in order to play F. E. A. R. then many people will be disappointed. 
 
  
  The main problem is that the graphics are impressive but just too dark. Why couldn't they do a 
 level outside like in the outro ?
  And once you played through the game (it'll take you between 10-15 hours) you will know the whole 
 story and the suspense is gone. In my case there are a few missions which I still play from time 
 to time, but that's about it. Therefore it is more a game which you should play through once and 
 lay aside for a while to play again later. 
  
  The multi-player in my view is too dark and lacks the fun which you encouter in other games (hl2, 
 cs, battlefield 2, etc) although I only tried it briefly. 
  
  All in all I would say that if you want to buy a new computer just for this game, hold on a little 
 as it is not worth it yet. It is a good game but not good enough to be remembered as a classic.
 
  For those who are horror afficionados and love to play in the dark (Doom 3 fans) I would recommend 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakx28
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2006 3:03 am PT
Review:  these game is the best game i have ever played.
  although it has it's downsides like you can only carry 3 weapons, still it is the best game ever.
 
  the game combines an horror game that will keep you on the edge of your seat, a great first person 
 shooter with excellent AI and a mystery and maze game, and this kind of game i have never seen.
 
  there is something wired about this game because the road splits a lot of times and somehow all 
 the roads leads to Rome.
  i have never seen a scarier game and i hope there will be F. E. A. R 2.
  the game might have a sequel 
 because near the end the story become more complex and in the end, well, i won't tell you, PLAY 
 AND SEE.
  this game is recommended for everyone except people with weak heart or stomach. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markiemarkie231
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  
  
  When you get down to it, the gun is the heart and soul of a first-person shooter. Even the genre's 
 name alludes to this fact. Yet while shooters have been around for more than a decade, very few 
 of them have actually captured the visceral experience of firing a gun. It's an intense and violent 
 act, not to mention loud. Enter F. E. A. R., the highly anticipated action game from Vivendi Universal 
 Games and developer Monolith. F. E. A. R. is a shooter that captures the sensation of being in wild 
 and desperate firefights like no other game before it, and it's an incredible, kinetic, almost 
 exhausting experience from start to finish. More than that, though, is the fact that it's also 
 one of the most atmospheric and creepy games ever made, as well as one of the most intense shooters 
 that you'll play this year.
  
  F. E. A. R. is easily one of the creepiest and most atmospheric shooters ever made. You'll also battle 
 some amazingly smart opponents.
  
  The challenge in describing F. E. A. R. is trying to avoid any spoilers, because this is definitely 
 a game that you want to experience unspoiled. What we can tell you is that you play as the newest 
 member of the First Encounter Assault Recon, the military's top-secret task force assigned to deal 
 with paranormal situations. And the mission in F. E. A. R. certainly counts as above and beyond the 
 regular call of duty. As explained in the opening cinematic (which is also game's only third-person 
 cutscene) , a military commander named Paxton Fettel goes insane and takes command of a secret army 
 of cloned soldiers that are telepathically linked to him. Fettel and the battalion of elite soldiers 
 then go on the rampage in a nondescript American city. They appear to be searching for something, 
 though their objective is a mystery. It's up to you and the rest of the F. E. A. R. team, along with 
 units of Delta Force, to find out what it is they're looking for and stop them.
  
  F. E. A. R. works because it elevates first-person shooter combat to cinematic levels. And while we've 
 certainly seen games with movie-quality combat before, you've never seen anything quite like this. 
 Playing F. E. A. R. is like battling through a John Woo movie like Face/Off, because when firefights 
 happen in this game, they're downright glorious to behold. Bullets tear chunks out of concrete 
 and wood; blinding clouds of dust and debris fill the air; bodies are torn apart or slump on the 
 ground; and the deathly silence of the aftermath contrasts so sharply with the sheer chaos that 
 erupted only moments before. Gunfights in F. E. A. R. just feel right.
  
  Part of the reason for that is because the weapons that you have in the game feel powerful, like 
 weapons should. You have the standard fare of guns to play around with, including a pistol, submachine 
 gun, assault rifle, shotgun, and rocket launcher. There's also a scoped, burst-firing rifle that's 
 a dead ringer for the Master Chief's battle rifle in Halo 2; an incredibly nasty particle weapon 
 that sears the flesh off of opponents; and a few other special toys. All of these weapons, even 
 the pistols, pack an incredibly satisfying punch and are capable of putting down opponents quickly 
 (you can even dual-wield the pistols, for that extra John Woo-style gunfight action) . This goes 
 against the genre's convention, since most shooters usually scale weapons on a curve, with the 
 smaller and lighter ones being next to useless later on in the game. That's not the case in F. E. A. R., 
 and virtually every gun you use can tear up the place.
  
  Combat simply looks and feels spectacular, because the environment looks like it's flying apart 
 due to all the bullets.
  
  You can't run around like a pack rat carrying every weapon, though, because F. E. A. R. limits you 
 to only three weapons at a time. This is a familiar gameplay mechanic, but it's a good one, as 
 you have to weigh the pros and cons of each weapon. Obviously, you'd like to have a close-range 
 weapon, a decent long-range weapon, and a heavy weapon for those special encounters, but it's tempting 
 when the game offers you a rocket launcher or a repeating cannon that you weren't expecting. At 
 that point, something has to be sacrificed. In addition to guns, you also have grenades in your 
 arsenal. And unlike most shooters, in which you have to equip grenades separately prior to using 
 them, the grenades in F. E. A. R. can be readily thrown at the press of a button. This eliminates 
 the need to fumble around with your inventory, and it opens up your tactical playbook, as you can 
 toss a grenade without a moment's hesitation and force the enemy to react.
  
  As a member of the F. E. A. R. team, it goes without saying that you've got some special abilities 
 at your disposal. For example, you can kill foes with a swift drop-kick or scissors kick, which 
 is such an awesome move that even when you pull it off in desperation (like when you've emptied 
 a clip and don't have time to reload) , it still feels incredibly cool. Yet your most important 
 ability is your ultrafast reflexes, which can be activated in short bursts to create a sort of 
 Matrix-like bullet-time. Now, bullet-time has been done to death over the past few years, but the 
 execution of bullet-time in F. E. A. R. is still well done. When you kick in the reflexes, everything 
 else slows down, and you can see the vortexes in the air created by bullets. You can only activate 
 this ability in short bursts before it runs out, but it recharges at a decent rate, so you generally 
 can have it at your disposal in most fights. This slow-motion ability is almost essential for surviving 
 some of the tougher battles; you can use it to whittle down the odds. With that said, we almost 
 wish that it were a bit rarer in the game, as F. E. A. R. really comes alive when the firefights are 
 at full speed, not slow motion.
  
  Slowing down time creates a cool visual effect, as you can see the trace of every bullet in the 
 air.
  
  Without a doubt, you've got an extremely formidable arsenal at your disposal, but you're going 
 to need it against the artificial intelligence in F. E. A. R. Put simply, these are the smartest, 
 most aggressive, most tactically oriented AI opponents that we've ever encountered in a shooter, 
 and they're downright impressive. The AI is incredibly sharp, and they'll do things that you don't 
 expect, like pin you down while one of them flanks you. Or they'll pin you down and plop a grenade 
 down next to you. These guys move around from cover to cover; they communicate with one another; 
 they'll react to any sound or sight of you; and they'll also react if they see the beam of your 
 flashlight approaching. They've got the same weapons that you do, and their guns do the same amount 
 of damage to you as it does to them. So you've got to use cover and lean around corners as much 
 as possible, because it doesn't take much to shred your armor and health to zero. This can create 
 situations in which you're pinned down, firing desperately to keep their heads down while trying 
 to figure a way out of your current situation. The AI can also take advantage of the game's physics 
 system, and they can knock over objects to create cover.
  
  You'll take a lot of damage during the game, but thankfully, there are countless health packs and 
 armor kits that you can pick up. You can also collect up to 10 health kits for later use, which 
 you'll use liberally in the heat of battle to keep yourself going. And while there is a way to 
 permanently boost your maximum health level, as well as your stamina, sooner or later you'll fall 
 to the enemy. Fortunately, F. E. A. R. uses a combination of checkpoints, quick saves, and auto saves 
 to keep track of your progress, and you can automatically reload at the last save point in just 
 a matter of seconds, or go back to an earlier save to try something different. It's a good system, 
 but our only complaint is that there are only 10 save slots, which is a bit limiting since you'll 
 want to save a lot.
  
  F. E. A. R. features excellent combat, but as good as the AI is, it doesn't take too long for you 
 to get used to taking down small groups of soldiers, and these encounters can feel a bit repetitive 
 after a point. Since you're dealing with an army of clones, you're essentially battling the same 
 guy over and over, so this also lends to an air of familiarity with your opponent. It's not until 
 you run into the huge, set-piece battles against upwards of a dozen foes that things get tricky. 
 The game does introduce a few new foes to change things up a bit in the middle of the game, but 
 the cloned soldiers represent the opponent you'll battle most of the time. And while they're solid 
 opponents, we'd love to have seen more variety, such as more of the high-tech ninjas that appear 
 midway through the game. These guys can cloak themselves to be invisible, they can climb up walls, 
 and they possess the same ultrafast abilities that you do. The first time you encounter them can 
 be a shock, and it's disappointing that they show up again rarely afterward.
  
  The environments can also feel a bit repetitive after a time. F. E. A. R. takes place in basically 
 three settings: a deserted industrial area, a deserted office complex, and a deserted and rundown 
 urban setting. Notice a pattern? While the levels are designed to allow for wild and wooly gunfights, 
 F. E. A. R. could certainly use more variety when it comes to environments, because there's a certain 
 point where you feel like you've explored the same factory or office complex for the umpteenth 
 time. It would be nice to also have an unpredictable element in the game, such as civilians who 
 you need to protect, or at least, not harm.
  
  It's well known at this point that F. E. A. R. is a game that's heavily influenced by Japanese horror 
 movies, most notably The Ring. In fact, the game uses many of the same kinds of visual tricks to 
 scare you that you've probably already seen before in a movie, like the split-second appearance 
 of a ghostly apparition when you least expect it. And while the imagery in F. E. A. R. may not exactly 
 be entirely original, it's exceedingly effective. The designers are smart enough to realize that 
 less is more when it comes to building tension. There are stretches in F. E. A. R. when you don't 
 battle anything, and it's unsettling to search abandoned office buildings, finding nothing more 
 than pools of blood or the voicemails left by family members trying to contact their loved ones. 
 Then there are areas where you expect some kind of gargantuan throw-down and you brace yourself 
 for battle, but nothing happens. You certainly feel like you're being watched the whole time, though, 
 as there's always some kind of noise or rattling of objects to greet you, or the fleeting image 
 of someone in the corner of your eye. Admittedly, some of these tricks become a bit too familiar 
 over time, but they're still enough to keep you on your toes, and there are a number of jump-out-of-your 
 seat moments in the game.
  
  Alma is the creepy little girl in the game, and she loves messing with your head, big time. This 
 is one of the many hallucinatory visions you encounter.
  
  This omnipresent tension combined with the outstanding combat make F. E. A. R. a superb game, though 
 one that can leave you a bit emotionally exhausted after a while. And as much as we enjoyed the 
 game's atmosphere, we must admit that we were a bit disappointed by the plot. Rest assured that 
 F. E. A. R. features a complete story, as well as an ending. The trouble is that it feels like several 
 plotlines lack some kind of satisfactory payoff for all your trouble, so the game's a bit of a 
 letdown in this aspect. The end level is also disappointing in that it's surprisingly easy, especially 
 compared to what you've experienced to get to that point. Thankfully, F. E. A. R. does end on a spectacular 
 note, though we won't spoil it for you.
  
  The single-player story should take you a good 10 hours to get through, which is on par with most 
 other shooters. When you're done with the single-player, you can tackle the generally excellent 
 multiplayer game. F. E. A. R. features all the standard multiplayer modes that you'd expect, including 
 deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture the flag, but it differentiates itself by incorporating 
 many of the cool features found in single-player, such as the ability to slow down time. Basically, 
 one player can control the ability at a time, and you can wrest control if you kill that player. 
 The downside is that you can only use the slow motion ability for limited bursts, and everyone 
 knows your location at all times, so this can be used to hunt you down. On the flip side, you can 
 also use this to set a trap in a team game, because your teammates can set up ambushes to take 
 out players who are out to get you.
  
  Multiplayer is fast-paced and brutal, just like you'd expect. And you can also battle to see who 
 gets to slow down time.
  
  Your martial arts abilities are available in multiplayer, and this can create wicked gunfights 
 in which guys are leaping into the air to drop-kick someone, crouching down to side-kick them, 
 or simply melee punching each other to death as the bullets and explosions fly around. The multiplayer 
 is extremely fast-paced, and you'll get a lot of kills, die a lot of times, and come back for more. 
 With that said, we wonder about the multiplayer's lasting power, as the gameplay doesn't feature 
 the kind of depth of other multiplayer-centric shooters. It's still a lot of fun, though, and you'll 
 probably wring out quite a bit of gameplay before you're done. And, generally, the multiplayer 
 performance was good on our high-speed connection, though it did slow down a few times. This is 
 a concern, because there's so much action in the game that any kind of lag could be crippling.
 
  
  Throughout F. E. A. R., the graphics, the particle effects, the physics, and the sound effects combine 
 to create the sense that all hell is breaking loose. On the surface, the level design and textures 
 aren't all that complex compared to other PC shooters. The level design features lots of sharp 
 angles, and they give the levels a somewhat generic look and feel. Meanwhile, objects have a chunky 
 look to them, and some of the character models look more like plastic dolls than human beings. 
 But what F. E. A. R. lacks in high polygon counts, it more than makes up for with astounding particle 
 effects, as well as an excellent lighting and shadowing model to set the mood. All this comes at 
 a high price, though, as the game can tax a cutting-edge system. We played the game on a fairly 
 high-end system, as well as an older system equipped with a two-year-old video card. On the high-end 
 system, the frame rate dropped at times, and there were moments of stuttering as the game tried 
 to load the next part of the level in midgame. Meanwhile, we had to tone down the visual settings 
 to "medium" to get the game to run smoothly on the older system, and the game lost some of its 
 atmospheric creepiness due to the reduced lighting and shadowing effects, as well as the blander 
 textures. The good news, at least, is that F. E. A. R. ran solidly without a single crash, which is 
 impressive for such a technically complex game.
  
  Meanwhile, the audio in F. E. A. R. is outstanding, and the sounds go a long way to establishing the 
 mood. In a game that's all about making you afraid of the dark, it's often the little noises that 
 can send you spinning around, ready to blast whatever it is that created the sound. F. E. A. R. will 
 mess with your sense of hearing a lot this way, particularly if you have any kind of surround sound 
 system. Combat also sounds glorious, and you can hear almost every single noise in a firefight, 
 from glass shattering apart, spent brass cartridges hitting the floor, and the thud of explosions. 
 The voice acting is generally good, and you'll have plenty of opportunities to overhear the cloned 
 soldiers discussing the latest happenings, or listening to a news report over the radio describing 
 the escalating situation in the city. That's one of the cooler aspects of the game, in fact, because 
 there's a palpable sense that events are spiraling out of control.
  
  Grenades and explosions have a cool way of warping space, as you can see the shock of the explosion 
 head outwards.
  
  F. E. A. R. is quite easily one of the most intense and atmospheric games that you'll play, and it's 
 a spectacular blend of horror and action. You can't help but get the feeling that this is a game 
 that's the spiritual successor to the original Half-Life, because it's so obviously inspired by 
 that classic game. Indeed, some of the locations and enemies are highly reminiscent of those in 
 Half-Life. This is a game that will thrill you one moment and scare you the next. F. E. A. R. features 
 some of the greatest gunplay available in a first-person shooter, and it elevates the art of firing 
 a gun to whole new levels. This alone makes it an incredibly intense game that must be experienced. 
 The fact that it's also one of the creepiest games ever made is just icing on the cake.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: q8hr
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 10, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  This review is about F. E. A. R. (First Encounter Assault and Recon) which is a FPS (First Person 
 Shooter) game developed by Monolith Productions. This game takes place in a building and is a game 
 in which is suppost to be scary. This game offers great gameplay, solid graphics, and a solid story 
 line. 
  
  First off ill start by talking about the graphics of this game, when people buy a game they want 
 good graphics when they play it. F. E. A. R offers good graphics and good physics. The models and 
 shading is fantastic and looks really realistic. One aspect of F. E. A. R which amazed people was 
 its physics, the physics in this game were amazing. For example, if you shoot something in a specifec 
 spot it will fall in a specifec way. This was able to be done even without a physics card which 
 are due to come out soon. When you buy this game you wonder if it will run on your computer, bad 
 thing about F. E. A. R is that it is a system hog which takes up a lot of space, ram, and needs a 
 good computer to run it well. To have the full thrill of F. E. A. R you really need a 7800gtx running 
 in SLI to see the shure amazing graphics, though you can pull of this game on Medium settings with 
 a x600pro. Even if you dont have a crazy top of the line computer, the story line will still be 
 good even though the graphics are tad low.
  
  The gameplay and story line in this game is good, its hard for an FPS to draw my attention because 
 I am a RTS player but the story line in this game was jaw dropping. I wont say anything in this 
 review to rune it for you but I will say if your the type that cannot take scary stuff dont get 
 it, if you like the thrill of being scared this game is the right game for you. You will play as 
 one guy threwout the game killing various creatures and clones. The ending of this game is amazing 
 and if you buy it and only get half way threw I strongly suggest you finish it. 
  
  All in all I say F. E. A. R is a must have game of any pc game lover. Even though some aspects of 
 it are dissapointing you will love it none the less, This game will give you a good 20 hours if 
 not more.
  
  Pros: Solid gameplay and graphics, good story line, not to short, not a confusing fps like many 
 others out there, wide range of guns
  
  Cons: Need a good pc to run, ram and cpu hogger, long load times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guthix122
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 10, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  when i played this game i thought it was going to be like other shoot ' em ups (not saying i don't 
 love them) but boy was i wrong this game was amazing. It makes you want to jump out of your skin 
 when thing just jump out, like when you see the little girl just looking at you. but aside from 
 the scary part ( which i loved, gave a nice twist that most shoot' em ups dont have) of this game 
 the game play was amazing, graphics were great, sound makes you want to jump out of your chair, 
 and the value was ok. so over all this game is a very good game and you should buy it for sure 
 if your on of those people who love shooting and being scared to turn the next corner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masoumi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 9, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of FPS'ers then FEAR will be like a breath of fresh air. It pulls no punches in 
 it's gameplay in that it's strictly an action shooter. There aren't any puzzles to solve or keys 
 to find really. There is a sequence where you have to unlock some doors and find your way though 
 an office building but that's as cerebral as FEAR gets. 
  
  As you know, FEAR boasts an impressive game engine. There are tons of particle effects, sparks 
 and dust flying all over the place when the gunplay goes down. Yes you'll need a well above average 
 PC to enjoy this but that is the cost of next-gen visuals like these.
  
  Though FEAR gets a lot of press for it's amazing graphics, which is does have, I found that there 
 are some unusual gaps and rough spots here and there. For example, while FEAR has good ragdoll 
 physics for the enemies, the world physics aren't very impressive. You'll be able to shoot office 
 equipment and other furniture and things in the levels, but they don't fall over or come apart 
 realistically at all. 
  
  Also, the much praised bullet holes which use bumpmapping to appear like actual chunks of the wall 
 that have been blown out look a little bit ugly up close. 
  
  To sum up the graphics for FEAR, they look great when you just play the game and don't focus on 
 the little details too much. If you just play the game and let the action happen, the game looks 
 great.
  
  As mentioned, gameplay is fun, just a little stale after a while. Enter a room, open fire on enemies, 
 wash, rince, repeat. There is little deviation in this forumula. 
  
  The game has some spooky Max Payne style dream sequences which I personally found annoying and 
 thought they interupted the action. Some people find it "scary". There are some spooky moments 
 but for the most part, this is an action game.
  
  Sound is something FEAR does well. The guns sound big and powerfull, the support for 5.1 is good 
 and if you have an Audigy Z2 or something close to that, you'll like what you hear.
  
  The level design is probably the worst part about FEAR. All too often, you'll find yourself running 
 through rooms and building that just have nothing going on. Just an empty room with a chair and 
 some boxes. This isn't the whole game though, there is a nice mixture of really cool locations 
 thrown in but it would have been nice to see effort put in to the level design on ALL levels.
 
  
  Multiplayer is stale. There are 3 modes, Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch and CTF. All of these modes 
 are marred by again, poor level design. The multiplayer levels are way too small. Not only that 
 but the action is in some ways TOO fast paced due to you being in such a small and cramped environement. 
 You die, you spawn, you die, you spawn, you get a kill, you die ect.. This kind of gameplay was 
 interesting in 1996, not so much anymore.
  
  Bottom line, if you like FPS'ers, if you enjoy shooting guys and making things go boom, FEAR is 
 a worthy purchase. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  In spite of that my best game is Half Life 2, well I think I might need to think and collect my 
 thoughts as if sch a games like F. E. A. R will show us high tense and amazeness of game development. 
 
  
  Game has a smashing story line taken from a few Hollywood's horrofic and action games. Graphic 
 is the revolutionary impacts players mind. We never such a sing so far. Sound .uhhhhhhhh... man 
 this the scariest game ever made, sounds all around is just f*#ing physicaly makes players to affraid 
 and keep eye on everything. Haha, that is the games hint, as much as you games tense you nerves 
 with its sound effects, buh suddenly some scary photo or cut scene flashes in front of your widely 
 opend eyes. Well you **** if not then, move on. 
  
  This game reached it is perfection at that point when developers of the game integrated to the 
 game the best ever made sthelth element, yeah thats right am talkin abou "Slo-mo" --- the best 
 one so far in game industry.. forget about Matrix or Max Payne.. this is different stuff.
  
  Oh, of course we dont wanna forget about AI in the game. Damn man, are we playing dudes in online 
 environment or we are playing with computer bots. Well definitely not first one, but effect is 
 the same with second ones effects. This Replika soldiers is the best tacticaly behaviored and well 
 prepared and equiped bastards I have ever seen in the game. Man... this guys just try to find ways... not 
 just ways... exactly ways to kill you in!!! 
  For some moment and in bad situations you will get out of that preasure with Slo-mo or with highly 
 explosiv granades, but for some moment, man then just find the bloody barrier to hide in behind 
 coz you will dead in a sec.
  
  The first game I could recommend with out any doubt that you will get amazing game experience. 
 Go for it and try it, you will not disapointed
  
  Enjoy Your F. E. A. R!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShoreEcho
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2006 10:41 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is scary, and has a great storyline. Alma is my favorite character in the game just because 
 she is that creepy. Its probably the only FPS that I truly did enjoy from start to end. Even HALO 
 and HALO 2 didn't have the storyline that this game does.
  
  The Gameplay is awsome, pulling out all the bells and wistles that some FPS games miss. You can 
 climb ladders without worrying about flying off the edge like in CounterStrike or Half-Life, you 
 can lean, and you can see your character feet and body just like in real life. The immersiveness 
 and realism of it is good enough to actually make you feel like your there.
  
  From start to the end, you'll be guessing whats going on. The ending was great, and left an opening 
 for a sequal. Although not made by the same people, I hope they do a good job on it.
  
  You must play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 8, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  You won't find free-roaming, mission-based game design in First Encounter Assault Recon. Nor will 
 you find boats, jeeps or aircraft to commandeer. In addition, FEAR doesn't give you a snow level, 
 followed by a jungle level, leading to an underwater level.
  
  In fact, FEAR is a relatively short, basic FPS set within claustrophobic confines, which follows 
 a familiar pattern -- you explore, fight, advance to the next level, and repeat. Nevertheless, 
 FEAR excels because it manages to establish a frightening, believable and consistent atmosphere 
 full of tension, violence and dread.
  
  The game's main weakness is a rather dull and generic level design. Elements like desks, chairs, 
 cabinets and paintings appear repeatedly throughout almost every level. This makes it difficult 
 to judge how far into the story you've progressed, because the end doesn't seem much different 
 from the middle, which feels a lot like the beginning.
  
  But FEAR atones for unspectacular levels by creating incredibly visceral gun battles. Sparks, dust 
 and smoke fill the air whenever bullets fly. Buckets of blood mark the bodies of fallen enemies 
 and hapless victims. A slow-motion mode amplifies the cool effect of killing evil soldiers, who 
 intelligently rally to kill you.
  
  The supernatural story is cribbed from modern horror movies, so if you've watched The Ring, the 
 plot won't surprise you too much. However, FEAR's ending (spoiler alert!) , with the nuclear blast 
 roiling up the street, and a grotesque, naked specter scrambling inside your rescue helicopter, 
 is simply mind-blowing. FEAR presents the greatest finale of any video game ever made.
  
  Some shooters can be ignored because they're quite similar to games already contained in your collection. 
 FEAR should not be overlooked because it really does put the fear back into your virtual fight 
 for survival.
  
  By Phill "Sniper" Parker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilblackgirl
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 8, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  My initial entrance into gaming came via the FPS as i'm sure most moderately old school gamers 
 did. I started my gaming 'career' with twitch games like Quake, Duke Nukem and Doom. At a younger 
 age, twitch gaming was the only type of game to play. I don't know if i'm just getting older or 
 my gaming preferences require more engrossing and story driven games, but the FPS just really doesn't 
 do it for me any longer. I have exceptions like Half Life 2 and others, but FEAR took me back to 
 my older days, albeit with much better graphics, and i now realilze that i'm just not a FPS gamer 
 as i once was. Monolith did an amazing job graphically and with the AI in this game. I thought 
 Far Cry had long beaten any other game in terms of AI, but FEAR blows FAR CRY away by miles. The 
 AI is the closest to playing against real live players as i've ever experienced. This being said, 
 they were almost TOO good in the single player game. The creepiness factor was definitely there. 
 The hair on the back of my neck was on end for large portions of this game. There's just enough 
 creep in the game to keep you on the edge of your seat waiting for the next good scare. The slow 
 motion is very Max Payne-ish, but with much prettier special effects. The problem with the graphics 
 in this game is that they are so intense, that at times, the game turns into a slide show, even 
 with moderate settings on a higher end rig. In the end, i found myself distracted with all the 
 little things, positive and negative, that took away from the overall play experience to really 
 enjoy (and complete) this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyFireInside
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 8, 2006 3:09 am PT
Review:  FEAR, this game is absolutely phenomenal. Every aspect shines for this game and it high bragging 
 rights. A FEAR associate, you are sent to disable Fattel who is leading a clone military force. 
 In the game, though, you find it isn't his project, he is helping a supernatural, supposedly dead, 
 girl. She is forcing her thoughts into others as her prime suspect seems to be Fattel, the vampire-esque 
 villain. Throughout the game, you will encounter Fattel with a ring of blood around his neck constructed 
 of dark red blood from his human victims. The story is excellent because not only does it have 
 good transitions between sewers, offices, building roofs, and apartments, but it also has a deep 
 storyline that you have to listen to to get the most detail about what it is trying to say.
  
  There is a variety of 13 weapons you are able to hold in this game. Gratefully, there are three 
 types of grenades to use. I have to say, the gunfights in this game are quite amazing as you are 
 able to slow down time to watch everything happen frame by frame and kill as many people as you 
 can. This is especially useful in the later difficulties of the game. There are also plenty of 
 pick-ups to... pick up during the game like health boosters (I've gotten mine up to 170) and there 
 are also reflex booster which allow you to move faster when in the slow mode. Able to carry up 
 to 10 medkits at a time only because they are needed as you will lose health fast in this game. 
 If you are up to the challenge, change your difficulty up to the highest you can and you'll be 
 amazed how good the AI is. The gameplay is very good except one problem, how long the campaign 
 is. I would've really liked to have seen the campaign at least be 20 hours but instead, I got 12 
 hours of pure brilliance.
  
  The graphics in the game are outrageous. Probably the best right now, this game has everything, 
 amazing lighting effects, bump mapping almost everywhere, shiny alloys, and beautiful guns. During 
 the game, you are introduced multiple times to a peculiar hallway which shows many special effects 
 which make the shine in this area even more. Slowing down time never looked so good either because 
 when you shoot (or they do) , you see the streaks the bullet makes, think of The Matrix. This game, 
 for high settings and resolution will need a powerful PC and/or graphics card (s) . 
  
  The sound is a mix of ambiance and frightening music. When the music does appear, you'll either 
 hear fast paced or tribal sounds. In the beginning, most notably, it shows how dramatic the music 
 can get. Also, not to mention the sound effects. Each gun has its own sound it makes when blasting 
 away the clones. Small things in each level will scare you right out of you chair like walking 
 through a hallway and hearing the sudden sound of a Watcher creeping down the ceiling. Or even 
 hearing something fall beside you and you'll be ashamed you jumped becasue of a falling book. But 
 that is how effective the sound is in this game.
  
  There is multiplayer in this game and it is definitely one of the strangest yet most strategic 
 I've ever seen. First of all, you better find a place to get the most health packs you can becasue 
 without it, you can pretty much say goodbye to your weapon as an enemy slashes you out of the way. 
 Observing how players played during the multiplayer, I saw multiple occurances where the enemy 
 would break an object to get the attention of their enemy on the map. As the intruder would investigate 
 the noise, the other enemy would shoot him/her down. It is fun to watch but it is even funner to 
 do.
  
  Over all, this game is pretty damn good and if you haven't checked it out, go right now, if that 
 is, you have the right computer. The story and gameplay are wonderful in this game although the 
 campaign could've been longer. The graphics are perfect and so is the sound as they both create 
 quite the atmosphere. And the over all value of the game is high becasue of the good multiplayer. 
 It will take some time getting used to the unique multiplayer though. I am definitely going to 
 play this more that 2 or 3 times only because the gunfights in this game are miraculously good. 
 I have enjoyed this game and if you like FPSs, I'm positive you will also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bfhdsbhf
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 7, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Lets not beat around the bush here i know you've heard of fear but you may not know much about 
 it well keep reading to find out.
  
  Story: The story for fear is you are a new recruit for the First Encounter Assault Recon team and 
 its your first mission tracking down a cannibal serial killer so you try to track him down in all 
 kinds of complexs and buildings but he always escapes you and it doesn't help that you see images 
 of dead people, freak out when ghosts come after you and a little girl who I think is from the 
 ring chasing you.
  
  Graphics: The game shines in this department. The graphics are jaw dropping everything about them 
 from the people to the floor look very realistic. The partical effects are perfect as walls fall 
 apart, the dust flies from every crack when shot. And the bullet time makes everything slow motion 
 which means all the physics are even better.
  
  Sound: Oh my the sound is most excellent the bullet shots are realistic, the footsteps are crisp 
 and perfectly heard in a empty room, and the creepy music when something strange is about to happen 
 highten the tension.
  
  Gameplay: Now it might not be as revolutionary as half-life was but it still very well done. First 
 the controls are very easy to get the hold of and soon will be as easy as 1,2,3. The shooting is 
 very satisfying because the enemy A. I is very intelligent they will use cover, try to flank you, 
 work as teams, and use grenades. The main sooting is fun all weapons fell good and are as powerful 
 as you'd expect, shooting the bad guys is satisfying and if you like gore and blood well this game 
 has lots of both as blood flies out in each direction and the shotgun or grenade will make limbs 
 fly of with ease. The multiplayer is quite fun you have the modes you would expect like deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, capture the flag and a couple others. In multiplayer you pick a starting weapon 
 and kill the other team .... thats it.
  
  Should you buy it: Well i had a ton of fun with fear the single player doesn't make to much sense 
 so its good to play a few times before its clear but the single players awsome the multiplayer 
 not bad so all in all a great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrhawk42
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 7, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  I think the story is pretty good, and I really like how it plays out. instead of developing a story 
 through cuts scenes like most game, the story is introduced in a mixture of cut like scenes, phone 
 messages, and other means. So if your not a gamer who is into storyline too much you can skip most 
 of these.
  
  First off this game is one of the best looking games of 2005, you will not be dissapointed with 
 the graphics or physics of this game. Despite the great graphics the developers didn't really add 
 alot of chances to show them off, most of the time your stuck in a building, but I still gave the 
 graphics a 10 despite this. The sound is top notch too. The developers were really intune to adjusting 
 sound levels to make sure you were listening intently.
  
  Next is the most dissapointing part of the game, the gameplay itself. I like the weapons, and the 
 enemies, but level layout was horrible. As I said with the graphics most of the time your stuck 
 in an office building. I'm sure the developers thought they were adding a closterphobic (sp?) feel 
 to the game, but it really doesn't work. The enemy AI is extremly smart, but you probably won't 
 notice since most of the combat is linear close quarters. The most challanging part of the gameplay 
 is figuring out where you're spose to go which is surprisingly easy. The gameplay is mixed into 
 2 different parts, fighting troops, and then walking around haunted house style. If they would 
 of blended the two together it would of worked better, and I would of wasted alot more ammo, but 
 I could easily tell when troops were near, or the little girls was gonna come out. There's not 
 really alot of different enemies, but the fact that they are one type of enemy or the other makes 
 there seem like even less (5 or so enemies) . There are a couple areas where the gameplay really 
 shines, and everything seems to come together, but most of the time your running through a hallway 
 trying to figure out why you are still playing this game. 
  
  Value wise this game seems pretty short single player, and it seems like theres just not a very 
 interesting community online, so I wouldn't be surprised if this game is only installed on your 
 system for a few months, until the next big game comes out.
  
  In conclusion this game only has a few flaws, but they will really irk your playing experience. 
 I was suprised that the AI was so smart, but dissapointed in how its intellegence is pretty much 
 wasted in badly designed levels. All the elements are there for a fantastic game, but the design 
 is just so horrible it drags what should be a epic game into a flashy graphics tester. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savvas79
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 7, 2006 2:29 am PT
Review:  Hmm.. Usually I don, t buy action games. I am just not a great of the genre or I prefer strategy 
 or rpg games! So, when I chose to spend my hard earned money for FEAR, I did it basically for two 
 reasons: I needed something different and I don, t buy sport games!!! 
  
  The only thing I've heard for FEAR before I bought was that it had a good scenario! Well, the story 
 is f****ng great and solid ( not the classic action story that you are a marine/doctor/diver/driver 
 etc alone in a alien planet/zoo/room to fight demons/clowns/cows!!!!!!! )
  
  Great graphics, sound and ofcourse gameplay! Lets just say that I have finished it 3-4 days! I started 
 and never stopped until I've finished it! 
  
  I expect a sequel of course!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demented2001
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 6, 2006 11:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is fantastic! One of the best games i have enjoyed in years.
  
  The gameplay is nuts, i spent hours with this game and you will to! Playing the story on Hard is 
 pretty Psychotic.
  
  The graphics are phonomanal, but it could do better in a little tweaks like water or ragdolls, 
 but that's mainly it.
  
  Holy SH*T! Is what you will be saying, the sound is so great, it keeps you on the edge of your 
 seat, the music is so spooky that, well, it's spook for real!
  
  The replay value is quite good thanks to some crazy multiplayer, and hard diffiulty, and i mean 
 they are INSANE!
  
  Well all-in-all, an amazing game! The story is hard to understand unless you listin to phone calls 
 and datas. This is a pretty hard game to run, but if you can, BUY!
  
  (for me this ranks above far-cry and Half Life 2) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwnyy21
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 6, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is an excellent single player FPS experience that no experienced FPS fan should miss. Although 
 it does require a beefy system for one to enjoy and maximize the entertainment and thrill that 
 is FEAR, the game itself is wonderful in many more ways than one.
  
  The use of matrix time reminds me of max payne, except that FEAR is an exciting first person shooter 
 and you will need all the matrix time you can get at certain intervals during the game. The AI 
 is ridiculously smart on higher difficulty lvls, as they will flush you out with nades and then 
 massacre you in groups.
  
  The storyline is one of the better ones ive seen in a long time, and theres no questions that there 
 is a sequel coming out, because there is a lot to be explained in the beginning and at the end 
 of the game. However, its a visually stunning experience as you learn from flashbacks and other 
 great digressions that add to the original gameplay even more. 
  
  DONT MISS THIS ONE. Its a keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolflegresley
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 6, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is everything you have heard it to be. If your system can run the game your in for a 
 truly unique experiance.
  
  The good: 
  The sound draws you in like never before.. it will creep you out. 
  Shooting a gun has never felt 
 soo real soo good... definatlly amazing!
  The horror aspect of this game truly gets drawn out in a dark room with the amazinginly scarey 
 sounds
  The grafics are amongst the best today and will definatlly have you going "Holy crap Did you see 
 that!?!? when your shotgun blows apart enemies. 
  Finally a game with several weapons that feel nothing like other guns.. no more of this 8 guns but 
 only 2 real diffnret ones. All the weapons have purposes. The ai is the very best youve ever seen... The 
 game is challanging.. all round this is one game that if ever made a sequel.. the sequel would sell 
 even if it got bad reviews just because how good this game is... definatlly going to go down as 
 1 of the greatest games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jadedcell01
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 5, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  It starts with you attempting to find a psi-ops commander called Paxton Fettel. From there the 
 player is treated to a glorious array of graphical indulgence and incredibly smart AI.
  
  The guns are awesome, sounding incredible and looking every bit the part. In fact, in game sounds 
 are excellent, and listening to the psi-ops soldiers' commands and radio chatter can be at once 
 amusing and a little scary.
  
  Graphics are downright amazing and all the environments are detailed beyond anything that I have 
 seen in recent times in an FPS. Physics model is very good, but there are some graphical anomalies 
 with some enemies clipping through doors/walls (especially when shot dead) . Character models are 
 brilliantly detailed and the enemies you encounter are by and large very well animated and brought 
 to life extremely well. Soldiers' bodies disappear after a short time which is disappointing.
 
  
  Gameplay is awesome, with a Max-Paynesque "focus time" employed, effectively slowing time down 
 and enabling the player to get themselves out of a tight spot.
  
  Now for the bad news: If you have anything but a high end system, you'll be wondering if you are 
 actually playing the same game as me. Without a beast of a machine, one can expect choppy frame 
 rate, unresponsive movement (due to said frame rate) and when the settings of this game are tuned 
 down, a hell of a lot of its graphical grace is lost, and so unfortunately is some of that immersive, 
 lifelike feel.
  
  In short, FEAR can be a truly amazing game, but only if you have the system for it. Anything mid-range 
 (ie below a P4 3.0 GIG, with a graphics card no older than a year) is going to struggle BIG-TIME, 
 even on low-medium settings. If you got the system and love FPS, this is a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpimpfattony
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 5, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Okay, fear IS one of the best first person shooters on the market. With a totally shabby story 
 ( or no story at all as i look at it ) , and 3 types of enemies, YEAH, that's right, oh my god, 
 really? THREE? Oh my bad and i forgot the freaky little girl too. Four. AND THE GHOST GUY, who 
 could forget him... The enemies do get repetitive but that's not what you're paying attention to. 
 You always expect someone to jump out of the corner, like in Doom3 or Quake4, but that doesnt happen 
 here. They actually made the scary part well. 
  
  The graphics are extremely good, but still nothing compared to Half life 2, or Far cry. The sounds 
 were very well done, which make you feel like taking a part of a scary movie, except you shape 
 your own story.
  
  The gameplay is okay, not out of the ordinary. Feels a lot like Far Cry, a little on the slow side.
 
  
  Although FEAR is fun and entertaining, it gets old quick. The multiplayer is a simply disastrous, 
 just plain sucks. There is a very short selection of weaponry and locations.
  
  Overall FEAR deserves the 8.1 that i give it. Decent game.
  If you're into scary games, such 
 as Doom 3, you won't be dissapointed with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jburde
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Do you like dark, creepy environments, super smart AI and a little ghost girl wandering dark corridors 
 and a fun multiplayer? Then FEAR is for you. The graphics in this game are mind-bowing, but you 
 need a REALLY good video card to truly appreciate it. FEAR's AI are probably the most advanced 
 you will see to date. They communicate, they ambush, they do all sorts of things. But that's why 
 you have a great arsenal of weapons. There are all sorts of guns from your regular submachinegun 
 to a high tech nail gun. The environments are dark and creepy. The lighting adds to the creepiness 
 of walking down a dark corridor. FEAR is a great game but unless you have a high end PC you won't 
 enjoy it nearly as much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ammbasador
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 5, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  VU games showed us screenshots and told: "See, see? we are making game with serious horror!" But 
 about the story they did not wanted to tell. Why? Because there is none. An evil jerk attacked 
 governmental building, and you, soldier from some First Encounter Assault Recon team go there and 
 shoot the bastards. Now I see, what kind of story is waiting us- the story which ends in the fourth 
 level. But do not let you heads down, maybe one good thing has fallen, but the others are ready 
 to fight till the end.
  Ok, one of our team is dead, what about the others? Oh no there is one clone, dodge! BUM! Horror? 
 Horror! Nooooooo! Ok, we have lost another- horror elements are from "The ring", including a little 
 girl. Sometimes she scars you, sometimes do not scars you. But after the 10th time she pisses you 
 off! Oh, how I want to shoot a bullet in her had... 
  Go go go! BUM! BUM! BUM! Ha, all clones are dead! No one will kill us now! But what is that? They 
 have left a little bomb! RUN, you fool! BUM! Oh, my god our commander is dead- the F. E. AR. does 
 not give us real fear- ok, a man who must kill ten enemies can feel emotions, but not too much. 
 As I said, there is little, spooky girl, but in time you ignore her.
  Now, who is alive- one, two, three.... Damn! Thees clones do their job good- that is the biggest 
 bonus. AI is perfect. If you are one with little gun in your right hand, but left hand is bleeding, 
 they will scream: "Advance!" If you are healthy and with BIG, BIG gun, clones will answer like 
 this: "No **** way!" Because of smart Ai, the battles are great. Throw a grenade and shoot it in 
 air! But after 30th time of this shooting it gets boring.
  
  
  THE GOOD. 1st class AI, good graphics, great battles.
  THE BAD. Weak story, scary things are 
 from "The ring", enemies and levels are too uniformity.
  
  IN LEVEL OF THE. Doom 3
  WORSE THAN. Half-Life 2.
  
  SUMMARY.
  
  The game should be called S. H. O. O. T. I. N. G. Not 
 scary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCrapper
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 5, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  This game is just unbelievable. The story line has a great flow and I loved how the plot "thickens" 
 along the way. You start out as an insignificant grunt and by the time it's over, you are a major 
 part of the plot. When I was finished with this game, I didn't feel like I beat it, I merely felt 
 like I survived it.
  There are a great selection of weapons in this game. The trick is trying to figure out which ones 
 to keep. I really liked the how it made me work for it. The fire fights are some of the most intense 
 I have encountered. The A. I. is very cunning and will punish you throughout the game. The best 
 part about that is, when you finally get through some of these battles and you think you can relax, 
 this is about the time you get a paranormal visit that will make make the hair on the back of your 
 neck stand up and your skin crawl. 
  You really need a good system to appreciate this game. The graphics get very intense. When the 
 bullets fly, the blood pools, and body parts are everywhere. Not even Half-Life2 brings reality 
 like this game does. I feel I have a good midrange system and believe me, it worked it pretty hard. 
 
  Be sure to adjust your sound a little low at first. The quality is very good but your head could 
 explode the first time you run into the bad guys. It's best to listen close while playing, it's 
 a must to survive. Hints and clues are there through the whole game.
  I sure hope there is a sequel. I have a FEAR this game may have ruined the any others that I play 
 in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l33tdaedalus
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 5, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is an excellent first person shooter which has several outstanding moments. However, all 
 of the good parts of this game were completely outdone by the bugs I have encountered in intervals 
 5 and 8 in the game, which I will elaborate upon later in my review.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  The first thing I noticed when I was playing F. E. A. R., after I was done admiring the visuals, 
 was how real the guns felt when they were fired. Each gun felt like it packed a considerable punch 
 and like it was a real beast in my hands, something that other FPSes that I have enjoyed never 
 seemed to be able to accomplish (Half-Life 2 comes to mind, for instance) . I also got a kick out 
 of how my view of the environment would jerk around when I got hit.
  
  Gunfights in the game are intense. Enemies will duck behind cover, try to flush you out with grenades, 
 jump through windows and over railings, etc. The AI seemed to be rather good, and I feel like the 
 AI made up for the lacks of types of enemies in the game.
  
  A nice addition to the game is the slow-motion concept, which can give you a real edge over enemies 
 and at times can save your life.
  
  The only downside to the gameplay is the lack of variety, and at times flavor, in the combat. You 
 can usually hear soldiers chatting with their radios well before you can see them, which really 
 kills the element of suprise in most instances. Most fights consist of you getting the drop on 
 a small group of enemies, killing them, and moving on to the next group of enemies, and this is 
 repeated WAY too many times.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  I found the visuals of the game to be stunning. Environments are fleshed out well with boxes, electronics, 
 furniture, etc., most of which can be messed around with through physics. Usually, an area will 
 not look even remotely the same once you are done fighting in it. Additionally, the levels look 
 very nice with the realistic textures and excellent use of lighting. However, all of this eye-candy 
 comes at a price. You'll need a high-end computer to see it at a frame rate higher than 2.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Not much to elaborate upon here. The guns sound excellent, and each fight 
 you are in sounds like a warzone. The music is rather nice too. It isn't so loud that it is distracting, 
 and it usually fits the environment rather well.
  
  Value: 9/10
  
  This game is really worth a buy. In addition to a solid (though short) single player campaign, 
 there is a rather fun multiplayer mode to take advantage of. However, your value may not seem too 
 great if you run into the trouble that I have when playing this game.
  
  Tilt: 3/10
  
  Bugs. Bugs, bugs, bugs, bugs, BUGS. To be fair, I only ran into two real bugs in the game, but 
 those two bugs were the worst bugs I have ever come across in almost any game as they make it impossible 
 to continue on.
  
  At interval 5 and interval 8, at certain points in the level, everything just stops. COMPLETELY. 
 The only way to get out of the game is using ctrl+alt+del. I've found that SOMETIMES in interval 
 5, you can progress through the game and continue playing, but even after trying for a dozen times 
 or so, I have never figured out how to get past the freeze-point in Interval 8. It is really a 
 shame. I was enjoying this game a lot and all of a sudden I run headfirst into a total crash. I 
 suppose not everybody has this problem, but if it happens to you, it is extremely frustrating.
 
  
  All in all, F. E. A. R. is an exceptional FPS, but you probably won't care how well it plays or how 
 nice it looks if you run into the same bugs that I have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameman45
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 5, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R Is a really great game. It has astounding graphics and great gameplay. It has a style of 
 gameplay that is frightening and fun at the same time. this game definately beats BLACK and all 
 the other shooters. The dialouge is amazing. The blood effects are probably the best. GAMEMAN 45's 
 recomendation- I would not recomend this game to a person under the age of at least 14. Rating- 
 There is some pretty bad language and profanity. And the blood is pretty graphic but that makes 
 it fun. You will also need a good computer for this one. I recomend at least a 128mb graphics card 
 with highest drivers ( 256mb would be the best) . 1gb of ram. And all the highest drivers for the 
 sound card. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zenirith
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 28, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  I thought this game was really good. Its graphics is just amazing, it really is very scary, your 
 always hearing something around the corner, And the AI Of the troopers is very good, they do alot 
 of things to hide from you so they dont get hit by your bullets. With your guns when you shoot, 
 it blows whatever you hit to peices. Although somtimes when in single player, it can seem as if 
 you've already been here because theres little things that look the same and make you think u've 
 been here. It also has a multiplayer feature, which i thought was really good, because the maps 
 are very well detailed. If your looking for a scary shooter, Trust me, this is the game to get 
 !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dasc00
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 4, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  Wow i love the nail gun, best f******* gun in the game. ok anywho, this game is fun, but its kinda 
 glitchy, and it gets repetitive.
  
  The good:
  Graphics are awesome
  Sound is good
  The atmosphere is good, its scary
  Guns are varied and fun
  AI is pretty smart
  Nailing someones 
 head to a wall is very very fun
  Slowing time down is fun 
  Vaporizing people is fun
  Fun
  
  The Bad:
  Multiplayer maps are to big, it takes a little long to find someone
  AI 
 is sometimes glitchy
  I cant kill that fat guy
  Multiplayer isnt that good
  
  overall this is a fun single player game, but multiplayer isnt so meh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChotaZorro
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 4, 2006 12:40 am PT
Review:  I waited for this game since a long time and I also bought a new video card for this game. I played 
 this game and I must say it's the best FPS on date. Amazing graphics and sound effects was it awesome. 
 The scares in this game are just awesome. No other game has been more cool and stylized than F. E. A. R. 
 The grenade effects, the bullet-holes, the amazingly smart A. I., and all other great aspects of 
 this game make it the best FPS ever! The weapons are also great and the hand-to-hand combat is 
 pretty good. I think this game deserves 10/10 but to be fair as the storyline is not that good 
 I'm giving it 9.7/10. I think every FPS fan should play this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Eagle_2004
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Storyline: This is one of the few games out that has a great storyline. A few details I really 
 don't want to spoil it for some. You are part of an elite force known as First Encounter Assault 
 Recon or F. E. A. R. for short. You are sent to stop a military force that is commanded by madman 
 by just using his mind. Besides you also have to deal with the paranormal. A little girl that you 
 see throughout the game. 
  
  Gameplay: Just like any FPS game you get to run around and kill the invading force. But you get 
 this special ability to slow down time and get a chance to get up onto the enemy for an easy kill. 
 Your only allowed to carry 3 weapons so choose your weapons wisely. The AI are extremely smart 
 and are always trying to get the best of you. By flaking you, going behind cover, or by telling 
 others where your position is at. Also you can destroy that is around like walls getting torn up 
 by your gunfire and picking up dust. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics is top of the line so make you have a good enough system to run. Even with 
 one sometimes the graphics can slow down the framerate. Which isn't to often but it does get kind 
 of annoying when it does come up.
  
  Sound: From gunfire to explosives were excellent, making you part of a real battle. The voice acting 
 is the best part of the game. Sierra really took there time in getting great actor for the voices. 
 Also the music in making in some certain areas into a suspense.
  
  F. E. A. R. kinda resembled the movie The Ring except with the military force. Making the storyline 
 of supernatural terror brought to life. Even with an excellent single player missions, the muti-player 
 made it fun to play online. I recommend this game to anyone who loves games that are filled with 
 mystery. This will surprise alot of gamers to the very end and fill them with alot of unanswered 
 question. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_coby20
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 3, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  love this game the learning curve of the game is super easy and the game play is execellent there 
 is some stuff here and there that i would change but other than i love it F. E. A. R is a is the kind 
 of fps we all have been waiting for it is extremely awsome story line and a cool since of gameplay 
 with just the right touch of AI and all the fixing the graphics are one of the best i have seen 
 in a while it has great sound and a good multiplayer feature while while you must have a sharp 
 and crisp broadband connection to avoid lagging but never the less is playable otherwise 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bilbohowareyou
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2006 1:55 am PT
Review:  There comes a point when man will make a masterpiece of a game its near perfection. That point 
 is now. It is the greatest game made to date, with outstanding graphics, awesome voice-acting, 
 suburb game play and a spine-tingling storyline, add those together and you get F. E. A. R. 
  
  You play as a new F. E. A. R operative being sent in to do his first job, a simple find and eliminate 
 a guy call Paxton Fettal. Only its becomes far from simple in moments, as soon as you see that 
 girl that looks like the one in THE RING it all goes to hell. The turbo fast gun get whipped out, 
 gernades thrown, helicopters blowing getting blown out of the sky and, oh yes heads getting shot 
 off. And all in a days work. With the cinematic game play and slo-mo effects is as real as it gets, 
 and sometimes you wish it wasn't when the little girl pops up and give you a heart attack.
  
  But behind the spookiness of the game is a vivid plot with more than enough twist and turns 
 to keep players interested. The storyline is intelligent and creative but as gamespot mentioned 
 a few ends don't met up like what the hell happened to the other F. E. A. R operative. But you can 
 use your imagination to fill in those blanks, they may even be explained in a sequel.
  
  On a last note your going to need a a good system as this is a system hog.
  Even the best systems 
 would struggle with this little babies graphics options on the highest. A note: turn soft shadows 
 off, their a killer for the graphics cards. 
  Why it may require a top-end computer you can get away with a descent computer: a least a 2 GHz 
 CPU, 256 Mb ATI 9600 pro or 256 Mb GeForce 6600 GPU, 512 Mb (1Gb preferred) RAM, 16-bit sound card 
 with EAX support.
  
  To you the reader, goodbye and goodnight,
  
  BILBOHOWAREYOU 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alonmaimon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 2, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  I dont usually play in shooters but this game was something else . I didnt left my computer until 
 i finished the game . The game is scary and interesting, the plot unfolds slowly . The gun battles 
 are great , the slow motion is perfect . I need to add that you need a good computer with a decent 
 graphic card with support od directX 9 . The experince of this game is just amazing , you must 
 try it to understand . There is a lot weapons my favorite is the one that spikes . The bodies are 
 hanging on the walls ... just great . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rahuljoshi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 2, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  it is one of the most scariest game i have ever played!!!!
  excellent graphics with lots of enhancement options.
  the best thing about the game is the artificial 
 intelligence of enemies they are really very quick and the time work is amazing.
  sound effects are excellent and may be the most scariest part of the game.
  large variety of 
 weapons.
  the girl in the game keeps the interest created during whole of the game.
  people come suddenly fromunknown spots and disappear to unknown spots, one moment they are just 
 in front of u and the other moment they are no where.
  need to play really very fast at times, the slow motion is really very helpful in such times.
 
  u just can't afford to leave this great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uchitha
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 2, 2006 3:25 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games i ever played. The best part about this game is the story. The story 
 is kewl, and i had no clue about the story until I finish the game; and the story continues even 
 after the credits that was unexpected. When I first started the game its was quite boring, the 
 story was just like an ordinary game. But then after a while it was different. They have successfully 
 added the slow motion thing which was called as the bullet time in game Max Payne. The special 
 effects were also good but talking about the graphics although tho the graphics looks awesome I 
 believe it takes more than what is needed. Comparing with the games like Farcry its very clear 
 even Need for Speed Most Wanted and Unreal Tournament 2004 needs less hardware graphics requirements. 
 In a way game is bit boring because you always end up doing the same thing, I mean shooting and 
 stuff. And at some levels you can easily guess what will happen next. But overall its one of the 
 best. Im rating max. For those who haven't tried this out Im telling you, this is one of the best 
 first person gaming experiences and If ya into scary stuff this you've got a play. Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustLoginMeIn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 2, 2006 3:24 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is great. Every encounter is interesting and you find yourself fighting with different 
 situations each time. The AI is nice, the enemy soldiers feel real. They hide, some wait, other 
 rush on you, other try to outsmart you and try to flank you and all stuff. There is a variety of 
 enemy including invisible enemies, hard to hit walkers, flying machines with laser etc. The Max 
 Payne style Slow Motion just makes the game more interesting and cool
  
  The atmosphere is what makes the game unique. It compination with the graphics the games tries, 
 what else, to create fear. Well, at least agony. This is done by sudden apperance of the main characters, 
 the music and other details. Since the graphics are excellent, and these events are in the right 
 place the game succeeds in these. Nothing extreme though, just keeps you tight.
  
  Though, I had the feeling I had seen these things before. The originality isn't something the game 
 can claim. I mean Alma is right from japanesse horror movies, or the girl from the Excorcist. Thin, 
 black long hair. Or maybe from the ring? Fetel was like seeing a movie with vampires. It reminded 
 me the mutant vampire from Underworld. The story is the classic one which scientists want to create 
 the perfect soldier, but they create monsters and the monsters come and kill them. Seen hundreds 
 of time. Well, ofcouse this doesn't mean you will lose something from the game experience, but 
 seeing something really new is always positive
  
  What I really didn't like was that you are someone that doesn't talk, doesn't react emotionally. 
 You just see stuff and thats it. The story isn't real great and for from original and new so you 
 just watch something you expected. The game does create emotions of fear and agony. So for those 
 with are satisfied with these (I am not I want something more sophisticated, something more deep) 
 they will love the game.
  
  In the end, it is one of the best FPS. The gameplay is great. If you like horror movies you will 
 love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gowt
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 2, 2006 2:01 am PT
Review:  Hella smooth gameplay, great phsyics, awesome features, and hell I even jumped a few times becasue 
 this game is genuinely scary.
  The sound is fanatsic as well.. i love wondering around toting a big ole gun, and shakin in my 
 seat because a little girl is following me.... 
  And the blood is flippin awesome,,, and the water and thereflections, sofa king real , i can smell 
 it.
  thats right, i'm smelling the water.
  hollar.
  I can dig it,
  can you dig it?
  Get this game, get it now, and I'll stomp on you multiplayer style-e fo sho.
  So if you're bout 
 to be bout it....
  rock the F. E. A. R, dig the slow-mo, and get ready to pen some bad guys to the wall.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mouse380
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 1, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  In F. E. A. R. you play as a guy on a first encounter assault recon team (hence the name F. E. A. R.) . 
 Basically your used to investigate paranormal activities. In the game you have to investigate paranormal 
 activities in a place called Auburn (no relation to a city in Alabama, at least I dont think) . 
 Throughout the game you'll be fighting a clone army under the leadership of a guy named Paxton 
 Fettel. You will also come in contact with a girl named Alma, who looks a lot like the girl from 
 The Ring.
  
  This game is a mixture of fps with horror, sort of like doom. This game takes a lot of horror ideas 
 from The Ring. Nothing really ever pops out and tries to scare you. Its more of a game that tries 
 to get under your skin. In the game you'll have a lot of hallucinations. You'll usually be swimming 
 in a pool of blood or standing in fire with ghosts that try to kill you. 
  
  One thing that makes this game awesome is the amazing particle effects. All of the effects really 
 suck you into the game. While playing this game, I found myself shooting at the wall because it 
 looked friggin awesome (Im easily amused) . The downside to this is that this game is a system 
 hog. If your hardware specs arent that great it wont be nearly as fun. Play the demo first to 
 see how well it can run on your pc.
  
  Another thing awesome about this game is the weapons. The most awesome weapon in this game has 
 to be the nail gun. When you shoot one of the clone soldiers they will be pinned against the wall 
 just hanging there. Another amazing gun in the game is the laser weapon (not sure what its called) . 
 When you shoot an enemy it will take all of the skin off of their bodies, only leaving the bones.
 
  
  One thing bad about the game is that the levels are too linear and they all look alike. This will 
 sort of draw you out of the game. It seems like Monolith has had the same problem with this lately 
 (*cough* Condemned *cough) other than that this is a really awesome game. 
  
  Final Word:
  
  The graphics in the game are really good especially the particle effects. The 
 weapons are also awesome. Its unfortunate that there's not many of them. the sounds of this game 
 are also really good, especially if you have surround sound. The gun sounds were nice. It felt 
 like you were really shooting. Lastly, the gameplay was also pretty good. The only thing that sort 
 of bogged the game down was the linear gameplay and the levels looked alike.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KeWLMoNkX
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 1, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  Here is the KeWLMoNk review for F. E. A. R. 
  
  Since there are plenty of other reviews to read about this game I won't make this one too painful 
 by going on and on about it. 
  
  POSITIVE:
  The SOUND in this game is simply AWESOME. If you have a good enough sound card (like the X-fi Fatal1ty 
 I play with) your in for a REAL treat. The immersive atmosphere never lets you down, making your 
 heart beat so hard it your hands will be trembling on your keyboard. That low-bass effect rumbles, 
 the voices come from every angle, and the music is just right to set that incredibly suspenful 
 feeling.
  The GAMEPLAY is what you would expect from a shooter of this calibur. Tight controls which you 
 are able to edit to fit your needs.
  The ACTION is on point, with the STORY driving it along rather nicely. You really get pulled in 
 and time just seems to slip away as you pour hours into this intense game.
  NEGATIVE:
  Ok, now we get onto the bad aspects of this game ... and there really aren't many. I think my main 
 problem with this game is the fact that you really need a SERIOUS rig to run it right. I have a 
 PD-830, 2gb RAM, 10,000rpm Hard Drive, X-Fi sound, and a GeForce 6600 256mb card. I think that 
 my system is on the upper side of things with the exception of my GPU which is just above entry 
 level. The game looks good, but you just can't escape slowdowns in big areas, and sometimes even 
 while just walking through a small hallway due to the breathtaking lighting effects. It's tough 
 to buy a game for $50 only to have to go and pick up a $350+ Video card to play it properly ... or 
 over $600 to get it the way its pictured on the box and in the magazines ... ($600 if your lucky 
 that is) .
  So that is really my main complaint .. most gamers just cant play this game the way its meant to 
 be played, if at all.
  
  Even with that said, I still have to give this game a 8.8 - Its just an amazing experience through 
 and through. I haven't jumped out of my seat like that in a while, and damn does it feel good. 
 If your computer can handle it, dont miss this amazing game!
  
  ~KeWLMoNk~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quiet_MoN3Y
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 28, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  This game gave me a very real perspective while playing. The sound and graphics are top of their 
 time without a question. The enemy AI is the best that has been in a FPS and really adds to the 
 quality of this game.
  
  The storyline in this game had a few plot holes. Like why you goined F. E. A. R. in the first place. 
 Also chasing around Paxton through the whole game made it feel like things were dragging.
  
  I have not tried the MP so I cannot comment on that. The SP was a unique experience. Not for 
 the storyline but for the action, incredible AI and beautiful graphics/sound and packaged neatly 
 to create a gaming experience worth its hype.
  
  I give this game a 9.0. So it just scratches the AAA surface, which to me is an outstanding rating. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 27, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  This game is simply one of the best SP experiences ever. Better than Half-Life, better than Far 
 Cry. The graphics are insane, the atmoshpere is perfect! Nothing will make the hair on your arms 
 stand on end like the lighting and sound effects in this game. The weapons are outstanding, and 
 the AI is some of the best to date.
  
  Multiplayer is a bit lacking at present time with a focus of more "Run n' Gun" than any real strategy. 
 But I can't help but find myself playing the single player aspect of this game over and over again. 
 It's just that much fun. Oh, and did anyone mention.... gory? 
  
  Oh yes, there will be blood!
  
  Buy it, turn on the lights, turn down your sound, and get ready 
 for one visual treat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: friedmanrg
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 27, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  This game is FULL of surprises. Be sure to play it in a dark place.... alone... for the best effects 
 and be sure to crank-up the volume. It only adds to the effect! Even the most seasoned gamer is 
 in for a jolt now and then. It combines the classic 1st person shooter with a good amount of puzzles 
 to figure out. Game-play has a tendency to change during session. The enemy soldiers are apt to 
 pop out of unexpected places. Pay particularly close attention to your environment. Something-anything 
 can be a clue to your next move.
  If you've played games such as Call of Duty, you shouldn't have any trouble navigating your way 
 around the keyboard. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanleevc
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  PROS: crazy gameplay, i mean really mind blowing gameplay... i should thank the developers for this 
 game, not they thanking us for playing their games.. this game is just stunningly the best game 
 i've ever played since HL2... the visuals are just stunningly good... the slow mo mode especially, 
 wat can i say about it? just take ur short gun and literally blow the enemies' head or whatever 
 parts of the body off (best in slow mo, believe me) ... sound, turn ur speakers up, or put on headphones 
 with max volumes, this will blow ur head off more than u blowing the enemies'... wat more can i 
 say about this game? i'm just speechless... the best game, that has action, thriller, horror all 
 in it... worth waiting and definetely worth PLAYING!!!
  
  CONS: NONE!! just get the game!! end of story!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flycir89
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 26, 2006 10:47 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about the game F. E. A. R. I immediate thought the title was awkward (First Encounter 
 Assault Recon) , this title doesn't explain much of what to expect out of the game. Later on in 
 the year I downloaded videos showcasing the game, I looked at this game and said "Whats different? 
 The FPS (First Person Shooter) is there, they ripped off Bullet Time from Max Payne, the girl from 
 the Ring makes several appearances, and you can kick people in the face, so whats different?" 
 Saying this to your monitor doesn't give the game a chance to explain itself, I decided to give 
 this game a chance and show me its positives and negatives and overall I was blown away, in a positive 
 way.
  
  This game basically puts you in the roll of one of the soldiers in the Matrix that was involved 
 in the shoot out scene that took place in the lobby, except your not trying to kill Neo or Trinity, 
 your trying to kill a psychic leader of a clone army. His story evolves around your character (your 
 character is a faceless, nameless point and shoot man) and your group of soldiers that must find 
 out a disturbance call in a research facility (haven't we been down this path before? Doom?) The 
 only thing is that once you arrive there the place is FUBAR (look up the definition) . The menace 
 thats controlling the whole show is accompanied by a little Asian girl named Alma (The girl on 
 the cover) who really just playes more of an annoyance than a scary little brat. Every now and 
 then she will pop out and try to scare you, this trick is done all the time in movies and its more 
 startling than scary. But her effects puts a real scary thought on you, meaning that she has psychic 
 powers and isn't afraid to use them. There isn't much to really talk about except if I mention 
 anymore something will be spoiled.
  
  The year now is 2006 and the game came out in late 2005, a month after Day of Defeat Source (Online 
 WWII FPS) and the graphics stand alone to be among the best out there today. This game sets the 
 bar somewhat high on the graphical level. When you are having your shoot out scenes with the troopers 
 you really get that lovely experience of "Awwwww". There isn't much to talk about the graphics, 
 only that right now they stand over most P. C games.
  
  The sounds are basically on the same level as the graphics, they are really amazing. When you fire 
 your gun it feels like your really firing a gun. This game presents its weapon sounds on a much 
 higher quality and smoothness than Counter Strike (A Half Life Modification) . The sounds are more 
 impressive than the graphics, if you own Half Life 2 than you might agree with more.
  
  One thing the game designers really hit the button with is the A. I. Most games out today have decent 
 A. I. but this game presents its enemies with a horribly realistic version of real Human Intelligence. 
 Some things you might experience obviously doesn't happen in real warfare but this game comes pretty 
 close to realism. The two games I can think of with really good A. I. are Halo 2 and Half Life 2; 
 even their A. I. isn't the best, but its still fun taking part in a battle in either one of these 
 games. Since most of your battles take place indoors the enemy learns to adapt to its surrounding 
 immediately, meaning that your enemies won't let you dominate them by jumping into the middle of 
 the room and shooting in circles. At times you might need to strategize your battles if you keep 
 dying in one spot. Your teammates that are with you in the beginning are good as well but they 
 only last so long (there only with you at the beginning like most games) . You pretty much forget 
 about them once you are half way through the game.
  
  I guess the real killer of this game could be the player (you) or the designers. The game is short 
 for some and long for others. The level designs are pretty basic and nothing breathe taking. And 
 the thought of Multiplayer was interesting but didn't live up to many expectations. When this game 
 was still in the works I found out there is going to be a Multiplayer, but I didn't have high expectations 
 for it, and I never changed that opinion. The multiplayer is the basic Multiplayer amongst all 
 highly anticipated games nothing different. The impressive graphics makes the experience a bit 
 more interesting but you can witness this in Half Life 2 and its games. The different gameplay 
 styles are still here, Free For All, Team Slayer, and others. You should check out the Mod community 
 (Local F. E. A. R. websites) on this game because I am sure there are mods (Games created by amatures 
 that use the Main games engine to create games of their choosing like Counter Strike, the biggest 
 online mod in the world) on this game.
  
  Your character has a couple tricks up his sleeve. You can go into bullet time which most 
  
 
  One major downer can be the pricing of the products you need to run this game on your computer 
 smoothly. New Alienware computers can do the trick without customizing a computer from scratch 
 yourself, but be prepared to save up to $4000 to $5000 for a single computer. The money is not 
 worth it. If you save up yourself the amount needed to run this game smoothly can come out to around 
 $2000 - $2500. I recommend doing the upgrading this way because you save all that money and customizing 
 your computer isn't that hard, all you have to do is shop online or in stores (which is more expensive) 
 and then bring it into a shop or build it yourself.
  
  Overall this game is nothing new. I am not saying this in a bad way I am saying everything you 
 witness has been done before, the A. I. is the stand out in the game along with its sounds and graphics. 
 So if you are willing to upgrade your computer than go for it because in the long run its worth 
 it for upcoming games. Also Windows Vista is coming out later in 2006 and that will be able to 
 support Direct X 10, for further info on this check out the "Tech" section on gamespot. com. Give 
 this game a shot and it will give you several shots back.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigfatzombie
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 25, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  fear is an amazing game it is actually a scary game. Its not pop up scary it is creapy scary. I 
 think it is one of the best pc games and the best fps of the pc. This game is just plain fun thats 
 all there is to it you will have a blast playing it and you wont be able to stop. It is well worth 
 the price tag i say go out and buy it. It is a very well put to gether game. But if you dont like 
 scary games dont get it . This game is SCARY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeR04U
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 25, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R was an anticipated game towards the end of 2005. Previews highlighted F. E. A. R as being 
 a game that offered a enthralling storyline, with revolutionary A. I and graphics. There is no doubt 
 that F. E. A. R offers a lot to the FPS (first person shooter) genre in terms of cinema, physics, 
 and specfic aspects of gameplay. F. E. A. R is a great game in it's own right. However; compared to 
 the industry's best, it falls short. 
  
  F. E. A. R stands for First Encounter Assault Recon, a team that specializes in investiaging paranormal 
 activity and dealing with it in a violent yet appropriate manner. Basically you are sent in as 
 part of a team to deal with a military experiment with cloned soldiers. I would like to further 
 emphasize on the story but as I know, spoilers are not appreciated, which is also why I have written 
 this review before finishing the game. In any event, you start off with a cinema scene explaining 
 the background of your mission and off you go. 
  
  You waste no time jumping into the game with a pistol and semi automatic machine gun. The whole 
 game is directed as if you were the actual person. You see your own shadow, legs, and shoulders 
 just as if you were there. Upon entering the game (after the introduction mission) you are with 
 a team who waits for you to enter the base. This was extremely exciting, as working with teams 
 is always fun filled and exciting. However; after opening a gate to let your team in, they all 
 die, and you're left alone. Sierra figured this was the only time you should be part of your actual 
 team because you'll play alone the rest of the game. Your commader feels that you would be better 
 off battling an onslaugh of enemies on your own. Sure this can be guilty fun, but with recent FPS' 
 including Far Cry, Call of Duty 2, and Battlefield 2, F. E. A. R falls short. 
  
  While it's certainly a let down that you'll never associate with your team other than to chat, 
 you'll move on and get over it. What you will be associating with on a regular basis is the cloned 
 soldiers. The A. I was really hyped up in this game, and I can't say it delivers any more than the 
 industry average. Sure upon fire enemies will cover, strafe, ambush, alert others, call out grenades, 
 etc. But there is really nothing to be in awe over. Furthermore, one of the major let downs in 
 the game is the lack of stalking or sniping. The A. I is pretty much programmed to know when you'll 
 reach a certain point, at which they open fire or run for cover. You might as well just barge right 
 in guns blazing. And you truly can. The game offers so many health kits, armor, and opportunities 
 to repair yourself/ammo that you really don't need to worry about it. I literally blazed through 
 the game (or to the last few parts) on the hard difficulty setting with little to no trouble. This 
 is unacceptable. For a game of this style and setting, minimum ammo, stealth, and health should 
 be promoted. 
  
  F. E. A. R attempts to use physics and particle affects to make the game shine out. However; it falls 
 way short of anything substantial. Sure when you shoot boxes you see dust and some paper fly off. 
 However; you really never see any damage done to the boxes. Chunks will fly out of the wall when 
 you're shooting enemies and glass does shatter, but it still has that 'surroundings unharmed' effect 
 that Sierra loves. You can't really move anything aside from jugs or buckets. Try to move a garbage 
 sack, chair, console, etc. and it's not going to happen. Finally, one of the biggest and most awful 
 drawbacks is the lack of shooting through walls, walkways (that you can see through) and other 
 items (that bullets would easily penetrate) . With Half Life 2, Counter Strike and other games making 
 use of this technology, I would certainly put it in F. E. A. R. 
  
  Then there's F. E. A. R's main theme. The dark, freaky, hellish nightmare of a journey. Unfortunately 
 it really never ties in with what you're doing. For example, you're treated to cinemas and cut 
 scenes where zombie images will pop up on screen or you'll walk through blood filled hallways. 
 It's not really creepy, you're basically just saying, "cool" the whole time. Unfortunately with 
 games such as Silent Hill and Resident Evil, it has a 'been there done that look.' Personally Sierra's 
 Aliens vs. Predator 2 human missions were more scary than F. E. A. R, which just comes off as weird. 
 
  
  While there are various shortcomings with gameplay, there are redeeming features. There is a slow 
 motion mode which is basically termed as your 'reflexes'. Basically you hit a button, slow down 
 time, and get a cool blue aura with bullet effects. The only problem is it's out of place. You're 
 suppossed to have super fast reflexes because you're soloing the game, but why you have them or 
 need them to deal with paranormal activity is beyond me. In any event, it's guilty pleasure fun 
 and you'll have a great time with it as I have. Then there's cover. It's really nice to be able 
 to open doors and hide behind them while you strategize on how to deal with enemies. The game provides 
 great guns to use at your disposal including the double pistols for some John Woo style action. 
 Another implementation was martial arts. You can do some sliding kicks, a cyclone kick and regular 
 hits with your weapons. It's extremely satisying to run out, slide kick someone, activate slow 
 mo and pop a few rounds from your pistols in a guy and then cyclone kick an unsuspected victim 
 who's attempting to stalk you. Only problem is you never really use it. Since the enemies know 
 where you are and have decent accuracy, you really never get a chance to pull off your moves. Should 
 you it's extremely satisying. 
  
  Graphically F. E. A. R is a beautiful game. Shadows and lights effect on objects make up a great deal 
 of the game, so you'll need to equip yourself with a great system. While F. E. A. R looks great on 
 screen, it's resource heavy. If you don't have a GeForce 6800+ you're in trouble. The game runs 
 difficult on any ATI card and the particle effects are overdone, meaning you'll need killer RAM 
 and video power to keep things running smooth. Furthermore, the surrounding effects are not that 
 great. coke cans/machines, telephones, boxes, crates and the like are average at best. Nothing 
 to flashy. Character models are however done beautifully. You'll see full detail, legs being blown 
 off, blood, guns, and a variety of other nicely rendered objects. Flame, lighting and SOME shadows 
 are also very nicely done. While F. E. A. R is no slouch graphically it does not have that polished 
 look to it that Far Cry, Doom 3, Half Life 2, and Call of Duty 2 had. Finally, there's really not 
 much of an environment to look at. You're shoved inside corridors and complex the whole time, with 
 a rare moment outside. You feel like you're in a dungeon crawl the whole time. I'd much rather 
 prefer outside fog and silent open spaces such as Silent Hill provided. 
  
  Sound is indeed F. E. A. R's strong point, and it always has been for Sierra (see Aliens vs. Predator 
 2, No One Lives Forever 2) . The guns sound like they mean business as you're not treated to any 
 wimpy blast sounds like the shotgun from Doom 3. These guns are loud, demanding, and realistic. 
 The slow motion effects are full done as even surrounding noises such as birds will have a slowed 
 sound. There's not much music, but blast effects, particle noises, and the rare musical cinematic 
 scene all fits very well. Definately one of the positive aspects to F. E. A. R. 
  
  Value wise F. E. A. R falls a little short. While I found myself replaying Far Cry, Half Life 2, and 
 other popular first person shooters, F. E. A. R is one that I'll surely uninstall once I'm done with. 
 It's too simple as the harder modes still are not challenging enough, and there is nothing to remember 
 the game by. You trek through corriders in a very routine and linear way, there is a specific situation 
 to handle everything, and you open a lot of doors. For a first time through experience, you're 
 kind of saying to yourself, "is this it?" Sadly it is, and it's one game I won't experience again, 
 nor would I want to. 
  
  Overall F. E. A. R is a game worth playing, should you have a powerful enough rig. I wouldn't reccommend 
 the game to anyone without a machine that can provide the full graphical effect the game was intended 
 to have. The gameplay is par at best, and the storyline is nothing really out of this world. Scariest 
 game ever? No. Scariest first person shooter? Possibly for this day and age.
  
  ZeR0's verdict: Wait for a price reduction and check it out when today's power rigs are run of 
 the mill. If you do have a power rig, F. E. A. R might be worthy of a buy if you can get past the 
 shortcomings mentioned above. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShraZ_Zy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 25, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  The game has amazing graphics. The AI are pretty wicked, especially when they come at you running 
 or throw down a table to get cover. There are also great weapons but not enough. I don't really 
 get the story and the scary part of the game. The only thing that made me jump are the invisible 
 guys that crawls everywhere and the girl at the stair, besides that I wasn't much impressed.
  It was a fun game to play with the great max-payne style slow down. I played it in Medium and it 
 wasn't that hard. The game needs more music through the game. Nice addition of kicking. It's a 
 solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iramaniac
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  Excellently superb games, wid autonomous sounds n graphics...... The major part of this game is tht 
 it can run on normal laptops too...... I really appreciate the hard work n devotion towards this 
 game making it a bright and upgrowing  believe my eyes....... Guyz 
 n gals u got the game 2 play this summer..... Dont miss out the fun of this game 4 sure........ Newayz 
 this is real first person shooter game...... ne1 who misses this out can never have any fear in 
 his/her life...... Well its all upon you all to rate this game...... and um totally sure tht u wont 
 miss out the opportunity to rate and play this game as it should be played...... Enjoy guys and 
 gals.... this is khan.... n says goodbye to all...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Berkelear
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2006 4:05 am PT
Review:  You start off in a room where you get sent to your first mission: Find and Neutralize Paxton Fettel. 
 You get dropped off in an old building, brilliantly made.
  You get this chill when you enter. Suddenly you get all these flashes with images and little scenes. 
 When you meet your commander in this building for the 2nd time he falls apart in some sort of black 
 goo. When you search through te building further you'll get on the roof. Where you go trough a 
 narrow piece of the roof you get clubbed by noone other than Paxton Fettel. This gets you scared 
 for every corner in this game. Everytime you get a message, a little sign in the left upper corner 
 of the screen appears displaying the sender. The first times you get "Unknown sender" a little 
 girl appears. After a great while, these signs make you **** in your pants. This game gets you 
 more and more scared everytime you play it. Freaky parts are made brilliantly. The sound adds its 
 own part in the scariness. The sound guides you through the levels. The graphics are amazing, if 
 your videocard has the right capacity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GregorreMH
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 24, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  FEAR, for me was much more fun to play, engrossing and it's creepiness was much more palpable than 
 the last "horror" FPS game I played, Half-Life 2, and it does not take nearly as long to load each 
 time, as well. The slo-mo was fun. The different environments were each a good break from the last, 
 and a lot of detail was paid to making them each identifiable and have their own "personality". 
 The interactivity within the environments wasn't all that great, but that mattered little. 
  
  It follows a pretty good story and it's length was just right. The enemies were great to engage 
 and had pretty impressive AI. Graphics were a high point, as was the sound, making the dark environments 
 and supernatural cut-aways all the more freaky, especially at first, when you aren't ready for 
 them.
  
  Not a lot of negatives to say about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deetso
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 24, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Im not one to give a game anything above a nine- that is reserved for the truly special. However 
 this game nearly pushed itself into the nines.
  
  Gameplay is actually quite good. The enemies are quite smart and will certainly kill you if you 
 go for a run and gun attitude for this game- which incidentaly- I LOVE. The fact that an enemy 
 will lay down some serious damage on you if you go quicly makes you play a little more cautious 
 and make you jumpy looking for the next enemy. Which bring up the sound quality and the scary factor. 
 
  Since the game has a very intense feeling to it- just looking for enemies- i think the scaryness 
 of the story is intensified. I started playing this game at night and even jumped a few times- 
 quite impressed actually. The sound and lack there of are great. And the graphics- well they are 
 outstanding.
  
  I just finished the game for the first time and Im not really planning on playing it again- right 
 now- but i can certainly see myself playing it again at some point- its not hitting ebay if you 
 know what i mean- value is great.
  
  coming to reviewers tilt- just a darn good game- i like it a lot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chronus
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  Now this here is, for me, the greatest game I have ever seen and played. It's perfect. You could 
 not get bored of playing this for one second, especially if you play it at night. If my computer 
 wasn't good enough, I would go and buy one, just to play the game. Even though it has very high 
 system recommendations, you should still buy it.
  The character, gameplay, graphics, sounds etc. are amazing, not to mention the AI of the pc controlled 
 characters.
  Another good thing about the game is the settings menu. You can change some of the settings so 
 that it could work even on Intel P2 ( the graphics can be made to look just like in Half-Life 1 
 ) .
  BUY IT!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JCossack
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 24, 2006 6:07 am PT
Review:  FEAR came off to be something of a revolution of the genre, due to the hype spread around the game 
 in previews and gameplay movies etc. 
  
  Many claim it to be the ultimate horror game, surpassing Doom III many times over; but this is 
 by far not the case. Doom III is not only scarier than FEAR, but it's also got much better graphics 
 and even more original level designs. 
  
  Playing FEAR is a tedious experience, with sickeningly repetetive sequences of action. The suspense 
 created by the near omnipresent little girl is totally ruined by the gun fights, which are actually 
 quite fun, but they do not fit in with the setting.
  
  The AI, however, is quite good; but it never really convinces you that you're fighting real people. 
 Which kind of brings up the topic of the 'clone army.' The clones and such could be interesting, 
 if the developers actually decided to really build on it, as was the case in RtC Wolfenstein.
 
  
  In conclusion, FEAR is a rather tedious and repetative game, whose horror sequences are constantly 
 interrupted byt action sequences and vice verca. The game never successfully mixes the two to make 
 a truly horrifying game, as the case was with Doom III. If you're looking for the game of the year, 
 you're better off playing Quake IV or CoD 2, but not FEAR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeof-persia
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 27, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  When Monolith came out with FEAR last year, I was blown away with beauty of the game (even the 
 demos) . The graphics are amazing, the A. I. is superb and the story is strong. And it is scarier 
 than most Horror FPS games that came out in the last year for the PC.
  
  Graphics - 10/10: The graphics (in game and in the short cut scenes it has) are incredible. They 
 are very smooth from the cut scene to the action, making it seem that everything is realistic. 
 The gun skins are top notch, especially in action. The explosions are also commendable and the 
 objects that can explode feel fleshed out. The enemy models are also extremely well done as well. 
 When you shoot an enemy in the head, the walls and body become bloody, not too bloody. When you 
 throw a frag at an enemy, the body will dismember or even turn into a haze of blood. Unfortunately, 
 the games graphics are best suited for a extremely powerful computer.
  
  Sound - 10/10: The games sounds are great. The games soundtrack is picked at the right settings, 
 and gives the sense of fear in certain areas (After all, the name is FEAR) . The gun sounds and 
 explosions are also commendable for sounding realistic, and not cheesy.
  
  Story - 10/10: This game has a very solid single player experience as you find yourself in a high 
 security mission to kill Paxton Fettle, a rampaging physic commander. I am not going to get into 
 the fine details, but it is a great story lasting around 12 hours, give or take.
  
  A. I. - 10/10: The A. I. in this game is incredibly smart, from hiding behind corners, suppressing 
 you with a hail of fire to flank you, all the way to moving objects like couches for cover. The 
 A. I really shines in how human it acts. Unlike most FPS, the A. I. usually charges you if you 
 are pinned to have a successful kill. All in all, the A. I. is fantastic.
  
  Game play  9/10: This game will make you come back, even if you havent played in a while. The 
 story is strong enough for multiply reruns. The multi-player is very tense, and the kills are extremely 
 satisfying, and the matches are great. The game play never feels old or too repetitive as the game 
 mixes up with each new foe you fight (especially with A. I. as it changes it tactics to its environment.
 
  
  Value  10/10: This game is incredibly fun to play and does not feel like an over talked game. 
 In fact, it is worthy of the praise it gets and is simply incredible.
  
  Over all: The game is a must get game for all gamers for the PC, even ones that are not too deep 
 in the FPS genre. The graphics are a hit, and the everything about is adds to its value, making 
 it an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuff_gong92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  This is what a PC game should be. Heartpounding action with suspensefully creepy horror atmosphere 
 and more kickass moments than you can count. The acton is something that will amaze. Amazingly 
 smart AI with crazy weapons and Slomo to add an extra gameplay aspect and storytelling element. 
 The firefights will leave hundreds of bullet holes and objects broken and busted everywhere. Using 
 your environment to take down your enemy with fuel barrels, fire extinguishers and other stuff. 
 This time its not just one melee attack, you can do a normal rifle whip or a jump swing kick, slide 
 kick or flying kick. Plus in a firefight enemies disentagrate with the right shot. The enemies 
 are crazy from replica soldiers who yell out commands, swears, your actions and their squad status. 
 The weapons vary from an smg to an assault rifle to a sweet shotgun, a scoped three-shot rifle, 
 a crazy particle weapon that will turn your enemies to a skeleton with one shot, a cannon thing, 
 and a mini rocket launcher that shoots 3 small rockets. Now the horror is creepy and surreal from 
 the girl to the atmosphere in these pseudodreams that you have that leak some story along with 
 laptops and voice messages off phones. All this can happen within 10 minutes of gameplay and then 
 some. Multiplayer is as hectic as you expect if this stuff it true and you better believe it is. 
 This is a game that will say forget all that other crap and play me until you have to go get your 
 brown pants! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nevlan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 22, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  This must be the first game of it's type. Sure, there's other horror-based fps's, but not like 
 this. Not by a longshot. Unlike games like Doom 3, this game does not throw all sorts of monsters 
 at you. It delivers a military action game, spiced up with a neat exciting horror-story where you 
 can't be sure what is real and what is not.
  It's the mysteries that make this game this great. The quest for the unknown, to discover the truth. 
 It's what makes this game so compelling that you will never want to stop playing.
  
  What was spectacular in this game except for the story is the A. I.'s, which are the best ones I've 
 seen in a game so far. How the enemy takes cover, switches strategies and tries to sneak up on 
 you (well, not always so much trying but doing) is amazing! I also really enjoyed the awesome slo-mo 
 feature which really made the gameplay extremely intriguing.
  
  The only thing not so great about F. E. A. R. is it's ending. It's way too short, lacks options and 
 somewhat ruins the horror that made the game so great. It also felt much too ripped off from movies 
 like "The Ring" and "The Grudge", which saddens me to say since I thought the rest of the game 
 was very original.
  
  As for the graphics, sound and gameplay, they're all great, except maybe that it's a bit too linear. 
 Although it's not as linear as most other fps-games.
  I was also somewhat disappointed by the few weapons, although I don't mind too much since the weapons 
 that were available were pretty neat and sufficient. Anyways, I barely got to use my favourite 
 ones as the game ended too quickly and I was a bit too careful about my arsenal as a result of 
 there not being as much ammunition at the beginning.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZuljinRaynor
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is the number one single player experience of 2005 to scare yourself. The Sci-Fi story 
 is chilling and maybe mind boggling for some but it is an excellent game. The game is actually 
 scary with no monster closets but an actual atmosphere that will make you jump.
  
  The game looks awesome and plays awesome with wonderful gun fights and effects. The AI in the game 
 is unmatched and you'll be on your feet dodging enemy fire.
  
  When you're not fighint the bad guys, your walking with a surprise from Alma here and there and 
 spooky images. This mind bending FPS is a must buy and a great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lev_six
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 22, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game without looking into it much. I honestly did not know what to expect. I was 
 floored in a way that I have seldom been with the FPS/action genre. 
  Visually stunning...
  For those of you with high end systems, this is the sort of game you can really get to utilize 
 your system's performance abilities on. I ran the game on a 6600 GT with a gig of ram and it still 
 was better looking than anything out there, save for maybe Half Life 2. 
  
  Gameplay...
  The slo-mo function has been used in many games but this one really did it with a nice twist. The 
 main character has a murky past and exceptional reflexes. His heightened dexterity and skill is 
 the explanation for the slow motion feature. There are a lot of interesting new weapons instead 
 of sticking to the generic chainsaw, shotgun, machine gun, crossbow list that the original Doom 
 introduced. The nail gun is a great way to pulverize your enemies as well as several high tech 
 futuristic death ray type weapons. 
  
  The AI is good and will notice if you try to flank. The enemy combatants pay attention to your 
 movement. If you hide in shadows they won't see you, making it possible to take on large numbers 
 of enemies by using an attack and hide technique. This game is very entertaining and loads of fun.
 
  
  Replayability...
  The single player mission lasts about 10-14 hours (just a rough guess) . The levels are generally 
 very compelling and they enemies get progressively more challenging. Switching the difficulty settings 
 to a higher level also makes a huge difference, giving the player the opportunity to play the entire 
 game again while having to utilize new techniques and approaches. 
  
  Plot/scenario, etc...
  The horror factor in the game is top notch, rivaling many Hollywood films 
 that try to be scary. This is the only game in which I have actually yelled out due to extreme 
 surprise and horror. It is an excellent blend of horror, sci-fi, and action. However, this brings 
 me to the only gripe I have with the game. The plot has a huge amount of potential but tends to 
 leave a lot of things undeveloped. For example (spoiler) , you hunt the main enemy character for 
 the entire game. When you finally find him, he is killed without much fanfare, in a single shot! 
 It's pretty weak. The other characters in your team also could have been developed much more. Aside 
 from just seconds of dialogue between the main levels, they are pretty much eye candy and fairly 
 irrelevant to the plot twists. 
  
  A lot of the lack of development with the storyline was probably intentional, leaving open the 
 door for an even bigger and better sequel. If you're going to buy one FPS this year, I'd recommend 
 this one. It's well worth the price and it has a ton of entertainment value. In fact, I've played 
 it through three times and even though I purchased it a while ago, I played it again several times 
 this week.
  
  Strongly recommended!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: electrokid
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 22, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  I just finished this game and I loved it from beginning to end. First of all the graphics are beautiful 
 and the gun models are some of the best. When u fire a weapon in this game, the bullets tear apart 
 anything they hit. The slow mo brings even more intensity to the already excellent firefights. 
 And the creepiness of this game is not really scary but just chilling. The story is very creative 
 and they weren't driving too much towards horror, but more towards grusome suspense. The multiplayer 
 in this game is also cool but the single player steals the show here. The 2 flaws in this game 
 do not kill it but could have been improved. The levels can get extremely repetitive and u will 
 get a terrible case of de ja vu or however the hell u spell it. The second flaw is the **** cliffhanger 
 ending. Seems like in all the major first person shooters now the end of the story just sucks. 
 Other than that this game is teriffic and definately worth 50 smackers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchelt
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 22, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Nice Eye-Candy but the game sucked!
  
  Sure the game looked great but the game play it self was super boring and easy!
  
  I played 
 it at the hardest level and had no problems finishing it. I think way too much time was spent walking 
 around looking for things to do and people to kill.
  
  Put it this way, you can finish the last few sections of the game with a HAND GUN!!! What kind 
 of ending is that...... I'll tell you, it's a boring one.
  
  So.... you want a game that looks great and the game play sucks, get FEAR, if you want to play a 
 game that looks great and is hard as hell to finish at the tuff settings.... get Far Cry.
  
  Oh well... good luck and have fun!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmw892
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Fear is an amazing Game. It Might not be the halo 2 of the computer, but in some parts it is better 
 than halo. In the graphics department its is far beyond halo usually when you get closer to a wall 
 the wall gets very muddy or blurry. But in Fear the walls get nice and clear. Once you get all 
 of your controls mapped to the way you like it plays smooth as butter. Melee attacks are some-what 
 hard to pull off but who said shooting and round house kicking somebody was easy. The multiplayer 
 aspect is also good fun too. In conclusion fear is a breath of fresh air in a world of Bland Fps'
 
  (excluding Battlefield 2 and call of duty 2) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roni511
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 22, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  An amazing game with incredible special effects. The "ultra fast reflex mode" was a great addition 
 to the first person shooter genre, and the weapons themselves were fantastic. Very few, if any 
 games have ever actually made the player afraid, but the creepy atmosphere keeps you sitting on 
 the edge of your chair! The special effects are the best I have ever seen, when a grenade blows 
 up, you can even see the air compress! And the weapons annhilate everything, it feels like your 
 actually firing a firearm. Also, all the weapons are effective, even the pistol. Even Half Life 
 2 felt like it came up short compared to F. E. A. R. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 22, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  Now I know why this was rated one of the best games of 2005.. The story plot is awesome, the graphics 
 are pretty good too although it pulls a lot out of your computer for graphics. The SlowMo is something 
 to talk about the first I have seen in a first person shooter the best thing I loved about the 
 game is SlowMo. The game ending is super I just love the ending, the next best ending to the Mafia 
 ending. The game is just long enough for me as in not too short and not too long. The AI is the 
 best I have seen so far in a game next to Farcry, they deffinitly made me feel like I was playing 
 against real people and the way the AI use the environment is just so cool and the special effects 
 after a fight like the bullet holes in walls and the dust filling the air makes the game so much 
 real. I would say it's one of the next generation games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Strike
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  Pros: The year 2005 was great, cause it was the year FEAR gave us a visit! FEAR is the best shooter 
 at this moment, never has there been an Asian Horror Shooter. With an spooky little girl (like 
 in the Ring) as main 'enemy'. It's just so creepy seeing her walking through a hallway or sometimes 
 even on the ceiling! The graphics are just Top Notch, more particles and bulletholes than this 
 has never been seen. The AI is smarter than ever, cause this time it hasn't got Scripted Pathing. 
 They give the full freedom to the AI, they can jump over desks, crawl under desks and can push 
 over sofa's etc. It will really creep you out. And the bullettime effects are just awesome. 
  
  Cons: The engine is a little too much for most machines and Kung-Fu could have been better 
 constructed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattias838
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 21, 2006 11:23 pm PT
Review:  I loved FEAR it was one of the best FPS games i have ever played. The AI's were the best ive seen 
 in any game, they think a lot smarter and they are a lot harder to bet, they think like real people. 
 They push over things for cover and they talk to each other. Its also one of only two games that 
 i think were really creepy and a bit scary especially that little girl. I would give it a 9/10 
 for game play, i didnt give it 10/10 because they're were some things that could have improved 
 but thats with all games, in all games they're is always something that can be improved. As for 
 graphics well 8/10, i think that if it had graphics like Doom 3 or Quake 4 then the gameplay would 
 be a lot better. As for the online gameplay, i think it was planned very good, its got many map 
 choices and the whole gameplay in general online is really good. All in all game is awsome and 
 i think it is defenetly worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TargetDog
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  FEAR was one of the most highly anticipated games of 2005 and did not dissapoint many people when 
 they finally got their hands on it. It did not dissapoint me either for the first few hours of 
 gameplay. That feeling soon washed away for me after I got used to the FEAR formula. FEAR is a 
 good game, no doubt, but it uses the same formula over and over again and soon grows completely 
 stale. Other reviews have mentioned this but I really need to emphasize this point. FEAR is a good 
 game, no doubt, and a lot of effort was put into making this game, but you WILL get tired of this 
 game after a while.
  
  Graphics:
  
  This is one part of the game I feel was pretty well done. Particle effects are BEAUTIFUL. Fire 
 and smoke everywhere as well as cracks in walls from bullets. All common things you will see in 
 every battle, and makes every gunfight a feast for the eyes. There is some clipping however, but 
 not much. Character models look very good for the most part but you'll be seeing the same enemies 
 over and over again, which is boring. Textures look like CRAP. Honestly, why they made the textures 
 look so crappy is beyond me. The walls look low-res and grainy, and look out the window and marvel 
 at the craptacular 1996-calibur graphics of the buildings outside. Animations in general are pretty 
 good for what they are; reload animations aren't bad and enemies move around in a fairly realistic 
 motion. However, some animations, like the handgun reload, seem jerky and could use improvements. 
 Ragdoll physics are used well here. Throwing a grenade at a bunch of enemies and watching them 
 fly around is quite fun. 
  
  Artistic design definitely could've used some improvement. The entire game is black, white, and 
 grey. That's all you'll see in the drab office environments. The office setting sets the mood well 
 but gets tiring after going through it for 10 hours. 
  
  Sound: The sound is great. Gunshots sound powerful, footsteps sound realistic, voices can be heard 
 loud and clear from the enemies and are used appropriately according to what situation they're 
 in. The music sets the dark mood well. There's no big problem with the sound in FEAR.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is the same that you'll find in any other typical FPS. This game gives you 
 a few different things like different melee attacks and usable medkits but it feels similiar to 
 other FPS games. The guns are pretty fun to use and have a nice feel to them. You'll be fighting 
 the same exact kind of enemy in this game for the WHOLE game, which at first isn't a problem seeing 
 as how the AI is easily the best seen so far in a FPS game. They will jump over railing and crawl 
 under tables and flank you; definitely makes an intense experience. However, even with this incredibly 
 amazing AI you will undoubtedly start to get bored after a while. They don't change up the main 
 enemies. Sure, every once in a while you get the occasional stealth ninja or heavy mech to fight, 
 but most of the time its the same boring soldiers. I got bored of fighting them halfway and only 
 trudged through the rest of the game because I was hoping for something better; never happened. 
 If you don't have a problem with the incredible repetitiveness of the gameplay than you'll be fine.
 
  
  Presentation: Very nice. The game tries to have a horrific atmosphere; it succeeds in being atmospheric 
 and oppresive but it never actually scares you. It's not very scary, but it sets the mood. The 
 story starts out well, pushing a bunch of questions towards you that you assume will be answered 
 at the end of the game, and it answers some of them but the story never really kicks off. 
  
  Overall this game is good but you could do better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheChickenBoo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 21, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  I Had To Change My Underwear Like 4 Times During This Game. This Game Is A Much Different Kind 
 Of Scary Then "Doom 3". "Doom 3" Was Like A "Jumps Out From Closet" Scary Or Like The Movie "White 
 Noise" While "F. E. A. R." Is A "Holy **** Run For Your Life" Scary Or Like The Movie "The Grudge". 
 Some Of The Good Things Besides The Scary Would Be The Intelligent A. I. Like How 2 Soldiers Will 
 Take Cover And Use Grenades And Bullets To Supress You While 2 Other Soldiers Will Flank You By 
 Any Means Possible. That Includes Diving Through Windows And Crawling Under Pipes. After You Play 
 This Game You Will Find It Is Destined To Become An Instant Classic. Some Problems Have To Be The 
 Demanding Requirements. I Was Able To Meet These Graphic And CPU Wise, But Since I Only Have 512 
 RAM It Tended To Lag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travise14
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  this is easily the most scariest game ever made, and I don't see anyone topping it very soon. They 
 should probably have a warning on the front of the box to warn of heart attacks. Also should come 
 with a pack of new underwear for all the times you poop and pee your pants. I don't know if there 
 is anything else to say except that if you're reading this what is wrong with you, go buy this 
 game right now. 
  
  
  
  
  
  so many words to finish this review la la la la la la la la la la la la la 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dasilva90
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  Presentation
  Comes in your standard DVD case with a detailed manual and a single DVD disc. The game menus are 
 easy and effective.
  
  Story & Dialogs
  The story in this game is very good. Its told in real time sequences, you never leave the FPS point 
 of view during the cutscenes which really makes the game more imersive, this game is a horror versions 
 of Half Life 2. 
  
  Puzzle Design
  Not many puzzles ni the game but the little puzzles there are are very different and non repetitive..
 
  
  Graphics
  Jaw dropping, the sign of true next gen graphics. Lets hope we see a port to Xbox 350 or PS3.
 
  
  Sound
  The music and sound effects are really atmopheric, it works very well for the game. Doing a better 
 job than Doom3 & System shock.
  
  Gameplay
  The fights in this game is amazing, new and fresh. You really feel like your in this world fighting 
 this amazing AI. All levels are very different although continue the same dark theme. AI is the 
 best ever seen (coming from the NOLF2 team, Im not surprised.) 
  
  Lasting Appeal
  You can replay this game 5 times and each time you'll play every scene differently due to the amazing 
 AI. The multiplayer is solid, also being able to bullet time in multiplayer adds a good twist to 
 it.
  
  Last Word
  A milestone in the gaming industry, a sign of a brilliant game. Lets hope the Fear team will soon 
 work on NOLF3. 
  
  9.0/10 - Superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JuggyB
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 21, 2006 3:41 am PT
Review:  simply amazing... tremendous AI... amazing graphics... sound was perfect... n the story-line... thumbz 
 up!
  play it in hard mode for the fun!
  usually i dont like fps games but after playing this..... it was creepy horror... specially when 
 the little girl comes around suddenly... increase the volume turn the lights off... n be a part of 
 a creepy adventure!
  cool awesome amazing horror creepy good tremendous
  these words will tell alot about this game
  play it n enjoy the thrilling adventure!
  bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mht1000
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 21, 2006 3:14 am PT
Review:  Strange. It spooked me. I'm a fan of the Ring movies, and the game did that well. I liked firing 
 the repeating cannon. I liked the slow-mos, and I really liked the music.
  
  But. BUT. The ending suddenly came up. I knew what the ending would be half-way through, and sure 
 enough, there it was. The office complex is too long. The game is pretty prescriptive - you can't 
 shoot your own guys/fall out of the helicopter/get over really low barriers/poke yourself in the 
 eye etc. If I want to listen to answerphone messages, I can just sit in my office. All these guys 
 on this site rating this game as perfect 10. Anyone here work for Sierra?
  
  I really enjoyed it. Hearing some of the soldiers say "Take cover!" "Where?" was very amusing. 
 And the girl totally freaked me out, particularly right at the end in the corridor.
  
  But to compare this to HL2? Get real. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olleost
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 21, 2006 12:54 am PT
Review:  If you play in "day-light-mode" it scores 8.0 and if you play it night time it is a 9.4. Simply 
 a better game that way. The mood is glorious. You gotta love the humming "Alien-sounds" in the 
 Office-maps... and the gore in slow-motion mode. But the designers favorite game must be Max Payne 
 1 and 2, because there are several similarities between them. Not only the scenarios and environment, 
 but also the "bullet-time" thingy. A must play for ehhh everyone actually. I think it is the best 
 game since Halflife 2, and that is the best game ever. Buy now, or at least play the demo... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClayMan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 20, 2006 11:49 pm PT
Review:  A game that gives you a reason to update your system. This game looks amazing and it is creepy. 
 you will see and hear stuff all around you and when you look there will be nothing there. this 
 game has a great variety of weapons, my two favorite being a laser gun that leaves nothing left 
 of you enemies but black bones. and my second being a nail gun which allows you to nail your enemies 
 on the wall. the ai is very smart they will flip over anything they can find for cover they can 
 sneak up behind you. i love throwing a grenade in a group of enemy soldiers and listen to there 
 obscenities. the slow motion effect is fun as well. in this game you can adjust the difficulty 
 level whenever you need so you can always get out of situations you can't normally handle. and 
 if you run out of ammo or you get close enough you can always use your hands and feet to kick this 
 s*** out of your foes =-) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Four_Monks
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 20, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  I have a high-end PC with a Creative Labs Audigy 7.1 sound card and Inspire P7800 surround sound 
 speakers. If you play this game in the dark with only the monitor on you WILL jerk you head around 
 to see what's behind you. I spent a cartridge or two just making sure I wasn't being followed. 
 The graphics are not as good as Splinter Cell, in my opinion, but the fire fights well make up 
 for it. There were times that I thought that these guys (enimies) really had a mind of their own. 
 My worse opion is that the ending stunk. I was expecting a colossal shoot-out and yet I got some 
 physiological mind hump. I walked away from the game feeling satisfied that I played it and yet 
 cheated at the end. Oh, and it only took me three days to complete it. One final positive, if Monolith 
 comes out with a sequel, I'll buy it.
  
  Thanks,
  Four Monks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin_George86
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 19, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Impressive game but its not a fun thing to play. Just a pickup and beat it game and throw it in 
 the trash. No real challenge, run through hallways so dark it makes you turn your computer brightness 
 to the fullest. 
  
  I was left wanting a decent challenge, half way through the game i turned the difficulty from hard 
 to easy because i just wanted to finish it and run throuhg the rest because it wasnt worth the 
 little extra effort of beating it on hard. A little too hyped up. Dont expect a great game, just 
 a decent beat in a weekend good graphics shooter. FAIR REVIEW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liam_2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 19, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  The reason i am reviewing this game is basically because... it ROCKS!!! 
  The visuals are superb and the gameplay is a mix of constant action and suspense.
  
  One minute 
 you could be shooting down a full squad of men blowing off their limbs with a vast array of weapons 
 including the usual standard weaponary such as pistols, automatics, shotguns and as you progress 
 through the game you can even get rocket launchers and laser guns blowing your enemies to smithereens. 
 
  
  Another minute you could be haunted by fettel (psychotic psychic commander) who psychically makes 
 you hallucinate voices and strange happenings such as your squad just incinerating before your 
 eyes.
  
  The greatest aspect of the game has got to be the graphics as the game uses full dynamic lighting 
 and softshadows allowing immense gameplay. 
  Also this game is one of the first to introduce the player being able to actually see his own body 
 which gives the player the true feeling of actually being in the game. Also the effects such as 
 explosions are highly realistic because 100s of individual particles are used making true debree 
 fly out towards you and realistic fog effects.
  
  Another good thing about FEAR is the physics engine which makes every movement look real including 
 falling and even physical recoil.
  
  One more note the game has a feature (which you should be familiar with) 'SLOWMO' which isn't new 
 to games but adds another great aspect to the game which allows you to shoot at least three times 
 more amount of bullets into your enemy (because you are faster than the enemy in this mode) allowing 
 you to blow off all there limbs in one clip (if your good enough) or if you shoot someone up close 
 with the shotgun you can also shoot them in half!
  
  Overall i think that this is the game of the year 2005 and if you havent tried it yet then you 
 should cos it's fantastico!!! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: halfbloodking
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 19, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Very few designers have ever been able to create a game that reaches the statue of FEAR, but Monolith 
 did just that. The game initiates with clips introducing you as member of the elite FEAR, First 
 Encounter Assault Recon) unit, which confronts situations that "normal" soldiers would be unable 
 to handle. You are then informed of a paramilitary attack on an aerospace command center. Surprisingly 
 enough the terrorists have taken hostages, but are not issuing demands and when a special forces 
 unit is sent in to contain the situation communication is severed by a spooky signal. As the predicament 
 escalates FEAR is sent to release the hostages and contain the crisis before it becomes epidemic. Throughout 
 the game you are confronted with a macabre and lurid apparition, an embodiment of a young girl, 
 that compliments the game's foreboding and inauspicious environment. I wont reveal much more of 
 the plot, as I believe it will ruin the excitement and intensity, but I will mention that there 
 are some unexpected twists. Unlike many other games, FEAR manages to captivate an ominous eerie 
 presence and will often unexpectedly cause you to jump in your seat. The game consists of two cores, 
 one evidently the story line and the other is the colossal and memorable engagements. As a FEAR 
 member your reflexes are incredulously fast, so you are able to react in a matter of seconds, hence 
 the slow mo. You are provided with an interminable amount of weaponry, which includes a gun that 
 actually rips the skin off any poor bugger that gets in your way. The A. I. are superlatively intelligent; 
 they communicate among themselves and even box you in and "smoke you out". Although evidently awesome 
 the game does retain some drawbacks. For one there are monotounous enviroments; very little variances, 
 there could be more weapons, and the game could, no, should be longer, not to mention the occasional 
 stress on your system ( I have all the latest including a GeForce 7800 GTX , so I surpass the standards) . 
 Though, the gameplay is awesome, the sounds are phenomenal; they actually captivate the sound of 
 gunfire, and the story-line continues to amaze. Throughout the game you are on your toes and able 
 to surmise the intent behind the title of FEAR ,which often evokes such, cliche I know. If I were 
 to ever recommend a game though, it would be FEAR. The game should come with an advisory sign though, 
 because you might need to throw away a few pairs of pants... lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrNib
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, this game is a fantastic package with wonderful single player, and even better multiplayer. 
 If your computer can run it then go out and get this game because its well worth your money. The 
 graphics are crisp and detailed, the sound is also crisp and the controls are easy to pick up. 
 From the satasfying red cloud of blood from nailing a guy with a grenade, to getting thoose wonderful 
 headshoots the game delivers perfectly. I highly recomend this game to anyong who wants a horror 
 game or alot of action with AI so good youll think your playing against a super human. Buy it now! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamezRlife21
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 19, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. for the PC is incredible. I have never seen anything like it. This game puts a whole new 
 meaning to Fear. 
  
  If your computer can handle everything that is required (the graphics card plays a very big part) 
 then this game is heaven. Everything is so detailed and amazing! The cut scenes could have been 
 a little better i think, with some more details, but the ingame play is perfect. All the surroundings 
 and people look absolutely amazing.
  
  The sound is another thing (yet again, if your computer has a high enough sound card) then you 
 can hear everything. The sound is perfect, clear, crisp, and simply amazing. From the defining 
 blow of the grenades, to the ear splitting sound of a heavy machine gun shooting in your ear. 
 
  
  The game play is beautiful. The controls are somewhat complicated to understand, but after a while 
 its easy. There is just a right amount of people in this game to make it scary but at the same 
 time, you can have fun killing all of the other men. This game is pretty scary, especially the 
 in game cut scenes, they catch you by surprise, and sometimes gory messed up faces will randomly 
 appear on your screen. This game is excessively bloody and violent, thats probably what makes it 
 so awesome! There are plenty of weapons to choose from, including grenades and rocket launchers. 
 
  
  Somethings that could have been changed would be the "walkie talkie". It was difficult to hear 
 exactly what the people were saying, and it broke in and out. Also, the levels are endlessly long 
 and at some points, can get very boring. But luckily, once you start to get bored in a certain 
 part, something is bound to leap out or someone is going to start screaming, or something. Thats 
 the main thing about this game, it takes you by surprise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: franki_kaaboom
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  this is a game created by the famous CS game and the Half life 1 and 2 games .. as you all know 
 seriea ..!! for now it has always been the best games that you can play on your PC and i alwas 
 buy this company's games cuz i know that they will always ceate good .. or should i say fantasic 
 .. games.
  i'll start with the games graphic's and let me tell you this .. its really like half life 2 but 
 a diffrent storry line .. and diffrent enemies... the sounds are cool too .. the way that they 
 go is in a way to make you get scared of every corner you come up with in the game.. and make's 
 you look with a careful look from the corner for the sound that you just heard...
  
  the story was cool and ,, i gess that you have to play the game to know the story .... cuz im not 
 gonna tell you the story.. but i really like what happened in the end and .... i will say that you 
 will like it too when you see it !!!
  
  for now i am still playing the game and i will never get tired of it !!
  
  hope that ou buy 
 the game and see it for your self. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSnakesoul
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is beyond what i expected. I thought it would be just chasing some ghosts but it was 
 war on war. The graphics blown me away from my computer just seeing how nice they were, smooth 
 and beautiful. The game has alot of enemies and a nice story and also of course a few jumpy parts.
 
  
  The game had me jumping around wondering what was going on sometimes. The game has alot of action 
 and also alot of stuff such as leaving holes in the wall with your bullets and also giving a soldier 
 a nice boost through the windows with a grenade. The effects are nicely done and are beyond anything 
 now adays.
  
  The story is interesting and leaves a mystery through each leave such as who are these 2 enemy 
 boss and why are you getting this *SPOLIER* all th time. The game is about you a soldier working 
 for a group called F. E. A. R a task force built to destroy "Ghosts" and handle those hard missions 
 that the army and the so called cops and swat can't handle. But the mission you get is over your 
 head leaving your teammates to die for and you running for the answer. The game shows a girl that 
 loves to blow stuff up she is little and can't be harmed but she can surely harm you with the nice 
 flames and other "special things"...... But the question is who is she and how does she get an army 
 of soldiers to fight for her.... The questions are ingame and waiting for you.
  
  Overall great game but leaves you with I HATE THAT GIRL I WANT TO SHOOT HER NOW. A few times i 
 have gone crazy because of her but overall you get used to her lol. Great game pick it up if your 
 the action/horror freak we all know and love :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrusherOfThings
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2006 4:00 am PT
Review:  I consider myself a pretty jaded gamer, so it takes a LOT to blow me away. And man, let me tell 
 you, from the INSTANT I started this game it totally blew me away in all aspects. The presentation 
 and atmosphere is phenomenal. Forget Half-Life 2, forget Doom 3, F. E. A. R. has it's own unique brand 
 of creepiness that brings things to new heights.
  
  The game is pretty gory, but in my book, that's a good thing. The graphics are absolutely perfect. 
 I don't think I've seen better graphics on my PC before... and the physics are outstanding!
  
  The single-player mode had me hooked instantly. This game WILL mess with your head!! lol. And 
 that's a good thing if you like things such as good scary movies. Because that's how great the 
 production values are on this title.
  
  If you have a PC and don't own this game you are doing yourself a great disservice. This is a MUST 
 buy, no questions asked. I haven't been able to recommend a game more than I'm recommending this 
 game right now, and that's saying a lot coming from me.
  
  Just hope you don't have nightmares! hehe. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPiTFiRE4432
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 17, 2006 11:00 pm PT
Review:  I would recommend F. E. A. R to anyone who loves a good fps and doesn't mind the occasional scare 
 once and awhile. The game puts forth one of the best graphic engines and has extremely realistic 
 ai. Another cool feature in game is the realistic environment reactions. When a player shoots a 
 wall, the wall breaks up. The game could be somewhat confusing at times; however, once you reach 
 the end, it all becomes clear. F. E. A. R. not only puts forth an excellent single player mode, it 
 also has a very good multi-player for those people who love a great online game. I believe the 
 game should be in every fps fans collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warmack1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is great game with unbelievable graphics and game play. The only bad thing about it is 
 that it is just to damn short. The story is OK nothing ground breaking there but nice. As I'm sure 
 you probably know you can slow down time with the use of your so called reflex abilities to help 
 you get though so of the more ....... let's say adverse and populated times in the game. Where 
 I think the game dropped the ball a little is in the hey, I'm going to scare you spiel, I mean 
 the name of the game is FEAR for cry-in out loud. it is not scary and they try too hard to make 
 it such with flash pop ups of a guy here or a guy there, just does not work. Luckily they don't 
 do it too much and the fast paced nature of the game's solid fps game play covers it. The multi 
 player is OK nothing ground breaking there and it is a system killer so make sure your rig is up 
 to the challenge, (you can look at my PC stats bye my bio info) I run the game on 1920x1200 with 
 all settings maxed 4x AA 16x AF and I only run it at 65 to 67 frames just barely over acceptable 
 game play frames. If you have the power then you have to pick this one up very good game and gorgeous 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djtrix
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting to be scared witless from this game but although I had a few scares, overall I 
 found it tedious and weakly put-together. A great premise with good enemy AI but the character 
 models are kinda sucky and the world is barely interactive (somehow the enemy can knock tables 
 over, but you can't!) . The story was very disapointing in the end and there was far too little 
 choice as the game progressed. Overall, I would say that if you are going to buy this game. PLEASE 
 wait until it goes down in price and is really really cheap or buy it used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atoranjugan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 17, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about F. E. A. R., the first thing I thought was "Great, another unoriginal horror 
 shooter." Boy was I wrong.
  
  F. E. A. R. had me interested even in the beginning level. I'm not the type to scare easily in a game, 
 but I was tense from the get go. 
  
  The game really delivers an awesome experience. It has great visuals and detail. But the visuals 
 isn't its strongest point; the strongest point seems to be the deep story.
  
  I won't begin to tell the story, because the truth is I didn't really get it myself. There a parts 
 of the story that seem to be left for interpretation, which is fine with me.
  
  The actual gameplay itself is pretty good. You have a well rounded arsenal but only able to hold 
 three weapons. You have some melee attacks which come in handy and you can slow down time. Not 
 totally necessary but fun and cool looking. The A. I. in the game is pretty good to; they tend to 
 use suppressive fire and throw grenades and always want to flank you. 
  
  But as for "fear" in F. E. A. R., i felt it was a bit lacking. The game seems to divide itself into 
 different parts- scary parts and fighting parts. You always know that if the little girl is in 
 the area, you really don't to worry about fighting much. So the feeling of being in danger is kind 
 of lost.
  
  Overall, F. E. A. R. is an awesome game. Definitely not a clone of any game. I really look forward 
 for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fricsaid
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  This game, quite honestly, can scare the crap out of you. With a combination of visual surprises, 
 erie sound and just some darn good shootin'..... F. E. A. R. will have you reaching for the lights.
 
  
  I enjoy my gaming at night, therefore I use head phones as not to disturb anyone in the house. 
 This adds an element of game play I've not experienced with any other game. Thru surround speakers 
 is nice also.
  
  The world is a little mundane and it seems like you've never left the first mission, but the action 
 keeps your mind off that. The shooting effects are awesome. Particals fly upon impact, leaving 
 smoke and debris to impare your vision momentaraly. It is a system and video hog. I have a 2.2 
 GHZ. Athlon, along with a ATI 9550 and a gig of RAM, and the game still will not perform well on 
 high settings.
  
  All in all, it's a great game with room for improvement. F. E. A. R. 2 anyone?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: C0deZer0
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 17, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  When Half Life 2 came out, it seemed nearly impossible to top the uber shooter. Well, Sierra and 
 VU came out with a little game called FEAR. In FEAR you play as a new recruit in the First Encounter 
 Assault Recon, which investigates violent paranormal encounters. You are a faceless, voiceless agent 
 who has lightning quick reflexes and are a modern day Rambo. Your first task is to take on a rather 
 creepy fellow named Paxton Fettel. Fettel has the power to control many clone troops and will use 
 them to take you out. Seems like a pretty run of the mill FPS right? Add a huge storyline that 
 involves gene manipulation, many hallucinations, a pissed little girl named Alma who will torch 
 anything in her way, and you have a righteously wicked FPS experience!
  
  The game starts as any FPS really does... you are dropped at your location and you will have to 
 wander a few rooms and hallways before you meet your enemies. Instantly you are given a few nice 
 little maneuvers that will help save some ammo, like a jump kick, or a sweep kick, which really 
 make you feel that much more like the character in the game, just because of the freedom of control. 
 When you first meet up with the enemy you will probably end up using the same techniques as any 
 other FPS... Rush the enemy, or hide and wait for them to peek around the same corner. Doing this 
 will get you killed quick! The enemies in FEAR have some of the best AI in any game to date. Enemies 
 will duck for cover, jump through windows, flank you, sneak up behind you, and very rarely peeks 
 around the same corner twice. The chatter on the enemy radio is very useful with working up a strategy 
 to fight off any bad guys surrounding you, but most of all the chatter is downright funny to listen 
 to as you smoke one guy after the next. The story in the game unfolds through phones with voicemail 
 on them, or extracting information out of laptops and have your director telling you about them. 
 There isn't a very direct story to the game, so you will find out little details as you play, which 
 can make it a little annoying at times. Weapons in this game seem familiar due to the fact that 
 there are so many FPS games that have similar weapons. You will get a couple of different types 
 of machine guns, a shotgun, dual pistols, a nailgun that will stick your enemies to the wall, all 
 the way up to a railgun that strips the meat off of enemies leaving fried skeletons. Enemies that 
 you encounter don't vary way too much but will come at you in huge volumes. You will fight things 
 from normal shock trooper type guys, troops in heavy armor, to stealth soldiers that will hold 
 themselves up in a corner and attack you quick then turn on invisible camo and disappear for a 
 few seconds (another quick reference to these guys... The spy in Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory) .
 
  
  Graphics inf FEAR are one of the shining aspects to this game. Everything from motion capture to 
 moving lights are done extremely well. A lot of detail went into this game and is just absolute 
 eye candy. Things like flames to sparks coming off an enemy's armor when shot is just brilliant! 
 During some of the hallucinations, things get blurry and odd, just like a dream, and really adds 
 to the creepiness of what the presentation of everything going on. 
  
  Surprising enough, sound is also a crown jewel of FEAR. Most of the music you will find in the 
 game is extremely creepy, and will give you this feeling that you are all alone. Other times the 
 music will pick up like a movie, and really give you an overwhelming sense of action. When you 
 get around to the MoSlo option you will hear gunshots slow down, and enemies yell slowly, or my 
 favorite, when you kill an enemy, he starts to scream and you come out of MoSlo, that's a funny 
 one. Gunshots, explosions, and melee thuds are loud and sound like they really pack a punch. The 
 guns all sound like they are supposed to, and are never muted or dull.
  
  With everything said here, FEAR is well worth the asking price. FEAR will give you a good 20 hours 
 worth of play on hard, and will even go beyond that with a good solid Multiplayer. So if you are 
 tired of Half-Life 2, and are bored of Halo 2, go and get FEAR, the Half-Life 2 and Halo 2 killer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suncanath
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  I have played a lot of shooters and have enjoyed all the greatest like Max Payne, Far Cry, Call 
 of Duty and all, And this game sure fits in there at a top spot place. Forget all the talk about 
 missions, gameplay, objectives and all. This game will keep you glued to your chair for many hours!
 
  
  If you like FPS games, you sure don't wanna miss this one. And for all the hardcore shooters outthere, 
 try the maximim difficuly and see how much you gonna need quick-load/quicksave :)
  
  The graphics are great, you can setup your game-rig with much settings and a testtool comes along 
 with it. I liked the sound, so be sure to turn that up as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twizler191
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  It's not a totally new kind of game but it's tight. The shockwave effects that grenades and handcannons 
 make are sweet. You pretty much feel like a total badass when you play this game. Most games don't 
 let you drop kick people so that's one new feature, I was wrong earliar. It's fast, close, action. 
 The game is a bit harder than some shooters because the computers actually think about how to take 
 you out. If you don't like the games Max payne, half life, doom, escape from buctcher bay, unreal 
 tournament or any kind of sci fi shooter at all your not going to go for this much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shak20
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 16, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  I 've just managed to finish F. E. A. R after 10 hours of play. Well let's start with the highlight 
 of the game: The sound: IT'S JUST GREAT... the main reason that the game is actually entitled F. E. A. R 
 isn't only the "spooky" ghosts, but most of all the mixture of them with great sound that many 
 directors would like to use it in their next thriller movie :) .
  
  GRAPHICS: Sierra continues the tradition of making games with beautiful and great graphics... but 
 with their realase of Half-Life 2 , i must say that F. E. A. R hasn't managed to "raise the bar".
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Is really exciting at the beginning , but the excitement isn't longlasting. After reaching 
 level 3 , the games becomes really boring.
  
  ENEMIES: This is the other highlight of the game. The F. E. A. R enemies are by far the most difficult 
 enemies i 've met during my gaming experience..
  
  STORY: The story is a mixture of Half-Life 2 and the movie RIng :) .This is why this game is consider 
 to be revolutionary. In 90% of all FPS games your enemies are human and ALIENS. In this game your 
 enemies are humans and ghosts (and the little girl from RIng:-) ) Finally you meet something different 
 , instead of those ugly aliens...
  
  CONCLUSION: Great sound, superb graphics , wonderful senario ... Long for a beginner gamer, short 
 for a serius gamer.
  
  p. s i 'm really disappointed by petroszaris review ... and something in greek... re kani ypno ena 
 patheis tpt.... teleiwne 3ypna jai ena rtw na pai3oyme pes.. jai men me laleis malakies mia xara 
 en to F. E. A. R . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zarispetros
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 16, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Well at the beginning it gives you the creeps, it has all the motives you need to carry on playing. 
 Great graphics great movement (the usual for first person shooting) , nice prysics, excellent a. i. 
 from the enemy and last but not least exclellent sound in every way... But -there is always the 
 but- the duration is extremely small. Besides that the "ghosts" aren't that scary, you get used 
 to them after half hour of playing (there are just an object in the game) and isn't what i expected... 
 Also there is lack of weapons and those you use are just too usual.. The story mode is kind of 
 complicated and not quite understandind (too many questions unaswered) .. Well that's all in very 
 little.. My advice, worth of playing, but only for a day.. 
  
  p. s. the ghosts are far too easy and cute in some way (instead of spooky) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarek75
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 16, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  Amazing... stunning... piece of art.... there are some of the words that jumped into my head when 
 i first played F. E. A. R., it took me few seconds to realize how this game really works and how time 
 is a great factor in it, bullet time... scary scenes... dreaming while you still awake.... together 
 with a stunning graphics and amazing sounds... really a great game.
  it starts a new generation of "time factor" games which we can really see in most of the current 
 games in the market, focusing on your fear ,the thing inside your heart and mind when you face the 
 unknown, this one should really makes your F. E. A. R. comes to surface. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brijeshhsejirb
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 15, 2006 10:46 pm PT
Review:  One of the most anticipated first person shooter games of 2005 is here. You have been through the 
 promos and videos which created a lot of hype and suspense around the game. Now its time for the 
 real thing!
  
  First Encounter Assault Recon (F. E. A. R)
  
  All those who have played the demo will already know what the game engine is capable of, it was 
 one the most slick and intensive demos released this year, which not only gave a sneak peek into 
 the game but also into the kind of hardware needed to play it. F. E. A. R. is a scary FPS. The dark 
 environments, weird sounds of babies crying in the background and the random sightings of a little 
 girl running down the hallway in a pool of blood give you the creeps. But soon you'll begin to 
 get so comfortable with them that you almost tend to ignore the ghosts. You have more important 
 things to worry about, like the clones that can't wait to put a bullet through your head. Being 
 a member of F. E. A. R., a US government task force established in 2002, your mission is to find and 
 neutralize Paxton Fetal, a destructive commando controlling an army of clones.
  
  The plot is very simple and generic and you face waves of soldiers stopping you from completing 
 your mission. As far as the plot and gameplay goes, F. E. A. R. is just another FPS with a very cliched 
 storyline. But what strikes the game apart from others is its outstanding game engine, best of 
 the class special effects, engaging combat and nifty AI. The particle effects combined with extensive 
 bump mapping and heavy shader usage makes F. E. A. R. one of the best looking FPS games of the year. 
 The combat is very intensive with bullets whizzing around, and the damage on the walls, though 
 exaggerated, adds to the intensity. Use of soft shadows, volumetric lighting and slow motion effects 
 together make the game one of the most visually appealing games of the year. The "slowmo" mode 
 is greatly inspired by the Matrix movie series and looks as spectacular as it did in the movie. 
 It's also a key element of the game giving you the extra time needed to take down the enemies with 
 precise head shots!
  
  Game physics are also well implemented, the weapon drag and ragdoll physics are realistic and not 
 too exaggerated. The overall A. I. is pretty tight, the clones will seldom come charging at you, 
 they will regroup, strategize and creep on you very skillfully. The only real hole in the AI is 
 exposed when you realize that the communication amongst the clones is loud enough to expose their 
 tactics, allowing you to escape their grenades and sudden ambush attacks. The environments are 
 mostly enclosed and mostly inside factories, buildings and research facilities. After a while the 
 close quarter combat becomes monotonous. The game lacks variety in terms of environments and gameplay 
 and that keeps it a fair distance from FPS gods like Half-Life 2.
  
  A scary game heavily relies on sound and F. E. A. R. scores very well at it. The chilling ambient 
 sound in the background with the ghostly voices add to the atmosphere. The game emphasizes on details- 
 texturing on the walls, weapons, models and sound are all handled with a lot of attention.
  
  Bad news for gamers with strapped budgets-this game is a complete system hog, the updates do 
 help resolve a few performance issues but still the game is very demanding on the system. If you 
 want to play the game with all the eye candy notched up to the max with 4X AA and 16X AF, you will 
 need the very latest hardware to play it. 
  
  All in all, if you are a FPS gamer, F. E. A. R is highly recommended. For the rest it's worth trying 
 as long as your machines can handle it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: etherwhisp
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2006 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Dear Lord where do I start...
  
  I could have never imagined that a game would take me places that I thought only a book would take 
 me... until now.
  
  There were times in the game that I literally stood mesmerized by the details of the engine. The 
 leaflets falling after a firefight... not knowing whether or not I was still in Slo-mo mode or 
 not. Or the smoke and debri from a firefight that I barely survived. Or maybe the theatre in which 
 my shadow was cast about the screen so innocently.
  
  Then there were times when the hairs on the back of my neck would not let me be... Those times 
 were numerous.
  
  The engine was awesome... The AI was tough... The combat was magnificent... The horror was lovely... 
 The game was beautiful... And the rewards... They were so very, very sweet!
  
  FEAR is a game that will be remembered.
  
  It's destined to be one of the greats.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadman45326
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 15, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  no one has created a game more grusome and scary than doom if you play F. E. A. R. you will never 
 play a game like F. E. A. R. if you play this game you would be so scared you cannot describe the 
 playabilaty and your enemy's are actually smart they dont just stand next to 100 barrels of gasoline 
 or jump out in the middle of a hallway and absorbe a million pounds of lead. no one will tell you 
 that this game is bad it is a must play. go and buy this game it will keep you busy for a while. 
 fear will just bring you happinese of shooting people to death 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmacGamePro
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 14, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  i liked fear alot; it has stunning visuals, excellent sound, and even better controls and weapons. 
 the only problem is, im a person who doesnt swear and i like to play my games loudly. i think that 
 they should can the cussing just a little bit. a little bit of cursing doesnt bother me a bit, 
 but if every time you shoot someone or when your teammate gets shot they swear, then i wont be 
 able to play that game (i have a 9 year old brother and overprotective parents) . overall, fear 
 is an excellent game but i think they should cut back on the cursing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkplayer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 3, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This game was truly surprising for me, I did not expect this game to be as great as it was. FEAR 
 truly delivers and goes above and beyond. FEAR is not only scary but it is also extremely engaging 
 immersive and visually phenomenal. The story is also a strong point of this game, the story has 
 a lot of surprises and is quite suspenseful and entertaining. FEAR. is the first notable attempt 
 in a year at toppling Half-Life 2; But has Monolith come up with a triumphant game, and should 
 we all be searching for a spare pair of pants?
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The gameplay in FEAR was just outstanding. Enemy A. I. is almost lifelike in their movements and 
 reactions it almost seems like there are real people playing. The A. I. jumps around corners, ducks, 
 jumps over things, tries sneaking up to you, its just unbelievable how lifelike the reactions 
 are. For me this has to be the best A. I. that I have seen so far. The Physics are also superb; 
 everything in the environment reacts in one way or another. When you shoot lights they start swaying 
 and they go on and off, and there are sparks flying around everywhere, when you shoot a wall a 
 hole forms, you can break computer monitors and make whole rooms blow apart, its just incredible 
 to see it in action. The story also keeps you on pace and it keeps you immersed, it feels like 
 any moment something could fly around the corner so you feel so scared that you almost scream to 
 joy when you meet someone even if its the enemies. Fighting the enemies is also very fun as they 
 react accordingly and no two firefights are the same, throwing in grenades or laying mines only 
 adds to the fun. Overall the game play is perfect, and its easily one of the best in the FPS genre.
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  There are no words to describe the beauty of this game, if you have seen any screenshots or if 
 you are privileged enough to have seen it in action at the highest settings then you will know 
 what I mean by this. Fears graphics are easily the best to date even on the PC which has some 
 good competition. The particle effects are just beautiful, when you shoot at a wall or a huge explosion 
 happens you just start gazing at the beauty. The water in the game, although very rarely used is 
 some of the best water in a game that I have seen. The detail on the walls is also very unbelievable 
 the walls look almost real. But the best aspect of Fear has to be its lighting, lights are so important 
 in this game and they just look phenomenal. Character models are also very good although not as 
 impressive as the rest of the game they still are some of the best on the PC. Fear does so many 
 incredible things in the graphics department that its has to be the best looking game out right 
 now. The only downside to all this is that the game has some steep system requirements, but regardless 
 of what GPU you might have this game will still blow you away visually.
  
  SOUND
  
  Sound is another aspect that FEAR has executed perfectly. The sound not only fits the game perfectly, 
 but it also creates the perfect ambiance. If someone played this game without the sound on they 
 would be missing out on a lot. Fears sound makes the game twice as scary, just crawling through 
 dark corridors and hearing the awful sounds makes the game so much more immersive. The sound is 
 a big aspect of this game and it shouldnt be under minded. Also its the perfect game for those 
 with a surround sound setup. 
  
  VALUE
  
  This is the only category that I believe Fear could have improved upon. Although the game was amazing 
 and one of the best I played in a long time, it was a bit too short for my liking. Someone who 
 is skilled could finish this game easily in 2 or 3 days. Or 8 or so hours approximately the first 
 time through, which is a little disappointing as I really, wanted it to continue. Also the multiplayer 
 component isnt very good. The multiplayer component of Fear is marginally good at best, although 
 it is reasonable as this game was made to be a single player game and not a multiplayer one. So 
 overall the value could be better, but its good nonetheless.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Fear is game that I can comfortably recommend to everyone. Its a magnificent game that will definitely 
 redefine some things in the FPS genre. Not only is it my favorite FPS of the year but also my favorite 
 game of the year, and I think it deserves to be nominated for game of the year.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: greendead
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 14, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a very, very SCARY game. I never played a scary game as this. The gameplay is awsome. 
 Graphics are the best ever. Sounds is awsome too. Everything is awsome!!! Only one problem: HARDNESS!!!
 
  
  If you choose an Easy Settings, you will need to play many times the same part ( If you play it 
 the first time) This game isn't for those guys, that plays FPS first time. I recommend to play 
 Far Cry, Doom 3 and Half-Life 2 first, before play this game. The enemies are very hard to kill. 
 They're pretty good and dodging your bullets. They're jumping all over the room. They try to kill 
 you as fast as they can. Very, very hard enemies. Non game has that hard enemies at Easy Settings. 
 But anyway..... Alma (The girl) is the scariest. Well, sometimes I jumped off the chair, when she 
 pop up, sometimes I didn't. It's just a matter of nerves you have. There's pretty wierd things 
 going on. Some part are quite.... strange...... You don't know what's going on there. Some creppy 
 ghosts comes, it scares you, it disapeare, Everything starts to burn,.... you don't know what's 
 going on. There's a multiplayer too. The multiplayer is definetly the bestest Multiplayer on the 
 world. So many maps, NO LAGGING, AWSOME. Well, I said all what I need to say: This game totally 
 ROCKS!!! It's a Game that shoudn't be missed. Only hardness is a problem. In other way...... AWSOME!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: him_15
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 14, 2006 3:12 am PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the best best games released in my life, i all most thought it was better 
 than half life. This is based about a guy called Paxton Fettel who was a test subject for a company, 
 everything went wrong and thats why you were called in to clear up the mess. If you have played 
 the game you would have realised the little girl im a red dress, she reallly creeps me out because 
 you dont know when she pops out. My fav part of the game has to be the SlowMo, its so cool as you 
 can get precise shots and dodge bullets. I have not completed the game yet but i bet i still got 
 a lot to come. I rare this a 9.2 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OG_Gangasta
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 14, 2006 1:40 am PT
Review:  Super Scary !! but awsame game, great sounds, kreepi , but its a great game !
  
  buy it. play it. Enjoy it.
  its one of the most best game i have ever played...
  since i started 
 it, its scared me a lot :) on other words: if you got scred by doom 3, quack 4, or sims 2 . it 
 wasnt too good for tou. you better try out that game - you wont passed out.
  great grphics, a lot of horror moments, but still that game is fun, a lot of guns, real-life shooting 
 .
  
  What can i say more? its greAt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediKnightKev
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 13, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  The game's incredible and I loved it the minute I started blasting bad-guy-asses! It would be a 
 shame if you miss it....
  
  What annoys me is the limitations put into the inventory. It would be excellent if another weapon 
 slot is added (just one more pls!) .
  
  Also, it's becoming a cliche because of the DOOM series as well as Quake 4; there's hardly any 
 outdoor combat. There's heaps of indoor fights, and the graphics are proven true, but it just lacks 
 the feel of outdoor fights... especially when there are many players who love to see themselves 
 risking their virtual-self charging into the opponent while getting shot, all in the matter of 
 10 seconds.
  
  I'd say it's an awesome piece of work, but I'll give them a chance if there's sequels coming out! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeSteveBob
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 13, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is a GREAT FPS if not the greatest FPS of all time. Not only is this game VERY fun with 
 a solid multiplayer but it is the best looking game I have ever seen! All the particles and special 
 effects when in slow-mo are spectacular. This game at times can be very suspenseful and creepy 
 and can even make you jump out of your seat if you are not expecting it. Playing this game with 
 all the lights off can be a very fun thing to do and you never know when that little girl is going 
 to show up. I personally feel has a very good plot considering some FPS's futile attempts at true 
 plot. I really like the single player and it has some very memerable moments. Also the AI is the 
 best AI of any FPS (or maybe even ANY game) I have ever seen. Even if you do the same part lots 
 of times it will still feel new because the AI has so many options and always is trying different 
 things. The multiplyer if very fun and is very fast paced, especially with lots of people in the 
 smaller levels. It is even more fast paced then games like unreal tournament. Some times you can 
 not even go 5 seconds without seeing another player and either getting killed or getting a sweet 
 headshot. The only probelm with the multiplyer is that if you dont have a good computer and cable 
 internet (or better) then in large matches you are going to have some serious lag. I have a great 
 computer with cable internet and sometimes my computer can not take the biggest matches with some 
 of the settings up high. But you can turn down some stuff and you should have no real problems. 
 This game is a must-have and you should go out and buy it, NOW! HURRY UP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyril_ryser
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 13, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  There's only one point about F. E. A. R. that can be really critisized: If you have played this one, 
 every other FPS-games firefights won't ever impress you anymore.
  
  Gameplay:
  It's awesome how monolith managed to mix-up the blazin' action part with a blend of supernatural 
 horror thrilling. Most of the time you are shooting in slow-mo and experiencing the most dramitic 
 and realistic firefights ever seen in gaming. The AI is really ground breaking what makes the action 
 sequences really dynamic and unpredictable. On the other hand, the scary sequences are just as 
 cinematic and thrilling that you will defenitively experience some unforgettable adrenaline shots. 
 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are at the state of the art. I've never seen anything else like the way F. E. A. R. simulates 
 the impact of gunfire on any material. You will just be overwhelmed from the coolness of the firefights: 
 When you start firing your gun in slowmo an effect spectacle breaks loose: The environment seems 
 to fly apart and every object that is not nailed to the ground will react to the impressive impact 
 of your gun. Your foes will dismember, fly trough the air, or even be nailed to walls before they 
 collapse in a way that looks cooler than in every recent action movie!
  
  Sound:
  With a 5.1 sound system and a Soundblaster 24bit soun card you'll be blasted away. Please be careful 
 before turning up the sound when playing in a dark room... This will be a really die-hard experience 
 :) )
  Best sound ever, if you ask me... everything just sounds like you would expect it to... real as 
 life.
  
  Some minor critics:
  Graphics: Some of the environment do look a bit poor and show a lack of detail and are rendered 
 with a low amount of polygons. But you will remember F. E. A. R. as a graphic burner, because you 
 should focus on the action and the environments that are more beatiful.
  Gameplay: Some passages are a bit stretched to increase the games length... this didn't really 
 work out, because the game turned out to be really short....
  
  Worth Playing?
  If you like stylish, cinematic, thrilling and realistic gameplay you have to buy this game.
  
 Worth Playing?
  If you like stylish, cinematic, thrilling and realistic gameplay you have to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: couly
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  The only problem I have with it is that it is too short and there are not enough environments. 
 oh and everywhere I go, I see the same damn hammer on the same damn table, just in a different 
 room. A matter of cut and paste me thinks. The gun battles are the best I've played on any game 
 though, and the graphics are amazing. The thing I like most about the game is the creepy horror 
 it has going through the game. Sometimes the player doesn't see much or hear much for a few minutes 
 and this, very cleverly heightens tension. Unlike Doom 3, this game has only a few jump out moments, 
 rather, it messes with your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nachoman19
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 12, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is an excellent type of first person shooter and horror at the same time, almost like 
 doom 3 but without the popup monsters attacking you. Graphics are crazy but you'd need to buy a 
 good graphic card to hold this or you'll find this to be pretty laggy. Online is very good but 
 still... sometimes it still lags. The A. I for the enemy is perfect and the smoke effects of the 
 bullets flying everywhere is magnificent. Matrix style gameplay is also new and a good technique 
 to use while in those intense gun battles.
  Overall... this is a game for you especially if you like first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwigfull
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 12, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game after reading one rave review after another. Overall, I think it's a decent 
 waste of time, but I really don't see what is so spectacular about it. Sometimes I wonder if I 
 was playing the same game as most of the people here.
  
  The good: the graphics are decent, as are the sounds. The weapons aren't bad either.
  
  The 
 not-so-good: I found it terribly repetitive. Almost all of your foes are identical, as are the 
 firefights you find yourself in. After 20 or so of these, they become merely routine. The never-ending 
 office building I found to be mindnumbingly boring. Overall, I didn't get much of a sense of progressing 
 through an environment -- I could have been kept in one room for much of the time with the same 
 enemies coming in over and over again and got almost the same satisfaction.
  
  The plot is horrible, as are the characters. I didn't like or care about any of them. I'm no prude, 
 but the use of swearing seemed pretty gratuitous to me -- almost as if the designers put it there 
 to make it seem more "gritty". The plot could have been done away with, as far as I'm concerned, 
 as it didn't seem to contribute to the gameplay (and how much fun is it really to go around listening 
 to dozens of voicemail messages?)
  
  The weapons were okay, but nothing special. Not that much variety or creativity there.
  
  All 
 in all, it's worth playing if you enjoy FPS games, but I wouldn't pay premium price for it. I hate 
 to say it, but if I had to pick one word to describe it, I would have to go with "repetitive" (or 
 even "dull") . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kooliod999
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 12, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  The day you buy F. E. A. R. and install it on your computer can either be the best day of your life, 
 or your worst. For users with entry level computers, it's likely to be the latter. For the hard-core 
 gamer, it's likely to be a memorable game.
  
  There are few factors that make F. E. A. R. a good game, and few that make a bad one. I begin this 
 review with the good factors.
  
  Good Factors:
  Graphics:
  With F. E. A. R., you can have extremely high-resolution, great physics interpolation, and a lifelike 
 picture. The waters can be rendered like the oceans with reflections, ripples and a whole list 
 of water effects. Volumetric smoke, shadows and various light effects can be graphically addictive. 
 The fires can be rendered so accurately, one cannot tell the difference between there being a fire 
 inside their monitor (best with a CRT) or a fire in the rendered room. The characters are very 
 well detailed and the body functions and motions add to the realism. The background elements and 
 objects are rendered realistically and graphically. This game really harnesses the awesome power 
 of your video card - that is if you have a nVidia 7 series or ATI equivalent of the x1k (x1000) 
 series. For those without the $200 plus, ultra-high end cards, this game is very much like Half 
 Life 1 or other early FPS games of the 90s.
  
  I just personally like the game and there is a lot of hype about the game. It is useful as a great 
 game, a great benchmark utility (:) you can't ignore its testing capabilities - accurate and better 
 than other games) , and the multiplayer aspect is just simply "fun." 
  
  Bad Factors:
  DEMANDING!:
  Unless you have the latest 7800 GTX 256/512 or an x1800 256/512, with an FX-57 or 
 -60, the game cannot be fully harnessed. With an entry level system, the game can look much like 
 Half Life 1 or other early FPS games from the 90s. This game requires a lot of horsepower to display 
 its complete "awesomeness." Half-Life 2, on the other hand, can display similar (but not as good) 
 graphics with much less stress on your system (and your wallet, for that matter) . 
  
  Gameplay:
  I personally think there is nothing great about it's gameplay that makes F. E. A. R. 
 a unique game. I feel it's much like the other FPS's (HL2, BF2 or even Halo) . It doesn't offer 
 much difference when it comes to theme (futuristic sci-fi combat - FPS) . Halo is a great example 
 of similar gameplay. 
  If one considers gameplay as in smoothness and understandability of the story, I would rate this 
 game higher. The storyline is understandable almost by the first introduction movie. There are 
 questions left to be answered, but overall it has a good learning curve.
  
  Concluding Factors:
  F. E. A. R. is a great game with some of the best graphics but it is a very 
 demanding game with gameplay that hardly makes it unique in anyway. This is a good game, but not 
 great by any means. I conclude that this review doesn't mean F. E. A. R. is a horrible game, but just 
 a very demanding game and a game that can be truly appreciated only by the people with the hard-core 
 systems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidzaku
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 12, 2006 12:33 am PT
Review:  This is the next generation in gaming terror. Most games feature lousy "jump out and getcha" scares 
 *cough*Doom 3*cough*, but F. E. A. R. brings it all into a horrifying perspective. The atmosphere 
 of the thing is a beauty to behold. Square, dull, yet creepy in an unnerving way. You know something 
 is wrong, but you don't know. That is until a horde of Stromtrooper wannabe's burst through a door 
 or a wall and mess up the place with Im-freakin-possible particle effects. Nothing is safe, and 
 I will admit that I wasted a large amount of time just shooting things to see what would happen. 
 This is nice, but it pales in comparison to the AI of those you are blasting. Ducking, strafing, 
 pistol whipping, diving, the works. They do everything in their power to take you down... untile 
 you put about three pounds of bullets in their craniums using the clearly ripped but obviously 
 perfected Bullet-Time feature. Warping effects, slo-mo particle physics, sounds going wavy... excuse 
 me, while you can't see it, i'm drooling. The scares come slowly. Bloodstained walls, or in some 
 cases, whole rooms warn you to impending freak-outs, but that's when you're lucky. Usually you 
 just get knocked straight into a vision that can really mess you up in the head. Some rooms become 
 so incredibly quiet, you know that if you fire your weapon, you will blow your eardrums out. While 
 I do have a bit of a problem with the spacing of the ammunition (some rooms are built like Munitions 
 depots while most others are bone dry.) and the lack of ample ammo dropped by the enemies compounds 
 the fact. Sadly, some weapons become no more than level specific guests. All around, this is a 
 good game if you have a good graphics card. Otherwise, I'd skip it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darren_07
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 11, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  This is one heck of a game. The graphics look good although the environments are recycled. Gameplay 
 tends to be repetitive, although the horror element of the game, the atmosphere, the awesome AI 
 make up for it. The atmosphere is just.. scary. When you start the game, you get the feeling that 
 somehow, you are being followed. And you never know when Alma or Paxton might appear or something 
 fishy might happen. The sounds are pretty well done, especially if you're playing it in 5.1 surround 
 sound. It's a system hog, you need a high-end PC to run it. All in all a good game, and a must 
 have for every PC gamer out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slannmage
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 11, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  All the time i was playing the game i was waiting for the game to pickup and suddenly become amazing 
 like all the reviews seem to say. sadly it never does.
  
  - Graphics - feel very plastic and boring. Very dull and really has no soul to it.
  
  - Sound 
 - was the highlight of the game IMO, really nice but nothing to blow you away.
  
  - Gameplay - IMO it was very repetive and boring after the first few levels, it never really picks 
 up and you'll fight the same mobs al the way through. 
  
  - Value - You'll wonder why the game has such a high price tag for a small game.
  
  - Multiplayer 
 - Again nothing special, you wont chuck away your current multiplayer game to play this.
  
  All in all very overrated, not a disappointment because i didn't think it would pull it off anyways.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionBob
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 10, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  I had been following this game since E3 and when the release approached I was not going to spend 
 the 50 bucks.
  
  However to my surprise someone had a first day for 35 thus changing my mind.
  
  Now im glad 
 I went ahead and bought it.
  
  FEAR is a game that had fast action, impressive graphical effects.
  
  Gameplay- Fighting in 
 this game seems to be the main draw to me the AI makes the fights seem different and fun.
  
  The AI is really impressive some of the best seen in a fps and with out the AI this game would've 
 just ended up as just another pretty shooter.
  
  Graphics- Imagine taking a first person shooter, now imagine that your shooting at an "enemy" and 
 as the shots aimed at each miss each other they make holes in the walls and shred stuff and dust 
 and particles flys into the air making it more difficult to see each other while all in a slow 
 motion matrix effect.
  
  Can anyone say lobby seen from the matrix?
  
  Problem is and this is a minor flaw the actual operatives you'll see from time to time came off 
 rather ugly to me.
  
  Sound- Great it helps bring the battles to life I really have no complaints.
  
  Value- Its 
 a decent value the games not that long the multiplayer is fun but it has no recorded stats. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dekou
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  It's pretty difficult to write about this one. On the other side, I got a "wow" impression at first. 
 But then, I just don't get how Monolith could have done such a dull and plain BORING action with 
 tonns of dumb enemies charging at you.
  
  I don't understand why people say the AI is good. I played on the hard difficulty and had no problems 
 killing everyone and everything I saw. Your enemies just sit behind some boxes and shout things 
 like "I'm going in!" or "Where the f*** is he?!". Note: I'm standing right in front of them, shooting 
 at one's leg (he doesn't dodge) . No one moves.
  
  The plot... Is crap. It tries to be mysterious and so on, but when you'll understand what the game 
 is really about... Oh well, let's just say it's ridiculous, illogical and so on. It involves gene 
 manipulation, super-soldiers, mind control, evil scientists, ghosts, stupid dialougue and an undead 
 girl. Sounds familiar? Yes, almost every game/movie is about this. But all at once...
  
  Monolith said the game would include car sequences, team work, varying enviroment, scary things 
 and a stunning engine. Don't worry, none of these are here. Graphics are good, but way too slow 
 and grey. You'll spend hours in dark grey corridors, dark grey offices and dark grey parking halls. 
 Besides, the game uses tiles. I noticed three exactly (!) same halls on one level.
  
  Voice acting is bad. And, as mentioned before, the dialogues are stupid. Characters are either 
 cliche or dumb. With the exeption of the bad guy, Fettel.
  
  Really, Monolith has much better games in their resume. Repetitive "boo!" scares, boring, grey 
 enviroment and poor story make this game a letdown. It's a good shooter, though, and if you want 
 to blast things, you could buy this game. Just don't expect anything revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kastanjekastere
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 9, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a fps wich by many means are impressive like the awesome firefights with exceptional 
 graphics and the sounds are one of he most impressive things i ave ever heard only eaten by BF2 
 and COD2...
  The gameplay needs some work though for example the elite team you have with you where are they? 
 if you mean the guys that dies in the very start of each mission? that is not what i call elite.
 
  and variation is not what it could have been you are in the armacham building way too long and 
 it doesnt seem to switch setting very much either 
  but the good news is the ai it is a reason to buy this game alone it is described by one word...... 
 perfect.
  they will hunt you down if they spott you and you start to run their tactics are unmatched and 
 the team work is well as good as it gets.
  Fear is two different games mixed togheter first you have the exeptional firefights and the moments 
 where you litterally are so scared that you cant look at the screen. Fear is something more than 
 other horror games like Doom and quake they are having monsters that attack you front on in every 
 corner wich often results in an habit blasting monsters round every corner
  but Fear is using pshycological horror where the monsters gets in to your head wich is very very 
 scary a little girl named alma continue to suddendly get in front of you to laugh or whisper something 
 wich is alarmingingly freaky..
  The multiplayer is a bit different it is not very noob friendly i suspect since everything is so 
 frantic and fast paced but it will keep you occupied..
  therefore is my advice buy fear and play it you will be scared and you will love it.................
 
  
  Made by Maind. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamingcucumber
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 8, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  I wasn't really planning on buying this game at all until very recently when a friend told me that 
 he had gotten a Christmas gift that he couldn't use and offered to sell it to me for mere 160$.
 
  Accepting his offer I also took my first step into the world of First. Encounter. Assault. Recon. 
 And boy was I scared!!
  This game immediately place itself high in top of the PC FPS gaming category and to be honest in 
 my view the only one who is able to compete with it is Half-Life 2 and Far Cry. 
  
  You can say that F. E. A. R is a mix of many different games into one action packed fright fest. A 
 great executed Bullet Time effect makes every new battles just as fun as the first one. Man, the 
 joy of walking 2 inches from your enemy and blast his head of with a shotgun or deliver some hard 
 kicks to his body is indescribable, you have to experience it to know how fun it is. And if you 
 think that you will encounter easy killed run-and-gun enemies think again. These guys really knows 
 what they are doing, let me tell you.
  
  F. E. A. R isn't only one of the best looking FPS to date ( Alongside with Half-Life 2 ) It also delievers 
 some REAL mean scares. I can assure you that you will at least jump up from your seat at least 
 one time if not more during your quest to find out whata # really is going on with all people 
 around you and who the weird little girl that keeps popping up here and there is, and why she is 
 doing the sick little things she does.
  ( Tip play with headphones for a higher atmospheric experience )
  
  Thx to it's spooky and 
 frightening atmosphere this is not to recommend to anyone with weak nerves. But I can guarantee 
 that this game will most surely give you a heck of a time while playing it.
  This is a keeper :) !
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahshimi
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 2:25 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a blend between the first person shooting games, Max Payne and the Ring movie. You start 
 the game as a soldier in a special task force and your mission is to eliminate an enemy psychic 
 leader of an army. The games graphics are awesome and the bullet time effect (Super Reflexes) gives 
 the game another dimension in playing as well as the combo kicks. There are also some nice fire 
 power in the game but the games AI tends to be the same in every level. I mean that you can predict 
 the places where the enemy soldiers are waiting for you in it and kill them using your super reflexes 
 before they even fire a shot, I used to do that all the time which got me kind of bored. Another 
 issue is that form its titles name you assume that it will be a game full of horror scenes just 
 like Doom 3 but unfortunately the game has some minor horror scenes with a small girl that looks 
 like the girl in the Ring movie. However, it is game that is worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 7, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Shooters. The most common genre of gaming. So many of them are so similar, so bland. The ol' "run 
 n' gun" can get really boring. But once in a blue moon, one game comes along to remind us why we 
 love this genre so much, why it's grown on us. I can safely say that the shooter genre's new messiah 
 has arrived, and I name thee F. E. A. R..
  
  F. E. A. R. is the kind of game you just can't get enough of. It's immersive atmosphere, it's horrific 
 story, it's weird protagonist... all of it blends in so seamlessly to create an incredible gaming 
 experience.
  
  As soon as the game starts, you are thrown into this weird tale of woe, as you watch Paxton Fettel 
 devour a human body in a way that would make Hannibal Lecter smile with pride. You are sent to 
 intercept Fettel and discover what happened to him. And there, as we say, is where the fun begins.
 
  
  From the first moments, F. E. A. R. grabs you by the throat and never lets go. It keeps you on the 
 edge of your seat with it's tense atmosphere and ambiance... just when you think you're safe, they 
 throw a pack of clone soldiers at you... and when you think something will happen, nothing does. 
 That is the beauty of this game, you never know what's going to happen and when.
  
  Breaking this game down, I would say it's strong points are it's graphics, it's sound & it's AI.
 
  Naturally, you can't overlook the graphics in this game, they are absolutely superb, from the 
 particle effects to the lighting and the "bullet time", everything is done flawlessly.
  The sound is what makes this game creepy and frightening. From the little girl's laughter, to Fettel's 
 menacing words, to the clone soldiers' orders and shouts, to your heavy breathing during the "dream 
 sequences", it all adds up to provide an incredible sense of dread.
  The AI has been talked about a lot, saying it was the best out there right now, and I can honestly 
 say that it is. I have never seen anything like this before. Soldiers taking cover, knocking down 
 tables, cornering you, flushing you out with grenades, providing cover fire for one another. It 
 is quite amazing just to watch them go. Many a times I've been killed because I stayed in one place 
 too long. Truly amazing.
  
  F. E. A. R. is a game that will revolutionize the way we look a modern-day shooters, with it's incredible 
 AI and use of lighting and sound. I highly recommend it to any shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementkid177
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 7, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  this game is the full package! First of all the graphics are simply awsome the shadowing of corners 
 and the water reflections are really really good Another thing that is good about this game is 
 the AI the Ai in this game is exceptional they will try to flank you the will toss grenades at 
 youy i mean they will do anything to get u dead .and the single player ion this game si really 
 fun the creepiness just wants u to turn it off sumtimes cuz its too scary but u just want to see 
 whas is behind that next corner! But the single player isnt the only goosd thing of this game the 
 multi player is awsome too after u finish the single player the multi player features all the cool 
 melee attcks u can do in single player. In short this game is superb! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seedyboy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 7, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  For a long time I didn't think that any game would come close to Hl2 for creating a truly cinematic 
 experience but this just blew it away!!! All the continuious nervious tension all through out the 
 game made even the most mundane parts exciting. 
  And the action is amazing, the gunfights are unreal and the enemy AI is fantastic!! it really does 
 feel like you are playing against other human beings ( smart ones at that)
  I'd recomend this game to anyone as long as the don't suffer from a heart complaint, have a nervous 
 disposition or a history of mental illness because it may push you over the edge... go buy it man!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: janintoledo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 7, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Some will say F. E. A. R. lacks originality. A simply game with recycled ideas, cross classes 2 genres 
 and stirs the pot and then shipped to stores. Others will say this to be the one of the best FPS 
 to hit PCs. One thing is for sure, what is presented is clean, crisp and pure entertainment for 
 anyone interested in a solid fps or horror game.
  
  F. E. A. R. blends elements from such movies as The Ring and The Matrix to create a unique gaming 
 experience. There are parts that might raise your neck hairs, wishing your flashlight battery lasted 
 a little longer. Others have you catching glimpses of figures that evaporate into thin air, or 
 the constant psychological battle with a certain little girl will have you scratching your head. 
 Yet there will be moments where the Hollywood style frantic gunplay has you using bullet time 
 to overwhelm your enemies. Dismembering your victims with your shotgun, disinagrating there flesh 
 with a certain sniper weapon in the later stages, even flying kicking your enemy to death are 
 some elements of combat youll witness. And yes, I said fly kicking.
  
  The problem with reviewing a game that deals with putting fear into people, is that people have 
 different perceptions of fear. Some may fear sky diving, others fear doing there taxes. But if 
 you get scared pretty easy, if moments like in The Ring, (when the little girl came out of the 
 t. v.) put chills through your body, and you enjoy playing in the dark with your volume cranked 
 through your headsets or speakers, this game might be for you. 
  
  I will not go into detail about what makes F. E. A. R. scary or break down story elements such as 
 cast of characters and so forth. I believe this might hamper your experience, therefore ruining 
 the feeling one gets when the unexpected happens (ala being Raiden for the first time in MGS2, 
 that implementation will forever be questionable, but people are still talking about it today) . 
 Nevertheless, this one, you might want to experience for yourself.
  
  Multi player has also been implemented well. The same fast paced encounters during fights is what 
 you get online, only more deadlier. Be prepared to kills fast and die often. The depth might not 
 rival Call of Duty 1 and 2, or Battlefield 2, but very enjoyable if your into a fragfest.
  
  I must get this across to parents who are reading this, or employees at the local video game 
 store that still sell mature game to under age kids. F. E. A. R. has a lot of blood and gore. Decapitations 
 and dismemberments are the name of game, scary visuals and chilling sounds effects will make your 
 child the third party in your bed thanks to nightmares. Please take this into consideration when 
 purchasing F. E. A. R.
  
  As for the negatives. F. E. A. R. does plenty of things right. Unfortunately variety of levels and 
 enemies types, it does not. You will be fighting the same type of enemy for most of the game and 
 the sense of playing through the never ending office type level might turn you off. You will 
 not get that epic adventure of sight seeing like in Half Life 2 here. Maybe the game was intentionally 
 made this way due to the unpredictable nature of gun fights and tense moments. One might not give 
 to much notice to the level design when being shot at or just catching a glimpse of someone pass 
 through the slightly opened door. But it does come apparent when the dust settles so to speak. 
 Also loading between intervals (F. E. A. R. s rendition of the word level) could pose a treat to 
 those hovering there hand over there mouse. Not a big issue though.
  
  My take as a player, not a reviewer.
  
  It scared me, plain and simple. Many moments had my 
 hairs curl, others had me second guessing rather I wanted to continue playing sessions late night. 
 But once I shutdown my PC, had lucky charms and eggs for breakfast the next morning, I was quickly 
 back into F. E. A. R. The ability of using bullet time gave me the sense of an army of one. After 
 clearing out a room of enemies within 20-30 sec., had me wondering if the Wachowski Brothers intended 
 Keanu Reaves to bail during the Swarm of Smiths in Matrix Reloaded so they could monopolize our 
 pockets for Revolution. I enjoyed the story, and really appreciated the ending. All in all, its 
 little over a 9 in by book. 
  
  Enjoy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: telos182
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 7, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  One of my (and others) only complaints about the game was its sort length an unusually anticlimactic 
 ending. Most shooters have some kind of unstoppable boss for you to battle with before they end, 
 this game took a different tact. It wasnt a bad ending, it did tie most of the more important 
 loose ends it just isnt what you might expect.
  
  I was however hopping for an ending that was a little harder then the rest of the game. I think 
 it would have given player a better scene of accomplishment, something to really feel good about.
 
  
  All in all thought an excellent game and one of the only shooters I have played through more then 
 once and still enjoyed. It will always keep you guessing with its great AI, the best out there 
 to date. They (AI) will even use/move couches, tables, and shelves for cover something Ive never 
 seen done before. They also tend to do things many different ways, being less predictable adds 
 to the overall creepiness. 
  
  This game will scare the **** out of you, a must play for any shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vanillagorillap
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 6, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Ita an awesome game with awesome gameplay. I havent had this much fun playin a fps in a while. 
 The ai is very good and will keep you on your feet. The graphics are good but the details could 
 be better and the game takes quite a bit of power. The textures may be a little game but it doesnt 
 detract from the games greatness. The exellent graphical affects make it one of the most visually 
 mindblowing games ever. Graphics are good but the sound is exellent and it really helps set the 
 mood for the game and adds alot to its spookyness. 
  Overall any fps should love this game, its not too long but its worth playin over because its so 
 much fun. Very highly recomended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plumloopy
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  From beginning to end, you're dropped into non-descript environments that go on and on and on as 
 you fight against the game's AI. Basically, the pattern is that you're in a cut scene with a couple 
 other characters, they elect to have you go it alone until they meet up with you next. Then they 
 decide you should go it alone again. Lazy jerks. There is one point where you're part of a team 
 - but then they all die within a minute of the level starting and, yes, you go it alone again. 
 
  
  As you move through the environments, you're in constant contact via radio with your handler/team. 
 The dude chimes in and says stuff like "there's lots of activity in your area so be careful" and 
 various plot-related chatter. Oh yes, in one major sequence of the game you're expected to upload 
 data from laptops you find. When you do, your walky talky buddy will tell you how interesting the 
 data is. You won't care and it won't effect the game one bit. Why do people leave their laptops 
 on and open around everywhere? Who knows. I found on on the floor for no apparent reason.
  
  Oh, and you're expected to listen to TONS of answering machine messages when you're in the 
 massive office building. Why? To hear plot snippets. Does it make a bit of difference to the game 
 play? No. 
  
  Here's a snippet of the answering machine messages: "Bob, Jane here. Just calling to apologize 
 about last night. Listen, if you-know-who finds out about what's going on here, the whole operation 
 will be shut down. I'm just a little on-edge. Remember, we all need to stick together." It's basically 
 all like that. 
  
  Oh yes, that office building? It truly is a nightmare. You just run down hallways and in to offices 
 picking up health and weapons as you shoot at other dudes with guns. The building is absurd. You 
 go down one hallway and into an office and then theres a door and then you're in another hallway 
 and then you're in a foyer and then you're in some more offices and then there's a tiny door in 
 the corner and then you're in another hallway. I mean, JEEZ! Who designed this building??? It's 
 an illogical maze and you stop feeling like it's real BECAUSE it's so illogical.
  
  The PLOT is so focused on being mysterious (ooooh) and scary (aaaaah) that it lacks coherence. 
 At one point near the end, it appeared that I (the player) was somehow related to the villian? 
 I don't know. I stopped caring. The movie style dream scenes were basically of two kinds - you're 
 either in a scary hallway or in a firey dark "room." Yawn. Also, there's a big buildup about you 
 pursuing this evil super-villian guy. You'll fight him at the end, right? Don't get your hopes 
 up. The end is equivalent to playing whack-a-mole or shooting balloons in a shooting gallery.
 
  
  There WERE scary parts and I did jump a few times, but the effect of massive amounts of blood wears 
 thin quickly.
  
  The timeline won't advance without you. You can sit indefinitely in a room when the building is 
 about to collapse and it won't. This seems to make sense but it had the adverse effect of making 
 me feel like I could step away from the computer at any time and my alter ego would be in no danger. 
 
  
  It definitely borrows from other games far more innovative - Max Payne (where the time slow is 
 near identical and the dream sequences are also similar) and Deus Ex (where you pick up permanent 
 cyber/nano boosters that extend your ability to slow time and increase your health) . 
  
  Graphics: Are decent but not jaw-dropping. You won't be dissapointed, but you won't be particularly 
 impressed either. Of course, graphics were so taxing I certainly couldn't play at a high level. 
 Far too taxing for what I was getting.
  
  Weapons: Quite good. The game operates from a philosphy that makes no weapon truly superior to 
 another. Weapons that do less damage fire quicker, reload faster, etc. It's probably the weakest 
 rocket launcher found in any game, but I don't mind. The game only allows you to carry three types 
 of weapons at a time which is too bad in a way, but more realistic and you must choose your favorites. 
 Ammo management was only an issue for me maybe one time. The time slow function allows a player 
 to be very efficient with ammo.
  
  For God's sake, there's all kindsa crazy weapons and technology but we can't have a d%! n flashlight 
 that lasts more than 30 seconds????
  
  Let me tell you of a section that sums it all up. You get to the end of a level (you think) and 
 you enter a large room covered with blood and bodies. You're rarely-seen team enters the room to 
 greet you. 
  
  The female character looks around at the carnage littering the room. Blood. Body parts. Skeletons. 
 
  
  She says, "There was a lot of anger here."
  
  Unfortunately, you can't bind keys to make your character roll his eyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fbdofsdness
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 5, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  WOW, FEAR is amazing. The title itself FEAR, is sorta of dumb. I mean seriously, does assault recon 
 make any sense at all? Overlooking that, the game is close to flawless. After every firefight, 
 my heart is racing. The collection of guns is amazing. There is no single player FPS experience 
 more insane than having half a dozen soldiers shooting at you, throwing grenades at while you shoot 
 them into a cloud of blood in slow motion. The story isn't bad either. Through much of the game 
 you have no idea what's going on, what's going to be around the corner and what is going to pop 
 out of no where that it is very chilling. What also helps is that you are very much alone. You 
 never among friends for only a few minutes. Everytime you get a crew to follow, you they are killed 
 in a gruesome fashion. Everytime you go somewhere in an elevator, it never takes you where you 
 want. Because the girl and the soldiers are always doing something to make your task as difficult 
 as possilbe, you really feel like you are on their turf and they are not going to let you live. 
 Even if the AI and guns sucked this game would still be very creepy, but because the AI is very 
 smart and very good at working together to kill you, you are always going to be on edge. It is 
 best if you go to the bathroom BEFORE you begin playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 5, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  THE SHORT HAND:
  this is the best single player shooter to come out last year, the only competition is Call of duty 
 2, and though that game is alot fo fun, the AI battles just keep me coming back for more, heck 
 i played the same 5 min section of a level over and over agian trying to beat it differently every 
 time (not because it was difficult, but because there were just so many options and it was so fun) , 
 one time with guns only, no guns, no slow mo, almost all slow mo, no nades, with mines and traps 
 and flanking, well needless to say, it was fun the that section entertained me for about 3 hours, 
 wow, and it was only a 5minute, if that, section of the game. this game ends with a conclusion 
 that will blow your socks off, and leave you in the fetal position at the same time. the multiplayer 
 is pretty substantial to.
  
  THE GOOD:
  the weapons are fun, the enviroments are full of wonderfully interactive and destructible stuff, 
 the particle effects are probably the best in a game right now, the only competition is the great 
 smoke effects in call of duty 2, the game is incredibly atmospheric, if you play this game alone 
 in the dark you mite just SH! T your pants. the AI is so good, i mean this is the best AI i think 
 i've ever seen, Deffinately the best indoor AI, and the levels compliment the AI. great gore, and 
 ragdoll physics. well executed slomo, great melee combat, sweat super weapons. Great story presentation, 
 and a amazing ending, i mean this game has the strongest last 20 seconds i've ever witnessed i 
 was shocked for a week, half-life 2 as well as one where the only other games that left me this 
 shell shocked.
  
  THE BAD:
  the story telling might be great, heck the story it's self is pretty cool. the character alma, 
 though gut renchingly terrifying, is pretty unoriginal. the mouse/weapon responsive ness is kinda 
 slopy feeling at times, the graphics look a little less impressive than doom3, but the particle 
 effects are so good that i had to go with a overall 10 in that department. the enviroments though 
 artistically varied mostly play the same, but i do love the office space battles, computers flying, 
 desks fliping, papers shredding and driffting in the air thickening the smoke. so wonderful. oh 
 yeah and there is a stupid shooting gallery section that makes little-no sense right before the 
 conclusion you'll know when it hits, and there are little interludes in the middle of the game 
 the made you feel like you had been prepping for this less that fun experience (referencing the 
 shooting gallery) .
  
  THE MEAT:
  this is my mad rantings and prases, feel free to skip to the bottom where i break it down.
  
 
  another public service anouncement i suck at english so this might be hard to read since i won't 
 edit it with spell check or anything, to much time.
  
  I love this game, i beat it twice, it is only about six hours long if you are a veteran player 
 of pc shooters, but the nice thing about the length is the story doesn't feel drawn out and over 
 all it is a great experience. also it makes replaying the game much more aproachable. i'm going 
 to have spoilers in here to that might make you want to skip to the end. there where two parts 
 of this game that pissed me off, one part where the fat jerk turns on the security system and you 
 have to battle automated turents, now if there is one thing i hate in fps games it's boring, frustratingly 
 accurate, repetative, just uninteresting turrent battles, half-life 1 had them and that is for 
 me the worst part of the game, half-life2, god bless it, had em to, thank god for the gravity gun 
 though. ok so the turrents aside i could handle them, but the hands down worst part of this game 
 is the ghosts/shooting galery sh! T, i hate it, let me explain, you'll be walking down a hallway 
 halfway through the game and you have a vision that you are in a burning hellish place and ghost 
 are charging you from all sides you have to shot em before they reach you otherwise they take like 
 20-30 health off you, and worse than that is that they never make sense, and the damage caries 
 over to the physical world after your apifanny. they seriously never explained the d@mn ghosts 
 and it was beyond frustrating, then at the end of the game you are fleeing a exploding facility 
 and portals start opening up and out of these portals dozens of these unexplained ghost figures 
 rush charging you in the stupidest most piontless gameplay, sure it looks pretty but why, it just 
 slowed down the game in a boring crapy way, heck if the final resolution wasn't so sweat i would 
 have dropped the rating i gave this game by a hole point. luckilly there is probably only 15 minutes 
 of total shooting gallery ness in the hole game so you don't suffer so much, but hey i would much 
 rather have been able to skip those 15 minutes. seriously ghost in this game make about as much 
 sense as ghosts in resident evil, everything else in the game that seems contrived is explained 
 except the darn ghosts. ok, that siad, i consider the pc to be short on good scary firstperson 
 games, my three favorites are doom3, system shock 2, and you guessed it, fear. so if you like scary 
 this is a good one, and please if you don't think it is scary try it at 1 am, no lights, speakers 
 cranked, or with noise canceling headphones, then this game will make you just hurt on the inside 
 from agony over your own impending doom. yeah so it's scary, the story it's self is very good, 
 as is the story telling, it just alma that seems well, pre used, but if you can get over that hurtle 
 you'll find a great story. the action in this game is so intense, i can't think of a modern shooter 
 that is this intense, black, for the consoles is the only game that might compare in the destructive 
 department, but it's the AI that seals the deal not only are the enviroments relatively destructable 
 but the AI can and will utilize/react to the physics. a great example is that i used a nade to 
 knock a book shelf across a door way, covering my flank, i later turned around and found a oponent 
 crawing under my book shelf to get a perfect flank, if only i hadn't spoted him he would have had 
 me. on another ocasion i witnessed a AI oponnet flip a table up and use it as cover for his base 
 of suppressing fire, while his buddy leapfrogged up the opposing wall till my flank was exposed, 
 some times their tactics are so sound that all the snap shooting in the world won't save you, that 
 is when you use the bullet time, wich is awsome, without it i think this game would be near impossible 
 on higher difficulties. but basically the AI fire fights rock, and will be the benchmark for the 
 next few years, just like half-life1. the weapons in this game include a smg, shotgun, a pistol 
 that is also usable in dual format, an assualt rifle, a scoped assualt rifle, a giant spike gun 
 a kind of a sniping nail gun that pins people to the wall, really sweat kills can result ( i once 
 nailed a guys hand to the wall and he was still alive trying to shoot me with his gun, this only 
 happened once, but it was so sweat, i just stood there and watched him flail his smg around spraying 
 bullets because he couldn't stop the recoil properly with one hand.) , a triple rocket launcher, 
 a repeating cannon (i don't know what it does but it's sweat ) , and a ion gun thingy that will incinerate 
 foes instantaneously leaving their skeletons hanging in mid air, so sweat, i think that's it. the 
 weapons in this game are all relatively fun, the smg, and assault rifles are the most boring and 
 the slopiest feeling of the guns in the game, i rarely if ever played with them. the shotgun rocked 
 the house, the pistols are farely fun, the spike gun rocks, the three super weapons (repeating cannon, 
 ion gun thingy, rocket launcher) are pretty fun with the rocket launcher being the lamest, merly 
 because i almost never used it. you start of with the pistol and the smg, and then progress to 
 the end of the game where you have nothing but super weapons on you, the progression is slow, and 
 natural, but it is always hard for me to part ways with my shot gun. there are boss battles of 
 sorts, and they are really sweat, and scary, i love em. this game is extremely gory, i shot a guy 
 in the neck with a pistol in slow mo and his neck exploded, and his head roled of slowly while 
 his neck spurted blood, it was graphic, but in a over the top this is actionesc kind of way, i 
 also think the gore adds to the driving fear in a way to. so you can dismember people, you can 
 also gib em with a pointblank shotgun elimination you pretty much spray their body on the wall 
 leaving their legs and arms to tell you what the stain used to be. all the gore effects added with 
 the destructable enviroments makes the weapons in this game feel so much more powerful, and really 
 adds to the immersiveness of the game, i love it, you feel like a avatar of war at the end of many 
 of the fire fights. there are also sweat melee attacks, these are fun for flanking eliminations 
 with almost no noise is sweat for getting the jump on your opponnents. you can roundhouse, bicycle 
 kick, slide tackle, and bludgen with your firearm. all result in nice one hit kills. the multiplayer 
 is also very fun, there is slow mo power ups, and the fire fights in multiplayer are just as graphic, 
 the only difference is that the enviroments heal themselves periodically so that you can look at 
 a map after half an hour and see the destruction you are responsible for. i can see some nice fear 
 multi player mods or something comming because this game could use a little expansion. i'm personally 
 drueling for a sequel, and i hope that one comes soon.
  
  BREAKING IT DOWN
  GAMEPLAY:
  this game has hands down the best indoor firefights to date, the AI encourages dynamic and varied 
 tackticle gameplay. if not for the AI this would truely be a twitch shooter but on the highter 
 difficulty you really need to be on your toes, and tactically capable to suvive this AI on the 
 higher difficulty settings. so what if this is pretty much the same gameplay for 6-8 hours its 
 so fresh and fun i love it. there are three games i play for the dynamic fire fights and the AI: half-life 
 1, farcry, and now Fear, having gun fights this great is something rarely ever acheived.
  10
  GRAPHICS:
  the levels look good but really don't have anything on doom3, that is however 
 only until the fire fights errupt , the particle effects combined with the animations, and the 
 lighting and so many other things make this a immersive assualt on the senses, i just wish the 
 static enviroments looked slightly better. 
  9
  SOUND:
  the sound in this horror game is just as good as doom3 if not better, the ambient noise mixed with 
 the radio chatter, the wierd high piched wistle you here, to the vissureal sounds of battle and 
 destruction, and so much more make this game that much more immersive and terrifying, this games 
 sound rocks.
  10
  VALUEL:
  this game came out at 50 dollars, if you consider the 6 hour campaign and the limited multiplayer 
 it doesn't really hold a candle to games like Half-Life 2, or UT 2004 in the value department, 
 but it also is just a rock solid game so i give it a nice-
  8
  REVIEWERS TILT:
  ok i loved this game it is probably going down as one of the greatest single player experiences 
 this year, the only game i think will beat this next year is oblivion. as for the score, well i 
 loved call of duty 2, as well as BF2, and though i played alot of COD2 and fear, BF2 was the game 
 for me last year. so i give it a-
  9
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeanDaMan646
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing. The graphics rock, the gameplay is fun and immersive, the weapon effects 
 are stunning, and the AI is truly great. There really isn't anything bad that i can say about this 
 game. FEAR definitely lives up to its name. Rather than relying on running around in the dark and 
 having ugly creatures jump out at you, FEAR really taps into your most basic fears. The tension-building 
 areas of the game really get to you, to the point that you forget that it's a game and the slightest 
 noise or movement -- ingame our in the real world -- will scare the crap out of you. The sudden psychotic 
 flashbacks and hallucinations make for some freakishly good scare tactics. The only thing I can 
 really say is that some of the tricks get familiar after a while (ghosts waking behind things and 
 disappearing, etc.) and eventually dont have as much of an effect on you, if any. The game is also 
 very long and will take you quite some time to complete, especially if you actually take your time 
 and savor this work of gaming art. Me and my friends all loved it, and i highly recommend it to 
 anyone who likes FPS or horror games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GFreeman1998
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  Anyone who reads my blog (approximately no people) can tell you that I have a messy history with 
 PCs. I just don't like 'em. However, I got my PC fixed up in time for F. E. A. R.... when it was on 
 sale... and now I'm thrilled to have done so. Get ready.
  
  In F. E. A. R., you play a dude (seriously, I don't know his name, and neither do you) who just joined 
 the First Encounter Assault Recon team... wait, "First Encounter Assault Recon"? That doesn't mean 
 anything. They just smashed together a bunch of military-sounding words to spell F. E. A. R.! Those-
 
  
  Anyway.
  
  So, you're the new guy on the team, and things go horribly, horribly wrong from the word go. On 
 your very first assignment, you leave without the murderer you came for and a headache. Then, upon 
 raiding a water treatment plant (I think... I know it involved water) , your squad, and everyone 
 else's squads, get wiped out. They get liquefied, actually. 
  
  Suddenly, just as you come to terms with what has happened, weird, hallucination-like visions start 
 happening to you. Things you can't explain, things that shouldn't be physically possible. And then, 
 as the visions get worse and worse, the mission takes a sharp turn for the supernatural and you're 
 forced to come to terms with what's happening, or die.
  
  The story is one of the best parts of this, a game with very few bad parts. However, you won't 
 much care about industrial espionage and the like when you're in the midst of one of the game's 
 adrenaline-surging firefights. Until Black comes out, this is the most destructive first-person 
 shooter ever created. Don't believe me? Toss a grenade into a crowded area. It sends shockwaves 
 through the environment and throws the whole place into disorder. 
  
  Actually, you know what? I'm not going to describe the gameplay for you. If you're really interested, 
 then you've heard it before or you can download a gameplay video. Or, you can buy the game! Yay!
 
  
  Now and then, Alma, the creepy-as-freaking-heck little girl, will appear to torment you. If you're 
 still retaining your sanity, then you might see her out of the corner of your eye. Worst-case scenario, 
 she does something freaky, like jump out at you. One of the creepiest moments was when I turned 
 around to see Alma staring at me through a window, surrounded by blood and carnage. 
  
  What's more rare, however, is when the girl forces you into a full-blown psychic meltdown, and 
 you enter into another world. There isn't much in this world, as you'll quickly find that these 
 visions take place in the same general area, but that's for story purposes and you'll figure it 
 out later. These sequences are arguably more unsettling than full-out scary (I reserve that for 
 Alma jumping at me) , but they're used to glorious effect.
  
  The sound is okay, as the voice acting is great and the sound effects are cool, but there's really 
 no music to speak of. Nothin' much to say, here.
  
  Simply put? Buy F. E. A. R. right now. It's fun, creepy, awesome, and creepy- F. E. A. R. is one FPS 
 you can't miss.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_fuse2k5
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 5, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a remarkable FPS and presents an impressive, engaging and creepy single player story 
 that'll have you intrigued (and possibly frightened) throughout the entire game. 
  
  The enemies are smart enough to "almost" make it seem like you're actually playing against other 
 people... for awhile. Although the AI presents a challenging enemy, you'll soon figure out most 
 of their tactics and be able to counter them efficiently. F. E. A. R. introduces a variety of different 
 enemies to counter this problem; though, unfortunately, you'll blast your way through the same 
 group of "clone" troopers throughout the whole game.
  
  Minus its few, and tiny, drawbacks - The story by itself is compelling enough to make it worth 
 the money you'll spend on it. The visuals are excellant, the music aids to the "creep-factor", 
 the gameplay is solid, and there is enough eye-candy to satisfy even the most graphic-intensive 
 player.
  
  Multiplayer, on the other hand, suffers for a variety of reasons. First of all, there are only 
 the standard types of multiplayer content - DM, TDM, CTF and a variation of those called "Slow-mo" 
 where players fight for control of the slow motion power. While being limited to those types of 
 multi, it certainly doesn't make it a drag (if you're in to that sort of play) . The real problem 
 comes with the weapons. While you're given a choice of a few different weapons to start with (you 
 pick one and you'll spawn with it all the time) . This usually ends up being the G2A2, Shotgun and 
 Penetrator for their kill power and reliability. The other 3-4 weapons don't see much action because 
 they don't compare to those select few; Why use them when those other 3 are much more powerful 
 and fit all of different playstyles? (G2A2 for run and gun, Shotgun for close-combat, Penetrator 
 for "sniping") .
  
  The problem with the limited mod selection can be fixed, as well as the weapons. Soon enough someone 
 will release a mod that fixes the limited multiplayer options and weapons that need just a bit 
 more lovin'.
  
  All in all, F. E. A. R. is what Doom 3 should have been. The experience of the single player is thrilling, 
 exciting and will keep you entertained till the bitter end. Multiplayer needs some help, but that 
 will come in time... hopefully. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Free360
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2006 4:20 am PT
Review:  Fear is the best game that I'v play on pc best action game evar on pc.
  The graphics ar Amazing the sound is so cool and so real it unbalivabal,
  The storline is veri 
 impresiv. At the begening of the game you have to go in a big belding that was destroide by speceal 
 forses, you find a lot of dead bodis and a lot ov blod evriwer. But this lital chiled is entarfiring 
 wit you wen you se the garl you will berli can briv bicose the fear inside you.
  You have a special divaise that can slow dawn time it soo cool wen you slow dawn time. Wat I like 
 abawt fear is that wen you ar in a fight and you shoot in a wall smoche welll chame it jest so 
 coo. The multiplayer is unbelivabal evri day I play on the multiplaier. well i enjoi playng fear 
 I hope you to one more thing play fear at the night wit yor lite close and wit a big volume :) ) ) ) 
 F. E. A. R :) ) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joker680
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is so kool! , when i first played the demo it scared the **** out of me, because i have 
 played a lot of games but i think out of all the games iv played , this one is the scariest! i 
 like the whole story line and how as you play the game you learn more about you and your connection 
 to the girl. i also like how when you are playing you come across like flash backs and how if you 
 are going down a hallway you have kinda like a blackout and you go into this dream where you learn 
 about your connection to the girl and get scared at the same time. also its kool because there 
 is a lot of action in it too so its a big jam pact action/horror in one , i LOVE IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drkl0rd2000
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  Fear is awsome- from the first time you fire it up and get the first scare to the finish that will 
 leave you saying "oh crap" it has a well done story that is as good as many modern day films.
 
  
  What truely shines here though is the AI. Computer controled enemies can make or break an experence 
 and as I was using the tried and true formula of bait and shoot imagine my befuddled look when 
 the enemy did not come through the door but instead jumped through the glass window and sprayed 
 me with gunfire sending me searching for cover only to hear him call for backup. I honestly can 
 not count the times the AI tried and to some success outflanked me and had me searching for some 
 vantage point only to have them do the same making it very much like a gunfight and not "a run 
 and gun rinse and repeat", so yea this AI currently sets the bar which all other FPS should aspire 
 to be like.
  
  All this AI is wrapped around a truely scary experence one that will have you looking over your 
 shoulder when things go bump in the night.. so go ahead and turn down the lights and play until 
 you can't stand it anymore then play a little longer.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cablestein
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 3, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  -Incredible cutting-edge graphics
  -Amazing audio
  -Excellent character design
  -Frightening scenes
  -Innovative physics
  
  The bad:
  -Confusing 
 storyline
  -Repetitive levels
  -Repetitive characters/weapons
  -Not enough problem solving
  
  The graphics are state-of-the-art. All you can ask for out of 
 DirectX 9 is being used. The gun effects look spectacular with ricochets, sparks, divots/holes 
 in the building and a build-up of smoke during battle add for an incredible atmosphere. Even turning 
 all graphics settings to minimum make this game still look great. Character and weapon model have 
 plenty of polygons and high-res textures. Some world objects could be more complex.
  
  Audio is top-notch with all kinds of real-time effects.
  
  Characters are very well designed, 
 very cool and refreshing. The nailgun soldier padded with all that armor looks very menacing. The 
 stealth soldiers that jump around and turn invisible are so unique, it's nice to see that kind 
 of innovation for shooters. The regular soldiers are animated so well... they do plenty of unscripted 
 actions like jumping through a window to flank you.
  
  This game features some pretty scary scenes, where various ghostly figures pop in at a fraction 
 of a second, or you see them around a corner for an instant, then are gone. This was achieved pretty 
 impressively considering framerate could be anywhere, but it's still timed well.
  
  Ragdoll physics are used in this game, and I would say better than previous shooters.
  
  --- 
 bad stuff
  
  What is going on in this game anyhow? The story is very loose and it seems like they are planning 
 one or two sequels to completely explain this story line. Apparently you were stolen at birth and 
 raised to be a super soldier... and something or someone has a mental connection with you and there 
 is something about a girl or woman that is perhaps your mother.
  
  The levels in this game get pretty boring after awhile. The game is nothing but warehouses and 
 offices. It's pretty lame.
  
  At the same time the characters and weapons get old after awhile as well. You encounter the exact 
 same battle scenarios over and over again. If there were secondary firing modes, things would be 
 interesting. And if grenades were easier to through (faster) and could bounce off walls better, 
 this would add an interesting twist. There should've been some smokes bombs and some vision goggles 
 (heat/night) to add some twists.
  
  This game did not have a lot of problem solving either. The most difficult it gets is... Press 
 button B to clear the way for button A. There could have been more things like rolling an explosive 
 barrel near a hatch to blow it up... or some puzzle doorway keypad problems. On the other side 
 of the coin, it did like the fact that it's hard to get lost in the levels... if you see a fork 
 in the path, just take any side and you get to the same objective anyhow.
  
  Bottomline: One of 2005's best games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flib2435
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 3, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  the story alone is worth picking up the game for. the scary visuals and sounds make the game worht 
 buying. a hondred werd0s v v v v v v v v vv v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v 
 v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v vv v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v v 
 v v 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rewsh
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  What is there to say that hasn't been covered indepth already by other reviews? This is one of 
 my favourite games of the year. Great AI, good graphics, great story, excellent scares, it kept 
 me glued to the seat until I finished it.
  
  My only "complaints" would be that the game is too easy (played on the Hard setting) , and could 
 have been a little longer. The multiplayer could do with a bit of work through patches. Those are 
 minor compared to the amount of enjoyment I got from this game. I highly recommend this game to 
 any gamer, especially if you like FPS games, and if you're a fan of Japanese horror. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomdelonge0686
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  When FEAR was coming out u had 2 games basically at war from the gamerz like myself im a bigger 
 DOOM series fan more than Half life but i like them alot. just hl2 had to many load points to turn 
 u off.. fears load points r so much quicker and doesnt take the mood away! thats what was so awesome 
 bout this game! D3 did its job and actually for once made u feel part of the u always had to be 
 alart from jumping zombies and demons :P What i loved about was it did the same u never find urself 
 when is this POS gonna end, i enjoyed morely how it was made :D like when u put it on medium or 
 hard u feel like ur playing on the net with real ppl thats 1 thing. I mean u listen to them telling 
 orders for flanks like once i threw a nade and blew the place to h ell. and this metal case was 
 laying upward and i saw a guy crawling under it. 2nd the scary parts r just random doom 3 was creepie 
 through out the game u knew it was going on, but in fear it just stops its so random, thats y i 
 loved the difference.. 3rd the graphics r just plain beautiful i mean ya all 3 look great! thats 
 y it makes me mad EA didnt make the new madden xbox360 graphics.... another kool thing i loved bout 
 the game was the guns and slow mo and how if u shoot the wall it blow in big massive holes... well 
 if ur a horror/ straight up shooter to blow anything to hell and love ur gore this game is for 
 u! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burnham2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 2, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. has realistic graphic.... game play is awesome.... the one thing that really annoys me 
 though is the system requirements.. if you like to see this game in its maximum graphical settings 
 with good FPS... then you would have to spend about $400-$500 on the video card. not to mention 
 the RAM requirements.... i guess you can categorize me as a "GAMER ON A BUDGET"... im still 14 
 and i basically am broke because i just bought a new RAM stick and a Graphic Card... multiplayer 
 is amazing... it rocks **** more than half life 2 deathmatch... its hard to aim properly though 
 because it wobbles right at your hand.... so that it may be more "realistic"... they're not putting 
 realism into the game... they're just putting an annoyance to the multiplayer gamers... but overall 
 this game is worth spending for... that is.... if you have $$$$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerkeer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 2, 2006 2:11 am PT
Review:  I found myself having to wait for internet.. most of my singleplayergames are done.. or bored me, 
 so i really needed a fresh and good game.
  
  I stand in this shop, having a really bad impression of last year's game releases.. and my mate 
 recommends me this game.
  
  Now i can say that his recommendation wasn't bad at all, i was often thinking about buying this 
 game.. but decided "no." because of it's cover. o. O
  
  Although you hardly even began the game, you will already be scared for no evident reason. The 
 shadows from your character draw in front of you when the light comes from behind... which gives 
 a really creepy atmosphere. When you touch objects, rats get scared from the noise and start to 
 run around like mental...
  Before even having seen one single enemy; you know that this will be a special experience.
  
 
  The graphics are quite impressing and can also run on a "low-budget machine". (AMD Athlon XP 2700+, 
 Gigabyte GF 6600GT passive AGP, 2x 512MB Dual Channel Ram)
  The animations are sweet. The blood is just about enough ;) and the "bullet-time" is very close 
 to max payne 2 for instance.
  
  A pitty the swiss release (germany) was censored, so you have disappearing enemies, instead of 
 limbs and pieces of flesh lieing around. This is not only a minimal "reduction" of blood. It looks 
 strange, and makes one feel like having spent money for an "incomplete" game. (I wonder what the 
 BPJS thinks about movies like Passion of Christ. It's a really cuddly movie about religion 'n stuff.. 
 you know.)
  
  Anyway.. the most remarkable aspect of this game is the Artificial Intelligence.
  I was playing 
 on Normal Difficulty, and you've got enemies reacting really fast to your movement and actions.
 
  For instance, you are having a firefight with an enemy taking cover somewhere on the right. F. E. A. R. 
 will punish you with an enormous slap in the face if you forget to keep an eye to the left side 
 or other potentially critical areas on the screen. Because there will be another enemy flanking 
 you from the left in about 60% of the situations.
  
  If you approach enemies, they will react brute force: And throw well-placed grenades almost instantly. 
 The will try to pin you down in a certain spot, and are approaching extremely fast. Unlike other 
 games where your enemies stay in their hide-outs and wont make you panic at all.
  
  Concerning the story, you can only say good: The developers hired 2 directors you know.. they are 
 probably pretty famous for directing horror-movies and yeah.. eeeh well.. i dont know their names 
 actually.. but i'm sure they've got some name..
  
  The atmosphere and shocker-moments are outstanding. And you cant complain at all. Outstanding...
 
  
  "Wow!"
  
  I thought last year was really awful concerning game releases.
  This title shows out to be one of the rare exceptions.
  
  Thumbs up for this one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: airterry2008
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 1, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I brought this game a while ago, and it was hiding under my bed till yesterday night, i took it 
 out and played a bit with it. I had a great time with all the graphics and sound effects, of course 
 the gameplay. There were a few times when it got a bit spooky that scared me a bit, but it feels 
 good. Overall, one of the best shooting game ever played. The getting on is easy since i have played 
 many before, and i tuned my setting to the CS one. The slow motion is very unique, very useful 
 too. Great challenge to your computer, high requirements. Wish you enjoy yours too. btw, always 
 buy legal copy, support property rights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ice_Hot
Rating: 5.9
Date: Feb 1, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  From the day all the hype about F. E. A. R. reached me, I had this game pegged as another doomed success. 
 What do I mean by that? I mean that hundreds and hundreds of gamers will love this game despite 
 it being yet another mediocre game.
  
  Let's start off with all the good points.
  
  I liked...
  
  Well, the graphics were good! Except for a certain plump employee, the other 
 characters all seemed quite realistic. The physics of the game were also really good. There's nothing 
 more satisfying than smacking a bottle with the butt of your gun and seeing it fly off into the 
 distance.
  
  The sounds during gameplay were also quite good. It was always a fun surprise when you'd be stealthily 
 walking through the dark corridors of the office, anticipating the next fight when suddenly you 
 hear a bottle skid away to your right! You swivel and fire a shot before you realise it was only 
 you who kicked it.
  
  The AI of the opponents was quite good and I often found myself ensuring that they could only come 
 at me from one direction else they would often attempt to flank me. Even when I tossed grenades 
 at them, they would all scramble away. Although it would give me a few seconds to regroup, I was 
 always impressed to see how they would move out of the blast radius and quickly find new cover.
 
  
  The game certainly held a suspense factor to it. I found myself saving often in case I ran into 
 a losing battle. I also found myself saving my big guns in case I had to take out some of the heavier 
 enemy units.
  
  However, I think that's where all the positives stop.
  
  Although the graphics were mainly good and the physics worked well with the moving models, I found 
 that hitting a barrel with my gun to knock it over or even shooting at it couldn't even make it 
 budge. There wasn't even a bullet hole!
  
  I didn't really notice the rear speakers of my 5.1 working very often. The simple reason for that 
 is that the game is so linear that you know that once you've cleared an area, you don't need to 
 worry about being hit from behind.
  
  The surprise-shock factor in cheap horror flicks has never had any effect on me and this game was 
 just like them. The game tried hard to startle you with the apparitions and Alma popping up all 
 over the place. However, after the first three of four times of encountering them, I realised that 
 they were never a threat - after that, I'd simply continue as if they weren't there.
  
  And that's where the horror aspect of the game stopped for me. From then on, I'd simply charge 
 through the whole level without worrying that Alma was going to creep up on me and make me a blood 
 fountain. More often than not, I could hear the AI conversing amongst themselves and that would 
 warn me that a battle was up and coming. So I'd stop running, wait a few seconds and then blast 
 them when they came into sight.
  
  The lack of variety when it came to the enemy was also quite disappointing. Fighting the same soldiers 
 over and over again got quite tiresome. In addition to that, they never managed to conceal themselves 
 properly. Not only would they leave a body part in sight (mainly their head) , after a single shot 
 on them, they'd stand up to find better cover.
  
  As expected in a horror game, darkness was used quite often. In fact, a whole level had to be played 
 out in complete darkness which is more annoying than scary.
  
  So, although I felt that this game could have been great had it focussed on providing a solid plot, 
 I realised that this game would be complete disappointing once I found out that it was going to 
 be "scary".
  
  In fact, the only reason I bought this game was to test out my new speakers.
  
  The game didn't 
 do anything for me. On the bright side, my speakers work great!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NES_Cain
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 1, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  I was hearing so much good about this game that I went out and bought it without testing a demo, 
 that was a total waste of money for my part.
  
  Gfx: average
  Game play: sucky
  AI: didnt see anything special about it, overrated
  Plot: omg, was waiting for something to happen, 
 it never did. 
  Scare factor: lame and predictable
  
  Everything in this game has been done before, it has a boring plot that I was just waiting to unfold 
 but never did.
  People called this game "scary", its all very predictable so nothing about this game gave me a 
 scare, it was actually BORING.
  
  As for the graphics, I didnt see anything special about it, but I have a 3 year old gfx card so 
 I'll give it a try in a weeks time when I get my new comp.
  
  If I feel gameplay change on the new pc I'll edit my review, but for now I'll advise you all to 
 spend your money elsewhere.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 1, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  The Good : This game takes te level of 1st person shooter to a whole new one , to a cinematic level 
 it is actually you who are shooting at the enemy , it also have a great story telling & high definition 
 sound effects & visual graphics are so close to reality . It also has a great multiplayer gaming 
 which take the game to a whole new level , no more AI against you , you are now playing man vs 
 man , I'm not saying that the AI in the game is stupid , no it is smart & they chat with each other 
 , they show emotions of fear or anger you can hear what they are saying & act on it .
  
  The Bad : This game require a great gaming system in order to play it as you are supposed to play 
 it , they say it require an Nvidia 7800GTX to play it on full maximum graphics , well guess what 
 , not even the 7800GTX can play it without showing us some slowness in game performance , as for 
 the sound there is many places in the game were you sometimes hear the sound of water while there 
 is no water near you & in order to live this game & hear it to the fullest you will need a great 
 sound card that can at least support a 5.1 . So as a bad result of all of above , F. E. A. R. is a 
 game that came ahead of it's time .
  
  At the end it is a great game & you will definitely enjoy playing it is is a Masterpiece among 
 all 1st person shooter games & those who love these kind of games it would be shame on them if 
 they don't buy it . 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  This game gripped me to the screen for hours of action and scares (I'm easily scared, but I think 
 this game would scare anyone) .
  
  The story is very straightforward, with an interesting twist by the end, but technically, this 
 game is superb.
  
  Graphics are amazing, although a powerfull machine is needed for the extremely importantant environmental 
 effects. Sound is excellent, from the gunfire to the creepy sound of horror sequences.
  
  Because this game is a very interesting combination: on one hand, its a spectacular shooter, with 
 great weapons, exccelent enemy AI, bullet-time, martial arts moves, and, for me most important, 
 completely interactive and/or destructible environments. Some really crazy stuff can occure during 
 a firefight.
  
  On the other hand, "Ring" fans will be pleased by the creepiest horror scenes ever featured on 
 a shooter, featuring a terrifying little girl that literally pulverizes everyone on her path (or 
 simply scares the hell out of us everytime we find her staring at us from a dark scary place) .
 
  
  Best shooter I ever played! (Makes DOOM 3 cover its face in shame) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ramzyb
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 2, 2006 11:46 pm PT
Review:  i liked how it played and with its grapics i am presently amazed. its got a game motive and will 
 keep you playing in suspence for hours, what i found most impressive was the fact that most things 
 were destructable which is what you want in a game, it adds realisim. the game was similar to half 
 life 2 for me it kept me guessing for a while, which is great.
  
  the cons would have to be some minor glitches i found but they don't affect the game in anyway.
 
  
  Multiplayer was an added bonus to the game. It's great fun, fast paced and still retains most of 
 what makes FEAR such a great game. There are a lack of radio commands, but even with deam dethmatch 
 activated, it's just basically deathmatch with less enemies.
  
  Still, multiplayer gets two thumbs up from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legions192
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 31, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Well, i have never been a big fan of fps games until fear was introduced by my friends to me, i 
 cant stop playing it! It is realy scary and heart beating game. i like the way ai comunicate with 
 one another, if you listen to what they have to say you can use it to your benefit on much higher 
 difficulty scale it realy helps. i always kept the asault rifle by my side ambushing them with 
 it, seemed to do great dammage to a considerable amount of soldiers. this is my first fps review 
 not that good but hope i to improve in the future.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maegnas
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 30, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  This game was a real awakening to what kind of graphics power is possible in the realm of video 
 games. its a great addition to any collection. The story keeps you wanting to play, and the gameplay 
 keeps you on the edge. The replay value is great, because it is different every time. Its a great 
 game for those with higher end computers that really want to experience great graphics along w/ 
 great gameplay. I would recommend to anyone, even if you can't handle the extreme graphics, the 
 gameplay is well worth it. Go out and buy this game, it is really worth every penny!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackOpsAce
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far one of the best games i've EVER PLAYED.
  
  Its a very creepy action packed scary-movie like game where you IN the scary movie.
  
  It has 
 creepy parts that even during the day can scare the living daylights out of you and you LOVE IT!!!!!
 
  
  the game preloads well before an encounter with enemies (well before meaning it doesnt give it 
 away.) which makes all combat VERY fast paced and movie like which is very awesome (everyones moving 
 at once, shoothing taking cover and its INTENSE!) . To help with this it give you a realistic skill 
 of refexes which makes everything in slow mo.
  
  The AI is unprecidented and some of the best i've seen. They learn from your tatics and adapt so 
 you cant charge them everytime (they'll take cover before so when you charge they take you out) 
 or hide every time (gernades) so you have to balance your tatics.
  
  Multiplayer is fast paced with small levels. The best players dont own all the time so beginners 
 can easily adapt.
  
  It will take a computer a bit on the high side to run but it is EXCELENT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iXBuRny
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 29, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Now people told me about this game. They told me the graphics were just breathtaking. And they 
 told me it will make me scream like the girl that I am. Well, I just couldnt take it. I went out 
 and bought it. Put on my headphones and fired it up. My first words were WHOH! Then something jumped 
 out at me and yeah, I'll admit, I DID scream... and it was loud. Yeah so what, I bet you cant last 
 through the whole game without at least jumping once or twice!! =) 
  All in all, this game is a complete blast. The Multiplayer is also pretty fun. The graphics are 
 definetly awesome also. I say this is a definite must have game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vornagar
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 29, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R which stands for First Encounter Assault Recon or something like that ;P. In F. E. A. R a 
 sort of vampire takes over and you are sent in to clean the place up and get behind the mystery. 
 As to not give the story away a scary girl seen on the box is also involved in this game.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in F. E. A. R is really amazing. It's your standard FPS game with point 
 and click and your W A S D moving system. But, F. E. A. R takes it to a new level. They master the 
 art of the slow mo technique and trust me you will be using it a lot as it is a key part in finishing 
 the game. AI in this game is well and actually require you to think sometimes to defeat a certain 
 part. Multiplayer is where this game really shines. With Deathmatch, Team Deathmacth, Slow-Mo Deathmatch 
 and more like Capture the Flag and Slo-Mo Caputre the flag keeps this game really fresh and exciting. 
 The only problem I had in the multiplayer is that it was a little difficult to tell who was on 
 your team and who was on the other team. Other than that everything else is flawless.
  
  Graphics: F. E. A. R really shines in the graphics department. Graphics look flawless. All characters 
 look amazing and weapons look just as good. Enviroments are destrucble and it has never looked 
 so good to destory a place up.
  
  Sound: You will be hearing every bullet dropping on the floor as you unload in slow motion mode. 
 Along with creepy music the sound will keep you on the edge of your seat.
  
  Value: With many levels to play and many multiplayer modes you will be playing F. E. A. R well into 
 the feature.
  
  Conclusion: If your a fan of FPS games such as Counter Strike, Half Life, and more you should definately 
 pick this game up. A solid game that derserved game of the year in 2005. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crispim
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 29, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  To kill enemy's is almost the same, click on "bullet time"or slow motion and be accurancy's to 
 make a head shot!!!! Repeat this process until kill them all. The maps are almost the same, we 
 only play on buildings! If we not play this game alone, if we have a squad of bots on some maps, 
 the game will better!!!!!! I like the girl, very much and when she appears is the better moments 
 of the game......... A very good game but if the objectives of the game and the gameplay differ 
 from nevel to nevel it would be a great fps from ever..... Maybe a sequel care about this mistakes 
 adding nevel with veichules or squads..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocker_Geek
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 29, 2006 2:09 am PT
Review:  WOAH, i just beat F. E. A. R and let me just say this, its awsome. My jaw honestly droped at the end. 
 This game really did a good job of just scaring me. i recommend you play this game in the dark 
 and my yourself to really enjoy it and be scared. The Graphics are VERY well done as well, But 
 since we are on the topic of graphics this game is a total resource hog and will bog down on even 
 higher end system which is just a shame. I dont think i really need to go into detail about what 
 the game is about since im sure you have not read all the reviews this far and im sure every other 
 person has said the same thing but yes this game is bloody, scary and i loved it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ownxage
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  one of the best game ever.. horror and full of action wit a awsome story line... i would give it 
 a perfect for that game... this game is the best combination of horror and shoters game... so if 
 u like this kind of game buy this game... and it is realy awsome to play multyplayer amd the controles 
 are realy easy to learn... this game is even better then resident evil.. i realy dont know what 
 to wright now so... AWSOME GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME 
 GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME 
 GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME 
 GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME 
 GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME 
 GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME 
 GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME 
 GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME GAME PLAY IT.... AWSOME GAME PLAY IT.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks26wsw
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 28, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  At first glance, F. E. A. R seemed to digress from the usual run & gun fps genre. With games like 
 Quake 4 and Half life 2 to compete with, it certainly rose to a new level. While the atmosphere 
 in F. E. A. R transcends its genre, it also tends to, "scare the living crap" out of anyone that plays 
 the game. ar tends to delve into the psychological hindrances in the human mind. While games like 
 Doom 3, specifically, try to induce scares in us via creepy noises and surprise monster attacks, 
 F. E. A. R works on an entirely different level. It psychologically tramautizes the player until he 
 pretty much can't handle any more. The initial few levels don't really portray much as many parts 
 had already been displayed in the demo earlier in the year. The demo, however, left the story undone 
 only for the full version to take its toll on us. The gameplay is phenomenal to say the least; 
 however, I felt that the overall difficulty of the game was rather easy. I played the majority 
 of the game on high difficulty and a bit on extreme and despite doing so, I beat the game with 
 relative ease. The AI is simply amazing and I actually felt proud when I outsmarted a group of 
 clones (they have a specific name but I forget) into an ambush just to finish them off; however, 
 there were too many med kits lying around and most of the time, I was always in full supply. Overall 
 the gameplay was magnificent and the graphics were top notch. The "fear factor" had a helping hand 
 as well in transcending this game beyond many others. My only qualms with the game was that it 
 was relatively easy to beat (especially the final level) . 
  
  Cover Artwork ~B+~ The little girl that you always see in the shadows and other pictures makes 
 the cover great.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russian8
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 28, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  just to say this game is the first to actually make me watch my back and be afraid of every corner 
 i must go around.
  The graphical quality is great and it makes you one with the game and puts that classic blood and 
 guts to a new level of high definition quality.
  The sounds are very good as they actually put a feeling of fear to the game and some in your soul. 
 or it has no noise and it kind of bugs you as you go through a quite hallway.
  this game has the same style of controls as any other first person shooter game that there is now 
 but all the other qualities make this game one of a kind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ldc123
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jan 28, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  This game is not worth playing -- not even once. It's more of a para-normal horror game coupled 
 with lots of maze solving puzzles than a first person shooter. It is also very dark and dismal 
 with far to much of the only available light coming from a weak flash light that has batteries 
 that die after just 10 seconds of use. They quickly recharge but it's just inane crap. There are 
 some really good shoot-outs with great special effects but not nearly good enough to put up with 
 the remainder of the game. I find it hard to believe that its so highly rated and I certainly won't 
 replay it. The high rating is just sales baloney! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 28, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  This game is creepy, it's dark, and it's a blast to play. You play as a nameless member in the 
 First Encounter Assult Recon team. You mission is to stop Paxton Fettel who has gone crazy and 
 has a army of soldiers that he telepathically controls. 
  
  The main part of the game experince is the battles with Fettel's soliders. One problem with the 
 game is that you will be fighting the same soliders through the entire game. So it can get a little 
 old shooting the same soliders that say the same thing over again and again. But the enemy AI is 
 great, they find cover and can be quite challenging at times. The battles are a blast, the guns 
 feel powerful and are very enjoyable to fire. When you shoot the wall or other objects dust, smoke, 
 and particles will fill the room making it fun to just shoot stuff. Theres been times where I wasn't 
 able to see anything in a room because of all the objects in the air and had to fall back and wait 
 for the enemy to come to me. The gunfights are just awesome. 
  
  You will also experince a number of visions where you are taken to another place or see strange 
 things. Sometimes Alma the strange looking girl or Fettel will appear and dissappear. You will 
 hear weird noises, knock over objects like pop cans, the lights will flicker, and you will never 
 know what is hiding the the shadows. The atmosphere just awesome and you will get sucked into the 
 game. 
  
  The graphics are top notch, you will need a decent system to truly experince F. E. A. R. Sometimes 
 you will get a little frame rate drop off but not much. I have a decent system, nothing awesome 
 and the game still looked great.
  
  The sound is good, the background music is creepy, the weapons sound powerful, and all the other 
 little special effects sound very good. The execellent sound helps to set up the scary atmosphere 
 and it's just down right creepy sometimes.
  
  This is a great game, it's a blast to fire your weapon, even if your not hitting your enemys. And 
 the atmosphere is amazing, if your a fan of FPS games and like a dark and creepy setting this is 
 the game you've been looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deus_ex_2000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  Well I'd be wrong if I said this rocks. This game simply scares the rocks out of u. Firstly, the 
 graphics are top notch. People say that they prefered other games for graphics but I say the graphics 
 are realistic 'coz its based on actual environments. Since its modelled on abandoned buildings 
 and research centres, it feels bland but if u turn up the graphics and observe closely u'll find 
 out. But u have to have a pc built like tank to play it mind u 'coz this game is one high apetite 
 system hog. One thing that makes this game unique from all other fps is the firefights. Play this 
 game for a couple of hours and watch John Woo movies like FACE-OFF, etc and u'll see the similarities. 
 The firefights are absolute eye-candy. The environment feels like its breaking apart 'coz of the 
 bullets hitting concrete and metal casings and filling the world around u with sparks and dust. 
 Slow motion is well done in this game and is on par with the game that started it - MAX PAYNE.
 
  Creepiness adds to the depth of the game. The story is not too well done buts ends satisfactorily 
 with lots of "GUESS THE ENDING" theme. Surprisingly, multiplayer is superb for a game like this. 
 All the weapons pack equal punch and death can come from a lot of different angles and is fast 
 paced. Overall, a game that's worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brettlee01
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 28, 2006 2:27 am PT
Review:  .E. A. R. (First Encounter Assault Recon) is an intense combat experience with rich atmosphere and 
 an engaging story. 
  
  The story begins as an unidentified paramilitary force infiltrates a multi-billion dollar aerospace 
 compound, taking hostages but issuing no demands. The government responds by sending in special 
 forces, but loses contact as an eerie signal interrupts radio communications. When the interference 
 subsides moments later, the team has been obliterated. Live footage of the massacre shows an inexplicable 
 wave of destruction tearing the soldiers apart before they can even react. 
  
  As part of a classified strike team created to deal with threats no one else can handle, your mission 
 is simple: Eliminate the intruders at any cost. Determine the origin of the signal. And contain 
 this crisis before it spirals out of control.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: munnamanju
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 26, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Everything you want in a shooter. The graphics= to DOOM3, FPS story= to HL2, and the Fun factor 
 of Max Payne. Excellent character development and incredible sound. The absolute best part of the 
 game would have to be the AI. Even though Im only at the mid point, I would have to say these 
 are the smartest foes yet in a video game. Many times you will walk away from a firefight low on 
 heal, empty, and jumping over the wreckage left behind. For those how live by a Frys Electronics 
 (thanks to a buddy for the early release) the game will be on the shelf tomorrow morning for $36.99. 
 Even at a full price this game is well worth it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmandoom
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 26, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  I finally finished F. E. A. R. Thinking back, there are no real attributes to this game that makes 
 it as great as it is. You only fight several different enemies. Mostly Human. There are only three 
 different locations and only about 8 to 10 hours gameplay. BUT no game has the intense gun battles. 
 No games has you wondering if someone is going to sneak up behind you. No game has you jumping 
 in the dark when something jumps out at you. F. E. A. R had me constantly wanting more. When you are 
 on a rooftop with no ammo and it looks like gameover. Only F. E. A. R will let you fight back with 
 combo melee moves and let you live to see a nother gun battle.
  
  I think it still feels a bit short, but I would glady go back play it again. In short I think this 
 game is a Half-Life beater in the action department. The story is not bad and alot has been left 
 unsaid (for perhaps F. E. A. R 2) . But I look forward to seeing if any outthere can better this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mystikraven
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 26, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Right away, you think, "Oh god, Slow-mo? What a copycat!"
  
  It's not that way. This game makes me feel like I'm in a great horror/action movie. Yeah, it's 
 a scary game. I recommend you play with the lights -off-. If your computer can support it, max 
 out the settings. If it can't handle it, then spend a -lot- of time tweaking it.
  That's another great feature that F. E. A. R. has. Testing your graphical settings. I turned everything 
 to the lowest setting and worked my way up. Changed the resolution, adjusted the water reflections, 
 shadows, lighting, shaders.. you get the idea. Just make sure you set the lighting effects to max 
 -first-. it's a must. I chuckled to myself when I turned lighting to Max and it created ... less 
 light. It's an aspect that most people overlook. You need dark spaces and shadows in this game.
 
  The storyline is better than I thought it'd be. While your walking through the levels, you'll 
 see various objects you can interact with (e. g. telephone voicemails, laptops) that enhance the 
 story. This isn't your everyday FPS. There's a -great- story with it.
  On to the Slow-mo. Sure, it's very Max Payne-esque, but that's OK. -Someone- had to have the breakthrough 
 slow-mo game; developers now just take advantage of the existing technology. There's nothing greater 
 than knowing that an enemy is around the corner, activating Slow-mo, and rushing around the corner 
 to place a shotgun blast between his shoulders. Be warned: The slow-mo -can- make it too easy in 
 some scenarios, so if you run through F. E. A. R. on Normal difficulty, then up it to Hard next time 
 through. You'll be glad you did.
  F. E. A. R. in my book, really, gets a 10. But there's no such thing as a perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: izzi_whizzi
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 26, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Well just finished playing FEAR, and have to say not bad for a FPS. A good mix of action and tension 
  very good. 
  
  I have to agree though with some parts seeming overly drawn  namely the middle part within that 
 over extensive office dept. Where in there seemed to be a few rather interesting paranormal activities 
 taking place while playing the game  namely me floating in one particular lift unable to go any 
 where (this was not part of the Alma experience but some rather some strange quirk in the graphics 
 and a desk top lamp that seemed to have a life of its own spinning away quite happily with out 
 any intervention from my gaming character. 
  
  Also I personally found it rather grim (urban decay not really my thing) in parts, but then I guess 
 the game developers wanted to created a certain feel to the game .
  
  It does seem rather obvious that the cult film the Ring has played a key factor in the inspiration 
 of this game, but I also get the sense that there is also a touch of Akira with in the story line 
  not that I am complaining I think the story was pretty good. Perhaps the only other gripe was 
 that despite being an interesting story it was perhaps a little over drawn out in parts  but I 
 would recommend this game, though perhaps not for those of a slightly nervous disposition. 
  
  Oh if the developers do create a sequel please dont include that dreadful keyboard sound that 
 you hear quite frequently throughout the game as part of the background ambiance I personally found 
 it really annoying! 
  
  Many Thanks :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsqu
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Wow, what can I say. FEAR isnt like your ordinary FPS. It combines high quality graphics, realistic 
 sounds, realistic recoil effects and movement that is 'different' to other games. It really makes 
 you feel like you are playing a totally new game, rather than a clone of everything else. You really 
 have to get used to playing it, which is good. Im sick of games that are all the same, and FEAR 
 is definetely not a clone. It also has a neat feature bullet time, that could possibly remind you 
 of the matrix. Combined with this is a strong storyline. This is probably the best FPS I have ever 
 purchased. I think everyone will agree with me when I say that this is could almost be classed 
 as artwork, seeing the quality and the short cutscenes and flashbacks. It really puts you in the 
 mood of the game, and sometimes I feel like I am there. Quite scary as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bharrison911
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 26, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be the best action game that I have ever played. The story line was excellent. 
 The daydreaming and hallucinations definitely made the game and added a bit of fright that I did 
 not expect. The graphics were great as was the sound. The graphics were a little advanced for even 
 above average computers which made gameplay a bit of a drag at times. I was able to beat the game 
 in just under 10 hours without to much difficulty, so I do wish that it could have been longer. 
 Aside from those two areas, the game was the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codizzle42
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  I don't actually own this game... yet. Once I upgrade my computer this will be one of the first 
 games that I get. My friend on the other hand does own this game and I have played it on his computer. 
 What blows me away is how realistic the game is. For example when you kill someone their gun doesn't 
 just stop firing it discharges as they die and fire at the ceiling just as if it was real life. 
 My friend was telling me that the A. I. is just soo good, they will try to corner you and also try 
 and flank you. So if you are looking for a nice first person shooter you should definitely consider 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Rofler
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 25, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Once in a while a game comes along that really makes you look at it in amazement. Whether it be 
 an Adventure game, Sports game, FPS or whatever there is always that rare game. 
  
  Welcome my friends to F. E. A. R. You play the role of the newest member in an elite crew called the 
 First Encounter Assault Recon (gotta love it) . Your teams mission is to nuetralize a deranged phycho 
 killer named Paxton Fettel who controls a huge army of super soldiers (clones) that are all out 
 to kill YOU! There is also a little creepy girl names Alma. Through out the game she will pop around 
 corners, crab walk REAL fast towards you in vents and do many other feaky things. Prepare your 
 pants as they are soon to be soiled.
  
  Before we get into the meat of this review let me state the singular msot important thing. This 
 game has HUGE requirements so if you dont have a high end sort of computer you can forget about 
 F. E. A. R. Its harsh but its true, F. E. A. R. is an insane system hog. Im lucky enough to have a good 
 computer and im always thankful.
  
  Ok so back to the review. The first thing you will notice is the graphics of this game. Three letters: 
 OMG. The graphics in F. E. A. R. are stunning. From the beautiful scenery to the great character models 
 to the pretty explosions this game has is all down in the graphics departement. So why a 9? Simply 
 because of 2 things: As amazing as the graphics are you need a super beast of a PC to see them 
 to the fullest and also as nice as the graphics are there is not a load of level variation making 
 some of the graphics seem old after awhile. But if there was a 9.5 option i would use it.
  
  The second thing you will notice is the amazing detail. In the very first levels cutscene you 
 will be in sitting inside a car. Now like all cutscenes in this game this plays out in real time 
 1st person. If you look down you will see your legs and body. When walking around you can look 
 down to see your feet. So for one your character is super detailed and the game seems all the more 
 real. The second amount of detail comes in the levels. Now some of these levels can be repetative 
 like i said but the level of detail is still astonoshing. Thumbs up Monolith.
  
  The sound is also brilliant. When you throw grenade your AI oppononents will actually shout "Grenade!" 
 to each other. The guns sound fanatstic the voice acting rules and the explosions are orgasmic. 
 Harrah!
  
  I mentioned AI so let me tell you something about it. Smart. VERY smart. Playing against the AI 
 is like playing against humans. They are incredibally smart and will pull off a big range of smart 
 tactics. For example when i was in a section of a level i got ambushed by about 5 soldiers. I quicjly 
 hid in a room and picked off some of them. I didnt know that 2 were left because they were no where 
 to be seen until they both smashed through a in the room and ambushed me again. Brilliance.
  
  Now for the biggy. Gameplay. Perfect. No other word for it. Bloody perfect. I gave it a 10 
 for a reason. The gunplay is flawless. There are simply no hangups and nothing more to say. Flawless. 
 Then you have melee combat which is supurb. Using the right mouse button you can punch, hit people 
 with your gun, jump and do a roundhouse kick, duck and do a slide kick and ofcoarse the famous 
 jumping triple kick. To accomplany a great range of melee attacks is the ability to slow time down 
 for a brief period. Now unlike other games this feature isnt icluded as a gimmick it is actually 
 included for your survival (especially in the harder difficulties) . The Slo-Mo is perfect and is 
 so important to use at the right time.
  
  So we have great graphics, sound, AI and gameplay. But what about the story?
  
  Just like everything 
 else the story is also a work or art. Its compelling, scary as hell and you will always be on the 
 edge of your seat wanting to know more, wanting to proceed. 
  
  So to sum all that up, the singleplayer game is brilliant. Smart AI and a good story plus the greatness 
 of the gameplay and all makes for a wonderful single player experience but what about multiplayer?
 
  
  In Multiplayer there is game types such as Deathmatch, Capture the flag, Team DM and Team CTF. 
 Ya know the usual ones. Also there is an alright assortment of maps that work really well in the 
 multiplayer environment. 
  When you log onto a game you pick your weapon and then your free to blast s*** up. So Multiplayer 
 is also pretty good and when more game types are made and more people start playing it will certainly 
 improve. There is Slo-Mo variations of the DM type games but its so annoying i wont tell you about 
 it. 
  
  So to conclude my review i must say that F. E. A. R. is the ultimate FPS experience. More then 5 years 
 ago we were graced with Perfect Dark and now history has repeated itself. We are yet again graced 
 with a new FPS that is braking boundaries and getting the attention of the whole gaming community 
 and more! The ONLY flaw i find in this game is the lack of really big level variation and the small 
 amount of weapons but those are 2 things you wont really notice as the game is so damn compelling 
 you probably wouldn't notice if you were on fire.
  
  So take these 3 easy steps for ultimate FPS pleasue: 1. Get off the freakin computer and go to 
 your local games store. 2. Pick up F. E. A. R. 3. Install and have a jolly good time! DO IT NOW!!
 
  
  Oh and thanks of coarse to Monolith for this brilliant game. Serious props dawg... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mastermajestic
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 25, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Where do i start with such a great game. This game is very exciting and is worth the new graphics 
 and sound card. The graphics of this game are stupendous with incredible weapons sounds and excellent 
 screams from the soldiers. This title was made to be an great first person-shooter with a spooky 
 aspect added to it.
  
  I must say that the story line of this title is quite interesting if you sit down and listen closely. 
 There is awesome blood coloring and it spreads perfectly to how and where you shoot your enemies. 
 I would say the game could be worth a sequel with what you found out and yet i believe it could 
 end all together with an ending that keeps you wondering.
  
  The only down side to this great title is the fact of the next issue. I personally find it fun 
 to mess with the rag doll physics. This is definitely a game that most people in for a difficult 
 game and a scare packed with it then this is a game i would recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_golf_dude
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 25, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  I won't be putting up any spoilers here, 'cause I haven't finished the game itself.
  
  I started off dl'ing the demo (from this site, actually) and playing that over and over and over 
 again for hours. I then picked up the actual game, and I was having a blast seeing the scenes I 
 played from the demo itself. The game is just so atomspheric... The sound, shifting shadows, and 
 the hallucination scenes are just so freaking creepy. The girl scares me. This is the only time 
 where you will see me admit that a 10 year old girl scares me. Eep.
  
  How about them there graphics, eh? Pretty damn refined, but oh my god how taxing it is. My nearly 
 brand-new computer struggles with it. However, I won't be complaining, so disregard that last sentance. 
 
  
  The AI is so amazingly smart that it creeps me out at times, it really feels as if you're playing 
 elite SWAT-esque soldiers. I threw down a couple proximity grenades around a corridor entrance, 
 and approached, acknowledged the threat, then found a different way around, which lead them straight 
 to my back. They communicate well, which I always find entertaining. 
  
  I might as well get back to playing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55link55
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Let me tell you this, F. E. A. R. is a must own game. If you haven't bought it, buy it, if you haven't 
 played it, play. Do whatever you can to get your hands on this game. I mean anything.
  
  This game is just to good to put into words, this is the first shooter I played that I was on the 
 edge of my seat jumping with the guy and everything. I was into (no lies) , the game is like that. 
 Not only is it one of the best shooters out there, I find it scary. Things pop up on the screen, 
 the little girl scares the hell out of you most of the time!
  
  With gameplay, this is up there with the best. Simply amazing, you don't get much better - Everything 
 in it is great, the shooting, the controls, the story, I can go on but I won't!
  
  The graphics, well you gotta have a pretty good PC to run this game, and if you do, then your in 
 for some of the best graphics. The shadows in this game are amazing, some of the details are just 
 out of this world. 
  
  Sounds will scare the crap out of you... if there was no sound this game would barely be any good. 
 The sound makes this game, it creates the atmosphere. If you don't want to be scared just turn 
 off the sound and it is any regular ol' shooter.
  
  Finally the only bone I have to pick with this game is the lack of variety of enemies, there are 
 like six, and thats IT. Weird I know but sometimes they looks different, but they're the same. 
 But not to worry you get used to it and it doesn't bother you that much. So my last words are a 
 Must-Own game for the PC - Go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricko101
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 25, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  This is a great FPS. This game is automatically more freaky then Doom 3 is. Get chased around by 
 a girl with unimaginable psychic powers and a thousand super soldiers make this game awesome. The 
 controls are great, sounds is unbelievable, graphics amazing, and a awesome story line, this game 
 is indescribable and one of the best games I've ever played. There is no way I could possibly give 
 this game more props. because it's just to damn good. If you got a PC that can run it BUY IT. Also, 
 if you can play games online or get a bunch of freinds together for a LAN party do it right now 
 because the multiplayer is just as good as Halo 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuseir
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 1:11 am PT
Review:  I must admit at first I thought the game to be slow and uniteresting , but as I progressed it became 
 better and better , until it was amazing and would send you off your chair .
  
  game play : intelligent enemy soldiers who will hide behind walls and colunms and shoot you while 
 bending and hiding ,and will flank you ,of course you can do the same.
  
  graphics : the soldeirs look so real which is the best graphic feature along with the shooting 
 where the dust from the cement that was shot off the wall will blind you some times. also you get 
 scared from your own shadow 
  
  sound : you will love the shooting .trust me. 
  
  p. s : veteran shooters play it on hard . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattt090
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 23, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R.
  
  Pro:
  Fear is one of the best fps i have played in a long time besides hl2. Fear is unique because of 
 the indepthness of the game where things may just pop out at u anytime. The sound and graphics 
 are superb. The AI is the best i have ever seen in anygame EVER!!!!! no lie. they are good. after 
 about a hour of playing this game i was hooked.
  
  Cons:
  I think the story could maybe use some work. i am currently only half way through right now, but 
 the story hasn't really had many twists. although, i almost crapped my pants a few times (jp) . that's 
 bout it, but i would've liked to see more, where u work together with ur team members and ur not 
 just by urself wandering around. 
  
  GREAT GAME!!!!! worth ur money
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PumpDaPumPum
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Words do not describe how amazing this game actually is. Fron graphical, Gameplay, and Content 
 standpoint, the game is sheer perfection. Guns look like what you actually would see a special 
 forces member with. they sound simply amazing, in all aspects. the enemy A. I. is quite possibly 
 the best feature of the game. it is this AI, that has rendered FEAR one of the top 3 games i've 
 ever played. It hurts me to say, but nothing out on Xbox 360, or any other console, for that matter, 
 comes close. and No, i am not a 360 hater... i have an xbox 360, along with a Toshiba 52" dlp hdtv 
 and Panasonic 5.1 surround tower speakers..... and believe me when i say, i tried to play Perfect 
 Dark Zero when i first got my 360...... after a few hours, the incompetent A. I. made me turn off 
 the 360, go to my computer, and play through F. E. A. R. again!!!! What a difference the A. I. can 
 make! (Call of duty 2 is leagues past perfect dark, in terms of experience) . the game is quite 
 demanding on your computer hardware though. my desktop has a 7800 gxt and 3mb ram........ but i 
 tried loading it onto my laptop for when i go to work (yeah, i slack off at work. nobody's watchin 
 my cubical) which has significanlty lower specifications, and laot of detail was lost. the moral 
 of this story, INVEST IN THIS GAME.... IT'S WORTH IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amlabella
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 26, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Through the years, there have been all kinds of first person shooters released. There's the usual 
 formula of a good combination of guns with some fast-paced action, and so on. But with F. E. A. R, 
 Sierra has created something new. It's combined the aspects of a Japanese horror film with exciting 
 and frantic action to create one of the best FPSs out there.
  
  The story has a pretty straight-foward concept, but there are many twists and turns along the way. 
 Basically, you are one of the soldiers in F. E. A. R., the First Encounter Assault Recon, and have 
 been sent out on a new assignment. It seems that a man named Paxton Fettel has gone crazy, and 
 is somehow controlling a large group of cloned soldiers. There are some very odd happening as well, 
 things like Fettel eating the brains of people to find out their thoughts and a strange girl following 
 you throughout the game. The game definitely dips into the paranormal realm, seeing as how Fettel 
 is controlling these soldiers telepathically. Your objective is to eliminate Paxton Fettel, which 
 shall be no easy task.
  
  F. E. A. R. does just about everything right when it comes to gameplay. You have a nice array of guns, 
 none feeling so much more powerful than another. Theres pistols, machine guns, shotguns, snipers, 
 all of the weapons youll see in other FPSs. Also, all of the weapons pack a nice punch and are 
 fun to play with, which is a key factor in first-person shooters. However since you can only hold 
 three guns at a time, it brings a little strategy into play when deciding what guns to use. Youve 
 got your grenades as well, which can become useful when youve got foes hiding and you want to 
 clear them out. And when you find yourself out of bullets, you can use some great moves that are 
 at your disposal, such as a quick scissors kick. 
  
  Reflexes are one of the most important aspects of the gameplay. Its sort of like bullet time from 
 Max Payne and The Matrix in first-person shooter form. With the click of a button, youll have 
 the advantage as you blast away enemies in slow-motion. Although this is a fun part of the game, 
 fighting in real-time is more exciting, as youve got to think on your feet.
  
  Youre going to have to be smart when facing enemies in F. E. A. R. The artificial intelligence in 
 this game is outstanding. There are quite a few examples of this. If one of the soldiers is injured, 
 hell go limp over to cover to stay out of range, when youre hiding for too long, an enemy will 
 throw a grenade to flush you out, or when behind cover, soldiers will be sticking their guns out 
 shooting at you to avoid getting shot. Enemies will even use the physics system when trying to 
 create cover for themselves. And thats just to name a few. You will find yourself in situations 
 when youre pinned down, fighting for life. The games not necessarily hard, but the AI keeps the 
 game challenging, which is nice.
  
  The visuals in F. E. A. R. are some of the best youll find out there. The lighting is incredible, 
 and really helps create that eerie feel to the game. One moment you may be walking down a dark 
 walkway, and youll see a shadow, but when turning around, nothing will be there except the flickering 
 of a light. The physics system is very impressive, and just about anything that would move in real 
 life moves in this game if you brush up against it. Although the characters and environments look 
 great, theyre not varied much. Youll be in some sort of factory or some buildings, and then outside 
 near pumps or vents pretty much in the whole game. The areas are different in some sense, like 
 factories and then offices and such, but they all look similar. The enemies do look the same, but 
 you cant blame the developers for that really. I mean, they are cloned soldiers. But not every 
 soldier look exactly the same, there are a few types, which is good. This really is the only weakness. 
 I cant complain about much more in the graphics department. Some people may find the problem of 
 system requirements though. Youre going to need a pretty capable PC to play F. E. A. R. Its not 
 necessarily a big system hog, but your average computer wont be able to run it.
  
  Arguably the most well done part of the game is the sound. Throughout the game youll hear all 
 kinds of sounds, like voices calling out for help, and objects falling. (which may attract your 
 attention to a different direction) You never know what might pop out. The voice overs are well 
 done, even though theyre limited. When your F. E. A. R. operative is giving directions and when you 
 hear the enemies are primarily the only times there are going to be voice overs. The commands that 
 some of the soldiers call out and the voices of some of the people helping you all sound real and 
 believable, which is about the best you can ask for. The weapons all sound great, capture what 
 type of firepower each one has, and believe me, they sound like the real thing.
  
  The single-player campaign is a fairly good length at about 10 hours. Longer would have been better, 
 but its not much of a problem. Multiplayer will keep you coming back for more. There arent any 
 really original concepts in the multiplayer, with the exception of bullet time. Having the advantage 
 of slowing down-time while facing other skilled opponents can be very fun, and mixes things up 
 a bit. Theres the basic modes: deathmatch, team deathmatch, elimination, team elimination, and 
 capture the flag, which are all done well. To sum it up, the multiplayer is good, but weve all 
 seen it before in other games. Some more original game modes would have been great, but whats 
 there adds replay ability long after beating the game.
  
  The presentation in F. E. A. R. is absolutely amazing. You can obviously see a similarity to Japanese 
 horror movies in the game with the various visual trickeries and such. In Japanese horror movies, 
 there are going to be scary moments, images, and sounds, and all of these are in F. E. A. R. And theres 
 definitely a cinematic feel to the game - it really is like youre playing a horror movie. Visuals, 
 sounds, and the story all add to the eerie feel of the game. Best of all, the game can be flat-out 
 scary. If you play this game in the dark, with no distractions, the game really pulls you in, and 
 you may be spooked out sometimes. I found myself jumping out of my seat on quite a few occasions.
 
  
  In the end, F. E. A. R. is just about all you could ask for and more in a first-person shooter. Its 
 got great gameplay, outstanding visuals, amazing sound, and most importantly, its fun. It adds 
 something that little games have with that cinematic movie feel to it. The story will keep you 
 playing, as youll want to learn more, and so will the multiplayer. If you have a capable PC, and 
 youre a fan of FPSs, youre going to love this game. Even if youre not, its likely that youll 
 enjoy this game. The many great elements to the game make it highly recommendable, and its one 
 of the best game to come out in 2005.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbgun12shot
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 23, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Running on a 7800 gt, 3800+ 64x2, and 1 gig of ram the game ran good, but not at its maximum capability. 
 I had a few things set to medium, and resolution was set at 1184x768. AA was set on x4, AF was 
 off. My mission was to get an average of about 45 fps. The game looks great, but not quite as good 
 as hl2, and I ran it at its maximum.
  
  The gameplay is great, A few times I lost, and the game was probably beaten in about eight or more 
 hours of gameplay on high difficulty, in fact I just now beat it. After I was finished with single 
 player I went to use multiplayer but there is a disapointing amount of people playing. The AI is 
 very intelligent, they will comunicate to each other, and have many strategic values to them. For 
 AI, they were challenging.
  
  The are good, good reflections off models I noticed, with a 1400$ system I couldnt run it at its 
 highest settings, so warning to all with a moderate system. When you are in a gun battle chunks 
 fly off walls and you are blinded by smoke, most realistic looking gun battles I have seen in a 
 game. One thing I noticed and didnt like is when you fill a guy with buckshot at point blank range 
 he explodes into pieces, not to realistic in that aspect, where a shotgun would blow your insides 
 out, but not make you explode. A quick thing, you can see your feet like in halo 2.
  
  The sound was ok, the first gun I shot in the game, the pistol was very loud and was quite realistic, 
 but the automatics arent like this, they seem a little muffled. And a grenade is very quiet, I 
 didnt like this, and it didnt have that explosion sound to it like in hl2, more of an aftershock 
 sound, no percution but its aftershock...
  
  I dont think it is really worth fifty dollars, more like forty. This is due to the fact that hardly 
 anybody plays online, and the spooks and scares are gone the second time you play on single player.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: champmanfan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  I've played this game 3 times and every time the experience is different and very fulfilling. Lots 
 of gore and scares on every corner.
  
  Once you play it and then play it again (extreme difficulty) you know the routes of the enemy and 
 the best weapons to use. Just as important is finding all the hidden ammo, health & reflex topups. 
 This encourages you to scout the map and for a FPS, it's well suited for this. I did resort to 
 looking on FAQ site for a walkthrough because there are parts you know you need to get to for topups. 
 Remember you'll need to scout the map thoroughly.
  
  What would have made this game outstanding is if it had more atmosphere like System Shock 2 and 
 wasn't set in lots of factories, offices and hi-tech installations. But you don't notice this too 
 much and you're too busy fragging enemies and blowing their arms and legs off. Pretty nasty.
  
  Along the way you get snippets of information via 'ghosts', team member and answering machine 
 messages (you can skip these if you've already played it once, but there is one level where you 
 MUST listen otherwise the lift won't move, therefor prevented the level from progressing) .
  
  Unless you have a top-end PC, you'll be missing out on all the effects and amazing graphics 
 on show from start to finish. The ingame 'auto-detect config' option will help a great deal to 
 make sure the balance is right - so once it automatically sets the graphics and sound details - 
 you're system won't give way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theTriquster
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  I have not had the desire to run this on multiplayer, cause while my box isn't bad, it just isn't 
 on par with other people and I don't feel like losing just because my graphics card isn't up to 
 speed, so this is only about the single-player aspects of the game.
  
  First off, there is a LOT going for this game. The graphics are great, the AI is good and the gun 
 system is fairly realistic. Having said that, there's also a lot I don't like.
  
  The graphics are really good, and for most of the areas, there's plenty of detail. Cubicles have 
 family photos, random rooms have phones, trash cans, etc. things one would expect to find in an 
 office complex, or a waste facility or what have you. Of course, the flip-side to this is that 
 you have to have a beast machine to run the game without framerate declines. 
  
  Going hand-in-hand with the graphics is the interactivity of the levels. You'll read this in basically 
 every reveiw of the game. Everything you shoot goes boom. You shoot a wall, it divets and sprays 
 dust into the room. Shoot a light and it spins casting shadow everywhere. You get the idea. Its 
 fun to play with.
  
  Moving on to the AI; its good, but I don't think its as good as its cracked up to be. While the 
 AI is adaptive, they aren't human, and still commonly act like machines. One of their tricks is 
 supposed to be throw a grenade and charge in. The way that usually turns out is, warn you there's 
 a grenade coming, wait a few seconds, then one guy runs in. The rest hang back. Also, the enemies 
 seem to have extra sensitive hearing (though it might just seem that way to me, since I'm used 
 to games like Deus Ex and Thief where you can sneak up) . I mean, the game advises that you sneak 
 where possible, but sneaking basically extends to getting 2 feet into the next combat zone and 
 shooting one guard in the head, which alerts the other 5. There's no stealth take outs, which means 
 constant fire fights.
  
  Of course, the fire fights are great, they're what make this game great. The kick back on the guns 
 makes it near impossible to aim more than two rounds at a time, and enemy damage and accuracy makes 
 the game actually difficult on higher levels since a couple of shots can take you out.
  
  The games greatest failings, which may not matter to many people, are the storyline and length 
 of the game. It took me MAYBE 15 hours to play through it the first time, and I took my time, exploring 
 and such. The storyline starts out really well, really creepy and slow.
  WARNING: POSSIBLE SPOILER: It takes several chapters (Intervals) to develop, and gets you pretty 
 well immersed into the game, and then resolves EVERYTHING in one chapter. There are numerous opportunities 
 for them to create twists in the plot line, but everything plays out exactly as it appears its 
 going to from the beginning. In addition, a lot of the details are never fully explained, or even 
 set up properly to be explained at a later point in time. Then, some of what IS explained makes 
 absolutely no sense. END SPOILER
  
  In sum, I don't think this game is worth the $50 or however much they're charging for it now, but 
 its definitely a must-play at some point just to see how AI and graphics have evolved. Maybe the 
 multi-player is redeeming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goda
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 22, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Ok where to start If you dont have this game get it if your pc can't run it buy a new pc it's worth 
 it Just to let you all know you dont need some super computer to play it just at high rez, Any 
 how this is what i have a pent 1.9Ghz 512MB of RD pc800 ram and a nivida fx-5200 128MB video card 
 and i play it just fine, Now back to the game this game F-ing rock the graf's are insane and the 
 game play is crazy Slitly creepy But hell thats half the fun i have to give this game 3 thumbs 
 up on a slow pc and 2 and my super computer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: amritdeepm
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 22, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  this game is simply one of the best pc shooters around. even though it is a pc demanding game, 
 it really does kick ass with all the amazing particle effects flying around you and things blowing 
 up. it really makes you feel that you ar playing a movie and thats exactly what a game should do. 
 the sound effects are great, you can hear each bullet wizz by ur ears and hear sqad members shouting 
 comands to each other. The graphics are the best part of this game as u can see from screenies. 
 the game just looks outstanding and makes you want to play more which it does! the actual scary 
 parts of the game arent like doom where everything jumps at u.. its more of a physcological thriller 
 where u see things and then dissipear. this game is a must buy if ur pc can handle it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ergo2497
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 22, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R promised a little too much for any game. Before it was released, people were already yelling 
 about how it was "Half-Life" meets "The Ring", about its revolutionary blending of horror and FPS, 
 and how it would deliver on shooting, scares and story all at once.
  
  Well, it certainly works for one of the above. F. E. A. R does have some incredibly visceral shooting 
 effects, from the way that bullets gouge huge holes in walls to the way your shotgun can blow an 
 enemy's entire torso off if you shoot point-blank. The weapons can be a tad inaccurate, even when 
 squeezing off single-shots, and headshots aren't nearly as powerful as they should be, but overall, 
 the core gameplay is excellent.
  
  The game's story is decent, if fairly typical, excepting certain paranormal details, like the fact 
 that one of the villains happens to enjoy the taste of human flesh. Several of the story's twists 
 can be anticipated fairly easily, and towards the ending it lurches off in a somewhat ridiculous 
 direction. It's not quite as in-depth as it could have been. One of the reasons for this might 
 be the game's insistence on constantly keeping you alone in the building, which adds to the horror 
 factor, but makes it so there's very little NPC interaction.
  
  The horror factor, however, isn't really all that... horrifying. You wind up a little more scared 
 when you turn into a shadowy corner, but I was equally frightened of moving down a dark vent shaft 
 in Half-Life 2, a game which doesn't purport to be based around horror. There are two major problems 
 with the horror factor in F. E. A. R - One, the game keeps its horror and action elements completely 
 separate, like oil and water. Two, it removes much of the jolt factor by warning you whenever something 
 spooky is going to happen, either by flickering your HUD or giving you weird noises over your communicator, 
 or both at once. By spoiling the surprise, F. E. A. R removes half of its scare quotient right off.
 
  
  Moreover, the game is very, very dark, and while it doesn't pull a total Doom 3 flashlight issue, 
 it does give you a headlight with a ridiculously short battery, forcing you to use it when absolutely 
 necessary. The graphics are pretty much consistently excellent except for how dark they are, and 
 the fact that the game is a real system hog, dragging down performance excessively. Furthermore, 
 one scene that should have been a graphical stunner (a night-time helicopter ride over a city) 
 winds up looking a tad cheesy because of some obviously under-developed city buildings.
  
  F. E. A. R also has some pacing issues, especially towards the middle, where you've come across the 
 same enemy for the past three levels, and you're still in an office-building interior, which gets 
 boring fast. The game could definitely have used some more variety.
  
  So, is F. E. A. R a good game? Yes, it is. Is it the masterpiece everyone's been waiting for? Not 
 quite. Still, it's certainly worth playing, especially if you like your shooters fast and gory, 
 with excellent graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morgoth22
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 21, 2006 5:03 am PT
Review:  There are many of you out there who have been eagerly anticipating this game, so I thought it's 
 about time I gave you my view on this new shooter. You'll be glad to know that it lives up to the 
 hype for the most part and provides a thoroughly enjoyable and intense experience as a result of 
 an immersive blend of action and horror elements.
  
  It's also worth pointing out that this is a very demanding game and even those with high end computers 
 are struggling with it. Still, it looks pretty good on medium details and lower resolutions too, 
 so don't panic if your PC wasn't built yesterday. I played this on an AMD64 3400+, 2 gigs pc3200 
 and an X800XT. It still struggled at higher resolutions and details, so I opted for 800*600 max 
 details and it ran very respectably. The high requirements of the game may put some people off, 
 but for the most part, you will only experience slow-down when entering new areas, which doesn't 
 affect the gameplay too much.
  
  So without further ado, I will go into detail about what makes the game so addictive and gripping.
 
  
  Story - 9/10
  
  The story really is a good one, and that's saying something for an FPS game! You are part of the 
 First Encounter Assault Recon squad, sent to investigate odd happenings. You'll soon discover however 
 that you have far more to do with the paranormal than you're team (who aren't with you most of 
 the time) realise. Through a mixture of visions, phone messages, radio communication and laptops, 
 you'll learn more about the man you are after (Paxton Fettel) and the mysterious figure of Alma, 
 who's role becomes clear towards the end. All in all, it's hard to say much about it, other than 
 the fact that it draws you in well and keeps the tension and intrigue going throughout.
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  
  Onto the graphics, and I have to say that there is a mix between stunning 
 visual effects and somewhat lazy textures. For the most part and arguably the parts that matter 
 the most, the visual effects are stunning. Character models are extremely detailed and the blood, 
 vapour trails, explosions and bullet holes that will appear after most of your firefights are a 
 joy to behold and add greatly to the cinematic nature of the battles. The guns are well modelled 
 and the environments are generally very realistic.
  
  However, oddly there is some lazy texturing in places such as long distance buildings and outside 
 views from the inside of a building. The grass and buildings in these situations have a very low 
 amount of detail. It is an odd thing, as most of the close environments have superb lighting and 
 shadows that surpass anything else out at the moment. Smoke and particle effects are also excellent, 
 but it's also worth pointing out that environments are all urban and fairly grey and dark. There 
 is plenty of colour too, but many of the environments feel a little too similar to each other - 
 the office building, the industrial complex, the research facility all give off the same vibe. 
 Whilst this ties in to the story, it's a shame the environments themselves aren't a little more 
 varied.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  
  Now as with all of my reviews, I'll say again that this is the most important facet of any game. 
 You'll be pleased to hear that FEAR doesn't disappoint here and gives an amazing mix of fast kinetic 
 gun battles and tension building trips through deserted (or so you thought) office buildings and 
 the like. I think it really does give a good balance between fighting enemies and walking parts 
 with no enemies to kill, but with plenty of scary visions and so on. Unfortunately, one of the 
 things that somewhat kills the tension factor at times is the radio chatter of the clone soldiers. 
 They will always radio a warning upon approach, so you know to expect trouble around the next corner. 
 Despite this though, there are a few moments during the game where you will jump if the sound is 
 up - was it just a paint can, or is there something more to it?!
  
  The most satisfying part of the gameplay is undoubtedly the slow-mo abilities (to represent your 
 increased reflexes) and in a Max Payne type of way, there's nothing quite like hitting that button 
 and watching that grenade go off in slow-mo. Explosions provide satisfying ripple effects, bodies 
 explode with a nice accurate shotgun blast to the head. Bodies fly around realistically with excellent 
 ragdoll physics, glass shatters, but most importantly, enemies really do react to you. You could 
 argue that slow-mo makes it too easy, and though it takes some challenge away from the game even 
 on the Extreme difficulty setting, it provides endless fun!
  
  The AI is quite frankly fantastic. They all work together in teams, providing covering fire for 
 each other, radioing options around, throwing grenades to flush you out and attempting to flank 
 you, which is often highly successful despite the enclosed environments that permeate much of the 
 game. Though there are only a few different types of enemies, all prove worthy adversaries. There 
 are several times when they'll have you genuinely worried about their next move and unaware of 
 what they might do next. They dive for cover, and never let themselves be easy targets. The single 
 player is a little too short (around 10 hours) but provides a good mix of tough firefights and 
 scares. It is however mighty difficult on the higher difficulty settings and without slow mo, some 
 of the enemies provide a stern challenge.
  
  All of the weapons are varied and well spaced throughout each level, so none feel under utilised. 
 They are all capable of ripping through different types of enemies and with only being able to 
 hold 3 weapons at a time, they each present a good case for being chosen! Overall, the game is 
 paced well and the AI is great. It suffers a little from repetitive enemies and linear play, but 
 the fun factor of the gun play and slow mo more make this one not to miss.
  
  Sound - 10/10
  
  The sound in this game is truly top-notch. The ambient sounds and music set 
 the tone beautifully and are never over-done or so loud that is takes you out of the playing experience. 
 Guns and speech is well done and bullets ping off walls, metal and sparks fly and enemies shout 
 to each other, which often adds to the chaos of the situation. Everything is done right, and though 
 there is some swearing in it, it doesn't sound too out of place. 5.1 speakers greatly enhance the 
 experience, and if you haven't got some yet, I urge you to for this game.
  
  Multiplayer/Replayability - 7/10
  
  I personally love the multiplayer - it's fast paced and 
 has all of the usual Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch and CTF modes. It also incorporates slow-mo in 
 the form of a pick up which gives an interesting twist to the regular game types. The maps are 
 well balanced and though I haven't had a chance to master them all yet, they are relatively varied 
 and the weapon pick-ups well spread. It won't be for everyone due to the unbalanced nature in power 
 of the weapons and somewhat crazy melee attacks, but for me, it provides a welcome addition to 
 a single player experience that whilst replayable due to the different difficulty settings, suffers 
 from being too short. I also think this is the sort of game you'll get the most out of on the first 
 play through, and hence the slightly lower score for replay value.
  
  -------
  
  In conclusion, this one is definitely worth picking up and keeping. The one real gripe is the length 
 and even that shouldn't detract too much from what is otherwise an incredibly fun and tense single 
 player. Add to that the frenetic nature and fast pace of multiplayer, and you have a must-buy that 
 shouldn't disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbap
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that this is the game that changed my opinion that FPS were getting better graphics 
 but everything else hasn't evolved since the original doom.
  
  The games story flows pretty well. The placement of phones seemed a little tacked on to try and 
 develop story and it kind of pulled me out of the felling of getting really into the game when 
 all of the laptops that you need to get information off of have the alien ware symbol on them. 
 But it works. When it was finished I have to say I wanted more and wade just made me sick. Something 
 I haven't felt for a while in a game.
  
  While the graphics are a bit of a hog I have to say that it played better on my PC then half life 
 2 did and still does. I only had a few minor frame glitches and oddly enough it only seemed to 
 happen when I was moving though long hallways or open areas.
  
  Many people have complained that the environments felt like they were the same place. For the locations 
 you were at I have to say that they did a excellent job of making it flow and different but appropriate.
 
  
  All in all I would recommend this game to any FPS fan or someone who enjoys playing semi scary 
 games
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: storjohan_
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  this is a game that every self respecting fps gamer should have in their collection or at least 
 play through it on a friends computer. it is a really good action game with a creepy touch. before 
 i say anymore I should point out that the storyline in this game is not its strongest part. its 
 not really great on answering questions and left me kind of wondering what the hell was going on.
 
  but to be honest, the first two or three times I played through it I didnt focus alot on the story. 
 the real focus was on the action. and oh my it was great! really great! I have never played a game 
 with so intense action. never! the graphics and physics is really state of the art and the sound 
 effects is great. when I first bought and played through it I had a fx5500 card that; mind my french; 
 really sucked a**; so the graphics wasnt all that great. but in time I got a 6600gt that really 
 did the trick. now the it was looking awesome to say the least. but keep in mind you should really 
 have a powerful rig to go all the way with the graphics. on a medium/high setting at 1024*780 with 
 no aa and 16*af, Im pacing in on about 25-30 frames with my 6600gt, athlon 3200+ and a gig with 
 ram.
  I would like to mention that this is kind of a creepy game. I wouldnt say scary, but creepy. there 
 are lots of moments that will send chills down your back. I hear a lot of people saying its so 
 scary they wont play it... well, its not true. you will absolutely feel the creepy atmosphere and 
 sudden scares, but at no times get so freaked out you wont continue playing. I jumped a little 
 in my seat at varius moments but the action kind of overwhelmes the creepyness. and that is not 
 a bad thing. and now to something else: the multiplayer.
  to be honest I have not played the multiplayer alot, but what I have played was a blast. in this 
 mode the action is even more intense than in single player. yes it is possible.
  only problem I got with FEAR is the single player levels. they are kind of linear and pretty much 
 feels like the same area through the whole game. I wouldnt say they are bad, oh no not at all, 
 but they could have been more varied at a overall point of view. one thing that totally blew me 
 away is the A. I. it is really great. there are very few scripted scenes with the bots in this game. 
 when they see you you wont really know what they will do next. well I could go on and on bbut my 
 fingers are getting tired so I will leave it with that.
  buy this game, it is really great. an keep in mind: play it for the action not the story. oh I 
 almost forgot. the game isnt to long. it took me about 8-10 hours playing through the singleplayer 
 campaign, but you wont just play through it once. I didnt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acronix
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 19, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Theres not much to say that wasnt said before. The gameplay is ok, there isnt nothing interesting 
 in it besides the "matrix mode" (slow-motion called the game) . Anyway, it incorporates a bit of 
 reality (so real a paranormal game can be, of course) in time of combat. Covering is a MUST in 
 this game, you can`t go like doom or counter-strike to kill everything in your way because you 
 WILL get killed, including in the easiest dificulty and besides de slowmotion. 
  Now, graphics... ah... graphics. Only one word: great! The light effects in the game are the better 
 of all: how firing a weapon lights the enviorment and your enemies; how lights move when you shoot 
 at the lamps... its simply wonderfull to see it. Anyway, the graphics flacks in textures and originality 
 of places (more textures would be apreciated) but F. E. A. R focused in lights and people and things 
 models, above else.
  Sound is good, specially in single-player, more specially on terror scenes. Make sure to have sound 
 on when you paly... or off if it afraids you too much (or makes you waste ammo when you hear something 
 in a empty corredor) .
  The value of the game (at least in my country) is a bit too high. 
  Multi-player experience is something normal, theres not much difference between F. E. A. R and Counter-strike. 
 I mean, in SP you have to cover; in MP you have to run and jump and duck like a demon. Anyway, 
 it gots something Counter-strike cant give: slowmo. Nothing really spectacular, but its fun 
 to kill others in "matrix mode" and frustrating when other player activates it to kill you.
  
  F. E. A. R is a shooter focused on graphics, remember. So, before playing it, be sure you can 
 play it with at least medium graphic quality or you will miss a lot. In fact, if you play in minimun 
 quality, you wont notice any difference between F. E. A. R and SWAT 3. (And specially, be sure you 
 can play it on HIGH before giving it a 6 on note in graphics when review...) . 
  
  Finally, I can say F. E. A. R is stunning graphically and gives you a few 10-15 hours of fun before 
 heading to MP and give a lot more. Have fun with F. E. A. R and... terror. 
  
  Sorry if theres any spell-gramatical-writting error, but my base language is not english. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snez_
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  First off, I am one of those guys that could afford a high-end SLi system and a 45-55 avg FPS with 
 FULL graphics in F. E. A. R. So the first "what the heck?" in this review was the 9 that they gave 
 for graphics. Well let me tell you something, F. E. A. R. represents what games will look like in 
 the future and trust me, it can do a hell of a lot better than those crappy screenshots they got 
 in the review. In order to understand how the game looks like on a high end system I recommend 
 the trailer of the long awaited Killzone 2 for xbox 360. This game is by far the best of what I 
 have experienced in gaming, creating the stunning effects and feelings of as playing in an actual 
 movie. I agree that the plot could bind a lot better, but as a game, this is a massive step forward 
 on what you've seen so far. I was excitingly rushing through an article on 2005 "best of" a moment 
 ago and in a huge disappointment it never even mentioned F. E. A. R., so I come across this review 
 to discover that the reviewers tested this game on a regular machine? Well whatever, the target 
 audience may be regular gamers but imho this game is the state-of-the-art in 2005 gaming.
  
  snez 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xp0svolc0mx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 19, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  God, What a game. Let me start off by saying this is one of the best games i have ever played. 
 The graphics are amazing and everything else in this game is to. Dont worry im not going to praise 
 this game because there are some minor let downs. But those can change. 
  
  Pros: The game is just visually amazing, lightning and shadow are perfect, good voice acting, a 
 dark plot which is just right, many ways of learning questions that the game might raise you. You 
 can listen to answering machines or DL info on a computer, which helps u with the plot some what. 
 The AI is the best i've seen, top notch. They flank you, they supress you, they flush you out with 
 grenades, and the respond to your movement. So you can just walk in a room and blow every one to 
 pieces. Combines a good deal of action with the just the right amount of suspense. At first when 
 you play (and see alma, the little girl) you always are afriad to walk a long dark hallway or go 
 in the dark vents. But the game does a good job of suprising you at the least suspected moments. 
 The beginning to the very end is white knuckle suspense and action. It will have u on the edge 
 of your seats at the end. Multiplayer is awesome and well put together. Many different styles of 
 gameplay and maps for the player to choose. Using slow-motion rocks at times. It really makes you 
 feel like your some "super" solider.
  
  Cons: You need a pretty danm good PC to play at a high setting, the plot might confuse some at 
 first, scares the s**t out of you (but thats a good thing also) The enviroment is usually repetitive, 
 and you might need to wear a diaper while playing this game. haha. The end seemed kinda easy for 
 me at least
  
  Over all, i loved F. E. A. R. Its the perfect game for any one who is looking for a great shooter 
 with some meat slapped in it.
  
  ^^^^
  haha, meat, what the heck? By the way, these are all my opinions of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CeeJay329
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 19, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of FPS games but this is one of the best I've ever played. Talk about IN-tense. I 
 was on the edge of my seat the whole time. The enemy's are just too G**Da** smart! I've never seen 
 A. I. so good. Just the enviornment is creepy as hell. Lights will suddenly shatter while your in 
 some room, something would shoot across the path but ya don't know what it was. And that girl, 
 blowin sh** up all around you. Man! The fight sequence's are mind blowing. With stuff exploding 
 all around, badguys arms flying off and heads exploding. Don't even get me started on the slow 
 motion thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEARRE4HL2H2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 19, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  FEAR, ahh the good days... shooting people in the face, meleeing people in the back, slide kicks, 
 bycicle kicks, roundhouse kicks, punches, this game has a plethora of awsome melee attacks, and 
 even cooler weapons.
  My favorite being the Type 7 particle weapon, able to tear the skin off his bones, and leave the 
 bones behind.
  
  story: 8/10
  Hard to follow and difficult to understand, even at the end. Some loose ties dont add up, and its 
 a huge cliffhanger at the end... mabye this just makes a good sequal though.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  Enviorments look bland but the gore and body effects are great. Also the psychic 
 moments are awsome.
  
  Difficulty 10/10
  This game is HARD! Easy mode isn't even to easy, i can't imagine what it's like on extreme. Normal 
 is best for most people.
  
  Sound 10/10
  HELLA GOOD! Great weapon sounds. You can sense the mystery and fear in a persons voice.
  
  
 Multiplayer: 10/10
  GREAT MULTIPLAYER
  The multiplayer of this game is where its at for me, far superior to many other multiplayers. you 
 have CTF DM TDM and slo mo versions of them, where you must take an object that lets you and your 
 team slow the other team down. Very useful and deadly.
  
  Overall: 9.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Fat_Zebra
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 19, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  Well, on the game itself: it is a very good shooter, with some moments that will make you jump 
 out of you chair here and there. The story was pretty standard, but I wont spoil it for you. I 
 had some good times with this game though here and there I got stuck not finding the way forward.
 
  
  The sound and graphics: the sound was excellent, though a little more musci wouldn't hurt, but 
 after hearing about the graphics so much, I was pretty disappointed I must admit. I have a gtx7800, 
 2gig ram etc. and I could not turn it up to even high settings. I had an awful lot of trouble to 
 get it running decently and there were many glitches and slowdowns, which are allegedly related 
 to the copyprotection. I found that there are other shooters with superior graphics so I don't 
 know what all the fuss was about... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evolution_remix
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE 
 MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE 
 MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE 
 MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE 
 MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE 
 MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE 
 MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE 
 MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE 
 MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE 
 MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE 
 MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE 
 MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE 
 MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE 
 MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE 
 MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE 
 MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE MASTERPICE 
  
  P. S. MASTERPICE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemesis907
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 18, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  When I First Played The Demo For This Game I Was Completely Amazed By The Power This Game Needed 
 To Run On The Highest Settings Which A lot Of People Do Not Have Lucky For Me I Did, And From There 
 It Is Just Sheer Eye Candy The Level Of Detail Which As Been Put Into Every Single Piece Of Environment 
 Is Outstanding Everything From A Box On The Shelf To a Pot Of Pens On A Desk As Its Own Physics 
 And Can Be Knocked Over Pushed Around As You Please Its All The Little Things Which Makes A Game 
 Stand Out From The Rest And This Game has Most Of Them E. g. Bullet Holes And Destruction To Walls, 
 Desks And Your Surroundings makes The Experience More realistic And breathtaking. When Your Finished 
 being Dazzled By The Scenery Its Down To Business, A Maximum Of 3 Weapons Can Be In Your Inventory 
 At 1 Time Not Including Various Types Of Grenades And Mines This Causes You To Think Tactically 
 As To Which Weapon Will Best Suit Your Surrounding Area You Can Drop And Be Sure That The Weapon 
 Is Going to Stay There So Dont Worry About Swapping Your Favourite Weapon If It Doesnt Help You 
 In Your Current Predicament.
  The A. I. In This Game Is Whats Going to Really Amaze You The Most The Enemies Are Finally Reacting 
 To Your Actions, Depending On What You Do In A Room Can Completely Change The Outcome Of A Fire 
 fight, Enemies Actually Use The Surroundings To Their Advantage For Cover E. g. Kick Over Tables 
 As Shields, Roll And Dive Round Corners And Try To Flank Your Position If Possible. They Act Like 
 A Real Assault Force And Take Orders From Squad Leaders And So On, If You Listen To What They Are 
 Saying You Can Hear Them Asking The Squad Leader For Advice On What To Do With A verity Of Different 
 Comments Which Makes Your Experience That Little Bit More Realistic. This Game Is Not Your Usual 
 First Person Shooter So Dont get Fooled Into Thinking This Is Just Kill Bad Guys Enter A Room 
 And Kill a Few More Oh No, This Game Has A Very Interesting And Exciting Storyline Of Horror, Suspense 
 And Tense Nail Biting Moments Which Really Changes The Whole Feel And Atmosphere To Create A Completely 
 New And Unique Game Which Will Keep You On The Edge Of Your Seat, Overall This Game Is In A whole 
 League Of Its Own And Lets Hope Developers Can Learn From This And Start Making Games With Better 
 A. I And Intense Action Packed Storylines. I Strongly Recommend This Game Even To People Who Are 
 Not usually Fans Of First Person Shooters you Cant Go Wrong.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pruker
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 17, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. in my opinion is one of the best shooters for many years combining two genres of suspense 
 and action into one game. This game is fast paced and keeps you heart pounding during ghostly intermissions. 
 Battle and Gunfights are fun to play with especially with the bullet time feature. The price is 
 well worth the anticipation and the multiplayer feature was just mesmerizing it gives you the ability 
 to utilize different techniques including melee using melee was one of my favourite tools. Combining 
 reflex with slide kicking was just like being neo in the matrix controlling time itself and watching 
 the soldiers bounce off their feet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blizz_kid
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 17, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  This game absolutely blew me away when I started playing it. This was the first FPS I've played 
 that actually scared me at points, because some of the visions your character has are so unexpected 
 and grotesque that you just are not ready for them.
  
  The single-player campaign is as good as I've seen in almost any FPS. The graphics, sound, and 
 controls are all excellent, with a great storyline.
  
  The one thing I like most about this game is how the levels are put together. There are lights 
 hanging from the ceiling, creating shadows in an already dark environment, and surprises everywhere 
 that force you to stay on your toes throughout the entire game.
  
  The A. I. on offence is solid, and they'll force you to take cover and, quite often, restart the 
 level because they are that good at killing you. The A. I. on defence, however, is not so good. 
 Sure, they'll kick over a few boxes and jump through windows, but other than that, dodging and 
 evading your shots just doesn't happen. Overall, the enemies are decent.
  
  Multiplayer is the worst part of this game. Some levels are so small that within seconds of respawning, 
 you will die to someone coming around the corner without having the chance to defend yourself. 
 The multiplayer becomes repetitive very quickly, and often you will find servers where everyone 
 is using the exact same weapon and strategy (charge, hold the trigger down, hope you get a kill) . 
 It still looks and sounds great, but gets boring quickly.
  
  All in all, this is a great game. The single player is challenging, actually scary sometimes, and 
 has an excellent story. The multiplayer isn't so good, and hurts the value of this game, but not 
 much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drugstein
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  The terror scenario, all that transformed men, the sounds, appearances of strange people, scenes 
 of blood and gore, makes you really get scared.
  Play it during the dawn and you will realy have nightmares.
  
  Graphics are well made (this 
 made the game heavy for some machines) , you can realy see the hi-res textures on walls, clothes, 
 boxes, etc. The slow motion cam, is very usefull, just activate it and everything gets slow and
 
  blurred, turning it easy to kill.
  
  Sound make this game the way it is. you're running on the silence and from nowhere, a little girl 
 laughs at you. Thanks for the 3D sound, without it, this game couldn't be played.
  
  The Scenarios are a little complicated, and this make the game frightful, get to the corner of 
 a wall, and see all that soldiers waiting you appear to be killed. Sometimes the screen gets too 
 white and a little sequence is shown, what make the story more frightful.
  
  I cant fotget to mension the little girl, I was descending the stairs, and then i turned back 
 and there she was. WOW I fall of the chair, this happened at 3:35 A. M.
  
  If you didn't played it yet, you're sucks, cause this game value what you pay for it.
  
  Sorry 
 for my English, I'm from Brazil,
  
  Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YakumoWarZ
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 17, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  What was that? Bump!! That is what you expierence when playing this game. You need to play this 
 game with the volume way up. It starts off sorta normal but as you progress this whole supernatural 
 world goes crazy. Things jump out at you in all the right places. I always wondered what a scary 
 game like resident evil would be like in First Person view. It was an intense game with a neat 
 underlying story about our main character. The gameplay itself is really smooth, with good variety 
 of weapons and easy control. You've gotta try this one.
  
  Difficulty: Not too bad on normal setting. Finished the game in less then 10hrs and no stratagy 
 guides needed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoo3
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 16, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  f. e. a. r. was the first game to disappoint me in 2006. i had expected it to be a great shooter with 
 a twisted, scary tale. it was definitely a little twisted, but the other two aspects weren't there 
 for me.
  
  i didn't see any new innovations in the game. i've seen time slowing down before, a la project: 
 snowblind and even blinx. the weapons are middle-of-the-road offering players weapons that they've 
 seen in countless other games. although seeing the flesh fry off of a human skeleton was quite 
 gratifying the first couple of times. ai that chatters to one another isn't new. as a matter of 
 fact, i can't think of anything from f. e. a. r. that was innovational.
  
  the trailers and box art are very misleading as to what you would expect in the story. the creepy 
 little girl is rarely seen in the game. the clones that can move quickly and camouflage themselves 
 are rarely seen (maybe in two areas of the game) . i was really hoping for a creepy fps. but oh 
 boy, was i let down.
  
  to me it seemed like i was fighting my way through the same 4 walls for 90% of the game. everything 
 looked the same. to me, the game really could have used a change of scenery. i went from room to 
 room to storage room to ventilation shaft to room to roof to room to room to... it wouldn't end. 
 after investing money and time in the game i had to finish it. oh the pain.
  
  what did i like in the game... well, obviously the closing credits, but other than that, absolutely 
 nothing. it is a game that has not made an impact in my gaming experience.
  
  are the graphics spectacular, i'd have to say no. there aren't any complex textures or anything 
 that is just dazzling. it's pretty dull and boring until you get into the last stages of the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spfn7
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 16, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  FEAR has you as a special forces member set inside office and warehouses to fight ghost and paronormal 
 activity. The best part has to be the firefights where the A. I. is just brilliant at taking cover 
 and flanking your postion. The walls and enviroment fall apart just like if you were actually shooting 
 walls in real life. The frame rate does drop a little at certain points even on a high end system 
 like a 3700 + with 2gig of ram and x1800 xt vid card. A problem with the game has to be the penetretion 
 gun because it actually cause problems with doors when you shoot a man to the door and he gets 
 stuck on the door and it cannot be opened. That leads to some problems because the game is so linear 
 that only one door leads you to the next objective. That is the only problem I can think of, but 
 it is still a very nice game especially graphic wise. Gore also makes this game so great with all 
 the blood and body parts laying around on the floor adds to the experience of that you actually 
 have real guns in your hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamcat
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 16, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  I thought the fire fights were fantastic especially on a medium to high level of difficulty. Just 
 letting loose with a machine gun in the office enviroments and watching everything flying everywhere 
 was what I loved about it.
  
  What I did not like about it, was the samey feel about it, i. e. One corridor looks very like another. 
 The ending was a little disappointing (easy) , but how it was done was great. The final bang was 
 impressive, with some impressive slow motion effects throughout the game.
  
  I had the sound turned up with an Audigy 5.1 system, which helps emerse you, particularly when 
 going round a corner and encountering something supernatural. I only have a 6600GT but one of those 
 clocked XFX ones, but it ran okay in medium detail, with a fairly high resolution.
  
  I played right through Fear, but still have to with Far cry, which probably says a lot.
  
  
 Finally, I would like to just say that Monolith is as innovative now with F. E. A. R. as Monolith 
 were when they brought out "Blood II, The Chosen", a slightly flawed game but at the time doing 
 its own thing and very well in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBoss028
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 16, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R combines horror, in your face kick ass combat, incredible graphics, and a great story line. 
 The horror elements is great they really utilized it well, they didn't make it so that every second 
 the girl is behind you 24/7 or around the corner, they combine the horror with combat. For example 
 you first see the girl or something scary then you go into combat, this combination boosts the 
 game. The combat and AI are untoughable, with the super smart AI makes the combat feel like your 
 fighting your online friends. The graphics make every thing look real, and with a compelling storyline 
 you will be glued to the monitor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themubashir
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 16, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  When I got My copy of F. E. A. R i was too excited.
  it was long since i played Doom 3 and was eager to play another horror Title. When I started the 
 game it made me feel that my PC is nothing more than a dustbin. Nevertheless i switched to Low Graphics 
 and started it.
  The game revolves around a mysterious girl named "Alma" who has the kind of look like the RING 
 girl had.
  The game genuinely is a Horror Title which can scare the Hell out of you at times. the advanced 
 A. I of the opponents makes the game even more challenging. The story is excellent.
  the Graphics r top notch (Only if u r PC could support it) .
  The game losses points on grounds 
 of Dull Environment ,Limited weapons, Repeated Gameplay.
  However the Story of the game will keep you glued to your PC's till the very end.
  this Game 
 is good but could have been much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mustang_rider
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Well I all ready passed the game and it seems to have a good story in my opinion there COULD BE 
 POSSIBLE sierra launch a SECOND PART of the game but i think they will not, a good game that end 
 this way there could be a little possibility to launch a second part. Well lets go to the point.
 
  
  Well has i said I allready passed the game it seems the it have some bugs to be fixed but those 
 bugs doesnt affect the gameplaying.
  
  and i want they fix the final part that ALOT or an EXESIVE numbers of spirits come out its ALMOST 
 imposible that part.
  
  for those how wanna buy this game buy it it worth it this game is even more scarier than THE RING, 
 The GRUDGE or any other movies you have seen but of course the game is scarier if you pass it all. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Play_Stationz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2006 1:05 am PT
Review:  People out there that is still finding those great First Person Shooter game, please it is advice 
 this game is the greatest of all FPS you have ever known. This game is not only the great graphic 
 but also have a great story line. There tons of variety of guns to select .Compare to DOOM, this 
 game is more realistic and more horror than you have ever expected. You are not only killing soldiers 
 like Half Life but also ghost. This game is a absolutely a horror game that really frighten you. One 
 thing really make this game the kick is the slow motion thing people. This ability is use to slow 
 time and attack your opponent and also to dodge bullets like Matrix. This game graphic is really 
 smart, unlike DOOM, people need the highest graphic card to support its requirement but this game, you 
 don't really need that much high graphic card just normal like Redeon X6000, it is already archive 
 and you still can enjoy the great graphic of this game. It is advice to the gamers out there, please 
 what ever you do.............. you must try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theking52
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  what can i say? firstly... i don't like fps often but this is one of those rare ones i'm really 
 enjoying. the graphics are super which i run everything maxed out making it look brilliant. the 
 A. I. is awesome as, i experimented with this by quicksaving and reloading that save, that the enemy 
 does different things at different times. i've quicksaved behind a box for example and stayed behind 
 throwing grenades in which case one of the enemy threw one at where i was. i reloaded game from 
 the same spot again... and instead went forward... and the guy who threw the grenade this time 
 went to hide and kept shooting at me from there. great a. i.
  the sound is great too with the firing and all that's going on.... super game. value tho ... eh 
 after you finish it once there isn't much else. there's multi player with some unique touches which 
 is fun but let's face it... there's better games out there for multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Breuer85
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 15, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  First off, for the first time while playing a game, the sound of gunfire really lets you believe 
 you're in a gunfight. Not to mention the explosive effects! When bullets tear into walls/wood/glass 
 dust and particals fly and the intensity raises!
  I just pumped up my machine, and got this game. Glad I did!!!! It is all it should be and more. 
 I wish that F. E. A. R. and Half-Life could be moulded into one glob of pure joy! While Half-Life 
 offered innovative Physics and enviorments, F. E. A. R. offeres truley unique effects and rendering!
 
  Playing F. E. A. R. puts you in the director seat of one of the most intense Action/Thriller/Horror 
 movies ever! The AI in the game in unheard of to date! For instance...... when an enemy locates 
 you and they are on to you. You can run around a corner and hide behind a desk and they will look 
 for you! Now that in itself is awsome! Playing hide and seek with a troop of highly-advanced tactical 
 units gets your blood pumping just a bit! Not to mention the fact that you have 3 different types 
 of grenades (2 of them can be used as booby-traps) .
  If you have a high-end computer that can play this puppy on full settings get it! Otherwise pehaps 
 you should wait a couple of years untill you do and then play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pilum450
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 15, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  First of all this game follows the footsteps of HF2 and DOOM3 as being the best FPS's of 2005. 
 The game draws the player into an immersive environment that surrounds them into a near future 
 world marred by corporate and government corruption. Adding to the virulence of the cancer afflicting 
 society is the hell fueled revenge of an exploited, abused and murdered daughter. All these facets 
 blend to bring a feeling of suspense, anger, loathing, and dread as the story unravels. Adding 
 to the plotline is the mercenary and clone army that is sent to stop your progression into discovering 
 the mysteries laid into place the machinations of the corrupt trio. 
  With this wealth of material, the plotline is just a shell holding the action sequences together. 
 The strength of the game is based upon its combat system and the AI of the opponents. I wish that 
 there was a little more emphasis placed upon the storyline by the game designers. They created 
 a great atmosphere and environment to place their shooter but the overall storyline had fallen 
 a little flat with missed opportunities. I can only hope that the story for the sequel will be 
 flushed out more fully. 
  Dont get me wrong I really enjoyed the game and I will praise it too all my friends but I really 
 feel that the game was a missed opportunity in taking FPS to a new level; a blending of a FPS and 
 RPG plotline and story. I believe that Hellgate: London is promising the advent of such a chimera. 
 I hope that Monolilith can adapt their sequel to F. E. A. R. is such a manner.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: narcolepticshee
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 15, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  When i bought this game, i thought it was just going to be another generic FPS. How wrong i was... 
 The controls are pretty much like your standard FPS apart from you have a lean function on Q and 
 E and a 'slow-mo' style function on Ctrl. The game play is generally ok but tends to get repetitive 
 quite quickly, with the general task of killing a load of bad guys, moving on to the next area, 
 killing more bad guys, find a switch etc. etc. and these tasks are barely taxing, but the reason 
 this game stands out is because of the scary scenes in the game. In the first hour or so, you will 
 jump out of your seat so many times, generally because of people (usually a character reminiscent 
 of the little girl from "The Ring") walking in places that you can just about see in your peripheral 
 vision, or just blatantley walk out smack bang in the middle of where you're about to walk. Often, 
 you will see things that walk past that aren't actually there. After a couple of hours though, 
 you can predict when some of these things are going to happen. The graphics in this game are fantastic 
 as is the sound, for example, when you fire a gun, it actually feels like you're firing a real 
 gun, plaster shoots out from the walls and everything is pretty much destructible or interactive 
 with. The story line is quite weak but there are certain set-pieces which feel awesome to play 
 through, like the chopper rides - barely interactive, but feel so good. I have only played single 
 player so far, so if you're looking for a great single player game and you can find this for less 
 than the R. R. P. then pick it up now!
  
  Better Than: Doom 3
  Worse Than: Half-Life 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assault999
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 15, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  i say it, s the game of the year!!! becouse it, s full of fear like it say and blood and gore and 
 really really intense violence!! and the language it, s very strong like in the S. W. A. T. boys!! 
 any way the name it, s wanderfull really but the game it, s high you have to buy a super PC not a 
 good PC like his speed 2200 or 2400 no no no!!! you have to get super PC or you well going to be 
 a crazy man like me my PC his speed it, s 2200 not 2400 i whish if it 2400 but any way and i can, t 
 buy the game but i buy it whay becouse i love it and you well going to love it when you see it 
 not when you play it !!! any way thank you if you reading this and see you later see ya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rissbo
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  i dont have to say much except i cant play any other game since i played f. e. a. r
  When i finished playing it i felt like crying cause it came to an end .In fear i like everything 
 but the feeling when youre shooting is great , i ve heard that they looked up to John Woo movies 
 when they made game and they just got it wright. The storie is great but if you miss the last conversation 
 with senator after closing credits it might be not so clear. The scary scenes might have been left 
 out in the middle part of the game and thats all that boders me except the game was a little short ( 
 all that is good dont last long) -sorry about poor english
  PLAY THE GAME NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSDD87
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 15, 2006 12:29 am PT
Review:  Scariest game of the year. That pretty much sums it up. If you have the pc to run this game then 
 get it now! F. E. A. R will undoubtedly be scariest game of the year. The intense graphics, storyline, 
 AI are each factors that will bring about a revolution in scary games. Unlike and of the Doom games, 
 F. E. A. R provides an unparalleled experience. The story steadily advances providing new "fear"s. 
 However, the horror of this game would not be what it is without the graphics. You can't have a 
 scary game unless you believe it is real, and that is exactly what this game does. You are in control. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 14, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  
  I'm a person who can watch some pretty disturbing scenes but to actually interact in them is a 
 whole different thing altogether. What amazes me is how the game quickly changes tone from cautious 
 to horrific and back. I'm even more impressed that this happens in a few seconds. Part of FEAR's 
 success comes from its ingenious music, ambient noise and subtle cues to make the player feel different 
 levels of tension. Whether it is dealing with horrific images or legions of tactical squads, FEAR 
 emphasizes on putting you on pure adrenaline. What's also impressive is FEAR's AI Baddies. They 
 seem to have many surprising animations. Some animations include jumping through windows, crawling 
 under shelves, pushing sofas for cover, or sticking only their arm out to shoot. It's a visceral 
 experience. When an enemy gets shot in the face, they communicate that there's a "Sniper" in the 
 loose. Interesting. If you're looking for ingenious puzzles, beautiful looking maps and high ceilings 
 you won't find them here. You'll find that even operating trays are unmovable decoration. But does 
 that take away from the experience? Definitely not! The developers of FEAR seem to have emphasized 
 detail on the blood, shell casings, globs of particle effects, and tons of breakable glass, computer 
 monitors, etc. But truth be told, the game is pretty creepy. The game sets you up in ways you would 
 never imagine. This is especially true at the end of the game. I lacked some sleep for a day or 
 two.
  
  FEAR is one of those games that doesn't have many detailed environments. Instead, it puts its money 
 on the horrific experience of the unknown. It sometimes punishes you and your curiousity. It's 
 really hard to convey this experience through this review without giving too much away but rest 
 assured FEAR stays true to its name. Sometimes I think it was deliberate that the developers made 
 the puzzles purely easy just so that it won't take too much tension away from the player and that, 
 my friends, is a great thing.
  
  The Bad:
  
  Like great games, there are a few tidbit things I would like to point out in the game that deviate 
 from the experience. The dialogue is a bit over the top so the AI likes to curse... alot. Even the 
 people you hear on the voicemails all over the office love to curse too. It sometimes sounds forced 
 rather than natural. In FEAR, you experience scripted scenes that are disturbing and lifelike but 
 sometimes the dialogue does not match the scene. This is usually the case when interacting with 
 enemy AI. In some cases, I bust up laughing when I hear it. This maybe deliberate since the game 
 is mostly action oriented. 
  
  Also as you get farther into the game, your objective doesn't change much. You're always looking 
 for a man named Harland Wade or other closely related members. Also, the richness of the story 
 is dependent on how much snooping you do around in the offices. With everyone's voicemail free 
 for anyone to access you can try to put the puzzle pieces together and hopefully gather reasons 
 for your objective (i. e. Find Harland Wade) .
  
  Another thing is inconsistent interactivity on objects. Some bookshelves can fall during a firefight. 
 In a few cases, you have an office mail cart... with wheels... sitting in the middle of hall... and 
 for some reason it seems to be nailed to the floor... even when I launch a rocket on it. Not a big 
 deal.
  
  overall:
  
  FEAR is a tremendous game. It doesn't try to be a Half Life 2 (ingenious puzzles) or a stealth/action 
 game (Splinter Cell) . FEAR's presentation of the story is fresh, even when compared to other horror 
 based games of today (Resident Evil, Silent Hill, etc) but how it is told to the player is even 
 better. Its execution is so well done that other gamers, especially FPS fans, should not pass up.
 
  
  radcastro. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reindeer911
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 14, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. does some things very well, but unfortunately it also has some weak points which directly 
 offsets the game's strengths. Because of this, what could have been a superior game becomes just 
 another run of the mill FPS. 
  
  The Good: Atmosphere! The one area this game absolutely excels at is creating a creepy environment. 
 Between the hard lighting, spooky soundtrack, and supernatural "gotchas" the game likes to throw 
 out from time to time, I found myself constantly looking over my shoulder throughout the missions. 
 The other main strength is in the enemy AI... without question it is one of the best that has been 
 done to date. Overall, the mechanics are smooth and well thought out. 
  
  The Bad: While the AI in the game is exceptionally good, this is offset by closed and linear maps, 
 and as a consequence the AI really doesn't have a chance to operate to it's full potential. I also 
 found the lack of a destructible environment to be a distraction. Also, there is the usual fare 
 of pipe/airduct/elevator mazes which have been done so much in shooters as to become rather trite. 
 The action sequences themselves become all too predictable after a while. For example, supply caches 
 are located either just before or just after a major firefight. If things have been relatively 
 quiet when one stumbles across a cache, then it is a good bet the bad guys are waiting around the 
 next corner. Same could also be said for the type of weapons found. In other words, finding a rocket 
 launcher means there is a robot coming up soon. Also, I found in general that if an area looks 
 like it would be a good place for enemies to hide, they probably are. Stealth in the game is almost 
 non-existent, almost to the point of being silly. A player could hide in deep shadow with an enemy 
 far away, and not only will they spot the player, but will open fire with superhuman accuracy. 
 
  
  The Ugly: Probably the worse point is the execution of the story. In short, the plot takes WAYYYY 
 to long to develop, way too linear, and is sloppily written. The game alternates between supernatural 
 and action sequences. The supernatural parts amount to flashbacks and visions where the designers 
 are obviously trying to scare the player. The technique works very well at first, but is repetitious 
 and gets tiresome once the novelty wears off. The action sequences do nothing to advance the story 
 outside of trying to check phone messages, or occasional radio broadcasts that indicate that hell 
 is supposedly breaking loose. The story is broken down into a series of segments which has some 
 stated goal, however, these goals always remain elusive, and in some cases are simply forgotten 
 without explanation. Case and point... fairly early into the game, the player will run into a network 
 engineer by the name of Norton Mapes. He turns out to be one of the bad guys, and tries his best 
 to impede the player's progress. One of the later missions is to try and find this guy to ask him 
 some questions. However, for reasons only known to the game designers, both the goal and the Mapes 
 is completely dropped out of play until very close to the end of the game. Finally, I found the 
 acting to be mediocre. The funny thing is that I've played some games that were marked down because 
 of poor acting; games that I felt were much better that this one, and yet this game gets a 9.1. 
 Go figure. 
  
  To the games credit, the story does all come together and make sense in the very end. 
  
  In 
 summary, F. E. A. R. is mechanically a good shooter on par with games like Doom3. Unfortunately, linear 
 maps, tired gimmicks, and a tediously executed story line turn this game into just another shooter. 
 Big deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DDX2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 14, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  Fear is one of the best games this year. It is an intense and action-packed ride from beginning 
 to end. Everything about this game is great, from sound, graphics, gameplay, and story (which if 
 you understand completly is really good) .
  
  Fears story is about a operative (the player) in a secret government special forces team that deals 
 with paranormal threats. Right now, a physic commander named paxton fetel is rebelling with his 
 army of clones. you of course are sent in with your team to stop him. The story takes many twists 
 and turns up to the last level. Fear's story however is very confusing if you dont follow it. if 
 you understand the basics of whats going on, then you will enjoy the game alot more.
  
  The gameplay is also one of fear's key trademarks. It consists of frantic and chaotic firefights. 
 It really seems like you are in a blockbuster action movie instead of a game. and like action movies 
 fear has a bullet time mode where the action slows down giving you an advantage over your enemies. 
 
  
  The graphics and sound are where fear really shines. superb lighting and shadows make environments 
 realistic and convincing. Its to bad that fear takes place in old warehouses and office buildings, 
 these settings make the game look dull and boring. but you'll forgive them when you are in a firefight. 
 In firefights bullets and grenades tear apart the environment and kick up dust. for example when 
 you fire a shotgun at an enemy you could dislodge his head with that perfect shot, but if you miss 
 that shotgun blasts is going to gouge a hole in the concrete, but wait this isnt a small bullet 
 mark that most games leave, part of the wall is actually torn apart. This is only when the game 
 is in nromal time. when in slow-motion, you can see tracers fly slowly through the air sparks flying 
 off of impact areas, exploding barrels exploding outwards pushing barrels parts all over the room. 
 Allthough it is destructive and gory, its almost beautifal to see a slo-mo firefight. Unforunately 
 you can only really experience Fear if you are playing in at least medium, otherwise you lose a 
 lot of the effects.
  
  One last point of fear. When firing a gun in this game feels real. your screen kicks back from 
 a shotgun blast, everything rocks when a grenade explodes, and the weapons all sound fantastic.
 
  
  Fear is easily one of the best games this year. if you have a PC that can run it in medium then 
 buy it, if you can run it only in low then still buy it, but try to upgrade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabooya
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 13, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  This game has Revolutionary graphics for the current Gen of games. Yes you may need a slightly 
 higher end PC, but it be worth upgrading. The Story was not that clear to me, but the graphics, 
 physics, and over all apperance counter that. The new features added in such as slow mo, and kicks 
 made it definitly original. THIS IS A MUST BUY GAME. I am sad to say it was a little easy for me 
 though. I played it on Extream difficulty and died less than 20 time through the entire game. I 
 like games with more of a challenge. 
  It Definitly was an original game. I have not got the same expirience from any other FPS game, 
 currently on the market. I do wish the multi player was a little more developed though. 
  If you are looking for a graphically intense game, that is a lot of fun and not that hard to play, 
 FEAR is the game you are looking for! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mryurkovic
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 13, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. , one of the most overhyped games i've ever played almost lived up to it's expectations. 
 I know that a lot of people were disappointed and I was a little, mainly because you really can't 
 answer this question after you beat it. What did I accomplish? You really don't complete objectives, 
 you just go around killing anybody that gets in the way, and when a game does that it needs to 
 have objectives and a good story. At first I was confused about the relation between the girl, 
 Fettel, and you. But the upside is (especially if you liked the movie The Ring) it does have some 
 thriller factor. I can't say scare factor because the scary things were just harmless flashes. 
 And I have to say that, however incomplete and confusing, the ending was awesome, well, what I 
 mean is the last thing you see before the credits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alakoma
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 13, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is First Encounter Assault and Reconnaissance but i will say that FEAR is really what i 
 felt when i played the game, the music and the game just get you inside the game and if you play 
 it in the dark this is the best way to get heart-attack because the story of the game is well done 
 and well played.
  
  the game start with not a lot of information about what is happened, and along the game you find 
 out alot about the story behind the game.
  
  the game - well the A. I of the game is really amazing, the computer will react to noise, flash 
 light, if you will open fire they will take cover, and will try to sneak behind you, and they will 
 use what they can to kill you, they will throw a grenade and will try to charge after it, so dont 
 try to be smart and the cover and kill them one by one.
  
  the main thing that will help you during the game is the bullet time, without that you well lose 
 the game.
  in every shooting game you have alot of weapons so here you can carry only 3 weapons , but you 
 can choose witch weapons to carry.
  but here you have also 3 options of silent kill, you can sneak behind the enemy and use:
  1) 
 you rifle to give a punch in the head and the enemy will die.
  2) you can jump and kick the enemy in the air.
  3) or you can slide and kick him from the ground.
 
  in the game only at the beginning i used it, after a while you only use the bullet time and the 
 guns.
  
  the music - well in here they done a very good jub as the rest of the game, the music is not loud, 
 and will get you inside the game, if something is about to happened you will know because the sound 
 will change to a more action type of music. also the voice of the enemy when they talk in the com' 
 net, you will know what to look for in the room and the situation of the enemy.
  so listen to what they say becouse this will help you play the game.
  
  the graphic - well 
 i think there a review about the game and how it will work on your computer here in GAMESPOT, and 
 the newest computer with all the best things inside will not stand the high graphic of this game, 
 but the game move very smooth on a p4 2.4 ghz with a ati 9700 pro with 512 MB on the board, so 
 you wont lose a thing in the game, and the game runs very good on my computer.
  
  the multi-player is also some thing that is new, you can get the bullet time in the multi-player..... 
 what a great thing, and you have there all the games you know, capture the flag, death-math and 
 etc'.
  
  so in the end this is one of the best shooting game along other like half-life and max payne. i 
 played it in the single player and cant wait to play the multi-player. the first game that make 
 me chills and heart beat like i ran 2 KM, play it in the dark and you dont want to stop playing 
 the game.
  
  oohhhh..., i forgot, what i like the most in the game, if you listen to the com' between the enemy, 
 and you will throw a grenade to a room or to the enemy you will hear them swearing and shouting 
 in pain....
  
  what a great game - FEAR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CatmanJJ
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 13, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game it wasn't that easy of a choice since CoD2 came out around the same 
 time and I was torn between which one I should pick up with some store credit. After some recommendations 
 from some friends I decided to go with Fear...
  
  ... Man let me tell you I'm glad I did...
  
  After having this game for just over a week now 
 let me tell you the firefights alone are worth price of admission. Muzzle flashes, tracer fire, 
 explosions, smoke, shell casings, and environmental damage are just the tip of the iceberg. With 
 dark environments, spooky music and down right freaky encounters with poltergeist like beings, 
 this game is a lot more then just a typical stand up fight FPS. Then there is the multiplayer, 
 which I haven't even got into yet. Definitely top 10 game of the year material if not the best 
 of '05. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R4213L
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 13, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  This game was supposed to be so great but only great thing is graphics.
  I've started this game at medium difficulty and i was surprised A. I. was GREAT ... but after finishing 
 this game i wanted more so I've started this game again with highest difficulty and that was really 
 disappointingNPC's was just tougher no improvement in their behavior. Graphics and effects are 
 really great but number of different opponents is less than 10! Sounds are OK. Few guns to use 
 (U can gather LOADS of ammo fast) + "bullet time" taken from Max Payne = too easy to be any of 
 a challenge. My vote to this game = Rather easy FPS with good graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quintapus
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 29, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: I admit that I was startled once or twice during the game, but certainly not scared. 
 The so called scary parts really don't have much to do with the action. The long gaps between the 
 action are boring. If the gaps had built tension then I wouldn't mind, but since the levels are 
 incredibly bland and generic they don't. The weapons are fairly ordinary and they get stale by 
 the end of the game. (8)
  
  Graphics: Even though the graphics are sharp, the environment isn't nearly as destructible as advertised. 
 Except for chunks flying of the walls and a few articles such as computers and bottles, most of 
 the objects in the game are impervious to damage. I've played games that had crates you could smash, 
 doors you could blow open and vending machines you could destroy, yet in Fear they are all invincible. 
 (9)
  
  Sound: The sound effects were good, but nothing special. I would expect nothing less in a game 
 nowadays. The music and ambient sound were a cut above most games though. (8)
  
  Value: After you have beaten the singleplayer game and messed around with the multiplayer there 
 is nothing else to do. The only incentive to replay the campaign is if you bump up the difficulty 
 or turn off SloMo. Although disabling slow motion would rob Fear of one of the few things that 
 sets it apart from most other shooters. (6)
  
  Tilt: Despite its deficiencies, Fear is still a fun game. Just don't set your expectations too 
 high or you will be disappointed. (8)
  
  The Good: Some of the most intense and exciting firefights in a FPS, until the novelty wears off. 
 The best combat AI in any game so far. 
  
  The Bad: Not creepy in the least. Lame story. Too easy even on extreme difficulty, because there 
 are too may health packs in the game and the SloMo feature makes battles a breeze. Almost all the 
 enemies are the same, only with a few aesthetic differences. The AI is smart in actual combat, 
 but they won't chase you very far. All you have to do in a jam is run away, grab some heath, sneak 
 back and catch them off-guard. Why can't they make shooters where you are the hunted, the prey, 
 instead of the predatory hunter. It would be a welcome change of pace. The ending is anticlimactic 
 and leaves you feeling as if there should be more to come. Killing Paxton Fettel was so easy I 
 did it accidentally coming out of the dream phase.
  
  Bottom Line: Aside from the dynamic action, fear really isn't memorable or unique in any way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElectronicPest
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 13, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  Right then this is F. E. A. R im talking about 
  
  Yes the graphics are good
  
  Yes its creepy
  
  Yes the plot is great
  
  Yes its very gory
  
  This game is hyped 
 too much. I never completed the game because it got so boring because of the repititive gameplay. I 
 love the graphics though and the plot and creepyness but the gameplay and guns are just so boring.
 
  
  Now is this worth the money.... NO! it isnt worth the 50 bucks because both mp and sp are boring 
 in this game. You might as well buy quake 4 for the great sp and the sdk because the problem with 
 the lithtech engine is its so hard to edit so there wont be very many mods or maps for this game. Quake 
 4 was exciting and had vehicles F. E. A. R sucks because of the gameplay which is just mindless shooting 
 with boring weapons and no vehicles.
  
  dont buy this game man
  
  oh by the way the A. I is amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w0rmy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2006 1:12 am PT
Review:  I've purchased a lot of games in the last few years. Some good. Some not so good. I'd have to say 
 that games like Half Life 2 and Call of Duty are hard to beat when it comes to a single player 
 experience. That is until now!
  
  FEAR is a game that grabs you from the first moments of the game and doesn't let go until the after 
 the credits are done (don't opt of those credits of you'll miss something) . The game is so good 
 it's hard to know what to talk about. The graphics are second to none. The sound is perfection. 
 The game play is exciting, innovative and fun! The story is absolutely outstanding. I've never 
 seen a PC game with better writing, acting or plot in my life.
  
  At it's core, FEAR will scary the crap out of you! But, that alone wouldn't be enough. Every element 
 of the game feels polished and well thought out. The maps are very impressive with a wide range 
 of indoor environments with the occasional outdoor action. Dialog moves the story along without 
 getting bogged down in boring cut scenes. Most of the exposition happens while you're still on 
 the move.
  
  You've heard this game compared to Doom 3 but the comparison seems misplaced to me. Are both games 
 scary? Yes, but Doom 3 is like sitting through Friday the 13th part 14 for the second time while 
 FEAR will chill you to your spine like watching the Exorcist in a dark room, by yourself!
  
  FEAR is simply the best damn single player game I have ever played on a PC. If I have one complaint 
 about FEAR it's that's I'll have to wait 2 or 3 years for FEAR 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzN_DiSaStEr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 12, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  gameplay..
  the gameplay is GREAT. its dynamic and fast-paced, like every good FPS. could have more weapons, 
 but is made up for by the fun of killing someone else. on occasion, an enemy's body part might 
 even come off, or a lot of blood and debris will be around. it just makes playing the game real 
 satisfying.
  
  graphics..
  best graphics i've seen, IF... u have a good computer. it actually gives some monsterous systems 
 a challenge. i could've rated the graphics a 10, but the occasional framerate stutter does kind 
 of downsize it. the graphics are sometimes inconsistent, when you can play real smoothly in certain 
 situations, but starting to notice a downgrade of performance in a fun huge firefight. if you've 
 got a real good system, there shouldnt be too much of a problem handling this game at max settings, 
 although only a few vid cards can actually play all the specific settings at max.
  
  sound..
  the sound is GREAT as well. it really sounds like your shooting a gun. its also enjoyable 
 to hear computers shout out real stuff like "he's trying to flank!" or "keep your dick in your 
 pants." f. e. a. r.'s sound really does contribute to the game's greatness, cuz it really does feel 
 like your in a cap-in-your-ass environment.
  
  value..
  like every great FPS there is a great multiplayer. fear doesnt have a problem bringing this to 
 the table. after the singleplayer, you can enjoy the bonus features (dvd edition) , nonstop multiplayer, 
 or join and create custom maps.
  
  my tilt..
  i think this is a great game, worth the money, especially cuz it dropped 20 bucks in gamestop (correct 
 me if im wrong, i checked the website) . i think its worth more than 30 bucks, but the fact its 
 a system hog is probably why it didnt get a lot of computers to play it, and not even a lot of 
 FPS veterans chose to buy the game.
  
  make sure your computer is up to it! its a MIND BLOWING game! see ya there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iron-Dragon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 12, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: First and foremost, this game is scary as Hell. Doom 3 failed me in terms of fright. 
 This game however, exceeded my expectations. For this reason, F. E. A. R. is one of the most immersive 
 games of the generation.
  The gun play is above average and fairly innovative. Environments are highly destructible and enemy 
 reactions to taking fire are very realistic (wow the nail gun is fun) .
  The AI is THE best to date for an FPS. The game is very hard on even the normal setting, in fact, 
 if it weren't for the slow-down ability, the game would be practically impossible. The react to 
 your strategy, create their own cover, and use each other tactically. I have trouble explaining 
 it because it's a notch above any other game out there.
  Wow, a good story for an FPS. Probably the first since HL2. The game gives you bits and pieces 
 to the story, little bit at a time. This keeps you interested, but also in the dark at the same 
 time. I'm still not quite sure what to think of the ending, only that it seems to create more questions 
 than answers.
  
  Graphics: F. E. A. R. looks absolutely amazing. The game is very dark and the shadows are done superbly. 
 I would have given it a 10 for this category, if the game were not so hard to run. To run it on 
 max settings and get the 60 fps that many PC gamers desire is extremely hard. You will probably 
 need a 512 mb card, such as the Geforce 7800. Also, if the rest of your PC isn't up to scratch 
 (you'll need a gig of RAM as well) you may actually need 2 gpu's. 
  
  Sound: If you don't have a good soundcard and plan to buy this game, do yourself a favor and pick 
 up one. The game sounds beautiful, I can't say enough good things about it. Half the reason the 
 game is so friggin' freaky is because of the excellent audio.
  
  Value: The multiplayer isn't Cs quality, but has entertained me for a while. Also, the single player 
 is good enough to merit a second (maybe a third, who knows?) play through on a higher difficulty.
 
  
  Tilt: The immersiveness of F. E. A. R. certainly merits the 10 score in this category. If you've got 
 a PC that can handle this game, you NEED to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: domitron
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 12, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  To put this game in a class of Half Life 2 or Doom 3 is like saying candy is in the class of a 
 steak dinner because they both taste good. One leaves you with a sweet taste in your mouth but 
 makes you sick as you eat more. The other satisfies as a meal even as you have your fill.
  
  If I were to review FEAR after three levels, I would have given it a 9, but after having finished 
 the game, I can't give it over a 7.5 because it just never develops. The story doesn't take off. 
 The graphics, although good, don't evolve into new and interesting things. Yeah, FEAR has some 
 graphical effects that will blow your socks off, but the game lacks a decent plot, lacks scenery 
 variety, and is relatively short (although by the time it's over, you'll be glad) .
  
  The game nearly COMPLETELY takes place in an office complex and run down apartment. There is little 
 new once it gets going, except for a few brief supernatural tidbits at the end of each level. You 
 keep wondering when the cool stuff will start again, but it never really does. 
  
  If you are looking for a couple hours of fun and some spooky cool graphics, this game can probably 
 fit the bill. If you are looking for a dozen hours of fun or more, don't bother with FEAR. It's 
 a pretty show at first but it gets old fast.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshel
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 12, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. was a well known title by most gamers long before release, and this is a great thing for 
 a game unless of course it is a miserable and over-hyped mess of a game. Thankfully, F. E. A. R. is 
 none of these and it lives up to and possibly goes past the hype that was generated pre-release.
 
  
  The story in the game concentrates around a mysterious little girl named Alma who has turned a 
 psychic commander named Paxton Fettel, capable of controlling an army of replica soldiers simply 
 by telekinesis, completely insane. Fettel has taken control of the replica army and is wreaking 
 total havoc with these soldiers. You have been charged, as the point man of a special forces team 
 that deals with paranormal dangers called the First Encounter Assault Recon Task Force, with ridding 
 of a psychotic Fettel and thus, ridding of the replica soldiers. The story doesn't spoon feed itself 
 to you and will keep you wondering and guessing, which is nice. Instead, you will have to make 
 an active effort in the game by finding phones with answering machines, laptops and radios which 
 will provide you will little pieces of information that may help explain vital things in the story 
 that wouldn't make much sense just by watching cut-scenes.
  
  The single player campaign in fear delivers an intense first-person shooter experience with a compelling 
 story that leaves you guessing round every turn, wondering exactly what is going to happen next. 
 The game itself incorporates some lovely new things for the FPS genre, for starters you have the 
 awesome slow-mo ability which is justified at the beginning of the game where the character you 
 play as is said to have reflexes that are "off the charts". The game also adds some lovely touches 
 to the gameplay, with bullets ripping the environment (and your foes) to shreds, and the ability 
 to see your own feet/body from the first-person perspective, which although it has been done before, 
 works very well in this game and is a great touch. The combat is absolutely chaotic and delivers 
 a totally unprecedented fighting experience with very intelligent enemies. Your foes with toss 
 grenades at you with scary accuracy, take cover behind objects in the environment, attempt to flank 
 you, suppress your position with gunfire and a whole host of other cool things. You do fight pretty 
 much the same foes throughout the game, but it never gets old to blow these guys apart and that 
 is the important thing. The story will keep you compelled throughout, pushing you to the end to 
 try and tie up all the loose ends you have in your mind about the plot, although you may be slightly 
 dissatisfied once you do finish it, as some loose ends still appear to be, well... a bit loose.
 
  
  The game simply looks fantastic, the shadows are some of the best i've ever seen in a game, enemies 
 animate well and look like bad dudes from the real world. The amount of particle effects going 
 on at once during one of the bigger firefights can be totally insane, but it looks absolutely awesome. 
 The textures are beautiful and it is clear that a lot of effort has gone into this game from a 
 technical standpoint. A problem however, with all these particles flying around and some seriously 
 lush graphics, is that the game will demand some serious hardware to get the best experience you 
 can. As Jason Ocampo puts it, the game scales down well on older machines, but you do lose a lot 
 of the atmosphere and general creepiness. This is very true. The sound in the game is also brilliant, 
 the music is seriously ambient and fitting to the context of the game, with some very haunting 
 tracks that enhance the atmosphere of the game and put a few chills down your spine. The sounds 
 in the game are also first-rate, with replica soldiers shouting commands at their squads, bullet 
 ricochet "ping" noises, the sounds of brick shards flying through the air, or perhaps the sounds 
 of paper being torn apart by bullets. There is just so much of this attention to detail.
  
  Once you've gone through the game the first time, which will take about 12 hours (or less if you're 
 kinda speedy) , you can delve into the multiplayer properly. There are plenty of game modes, like 
 the standard ones you might expect such as deathmatch, team deathmatch and CTF, but there are also 
 the same gametypes featuring the "Slow-Mo" feature which are just absolutely nuts. Guys will be 
 running at you from all directions firing all manners of weapons while kicking you and lobbing 
 grenades in your general vicinity. The whole online experience is just completely chaotic and is 
 tons of fun. I experienced no lag at all while playing the game online so that is always a good 
 sign, so if you have a pretty decent net connection then you should have no trouble becoming addicted 
 to this fast paced nutfest.
  
  F. E. A. R. is a great game that certainly lives up to the hype and I believe that all FPS fans will 
 surely enjoy it, especially if they have a beastly machine to run the game on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desertdback
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 12, 2006 2:49 am PT
Review:  FEAR is one of those games that I heard was good, but it took me a while to find out for myself. 
 As I am not a huge fan of the horror genre or the FPS genre either. I didn't really think this 
 was my type of game. But once I saw the graphics and I found it for cheap on half. com I went ahead 
 and splurged. 
  
  Boy I am glad that I splurged on this game... as I cannot stop playing it. It is absolutely the 
 scariest game I have ever played. The freaky things that happen around you that I accidently shoot 
 at then the disappear. It is truly a haunting game. The graphics are freaking great as well. The 
 smoke and shards of glass and wall that come off as you shoot them are beautiful. 
  
  This is also some of the best AI I have seen to date in a game. They won't just sit back and wait 
 for you to attack. They go out and find you. They flank you they throw gernades... they know when 
 you are coming if you run or use a flashlight. It just adds tons to the already great game. 
  
  Also the playing style that is Max Payne esque with the matrix slow mo makes it all the more 
 fun to play... and gives you a little advantage to the what would be impossible odds that you face. 
 Although this game hasn't won me over to other FPS games yet... it is truly a great start and such 
 a well thought through game! I truly wish there was more like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elemo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 12, 2006 2:09 am PT
Review:  The game has stunning graphics like I never seen before. I love the game so mush that I am afraid 
 to install it. Every week I look to its source and wonderCould I install it now or wait untill 
 I upgrade my PC, I go crazy thinking about it. I just enjoy my self watching all the trailers 
 I got for the game.
  
  I like the A. I of the game .... When u look at the soldiers when they jump and roll of a window 
Perfectand also when they jump from behind a wallI can only c myself doing that in FPS 
 Multiplayer games "
  
  It will be a very big step for me to play the game ... I hope I love it more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smo500
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 10, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game and was kind of suspicious as to whether it would be as good as I heard it was... 
 It is probably the best game I have ever played. The greatest combination of action and suspense, 
 top-notch graphics, high quality sound, great controls, and an exciting storyline make this one 
 of the best games to date. I would reccomend this game to anyone who thinks they can handle the 
 F. E. A. R. because it really is a scary game. I have never been so scared while playing a game in 
 my life. If your computer can handle this graphical beast, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whynotdairy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  First off even though the requirements to play with full features on can empty your wallet 5x over, 
 But it's worth it big time! I had lowest graphics settings on, with highest res, it still blew 
 my socks off! the chunks of rock coming off the walls when the bullets hit them , the blood splattering 
 behind the lead infsted clones looks as reall as you an me! Second SOUND! wow that is all i can 
 say! wow! it gets scary when it needs to doesn't hen it would be pointless, WOW! Now Gameplay, Gameplay 
 is generally made up of Graphics, and Sound, so all i have to say is WOWx5!! now get off your CPU 
 and go out and buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2006 5:10 am PT
Review:  If any game demonstrates exactly what has been missing from the FPS genre over the past few years, 
 this game does. The game mechanics are, as you would expect, fairly standard for an FPS. There 
 is no real advancement in gameplay in a broad sense. Bullet-time is so 1999, guys. Its time for 
 something new.
  
  And yet the feel of this game is so superior to any other FPS I've played recently that I am still 
 at a loss to describe it. The AI is astounding. The visuals are very nearly overwhelming. They 
 story (FPS' weakest link, in my opinion) is only ok. And yet, unlike most games in the genre, the 
 effort shown by the game designers really shows.
  
  The game did have points where it slowed down on my system (on the high end of mid-range) which 
 was disappointing, but only in those scenes where so much junk was flying through the air that 
 I didn't really know what was going on anyway, so the irritation was only mild. For the most part, 
 the game seemed to play smoothly, and I ran into no bugs at all.
  
  The AI. Freaky. In some games, like Quake 4, the enemies at least demonstrated some intelligence, 
 but in FEAR it really does feel like they're trying to take you down. And they are good at it. 
 After a while, you do get a feel for how they will react. In Quake 4, this became very predictable. 
 But in FEAR, even later in the game the AI was surprising me. I was very impressed.
  
  Its major weakness is a reliance on standard horror-movie tricks, which I don't find scary at all. 
 Also, it exhibited the same problem most of those movies have - plot holes, loose threads and unsatisfying 
 conclusions. Still, the plot was interesting enough to keep the game moving, which is more than 
 one can say about most shooters these days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: True_Blu3
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Monolith has been working on the game for about 2 years now and many gamers (like me) have been 
 waiting for its release. And finnaly, the game is out and F. E. A. R. is one hell of a bang out of 
 your seat. I`m not saying that as an exciting thing to say to keep you thrilled when reading this 
 review, I`m saying it becuase it is the truth, F. E. A. R. *WILL* bang you out of your seat, that 
 is how amazing and revolutionary the game is!
  
  Sure, F. E. A. R. isn`t a Nolf3, but that isn`t bad. Actually, it is awsome, because it is orignal. 
 F. E. A. R. is a game that is so orignal and creative that you will be kinda confused from your first 
 look in the game... In a good way. F. E. A. R. feels so orignal because, it is a combination of John 
 Woo movies and Japanese horror movies, like the ring. That may seem preaty simple of a congragation, 
 but F. E. A. R. gives you a feeling that this game is going to rock and you just have to have your 
 hands on it ASAP.
  
  As I said, F. E. A. R. is an orignal game. Its storyline has so many secrets, thrills, and suprises 
 that it gets you scared and excited at the same time. You play as a new guy that joined a task 
 force called F. E. A. R.,  and you and your three F. E. A. R. opertives, 
 Gen, Holiday, and Jenkowski have been sent in to stop a pshychologic commander named Paxton Fettel. 
 When you and your friends try to find this man, you discover a mysterious girl that can do anything, 
 even bend reality herself with her mind. Paxton has something to do with this girl and he wants 
 to... Free her somehow, someway. All of this sounds confusing to you and you F. E. A. R. pals. F. E. A. R. 
 and the goverment have to scramble the hunt against Paxton Fettel and figure out what the girl 
 is and why Paxton wants her. You too have something to do with this paranormal threat, so not only 
 do you do the job what F. E. A. R. gave to you, but you also have to figure out who you are and what 
 you past is, or the Earth might as well be destroyed... By one girl.
  
  F. E. A. R. is a revolutionary game in so many ways and this is a rare thing to find in gaming these 
 days. F. E. A. R. takes combat to a whole new level, since Halo. Your enemys are smart and will always 
 be on the run for cover or on the run toward you if you`re completely hemmed in. The explination 
 for the A. I. is pure un-explainable since they are so.. Well.... so ****ing realistic. I hate to 
 cuss, but they are THAT smart. This is the best A. I. I, my self, have ever seen in a game! With 
 smart A. I. like this, you have to have smarts also, just to out smart them. And with your charecter`s 
 abilities, you can kill the enemies in a heartbeat. These abilites really give in the JohnWoo action 
 of the game. The firefights you`ll be facing are some of the most greatest fire fights you will 
 ever see. It almost feels like your in a bunker in D-DAY at WorldWarII, fighting Nazis and feeling 
 the rumbling of explosions which makes rubble fall down off of walls and lights flickering non-stop 
 with all the explosions, except your not in a large battlefield, your fighting in offices and office 
 halls with folder paper flying, sparks coming off of clean metal, because of bullets shots, lots 
 of blood splattering every where in one shotgun shot, and many amounts of explosions making waves 
 pressure and waves of rumbling. words can`t describe how awesome and realistic the combat is, only 
 video clips and in-game playing can! You just have to play the game your self just to expierience 
 it! The abilites you`ll be getting are some of the most coolest abilites you will get in any game 
 if possible! These abilites, however, make the game a bit tad easy. The slow-motion ability that 
 you will use most often really doesn`t give a chance to make enemies take a beap on you. The one 
 ability that is the most funnest to use are the combo kicks. These not only look cool, but are 
 also very cool to use! As most games these days, they use the "weapon carryment" system. This system 
 is used in this game except you can carry three weapons at a time and it is recommended you use 
 heavy weapons on one, long range on 2, and close range on 3 or armor piercing on 1, un-armor piercing 
 on 2, and least weight weapons on 3. There are many differnt types of strategies you can use in 
 order with your weapon selection and it all works great.
  
  F. E. A. R. is an amazing looking game. despite its great looking lighting effects and textures, the 
 particle effects are the main attraction in the game. The crazy dust and sparks bring the game 
 to life and even with a low-end system, the particle effects won`t even slow the game down. The 
 main thing that makes the game become a system hog is its lighting effects and shadows. The game`s 
 shadows and gleaming lights make the game feel creepy in most parts. Just seeing a mysterious shadow 
 right behind you, just knowing that it is nothing but an object, feels like your not alone and 
 your own self is actually scaring you. The main thing that will scare you are the illusions that 
 the little girl, that you will meet most often, makes. The soundtrack is a very interesting one. 
 At times, the music will go to an action theme with indian sing holars combined with drums and 
 orchestrated music that you would expect from a WarnerBros. or hollywood movie. Despite the amazing 
 soundtrack, the soundFx are suprisingly awesome. When ever you`re in combat, you will hear the 
 joy of winning against your enemies, per-se,"You`re exposed!". and the mostly the confusion and 
 stress from your enemies when they have no choices, like,"where should I go? or "I need help!". 
 Also the gun and explosion effects you`ll mostly hear in the game sound suprisingly realistic, 
 the gun sounds feel like they pack a wallop, and they really do! Just shooting that MP-50, even 
 though it isn`t armor piercing, feels like you`re tearing enemies into shreds like a fan. But weaponary 
 and technology keeps going forward into your advancement of your mission, like the particle weapon, 
 rocket launcher, ect, and they all sound very powerful.
  
  The game is suprisingly moderate in size, the game will take you 10-15 hours of play. The game 
 is relatively easy, if you want the game to get its true intensity, it is recommended to be put 
 the difficulty on extreme or hard. When you`re done with the single-player, you can play the multi-player 
 component which is suprisingly awesome since there is alot more bullet shots and smoke everywhere 
 from one direction on where the team is charging and from the direction on where the other team 
 is camping. One thing that is awkward about the multi-player is that no matter what team you join, 
 you seem to always be seal-team6 instead of origin clones and it really makes it kind of boring 
 joining the same team with the same voices over and over again. Still though, as fun as it last 
 F. E. A. R.`s multi-player is fun, until, who knows? Maybe when an expansion pack or a sequel comes 
 out.
  
  Overall, this is a game that has taken the first-person shooter genre into new heights! If you 
 have been waiting for this game or your a first-person shooter fan, get this game. It brings action 
 gaming to a new height of tensity and terror in all ways if neccessary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 9, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Similar to the Eternal Darkness game, this one delivers fear at every turn. One minute you are 
 walking down a dark hallway, the next you see a little girl running away, and the next you are 
 being attacked by a gigantic mechanical creature. The game uses elements of fear tactics to keep 
 players entranced in the game's interesting storyline.
  
  The team of commandos have been gathered to help assist in the testing of a new battle technology. 
 You are to test this technology against the paranormal existence that plagues a section of the 
 compound. As you travel through, you see the little girl whose image represents the pure evil that 
 has been tormenting these halls for some time.
  
  The game's ability to scare you will surprise you. There are warnings, but you will have trouble 
 figuring out what is real or not. You team will give you clues, but you'd better hope they survive 
 long enough for you to make it out alive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tom957
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is the best of 2005, i love the slow motion and the fact that the A. I of the 
 game works properly, as the enemies never quite do the same all the time. i have only been able 
 to find one down falls to this game and that is the weapons, there should have been a few more 
 as it would have made the game even more interesting and great, and the game is just great fun 
 to play at 2 in the morning with surround sound in the dark, also its not one of those games where 
 you play it for 4 or 5 hours and get bored or it as everything is the same Excellent!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DioXin_5
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 9, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  How often do you come across a game that grabs you by the throat and doesn't allow you to indulge 
 in your day to day activities like eating or sleeping? How often do you come across a game whose 
 every enemy encounter leaves you breathless, craving for more? How often do you come across a game 
 where the simple act of chucking a grenade or firing your gun leaves you shell-shocked? While some 
 of you out there may feel that way about Half-Life 2, Doom 3 or Quake 4, trust me, you haven't 
 experienced an adrenaline rush of this sort till you've played F. E. A. R. This game has exceeded 
 my expectations in nearly every aspect. It's intense, it's addictive, it's fun, it's violent, it's 
 scary and yes... it will kill your PC. 
  
  The game's plot is heavily influenced by Asian horror flicks such as the Ring (most of the development 
 team claim to be avid fans of Asian macabre) with elements from the X-Files thrown in to probably 
 please American gamers. The game starts off in a high-security prison where a man named Paxton 
 Fettel goes totally cuckoo after seeing and receiving instructions from a little dead girl. Fettel 
 isn't your run of the mill game grunt; he's a highly trained Psychic commander (hence he can communicate 
 with the dead) of an army of clones with the help of whom he takes over a multi-billion dollar 
 aerospace compound. The government retaliates by sending in Special Forces but loses radio contact 
 with them. Once they regain transmission, they find out the entire team has been decimated. 
  
  Enter you, a member of F. E. A. R. (which stands for First Encounter Assault Recon) , whose mission 
 is to infiltrate the facility, control the situation, rescue hostages (if any) and neutralize hostiles, 
 the demonic **** from hell included. 
  
  Even though F. E. A. R. doesn't bring anything new to the table in terms of plot; it still manages 
 to shock, entertain and mesmerize you with its WTF-was-that scares and high octane game play, which 
 by far is the best I've seen in any game till date. F. E. A. R. doesn't rely on cheap thrills to scare 
 you; it hits you when you least expect it, like when you're navigating empty corridors, crawling 
 through ducts or just trying to find your way around the place. Like I mentioned earlier, since 
 the developer's have a major affinity towards Asian horror, they've tried to use the un-scariest 
 thing in the world to make you crap your pants... a little girl. Throughout the game she'll try 
 communicating with you making you wonder why she doesn't kill you like the rest. Is she trying 
 to help you? Is she asking for your help? Why did she contact Fettel? What does she want? Don't 
 worry though, everything is eventually explained at the end (or is it?) . If you're a fan of the 
 X-files and like this kind of conspiracy theory, you'll lap up every single plot twist the game 
 throws at you. If not, there's always the action.
  
  Aah, the action! It brings back sweet memories. Fire fights in F. E. A. R. are so awesome, mere words 
 and screenshots cannot do justice to it. It's like sex, no matter how much you hear about it; you 
 know you have to experience it yourself. The game starts on a low key, with the first level merely 
 serving as a tutorial (usual run of the mill stuff like jumping, ducking, opening doors etc.) . 
 In the first level you learn you're not a normal soldier; in fact you're more like a super soldier 
 whose reflexes are so fast, the world appears to move slowly when you activate them; enter slow 
 mo. Like Half-Life 2, F. E. A. R. relies on a lot of scripted sequences which are used sparingly (unlike 
 a certain id software game) not only to scare you but also to create that sense of urgency and 
 panic. Once the story's laid out, you're thrust in the midst of some of the most mind blowing combat 
 you'll ever experience; kiss other shooters goodbye from that moment on (I know it's a little exaggerated 
 but get back to me on that once you've played the game) .
  
  F. E. A. R.'s arsenal of destruction includes certain generic weapons like shotguns, dual pistols, 
 machine guns, rocket launchers and some weapons ripped straight from a Sci-fi movie. One of these 
 oddities includes a gun that fires a blast of Plasma ripping the flesh of your enemies leaving 
 them in a smoldering pile of bones. You can carry up to three weapons at a time, and you'll probably 
 find yourself sticking to the shotgun throughout the game because it's as devastating as it gets. 
 One of F. E. A. R.'s biggest strengths is the way the environment reacts to bullets; concrete from 
 walls and the floor flies all around the place, paintings shatter and tilt, sparks fly when you 
 hit metallic objects, computers literally explode, paper flies all over the place like confetti 
 (in the office levels) , cardboard boxes get decimated, glass shatters with shards raining down 
 upon you; add slow motion to that and every fire fight is a treat for the senses. Combat in F. E. A. R. 
 never gets old as every enemy encounter is never the same and will lead to a different experience 
 every time. This is primarily because of the AI, which may not be as good as the Far Cry mercs, 
 but when they gun for your blood they'll pull off some nifty maneuvers like regrouping, flanking, 
 flushing you out with grenades (which by the way are frighteningly accurate) and at times moving 
 around objects like cabinets and sofas to take cover behind them.
  Disposing of your enemies is as enjoyable as having a hot meal on a cold winter night. A well timed 
 shotgun shot can blow away body parts like heads, arms, legs and even entire torsos. If that's 
 not enough, an up close and personal shot will reduce your enemy to a cloud of blood (which by 
 the way looks beyond cool in slow mo) . Not happy with all the punishment you're dishing out? How 
 about blowing them up with some grenades and remote mines? Which, by the way, can be used in a 
 different way if you're the creative type. Grenades are devastating; once they explode, a shock 
 wave consumes the blast area causing a lot of damage, so much so that your screen starts shaking 
 if you're too close. This game also features some of the most enjoyable turret scenes I've played 
 and being able to activate slow mo during that time is just cream and icing on this bloody cake. 
 
  
  In between enemy encounters you'll find yourself exploring deserted corridors, abandoned buildings, 
 research facilities etc. There were only a few times when this sort of mindless exploring does 
 detract from the most excellent combat you've just experienced. For some, it may provide some respite 
 from killing clones but for me, it got a bit boring. Exploring however does have its benefits, 
 though, the first being finding power ups that'll permanently improve your health and reflex meter. 
 Besides finding upgrades, exploring will also allow you to understand the story better as you access 
 laptops and listen to answering machines. 
  
  Now we all know that mere visuals aren't enough to make you quake in your boots. Monolith are obviously 
 an experienced bunch and have added some top notch sound to this game that enhances the experience 
 by leaps and bounds. Every minute detail right to the sound of your bullet's shell casings hitting 
 the floor sounds extremely authentic. F. E. A. R.'s soundtrack is minimalist, yet effective, voice 
 acting is solid and convincing; add to that freaky whispers and laughter of a little dead girl 
 and you're in for a riveting experience. However it's in combat where the sound really chimes. 
 Weapons pack a mean punch, enemies scream their lungs out in painfully convincing ways, and the 
 sound of debris and glass shattering really adds to the chaos and mayhem.
  
  Visually this game is a mixed bag. While the game looks really good and does manage to make you 
 feel uncomfortable and claustrophobic, there isn't much of variety in level design. Most rooms, 
 labs, reception areas all look the same and level after level you will be navigating even more 
 offices, factories and research facilities. Even enemy design is limited to very few models; only 
 after half the game do you come across some variety. But what F. E. A. R. lacks in variety, it makes 
 up for in quality. The game looks polished and if you've got a good rig (and by that I mean sold-my-kidney-to-buy-it 
 good) you can experience a truly next-gen game.
  
  Thanks to MTNL's new Triband 256 kbps broadband connection, I also had the chance to check out 
 the multiplayer aspect of the game, which includes your basic MP modes; death-match, team death-match 
 and capture the flag. Even though I was getting 200/250 ping on Asian servers, the game runs smoothly 
 with hardly any hiccups. Reflex (slow mo) is included via an injection. Once the injection's picked 
 up, the trick is to stay alive while your Reflex bar fills up. When it's full, activate slow mo 
 and gain some serious advantage over your opponents. The chaotic nature of the game has been captured 
 perfectly in MP as you'll have to wait a minute till all the dust and debris following a fierce 
 fire fight settles.
  
  If you're still not convinced about picking this game up you're already a lost cause. As a gamer, 
 I feel this game is a must play experience and has even managed to restore my faith in PC gaming. 
 Thank you Monolith!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeeemadudbomb
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 9, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  Everyone's heard of the game called F. E. A. R. even if you're a console fanboy. It won Gamespot's 
 FPS of the year and it really does deserve it. It's basically the perfect corridor shooter: Great 
 graphics, AI, Sound, and Firefights. The first time you get into a battle with some enemy soldiers 
 you'll piss your pants when the dust and sparks start flying. This game has the best special effects 
 ever. The water even has full physics support. Your character makes waves when he moves through 
 it, bullets make the watter ripple, and light reflects off it onto walls. The shaders are incredible 
 as well. The distortion on some windows.
  
  http://img286. imageshack. us/img286/3382/3guys6yq. jpg
  
  So, the AI owns. As you probably already 
 know, the soldiers shout orders to each other, track your position and even try to flank you. They 
 use grenades, advance on you using cover, and call for re-enforcements when the squad is almost 
 owned. As you probably already know, this game takes an ownage graphics card to run well and look 
 good. It can run fine (from what I hear) on DX 8.1 cards like the Geforce FX line, but on lower 
 settings.
  
  http://img346. imageshack. us/img346/2972/hisassgotsacked6vs. jpg
  http://img286. imageshack. us/img286/3876/guysgettingowned3dt. jpg
  
  Only thing I really noticed 
 is that all you do is shoot the same guys in the same way. Sure, the firefights are so great most 
 people don't care, but I just can't give it a full gameplay score.
  
  This game's got gibs. It's got blood spray, and dismemberment. People get their heads, arms and 
 legs shot off. Guys get their torsos sepparated from their legs. While all this limb removing is 
 happening, blood is just spewing out in a huge river!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebonham
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2006 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Max Payne 2 was my first slo-mo game. I loved it. This game has a very frightening story, especially 
 in the beginning., but it doesn't really bring much else to the table. It isn't very difficult.; 
 you can save your game whenever you like, so if you are careful, you will not really need the armor 
 and health packs scattered throughout the game.
  
  This might be one of the most FEARful experiences you have in a PC FPS. That alone, however, isn't 
 enough to make this game "great". 
  
  There is nothing wrong with this game, it works perfect, very fluid when played on a decent rig. 
 My biggest problem with the game is with the ending -- that and the fact that it plays a little 
 too easy. 
  
  This game is a bit of a snack. It'll get your heart pumping, but in the end, you'll be wishing 
 for more substance. Good graphics, good sound, good gameplay, you won't go wrong here. But... Don't 
 believe the hype. This is just another FPS, and it's pretty short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iXGHOSTRIDER
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2006 10:09 pm PT
Review:  so you can really enjoy the game. The graphics are really sic! 
  The game is very smooth, and hope there is an expansion soon. I have yet to try multiplayer, but 
 will soon. 
  
  The weapons are not much differnt then any other first person shooter, but the effects and control 
 over the enviroment is quite something. 
  
  Then there is the horror aspect of the game. Sometimes kinda scary and if not for you, then just 
 a nice break from the killing of everthing else in the game.
  
  I gotta give this a 9 outta 10 so far. I'll add more when I get a chance to play the multiplayer.
 
  
  Catch ya all on the flip side of my bullseye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoyodan92
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 8, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Graphics= Outstanding maybe better than Half Life 2 10/10
  Physics= Extremely good 9/10
  Sound= Extremely well implemented and well executed. Creates a sense of suspense and realism to 
 the game that none other has accomplished. 9/10
  Highlights= For me the biggest highlights for me were the firefights with bits of debry flying 
 everywhere and dust being raised it just makes the gamer feel warm and fuzzy all over. Another 
 Highlight would have to be the slow moition. Never done before in a game like this and I'm sure 
 othergames will follow this craze of slow motion in first person shooters and the world will be 
 one big happy family. 
  
  THE BAD: One thing that just wrenches my heart out is the fact that there is no bots able to be 
 used in the multiplayer games like Counter Strike. Because when no one joins your server it isnt 
 fun and you will want to play so all you have to do is get a few bots n ur on ur way to glory and 
 riches. but u had to take that away from us. Oh well.
  
  Overall= Stunning graphics and just amazing gameplay 9.6/10
  
  The creepy horror in the game 
 also adds a nice touch ; ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameplayer2105
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 8, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  to start, the gameplay is typical of a first person shooter, but its creepy and its intense. the 
 story is complex and hard to understand, but youll get it soon enough. its definetly not for kids 
 either. your powerful arsenal of weapons will blow off limbs and heads and just flat out turn them 
 into a cloud of blood and other typees of mush. there is plenty of swearing, namely the F word. 
 the autosave can sometimes ruin the surprise of a scare or the next brutal firefight, and that 
 can be annoying, but i promise youll want to keep playing to the end.
  
  graphics are amazing, and youll need at least 1gb of ram and a decent graphics card (Geforce 6600 
 256mb) to enjoy most of the effects (bullets in slo-mo are absolutley stunning , but but to see 
 it with soft shadows and lighting and everything else maxed out you're gonna need a hell of alot 
 more
  
  sound could be better than the graphics. thunderous machine guns, soldiers screaming orders to 
 each other and foul language to you, creepy little ambient noises when you walk down empty hallways, 
 going out of slomo back to real time sounds cool
  
  the game is somewhat short (2 full nights of nonstop gaming on moderate will do the job) but you 
 can add replay value by making it harder (turning up difficulty level, turning off slomo) . There 
 is a multiplayer portion, and though its definetly no halo 2 or counter strike, its an excellent 
 addition to an amazing singleplayer expierience. its fast and brutal on deatmatch and TDM, but 
 you need to play the slomo versions of each for a fresh and unique expierience.
  
  is it worth the 50 smackers (55 if you want directors edition) ? YES. If you like first person shooters, 
 if you like getting scared, if you are mature enough to play it, and if you arent very squeamish, 
 F. E. A. R is an absolute must have
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gg432
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 8, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  FEAR is a fantastic FPS that mixes horror with fire power. Expect to be glued to your mouse as 
 you shoot your way through 11 massive levels, with 9 unique weapons ranging from the .40 caliber 
 pistol to the particle rifle. The story line combines nicely with the great weapons to form a game 
 well worthy to be in the same league as Half-life 2 and Doom 3. I purchased FEAR before christmas 
 and soon realised that it was worth a good 9.4 superb, as i haven't had so much fun with a FPS 
 since Half-Life 2, released earlier in the year. A great aspect of this game is the freedom; you 
 have the choice to fight all guns blazing, take a slower more damaging approach or get close enough 
 to bicycle kick your foe to the floor in one fate blow. Whether you want to engage in a gripping 
 story line or find a great shoot'em up, FEAR is the perfect choice. I'll let you decide if this 
 FPS is as good as Half-Life 2, but i certainly think so... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Curuthers
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 11, 2009 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Forget about the creepy little girl. The action is what makes F. E. A. R. special, and it is obvious 
 that the developers Monolith spent a lot of time making sure that shooting a guy in the face, feels 
 right.
  
  The AI is what makes F. E. A. R. stand above all other recent first person shooters. The enemy do 
 things that put other first person shooters to shame. Just try the old trick of luring an enemy 
 around a corner into the barrel of your shotgun. They know that trick, these guys aren't stupid, 
 they'll just throw a grenade around the corner. If they need some cover, they pull over a chair, 
 a table, or what ever else is available. 
  
  The solders know the level design and they will exploit it at any opportunity, they will jump through 
 windows, clear desks to get a better line of fire. One soldier may force you in to a corner while 
 another flanks you and finishes you off. Yes, that's right; the enemy soldiers actually work together, 
 and they it very well. You will never fight one soldier at a time; you fight whole squads at a 
 time. The soldiers are in constant communication with each other, never giving too much information 
 away, but just enough to give you an idea of what there up to. *Quick Save* "He's over there!" 
 *Bang* *Bang* Bang* *BOOOOOOM!* "He's wiped out the whole squad! We need reinforcements. Aaaaaah!" 
 *Quick Load*
  
  Each fire fight is made all the more dramatic as bullets rip holes through walls, shatter windows, 
 tear apart boxes spreading debris, clouds of smoke and dust through the air. In an average fire 
 fight, you will literally see hundreds of particles fill the screen.
  
  With the inclusion of melee combat, with moves such as slide kicks, scissor kicks and round house 
 kicks, and to top it off, a very useful reflex time (Bullet Time) F. E. A. R.'s combat becomes something 
 very special! 
  
  While some have complained that the combat can become repetitive, I would have to disagree. Because 
 of the dynamic way in which fire fights can go, each encounter with a squad never feels the same. 
 In addition, the action is broken up by the horror aspects and by some simple puzzles. With the 
 inclusion of a few big tough robot enemies, some Sam Fisher-alike assassin enemies, the combat 
 never gets too repetitive.
  
  The only complaint that I could give, is that it is very rare that you see a friendly face. If 
 you do, they are ether killed off very quickly, or they appear just after an intense fire fight, 
 and send you off ahead!
  
  Overall, F. E. A. R. is a game that all other FPS games will be compared to in years to come. It's 
 a game that all FPS fans will enjoy and play over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameVet01
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 7, 2006 12:10 am PT
Review:  FEAR is a remarkable achievement.
  FEAR is one the most compelling games of 2005; by mixing numerous (and obvious) gaming and movie 
 influences Monolith has developed an almost perfect gaming experience. 
  
  Gameplay, graphics, sound, AI and story development are exceptional, creating an atmosphere that's 
 not only creepy, immersive but REAL.
  
  AI has taken a big step forward with FEAR. By using or creating cover during battle, flanking your 
 position, reacting to your tactics the AI creates an unpredictability feels real. And smart.
  
  If you happen to enjoy FPS with a smart story and a great finale, this is a must buy. Ranking 
 with Half-life as a ground-breaking game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  If you are a gamer that enjoys a game based on a good story line this surely is the game for you. 
 F. E. A. R also slightly reminds the player of Max Payne with its similar night backdrop scenes. The 
 combat locations are well distributed which include isolated factories, industrial complexes and 
 hotels. The Makers of F. E. A. R have made a good effort in making a FPS with a scary and creepy backdrop 
 to it and they have succeeded upto a great extent. F. E. A. R also scores on the very impressive sound 
 and visual effects incorporated in the game which lets you enjoy the feel of the game with real 
 intensity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samgamer17
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  The AI is incredible, the guns are powerful and the story brilliant story completes it. You will 
 be playing for hours if you purchase this game. You need a fairly good video card though.
  I only played the game for a few hours but I was hooked from the first minute to the last! This 
 game is so good, The little girl is creepy and the soldiers are intense. This game blows Half Life 
 2 and Doom 3 right out of the water. I hope they make a new one in the series.
  The explosion effect is similar to battlefield 2's in my opinion which is really neat. Shooting 
 Chunks out of the concrete is awesome too! The only bad part of the game is when you run low on 
 ammo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  FEAR is a FPS were you play a elite soldier in a group called 'F. E. A. R' (first encounter assault 
 recon') and you have to stop a mad man named paxton fettel who is telepathic and has taken control 
 of a battallion of clone soldiers.. so far so bad, next we have a mysterious girl who keeps appearing 
 called alma and paxton is stopping at nothing to find her.
  And no matter how many times it happens, no a character moving slowly in front of a door is not 
 scary.
  
  You end up fighting clone soldiers, so many many clones and not many varaitions of them , then 
 (trying not to spoil much) you have a few strange monsters to kill right at the end.
  
  The storyline as you guessed it, is pretty poor and its drawn out and you can find a little tidbit 
 here and there by listening to telephone calls, pretty boring and not immersive.
  
  The gun fights are the strongest parts of the game and they are very very good, the combat is particulary 
 bloody and you'll see limbs get shot of , heads roll and tear huge chunks of concrete from the 
 walls and there'll be dust in the air and thick clouds of smoke from all the gun fire. Not only 
 this , but you also have a bullet time effect were you can slow down time effectively allowing 
 you to dispatch enemies with ease.
  And to throw into the mix you also have some melee moves which all adds up to one satisfying combat 
 element which is the main part of any FPS.
  
  The AI is likewise is very good, soldiers wont just dash t you, instead they use tactics , shove 
 items over to use as cover, throw grenades , lean around corners to shoot rarely exposing themselves 
 if theyve found cover and calling in for backup if you start wasting their squads.
  This is one of the few games were ive actually seen no stupid flaws in the AI which was a pleasant 
 surprise.
  
  The graphics are very good, especially on character models and theres a good effect when you have 
 a dream sequence and everything goes blurry and slow as if in bullet time. However saying that, 
 the terrain is pretty bad especially out door levels. 
  
  Sound is ok, voice acting is good and adds to the games atmosphere, except the music isnt anything 
 great, its average but nothing outsanding.
  
  The multiplayer component is pretty basic, and there are only a few weapons to choose from, some 
 of which are quite cleary better than others , although you can slow down time in some game modes 
 and you can use your melee moves the multiplayer isnt satisfying and quickly gets boring.
  
  FEAR is a decent enough game, im just glad i got it in a sale, i wouldnt recommend spending 
 more than 25 pounds on the game, its singleplayer is good but nothing great, multiplayer boring 
 but whats great is the combat which will hopefully be adapted by other game developers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbledsoe531988
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 5, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  I started playing this game and was blown away by how quickly and completely I was pulled into 
 the game. As soon as the intro was over I was already at the edge of my seat. From the action packed 
 combat sequences to the creepy walks down dark hallways and creepy office buildings this game sucks 
 you in and wont let go. The combat is addictive and the game is beautiful at even its lowest point. 
 The only thing lacking is the length and multi-player fixes that if you have high-speed and if 
 not there's nothing better than lanning and battling along side your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abuluc
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  One of the Best Samples of 8th Art Form - "Games"
  
  With it's Incredibly good crafted level design, very well modelled and animated characters, magnificient 
 storyline, unbelievable ai and perfect sound design, Fear is may be the best game in its genre 
 (actually itself is a genre and prototype of its genre) and one of the best samples of 8th art 
 form-"games".
  
  Monolith seems managed to create a game that captures the player and makes him/her really part 
 of it. Once you step down into world of FEAR, you wont want to leave until it finish. 
  
  From it's lighting to texturing, easy to explore both urban and industrial indoor/outdoor scenes 
 are incredibly good crafted. You can use items in levels to your adavantage, and also using alternate 
 paths you can ambush your big-brain enemies. In additions to that you're gonna see the biggest 
 level animation you have ever seen (real time rendered) at the end of the game. That is absolute 
 adrenaline.
  
  Character animations and models is preatty real. I bet you have never seen such animations on characters 
 in another games. Try to shoot a replica soldier from his foot and see his reaction. ok I can see 
 your full open mouth. Now close it.
  
  Story :) You'll find yourself shooting walls of an empty elevator. Thats all Ican say. I dont want 
 to mess the surprise. 
  
  AI in FEAR is ground breaking. Enemies clever and aggressive as hell. They communicate, they use 
 alternate paths to hunt you down, they throw granes right onto you, They run away when they're 
 injured, they climb, they jump, they kick, they punch and They have no mercy. Dont .... with them.
 
  
  Sound is sound :) your legs is shaking, I can see :)
  
  I reccomend you to go and buy this game. Dont question. Dont resist. 
  Just Hail the new king.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _ShadowStalker_
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 4, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This is what Games should be. We now have another new standard of what we expect out of games. 
 If your like me, you hardly buy games (especially new) unless they're worth it. Your always looking 
 for that one game that is pushing our PC's to the max, squeezing every last electron out of our 
 graphics cards, making our sound cards scream with clarity, and showing us what our processors 
 can do (or in some cases, can't...) . And even if your not like me, you still want to play that 
 new game that has something totally unique that hasn't been done before. F. E. A. R. is it. 
  
  I guess the first thing to comment on would be the firefights.  
 The screen shots do no justice to depicting the game. Picture, if you will, the first Matrix, where 
 Neo and Trinity enter the high security FBI compound. Remember the dramatic firefight as bullets 
 bounced around, shattering the concrete walls. That's what this game has accomplished. I'll try 
 not to spoil, but let me tell you this; even though you have slow motion (highten reflexes) you 
 will find your self going into firefights not using it, just spraying bullets left and right watching 
 as bullets explode debris from everything they come in contact with. It is awesome to go into an 
 office section and watch computers blow, walls being torn apart, sparks flying everywhere, dust 
 and grit shooting around and blood splashing everywhere. 
  
  When you play this game, you must, as much as you will refrain from, play it in the dark, especially 
 the beginning and the end. You wil get a better appreciation for the game, even as you wet the 
 bed in your sleep. 
  
  I found several faults in this game, mainly because I'm extremely picky. However all of them are 
 insignificant to the overall game (depicted by rating, and the ratings of many others) . Most of 
 them are minor things that just don't feel right when you look at what the game has accomplished.
 
  
  One thing I didn't like was the reloading sequences to all the weapons. It seems like the creators 
 got sloppy and in rushed the animations. It feels like playing Goldeneye on n64 (for all you old 
 schoolers) were the guns disappear off the screen and reappear fully loaded. They could have done 
 a better job. The pistol also looks somewhat wimpy. 
  
  (No Spoiler) : The ending seemed to be incomplete. It left alot of questions unanswered, more than 
 there should have, but of course you know (depending on how well this one sells) that there will 
 be a second F. E. A. R.
  
  Also, it seems like there are a total of 4 members of this elite unit known as F. E. A. R.?!... They 
 even have to have a unit attached to them. Doesn't seem right. And some other things that could 
 have been touched up on.
  
  If your looking for a game that is going to redefine your standards on what you expect out of a 
 new game, this is it. This game has joined the ranks of Half-Life2, Doom3, BF2, etc. Gaming companies 
 will have to work extremely hard to create the future top notch games if they want to rank with 
 these legends.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yorickkikker
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  the worst multiplayer i ever seen, but the singleplayer is good
  the worst multiplayer i ever seen, but the singleplayer is good
  the worst multiplayer i ever 
 seen, but the singleplayer is good
  the worst multiplayer i ever seen, but the singleplayer is good
  the worst multiplayer i ever 
 seen, but the singleplayer is good
  the worst multiplayer i ever seen, but the singleplayer is good
  the worst multiplayer i ever 
 seen, but the singleplayer is good
  the worst multiplayer i ever seen, but the singleplayer is good
  the worst multiplayer i ever 
 seen, but the singleplayer is good
  the worst multiplayer i ever seen, but the singleplayer is good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty0123
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 4, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  Ok to start this game IS the best game ever made for the pc. The graphics are mindblowing and the 
 action is non stop. The sounds for the game are excellent aswell. the value for the game is supurb. 
 I have played through it twice now and i am still not getting bored of it. Because the end of the 
 game was a cliff hanger i really do hope they will bring out a sequel. All magazines and websites 
 have rated this game perfect. If deserved a little more than 9.1 though at least 9.4 or 9.5. The 
 weapons in the game are unique in every way. Take for example the shotgun it can blow holes trough 
 armour and robots, and the machine gun is great for taking down un-armoured men. It is also what 
 the games title is. FEAR it is quite scary in places, and will make you jump so badly if your not 
 expecting it. Most of the men in the game will acctually follow you part way through if you dont 
 kill them.
  Any one with a pc good enough to play this must get it. it is a top notch game that will keep you 
 wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ppawel01
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2006 2:12 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is the best fps that i ever played till now i am waiting for the 2nd part ;)
  F. E. A. R. is the best fps that i ever played till now i am waiting for the 2nd part ;)
  F. E. A. R. 
 is the best fps that i ever played till now i am waiting for the 2nd part ;)
  F. E. A. R. is the best fps that i ever played till now i am waiting for the 2nd part ;)
  F. E. A. R. 
 is the best fps that i ever played till now i am waiting for the 2nd part ;)
  F. E. A. R. is the best fps that i ever played till now i am waiting for the 2nd part ;)
  F. E. A. R. 
 is the best fps that i ever played till now i am waiting for the 2nd part ;)
  F. E. A. R. is the best fps that i ever played till now i am waiting for the 2nd part ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Driate
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 3, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. has to be one of the all-time best shooters in gaming history. Not only does it make you 
 feel like your in the most desperate fights of your life, but it shows it off with a finese that 
 few other games can master. The graphics are incredible, the sounds are enough to make you cry 
 for your mother, and the gunfights are to die for. 
  
  The greatest thing about this game is the feel of all hope lost within an unknown area. As you 
 creep along those dark hallways, you never know what may just pop out of a window, or what can 
 be waiting for you against the wall. The scare factor is outstanding. That's what a shooter should 
 be, an unexpected footstep and the inevitable massacre that follows. 
  
  What makes this game great is that it's REALISTIC. There is no victory cheer when you kill your 
 enemies, no battle cry of the charge, just a deathly, silent aftermath that makes you wonder: Exactly 
 what is behind me, waiting right now? The sounds as you walk in completely unpowered buildings 
 is creepy to the extreme, making you turn and run at the slightest sound of a footstep, a voice, 
 and even random objects that your character bumps into.
  
  Graphics are unquestioned. Wow, just amazing. And that's the other thing that gives the scare factor, 
 the look and feel of the battle grounds. It comes to the point where the more you see a ghost flutter 
 by you into a doorway or window, the more and more that even your own shadow is cause enough to 
 run away screaming.
  
  The only thing in this game that may be a BIT of a dissapointment is the lack of a variation in 
 enemy characters. Although I understand the reason why, it would still be nice to have some more 
 variety in the game. This is a minor set-back, however, as even the lowliest soldier is more than 
 enough to annihilate you.
  
  In conclusion, this is a MUST BUY for any first person shooter, and if you don't like it, kill 
 youself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fumseck
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. (First Encounter Assault Recon) is, as the name indicate, a frightening game, you will 
 be absorbed in the mystery of the story after only seeing the presentation trailer...
  I admitted ( yes i finished the game...) , you'll have to be aware of every single little track 
 to fully understand the story (even i'am still thinking it is quite weird (-_-') ) . But it worth 
 the hours pass to hesitated to move forward because you saw the little girl just pass in dark corner..... anyway.
 
  The graphics are impressive, but the sound is amazing, for once you have the sound of a gun (i 
 know what is it i already shot...) , not a plastic toy buy in "toys "r" us" like a lot of FPS. The 
 music is good too, and the details too (like the noise of the rat, the door, the fly, or when you're 
 just touching a wall etc....) . The single player is really good, but you cant do it twice, it so 
 boring knowing every single apparitions places...
  The Multiplayer is good but just a bit repetitive, still i continue to play on it (^_^) !
  And 
 that's it, i will just advice you to buy a 5.1 system, for many reason :
  -Better for the environment of the game.
  -As the detail are down well you will hear every single 
 things, and where they are coming from.... really useful for multiplayer, no one will be able to 
 attack you from behind if you put the sound level up ^^
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zahik
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  But yet the Game play is still Disappointing .. They have to label the game from outside its box 
 : "Shoot and shoot only" ..
  
  For my taste .. I don't like these kinds of games that the main purpose in it to win is to reach 
 the end of the level .. It seems like another DOOM3 to me .
  But the hope for it to survive is still in the Graphics as I think .. does it??
  Yes, you're 
 right about the scary moments .. For the first time in a video game, I scream like little girls 
 : ) .. and this is an enough point for rethinking .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moonzy666
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 3, 2006 2:32 am PT
Review:  when i first bought this game it seemed like every other game 2 me a natural FPSlike ut and quake 
 but when i installed it and played it the feeling and atmosphere suddenly changes around you its 
 amazing. The graphics are superb and the enviroment is fully damagable .the sound frightens the 
 life out of you and the cpu drive they used is immence they can sneak up on you and unlike other 
 games like call of dutythey can actually hurt u badly and the multiplayer is out of this world 
 whoever gets this game plz send me feed back on what you thought of it my adress for msn is liamisbuzzin@hotmail. co. uk 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 459795
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  I cant play this game at night... i played the first level the first night i got it and didnt sleep 
 that night for fear of being killed by a little dead 7 year old girl.
  
  F. E. A. R is an awesome FPS that delivers an array of great gameplay and top of the line graphics. 
 The gameplay is amazing it is face paced shooting and if it gets too fast for u noobs there is 
 a button that actually allows u to slow down time. This is probably the scariest game i have played 
 since the arrival of the resident evil franchise. the sounds make this game so intense that You 
 will want to quit for fear of being scared to death. 
  The online play is funn and awesome, you will spend many days playing just multiplayer.
  
  
 This is an all around Great game and anyone who isnt a complete wuss should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spez2can
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks. The AI is ace, the concept is great and the execution is pretty much spot on.
 
  
  Moody and atmospheric, the game draws you in so well and really can set you on edge. The game really 
 uses tension and release excellently, building through the firefights to some of the creepier things 
 that happen. This is one of the few games where you can be so on edge walking through an empty 
 room IN CASE something happens - it's a great game that can make that happen.
  
  I'm also very impressed with things such as the character shadow which has on occasions spooked 
 me more than some of the real events. When you're running down a corridor, the light source changes 
 and suddenly your shadow looms up at you it is very effective! Also, the unarmed combat moves are 
 just cool, combined with the "bullet time" effect, this can make taking out enemies just wicked 
 fun.
  
  I'm really looking forward to playing the rest, but for now I say get this if you don't have it 
 - it's to my mind probably the best story shooter since Half Life! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnybadass666
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw some previews of fear on gamespot i didnt really think to much, it seemed like 
 any other fps out there until one of my friends picked it up and pretty much forced me to buy it. 
 once i began playing it i saw that it is no ordinary horror style fps. from the timei fired my 
 first bullet into a concrete wall the effects of the concrete chipping off was amazing, the slo-motion 
 is also pretty sweet. i had so much fun playing this game i beat it the third day i got it because 
 i was playing it every single chance i had. the only thig i found is that people say this game 
 is so scary but i must say that i got doom 3 which i dont enjoy at all but i found that i had alot 
 more scary moments playing doom when the zombies jumped out of rooms and stuff. i dont know if 
 its just me but i didnt find the game that scary. but all in all it is an amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmreedy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is absolutely worth your 50 or 60 dollars whether your getting the Retail or Collectors Edition 
 of FEAR. FEAR manages to pull of a extremely realistic shooter that seems like it is way ahead 
 of its time. Not only that, this is one of the scariest shooters since Doom 3.
  
  Gameplay - 
  
  The gameplay for FEAR is revolutionary. The hot, visceral action can either 
 have you out of your seat, full of adrenaline, or flat out scared to death. The enemies in FEAR 
 seem like they have a mind of their own. These guys will try to outwit you by suppressing your 
 position, and tossing grenades at your feet so they can shoot at you while you run for another 
 wall of cover. When you shoot walls and objects, these react as the bullets send pieces of the 
 object flying. When you fire a gun in FEAR, it actually feels like you are firing a gun. There 
 is so much kickback on the weapon, that you have to use short bursts on machine guns in order to 
 get good hits off the enemies. The scary part of the game is well done, as you may hear something 
 behind you, but when you look back, its not there. You will need an up-to-date PC if you wanna 
 play FEAR, for it is a system hog, and will lag many times.
  
  Graphics - 
  
  The graphics for FEAR seem WAY ahead of the PC genre's time, but it is nearing the next-gen season. 
 Character models and weapon models look incredibly realistic. To see FEAR in all its beauty though, 
 you will need a good PC system and an up-to-date graphics card.
  
  Sound -
  
  The sound in FEAR is ok. You may not hear the best sounds in the world from FEAR, but the scary 
 sounds the game's single player makes is pretty scary in its own right. The gun sounds aren't all 
 that great, as it may sound like that in firefights, it will seem as if you are in Saving Private 
 Ryan, with all the enemies sayin **** and "dammit" as they get hit or are under fire.
  
  Online Play - 
  
  The online play is great as well. You can find that you can use the same 
 moves as in the SP component, and it just makes for fun deathmatch rounds that are very violent. 
 In FEAR's online play, you will kill people many times, just as much as they kill you a lot.
  
  Overall, FEAR pulls off one of the best first person shooters to date, as it makes sure that 
 the realism is as top notch as possible. From the shooting of the gun, to taking cover or die, 
 also to enemy brawn and brains, FEAR is worth for anyone to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nateman5432
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  All my hopes and aspirations for this game were confirmed this christmas, solidifying its place 
 on my gaming 'Top 10' list. The game blends intense shooting action with the mysterious element 
 of the super natural perfectly, resulting in a full gaming package...
  
  Gameplay: This game makes shooting a virtual gun a most satisfying experience, with gun battles 
 raging in all out insanity. The same can be said for its multi-player, where face-paced, close 
 quarters combat is the norm, leading to some relentless matches. The gameplay is TOP-NOTCH.
  
  Graphics: The graphics for this game are, in fact, gorgeous and extremely detailed, but your 
 going to need a kick-ass machine to view them in all their gritty splendor. However, my 128mb radeon 
 9800 pro handles Medium settings, which work quite nicely, no problem.
  
  Sound: The sound in FEAR lends itself very well to the atmosphere, creating high tension, especially 
 when, for instance, the player accidently bumps into a shelf, causing objects to fall and break. 
 The only downside would be that the repetitive music can get a little bit annoying, but that can 
 be turned down easily.
  
  Value: All in one, amazing package... 
  
  Easily gets my vote for game of the year. Do yourself a favor and pick up this game IMMEDIATELY! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tekkenfreak
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  I finished this game only because I wanted to see if something interesting would eventually happen. 
 It didn't. The story is terribly shallow and easily figured out within 30 minutes of gameplay. 
 But FEAR painfully spreads the story out over 10 hours as though the player can't think for himself. 
 
  
  Additionally, FEAR is very low on scares. If you have played the FEAR demo, you have seen all the 
 scariest moments in the game. I can honestly say that the original DOOM is scarier than FEAR. 
 
  
  Save your money and pick up a game with a good story and some attention to detail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_metal78
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  I was totally creeped out... scared the bejeezus out of me... great graphics... awesome... I can't 
 belive the how the visuals and the sounds complete each other. You're walking down a hallway and 
 you think you hear something but then you think you see something and you're just like WTF? I made 
 the mistake of playing it in the dark at about 1am and I think that just made the scare factor 
 worse. I didn't realize it was that creepy. The visuals are insanely great! You can tell there 
 is a lot of work put into this game and it shows. If you have a computer that can handle this game 
 it is totally one you should buy or at least check out and see if its right for you.
  If you like shooting things I bet you'll love this one. It's more than just shooting... makes you 
 keep on your toes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pico303
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:22 am PT
Review:  This game has some of the best "atmosphere" if you can afford the equipment. I've got an older 
 PC (Athlon XP 2400, ATI 9800 Pro) , so I had to play at medium graphics. While still good, just 
 stuttering through some levels with everything turned up into the "red" was a stunning experience. 
 This game is utterly beautiful and completely immersive.
  
  The controls are great for the game. Not too complicated, and you don't have a ton of tools to 
 carry around, primarily because there aren't any puzzles to this game. You just shoot your way 
 through and push a few buttons to open some doors. I love the "Use" key to grab a ladder and climb 
 up and down. Much better than trying to point yourself at the ladder and grab it like in some other 
 FPS.
  
  Unfortunately, it's a totally linear, incredibly easy game to finish. You can't go off the beaten 
 path, and despite the tips between levels, there aren't multiple answers to any problems. This 
 is no Deus Ex. You won't get lost, so just keep moving forward and you'll get through the game 
 just fine. Also, don't worry about your weapons. I got through most of the game using the shotgun, 
 every now and then switching to the HM rifle that shoots spikes (good ranged weapon) . The rocket 
 launcher comes in handy for a couple of baddies, but anything can be killed with the HM rifle and 
 enough bullets.
  
  Battles are definitely interesting. Yes, the AI is great, but you just flip into slo-mo mode and 
 wipe them out. It is pretty much impossible to win a battle between more than two bad guys if you 
 don't use slo-mo. You take as much damage as they do, so even at full health and armor you'll be 
 dead in a couple of direct hits. And they're good shots. If you run out of slo-mo juice, find a 
 place to hide, regenerate, and finish the rest of the guys off. There were maybe three places in 
 this game that I had a problem, but nothing I couldn't solve in a few tries. 
  
  The story line is decent, but you never really get the feeling that you're a part of it or that 
 you accomplish anything. The story happens around you, and all you do is keep shooting anything 
 that moves. If it moves, try to kill it. If you're not supposed to kill it, you won't be able to 
 anyway, so shoot away. Basically it's a side-scrolling shooter of old where you just keep moving 
 forward, blasting away, hitting the button to open doors until you reach the end of the game. 
 
  
  Finally, the story isn't that strong. It's has an interesting premise, and I can definitely see 
 the Japanese horror influence, along with some hints from Half Life (people walking by in the distance, 
 things happening out of the corner of your eye) . You'll figure out the "punch line" of the plot 
 near the beginning of the game, so that nothing is really a surprise. But as you near the ending, 
 nothing really wraps up or ties up any loose ends. The punch line is meaningless, the main bad 
 guy is meaningless, and everything you've done is pretty much meaningless. And the story itself 
 isn't compelling enough so that at the end I was looking forward to FEAR 2. 
  
  It's a fun game to play, but nothing really earth-shattering or ground-breaking. Strip off the 
 beautiful graphics and you've got a few hours of fun blasting away at bad guys. I did enjoy it, 
 but I thought it ended rather quickly and could have done with a few puzzles and more integration 
 between the player and the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miersma
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 1, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  FEAR isn't the best FPS ever made. But it does rank in my top ten. Why? Because if you don't use 
 the bullet-time effect it can be one of the most exciting gaming experiences you've ever had. FEAR 
 does this with great sound, amazingly quick and efficient AI and a pretty cool arsenal of weapons. 
 
  
  It's true what others have said, the multiplayer isn't very good. And that's dissapointing for 
 a FPS of this caliber. It also leaves many people unsatisfied with the plot. For instance, there 
 is a character who dissapears right off the bat, then throughout the game we are led to believe 
 this character will make an appearance, perhaps now as a bad guy, or he'll have acquired new information, 
 or SOMETHING will happen with him. Instead, he is literally forgotten about and never mentioned 
 again after a certain point. 
  
  All the unresolved plot issues lead to believe one thing, SEQUEL!! I wouldn't mind playing a few 
 FEAR games as long as they keep the combat innovative and beef up their storyline a bit. And yes, 
 a few different maps wouldn't hurt. After seeing this game on my current computer setup, I can 
 tell it might be time to upgrade to a 7800 pretty soon. My final critique with this game is that 
 it looks plain bad on a midrange graphics card. I was running half-life 2 on full graphics and 
 FEAR on low and to me, that doesn't make any sense. 
  
  This review may sound negative at times, but trust me, this game is worth playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: everlars
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  una combinacion de terror con first person shooter donde tendras escenas de terror y te sueles 
 espantar y los tiroteos en camara lenta son excelentes.
  te lo recomiendo mucho este juego.
  x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
 x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x xx x x x x 
 x x x x x x xx x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x xx x x x x x x x x x x xx x x x x x 
 x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x xx x x x x x x x x x x xx x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
 x x x x xx x x x x x x x x x x xx x x x x x x x x x x xx x x x x x x x x x x xx x x x x x x x x 
 x x xx x x x x x x x x x x xx x x x x x x x x x x xx x x x x x x x x x x xx x x x x x x x x x x 
 x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x xx x x x x x x x x x x xx x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
 x xx x 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cybereyes
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 1, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are good , but other than that, the game is average at best. Took 5 cd's to install 
 and I finished the game in 2 days. The storyline was stupid and predictable and drab. No witty 
 one liners from the actual character. The only talking at all in the game was the occasional radio 
 chatter from others talking to others, or them telling you something you probably already knew. 
 AFter the first few hours, I didn't even bother listening to the messages found on the answering 
 machines, and barely even bothered to half read the briefings given between levels. I already knew 
 what was going to happen, and only wanted to continue so I could finish the game for the sake of 
 finishing it. The game could have been alot better with a stronger story line or even some interaction 
 (speaking) from the main character you were playing. Maybe not make the plot so predictable. The 
 final battle scene you are setting up for during the whole game NEVER EVEN HAPPENS. The guy you 
 are looking for never shows up, I don't even know if he even existed outside of the characters 
 own imagination. You fight figmants of his imagination for the entire last part of the game. You 
 can even die from these stupid spirit things, which seem more like a dream he is encountering, 
 especially since during most of this dream like state, they take away all your weapons aside from 
 a pistol which I didnt even have at the time.
  
  The game is not interactive at all. Which is a BIG thing for me. If I can't accidently shoot my 
 own men. Or decide to put a bullet in the fat annoying programmer in the game, then it sux. I hate 
 being forced to play a certain way. If you have to, at least let me get the "you failed" message, 
 if I shoot some guy who had a part to do later in the game. Better yet, let me change the ending 
 by shooting or killing or keeping alive who I want. When you can add those aspects to the graphics 
 in this game, then you might have a game worth the reviews that this one got. Until then, I will 
 still look for games like Metal Gear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: varbog666
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 1, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Everyone knows that every couple months or so some game company comes out with this amazing power 
 house super game thats hyped up beyond belief and everyone wants. Yeah your right fear is good. 
 I played the demo, but these game companies are completely freakin nuts. Whats the point of making 
 game requirements so high? I need to get a whole new computer for the game to even work (The video 
 card the game demands isn't compatible with my motherboard) I mean I dont have a crappy computer 
 I have a GeForce 5700 video card and when I played the game I had to reduce all the graphics so 
 it would play stable by the time I was done with that F. E. A. R became Atari Pong. I don't mind spending 
 $50 on a game but when $50 turns to a couple grand its not worth it. Anyone have the same problem 
 I do? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spaulding257
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 1, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  You Start out on the F. E. A. R. team, First Encounter Assault Recon, its not like the F. B. I. or the 
 C. I. A. instead you track down and kill paranormal creatures. You Begin chasing after this vampire 
 like Human that has an army of super soldiers, a lot of them too, Throughout the game youll be 
 visited by wierd ghost like creatures that can make some freaky things happen, not Just boxes and 
 other objects flying around, for example, walking and out of nowhere you see a skinless face, or 
 walking down the hall with your partners when all of the sudden they disinagrate into black ashes. 
 Theres plenty more where that came from too. youll also encounter a litle girl, no not even a cute 
 one, that not only freaks you out, ocassionally will kill your partners and leave nothing but bloody 
 skeletons. The graphics in this game are great if you have a good graphics card, sorry for all 
 you out there that have cheap ones, this game isnt going to work unless you have at LEAST a 64 
 mb GeForce or Radeon graphics card, im not exactly sure but i have a 128 mb GeForce and the game 
 Is a little glitchy and freezy here and there dispite these minor graphics issues the graphics 
 are great. One other issue you might encounter is you MUST have 514 mb of RAM or this game will 
 frezze up A LOT! it might not even work. So far i havn't found any other issues with the game. 
 One more thing i should mention is you have the ability to slow down time until your SlowMo timer 
 runs out, you can collect little injector thingys that will perminatly make it so you can slow 
 down time longer. The online multiplayer (DSL or Broadband) is also very good, youll probably die 
 a lot online at first, i know i did, But dont worry if you dont copleatly suck youll get better 
 in time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: callaw
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 1, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  I played this game, it was little scary, but still there were enough shooting to keep adrenaline 
 up.
  That little girl was the most scary for me.
  F. E. A. R. was for me more scary than doom III and half-life 2.
  Weapons were cool, i liked the 
 most that big bullet one.
  And the bullet hit's on walls were cool, different...
  Damn, and i almost forgot, BULLETTIME! - That made that game even more better. Bullettime and shotgun 
 owned all the way.
  Well, i don't know how about you, but that was a good game experience for me.
  Multiplayer part 
 was cool to, but i liked somewhy single one more.
  I hope, that they will release some extra pack.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_silentkilla
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 1, 2006 12:10 am PT
Review:  OMG this is the most beautiful shooter ever and creepy to. The A. I. is extremely intelligent if 
 there was no slow mo i you would get smoked there that good. They work together as a team and everything. 
 The graphics will blow you away in firefights especially in slow mo. You can interact with every 
 thing sometimes i just shoot the walls to watch chips of concrete fly out. Also i like that they 
 included nice melle move like slide kicks and bicycle kick. I love when you have the shotgun and 
 you're really close and you shot them and they blow into a bunch of pieces. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkest666
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2005 2:11 pm PT
Review:  From what I've heard & seen, from clips, pictures, & other things on the internet, this game looks 
 like one of the best shooters out there. First of all I would like to state that this game has 
 genius AI. Your ennemies know the map, know the location, know the shortcuts, if you shoot they 
 will think. Second of all, the graphics: This game has.... amazing graphics,& probably the best 
 graphics I have seen sice... Splinter Cell Chaos Theory. Heck for all you shooter loving people 
 out there, I think we should all try it out. From what I've heard, you can shoot a wall, it will 
 make dust & you can simply run through the room, avoiding enemies. You can do some pretty crazy 
 things. Well I'm just trying to fill the 100 word requirement as best I can... my god gamespot, 
 WHY DID YOU HAVE TO PUT 100 WORDS!!!!!!
  
  PS: Pay no attention to the scoring, I'm shooting at random here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaohed
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 11:10 am PT
Review:  Games today could stand to learn something from FEAR. Monolith has managed to provide an experience 
 and not so much of a game. Through the use of graphics technology, physics and sound coupled with 
 a storyline that seemed born for this game FEAR has set the bar for games that other developers 
 will be hard pressed to meet. The game progesseses in a smooth and fluid motion that keeps your 
 attention on the moment. The storyline is full of twists and intrigue that is prime for a horror/action 
 genre. One of the greatest things that I appreciated about this game is level of imersiveness that 
 the developers managed to push into this game, meanwhile not making the game just a showcase for 
 some new tech. I felt as though my character was actually a physical part of the game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaiser_Wheatus
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2005 10:36 am PT
Review:  playing F. E. A. R. flew by. The horror part of the game never ended. Even at copter ride out Alma 
 appeared out on nowhere. The graphics in this game were amazing. A few times I stopped and admired 
 the city during the office building level. All the guns sounded and acting realistically. The kick 
 of each gun was accurate. 
  This game has a few cool codes to help with the game. All you do is type T during gameplay, and 
 then type gear and your reflexes increase. If you use the code for a while you can stay in Slow-Mo 
 for a long time. I made it through an entire fight without deactivating the Slow-Mo.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mireejs2002
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2005 9:47 am PT
Review:  The game was completely superb. It scared the crap out of me and made me wanna play it all night, 
 at the same time. Despite the complete perfectness of the game, there were some flaws. Actually 
 there was only one drawback. Can you guess what?? Of course its requirement for a ultra, super, 
 mega, top of the line PC! That is of course if you want to enjoy the games fantastic graphics. 
 The game was simply fun to play and a bit hard to understand, but if your a fan of Half-Life 2, 
 Doom 3 or Unreal tournament than I can promise that you'll love F. E. A. R! 
  
  DIS GAME RULLZZZZ!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WieldsTokijin
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 8:47 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of F. E. A. R. I figured it would be just another Resident Evil knock off. I couldn't 
 have been more wrong. F. E. A. R. is a game where you play as the point man for a secret government 
 force called First Encounter Assault Recon (F. E. A. R.) . In it you are searching for a man named Paxton 
 Fettel who uses a telepathic link to control clones of the army. Of course there are many plot 
 twists that make for a good storyline. 
  
  The action in F. E. A. R. is incredible. Fighting all swarms of enemies are difficult, but very fun. 
 Using grenades and all different weapons like particle weapons, assault rifles, and shotguns really 
 put you into the game. But, what stands out about this game is the fact that it is actually scary. 
 Seeing the little girl crawl at you can actually freak you out. 
  
  The multiplayer aspect is fast and fun. You choose the weapon you want to use at the start, and 
 then there are all types of modes. Deathmatch, team Deathmatch, and Capture the Flag are just a 
 couple examples of the types of matches that you'll be playing in F. E. A. R.
  
  The graphics in the game are beautiful. Even the guns that aren't actually real, can feel real. 
 The people are well done too. When you shoot someone, the blood will go onto the spot where you 
 hit them. The enemies will fall or limp when you hit them in the leg, which really makes the game 
 feel real. 
  
  The sounds in the game are good for a horror movie. There isn't much music in the game, but when 
 there is it is well done. It's the sound effects that make the game's noise so good. First of all, 
 you can listen to the enemy, and they will tell you what to do. They say when they are reloading, 
 when they throw a grenade, and many other things that you should listen to. 
  
  The game really isn't that long. The ending eaves you BEGGING for a sequel. The game feels like 
 it should be longer though, and ends abruptly. Also, the game is a hog. Your PC really needs to 
 be up to date to play it with good graphics. But, if you can play this, you owe it to yourself 
 to do it. F. E. A. R. is definitely the best FPS of the year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EDDERS78
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 8:31 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R the long awaited game of 2005 and well worth it indeed. This game is one of the best games 
 for cutting edge AI, graphics and also amazing gameplay Fear is a must buy. Though this game is 
 not for the faint hearted with its gore and terrifying gameplay. Just as the video review said this 
 is not like Doom 3 where things just jump out and scare you, Fear has away of keeping you right 
 on the edge of you seat the whole way through.
  
  Fear has a number of cool weapons including a gun that fries people to their skeletons and all 
 your other first person shooter classics weapons like machine guns and dual pistols.
  
  All in all Fear is a well balance game with alot running for it ,well worth a look if you like 
 fps witha fear factor. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: redhead27
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 4:23 am PT
Review:  What a creepy game! Its a sort of ring meets the office. It has everything that all new modern 
 shooters have, fantastic graphics, awesome shooting, great storyline and linear levels. Yes the 
 levels are plain and boring. You often get turned around and wont realise that you have been as 
 the levels all look the same. It seems some of the levels have been cut rotated and re-pasted back 
 into a different section of the level. However the guns and action are the redeeming feature of 
 the game. Awesome weapons and some awesome AI make this one hell of a game. Often I found my self 
 saving just before a huge gun battle and playing through it over and over again just to witness 
 the ferociousness of the AI. They will flank you, dive through windows to take cover, lean out 
 from corridors to optimise their firing. Whatever you can do they can do it just as well. It is 
 a fantastic game that is a bit linear but still full of fun and goodness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 7:59 pm PT
Review:  This is the must get shooter of 2005. This game was a little spooky at first but don't let it dismay 
 you from finishing the game. This game was so much fun to play and probably because it kept you 
 on the edge of your chair. The graphics are out of this world so make sure you have an up-to-date 
 graphics card so you can enjoy this game to its fullest. This game runs circles around anything 
 you've seen this year including Quake 4. Even if shooters aren't your cup of tea I promise you 
 that you'll enjoy it. It does take some getting used to but once you get used to the weirdness 
 and the graphics you'll have an amzing time playing this game. After you beat it you may not want 
 to go back and play it again on a higher difficulty. This was a major project for Sierra and I'm 
 suprised this was the product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moldy_Kimchee
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Game begins with eery noises and dark corners. Highly addictive and i love the way the AI is arranged. 
 Smart but not too smart that its frustrating. They'll flip over furniture to take cover and use 
 tactics against you all the time. Love the SLOWMO. SLOWMO made killing people 10 times as better 
 because u actually get too se them become decapatated. is this game SCARY?....... i would defintely 
 say so...... after watching the grudge and the ring i felt like ive been in this fairy tale before. 
 Awesome suprises that make u jump or ur heart skip a beat or both! Defitnetly recommend to anyone 
 who owns a PC and if you love FPS? FEAR has the most satisfying feelnig whenever you kill someone.... especially 
 when they blow in half and the top half is still shooting there gun in the air and the whole thing 
 is in SLOWMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wizard11
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Fear is just a great game, period. The graphics, the AI, and the environment are it's strong points, 
 the story telling and the maps are perhaps the weak points.
  The graphics aren't as stuning, i. e. varied, as Far Cry but the detail is incredible. The walls, 
 shadows, blood splatter, rag doll effects, are all top notch. There is absolutely nothing better 
 than nailing a bad guy to a wall and watch him hang there. The AI is as advanced as anything I've 
 played, it really added to the spooky factor, you just never knew when they would come up behind 
 you. I really like that they can react to the flashlight, and don't just stand there if they get 
 hit. The music, combined with the creepy little girl kept me on the edge of my seat the first time 
 through, hate to admit how many times I jumped out of my chair. The time you get on the ladder 
 and turn around and BAM she's right there, then you get to the bottom and Bam there he is. Man, 
 had to turn on the lights after that. 
  Unfortunately after you get used to the spookiness the story just doesn't quite hold up. It was 
 pretty obvious from the begining that you and he were linked to her. They just never really built 
 on that very well. Why would she be trying to kill her own son rather than trying to get him to 
 rescue her? Been a lot cooler if she convert you to her cause and you took control of the army 
 after you kill him. Anyway.... The single track maps that force you to do things in only one way 
 don't help. No building in the world is put together like these, really takes away from the realism. 
 
  That said I am very glad I bought it and will play it through again I am sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mophono
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2005 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I remember the day I first bought F. E. A. R. It was the same day I had gotten my new computer (after 
 hours of hours washing toilets) . A day worth thriving for.
  
  Oh man, i simply just love the way Monolit has developed the combat system in this game. Bullet-time, 
 nice weapons, crazy firefights, you name it. 
  
  It simply just looks amazing. The lighting and shadows creates a mood that is both eery and intense. 
 Although the system modifications you need to play F. E. A. R. can bite you in the ass. 
  
  well... just buy the game will you.. it's money well spent. 
  BTW: The multi-player isn't to 
 shabby either =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikerboy770
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2005 7:12 am PT
Review:  To explain F. E. A. R. is like trying to explain an incredible PC game that you're gonna play while 
 you wait for the next Half-life installment. On the outside, you see a funfilled shooter where 
 you can do awesome combat moves (like a drop kick) and a bullet time mode (bullet time never gets 
 old) . But once you see the other half of the game, YOU WILL BE HORRIFIED!!!! You idiots can keep 
 your resident evil 4 to yourselves, this is the scariest game this year. I highly suggest F. E. A. R. 
 to anyone who isn't afraid to crap themself in while have a terror induced seizure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobi22
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 30, 2005 5:20 am PT
Review:  FEAR is one of the best shooters ever made the graphics is amazing ,the shooting is so fun its 
 feels like and sound like ur in a movie this game is freaky nice do not miss this game the best 
 shooter ever made even better then hl2 i have only 2 problems with this game 1. its short damn 
 to short you can finish this in 10 hours but still this game is fun 2. this game is a system hog 
 ur going to need the best graphic card in the world to run this game but still this game is awsome 
 so what are you waTING FOR BUT THE GAME NOW GO BEFORE ITS TO LATE SHE WILL KILL YOU like she did 
 to me wawaw wawa sry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LONFR
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2005 3:18 am PT
Review:  The challenge in describing F. E. A. R. is trying to avoid any spoilers, because this is definitely 
 a game that you want to experience unspoiled. What we can tell you is that you play as the newest 
 member of the First Encounter Assault Recon, the military's top-secret task force assigned to deal 
 with paranormal situations. And the mission in F. E. A. R. certainly counts as above and beyond the 
 regular call of duty. As explained in the opening cinematic (which is also game's only third-person 
 cutscene) , a military commander named Paxton Fettel goes insane and takes command of a secret army 
 of cloned soldiers that are telepathically linked to him. Fettel and the battalion of elite soldiers 
 then go on the rampage in a nondescript American city. They appear to be searching for something, 
 though their objective is a mystery. It's up to you and the rest of the F. E. A. R. team, along with 
 units of Delta Force, to find out what it is they're looking for and stop them. 
  
  F. E. A. R. works because it elevates first-person shooter combat to cinematic levels. And while we've 
 certainly seen games with movie-quality combat before, you've never seen anything quite like this. 
 Playing F. E. A. R. is like battling through a John Woo movie like Face/Off, because when firefights 
 happen in this game, they're downright glorious to behold. Bullets tear chunks out of concrete 
 and wood; blinding clouds of dust and debris fill the air; bodies are torn apart or slump on the 
 ground; and the deathly silence of the aftermath contrasts so sharply with the sheer chaos that 
 erupted only moments before. Gunfights in F. E. A. R. just feel right. 
  
  Part of the reason for that is because the weapons that you have in the game feel powerful, like 
 weapons should. You have the standard fare of guns to play around with, including a pistol, submachine 
 gun, assault rifle, shotgun, and rocket launcher. There's also a scoped, burst-firing rifle that's 
 a dead ringer for the Master Chief's battle rifle in Halo 2; an incredibly nasty particle weapon 
 that sears the flesh off of opponents; and a few other special toys. All of these weapons, even 
 the pistols, pack an incredibly satisfying punch and are capable of putting down opponents quickly 
 (you can even dual-wield the pistols, for that extra John Woo-style gunfight action) . This goes 
 against the genre's convention, since most shooters usually scale weapons on a curve, with the 
 smaller and lighter ones being next to useless later on in the game. That's not the case in F. E. A. R., 
 and virtually every gun you use can tear up the place
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: robwdevore
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 29, 2005 11:36 pm PT
Review:  You know that a game is really, really good when you play the demo and you are so impressed with 
 it that you feel an almost primal need to rush out and buy it. This is exactly how I felft about 
 F. E. A. R. after I checked out the demo. What makes this game truly great is the fact that there 
 are a plethora of things to like about it. The first thing you'll notice is that it's a truly great 
 looking game. However, even more impressive than the visuals, which are very impressive, is the 
 AI of the enemy soldgiers. These guys are straight-up ruthless. They'll dive throught windows, 
 duck, push over tables, and just about anything else you can think of that a REAL person would 
 do to try to survive in a firefight. I consider myself a huge fan of Halo 2, but I'll be the first 
 to admit that the AI in that game doesn't hold a candle to what F. E. A. R. has to offer. And, as 
 if all that weren't enough, the creepy horror-flick atmosphere that the game creates is awesome. 
 This game is just about as good a shooter as I've ever played. I think that the only thing that 
 I could ask for from this game would be more multiplayer modes. As a Halo 2 fanatic, most FPS's 
 don't seem like they offer as much variety in their multiplayer, and I would say that this game 
 is no exception. However, considering how fantastic this game is, that's just nit-picking. If you 
 haven't already, check out the demo of this game. You'll be hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhillthePil
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 29, 2005 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Fear was very Scary in the ways of THE RING and MAX PAYN The slow motion was a very good ad on 
 to the game. The game had good explosions Because of the distortions like on the Matrix movies 
 and the melee attacks we cool to use at the enemies. the Sound was very good when went into the 
 slow-motion because every thing went deeper the online play is very fun the Dynamic shadows were 
 good and the girl was very creepy this game was so creepy I would some times wouldnt even play 
 it for a couple days the game would get 
  
  
  
  
  
  9.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knight_Wolf
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 29, 2005 9:35 pm PT
Review:  You get thrown right into the action from the beginning with a gripping and creepy story line. 
 But, if you want to play on the edge you should play late at night with the lights off.. now there's 
 an experience for you!
  
  Not only does it have playability it also has some Intense weapons that you can't wait to get your 
 hands on. A must for anyone who is into First Person Shooters with a little Sci-Fi edge. This brings 
 it to you and then some with its top notch graphics.
  
  When you play your guaranteed to be peering around every corner for enemy's and you will be jumping 
 out of your seat every time you find one.
  And trust me when you beat it once you will love to play it again and again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fadook
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 4:48 pm PT
Review:  I'm in a small minority here obviously, but I was totally unimpressed by FEAR. There's absolutely 
 nothing here that we haven't seen in other games. Max Payne had the slo-mo, and Undying was a lot 
 scarier. I guess the poor lighting in the game was meant to create a more frightening atmosphere, 
 but it was just irritating as it's often hard to see. And the environments are tiresomely repetitive.
 
  
  I don't understand why the combat's described as "visceral," it's one of the most slow-paced shooters 
 I've paced, because every time you encounter enemies you're pretty much forced to go into slo-mo 
 (and it's a lot slower than Max Payne) . Try fighting them in real-time and you'll die very quickly. 
 So battles basically boil down into going into slo-mo, killing some bad guys, retreating until 
 your slo-mo recharges, then killing the rest of 'em. I almost never had to vary this simple and 
 boring tactic. On top of all this, the story has some intriguing moments, but is related in a very 
 fragmented way and there's no journal or log, so I had a hard time following exactly what was going 
 on. All in all, the hype's a mystery to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Ok the Ring or Ringu is originally japanese. However i found this game to be not all that scary 
 so i'm reffering this to the hollywood version of that film.
  
  Its all hollywood! The whole thing, from gunfights to poltergiest activity and the dialogue.
 
  
  Your police chief who gives you feedback is your stereotypical pissed off cop who seems to only 
 give you more F Words than actual helpful advice.
  
  Its not that scary as they say, only "peek-a-boo" moments freaked me out like a face randomly appearing 
 on my screen or seeing the little girl run up towards me in a sewer.
  
  The Atmosphere can be pretty intense here and there, however its not enough to scare you i think... i 
 think Doom was scarier ont he sole factor monsters COULD and WOULD jump out at your from ANYWHERE.... even 
 though the monsters in that game looked semi-retarded ;) (Even that game is cliched!!)
  
  Other than that the soundtrack is ok, i think the only good use of the soundtrack was in the beginning 
 of the game (the intro sequence) . Was very film like.
  
  There are SOME memorable moments you get from this game and the gun fights CAN be VERY intense 
 but then again thats all there is to it. However bravo to it for TRYING to be different. Shame 
 it failed on that aspect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirpich47
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 3:03 pm PT
Review:  The Story is great! I love the graphics and the AI.. The game is kinda short but it is very worth 
 playing. The ending isn't bad either, I hope there's going to be a sequel!
  
  The game is great when playing at night with headphones on! Scared the crap out of me sometimes...
 
  
  Some parts in the game look a bit rushed... also the decals and blood doesn't stay very long, it 
 disappears after about 10 seconds, and how can a shotgun blow a guy in half? but these are just 
 minor things I would want changed, but the game is still great the way it is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ifrah
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 9:20 am PT
Review:  
  
  Oh man, what can I say  this game is finger-lickin good! Though it has some minor ( and completely 
 forgivable ) flaws, such as almost entirely linear story and quite high hardware demands, it really 
 kicks you in the head and leave you wanting more. The big plus for the game is that it avoids nicely 
 the dull repeatibility of scary moments, which was a big drawback for DOOM3 and made the game 
 boring and predictable. And FEAR is all about  well fear, it grips you by the balls from the start 
 and the tension keeps rising as you dwell deeper into the game. Firefights are freakin fast and 
 frantic, and thanks God and monolith for the slow-mo, because the AI of your computer opponents 
 is devilishly cunning, and more than a few times you will find yourself heavily outnumbered, with 
 enemies trying to get behind you and looking for cover. The graphics are astonishing and, a little 
 advice, if you have a machine that will be able to support all the fireworks, try looking for your 
 jaw under the table. And the last but certainly not least, the Sound ( with the capital S ) , damn 
 this game surely builds the atmosphere with it and the FX are simply great, bullets whizzing, grenades 
 exploding and people screaming and whisperingby the way, try shooting the telephone . The only 
 thing left to say is PLAY, PLAY, PLAY ( and better not drink too much before, cause you might have 
 a bladder problem ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: max2562
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:28 am PT
Review:  After reading all the reviews and the info I could on this game I bought it. Mind you, I don't 
 "buy" many games. I've got a large library nonetheless. I surmised that this game would be worth 
 the money. Sierra has never let me down yet. Well, it holds true with this title, too. 
  I have to say that there is no way this game gets a perfect 10, and I can't really pin-point a 
 good value that it does deserve. But I can say that it's in the 9s. You see, this game has all 
 the eye candy you would expect and more from Sierra, but it comes at a price. I run a 2.8 GHz CPU 
 (Hyperthreading boosted 10% for a closer value of 3.079 GHz or something) with 1MB L2 cache , 256 
 megabyte 256 megabit Radeon 9800 pro video card and 2 Gig of RAM. I even purchased a new 500 watt 
 PSU to help pull the load. My setup brings me close to the ability to view the graphics at maximum 
 settings, but not quite. Running the game at the highest I could and still run well was good enough, 
 but after periodic intervals my CPU would over heat. I just cleaned the heatsink and reapplied 
 new thermal paste, too!
  This is the first game that I have played that I had to tone down the settings a bit. I was so 
 displeased because the game truly does have the best graphics I've seen. 
  To summarize, I would have to say that I am not really all that disappointed. I didn't expect the 
 game to have the ability it did anyway. Aside from the graphics perspective, it was very fun to 
 play. A shooter gone mad, you could say. Different, but cool. Sierra has not let me down. I will 
 most likely buy Sierra's next big release as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apeman159
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 3:22 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is definitely one of the better shooters out there, as long as you have a good pc to play 
 the game, it will blow you away... literally.
  
  It plays as a normal FPS, you go around different levels blowing up enemies in tiny little pieces, 
 solving puzzles and getting scared dozens of times.
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing, the moment a gun fight starts, sparks and dust will fly, 
 blood will spray on walls, the bullets literally shred trough walls creating enormous bullet holes. 
 if your pc is mediocre at best, you will miss some of these effects and the game loses some of 
 it's awesomeness.
  When you go in Slow-mo, you get this very cool orange glow on the screen and everything looks extremely 
 sharp, you can see bullets go trough the air in slow mo too.
  
  The AI in the game is one of the best I've ever seen, they don't just stand there shooting at you, 
 they will take cover behind walls and other objects, try to block your way with bookshelf's sofa's 
 etc.
  They will give suppressive fire and try to flank you whenever possible, the AI is what makes the 
 game challenging at points, even on the easy difficulty level.
  
  there isn't really much Replay value aside from the Multi player which isn't that good, just your 
 normal modes like death match, Capture the flag etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeyondZork
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 18, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  Well, I just finished this game, and I must say -- in terms of visual presentation -- this game 
 stands shoulder to shoulder with Half-Life 2 as the best shooter ever. The graphics are outrageously 
 sharp, with stunning lighting and ultra-realistic textures the likes of which have only been seen 
 in, you guessed it, HL2. In some areas the textures are just mind-blowing, almost to the point 
 of being surreal, like when you enter the ventilation ducts in level four and there's pvc piping 
 with the lettering on it, so crisp and clean that no matter how close you get (even with zoom) 
 it doesn't get pixellated at all. The dynamic lighting effects are off the charts. 
  This game is almost a little too immersive -- like a bad dream -- where you know it isn't real 
 and yet you cannot escape. Only here, instead of shaking yourself and waking up, you engage in 
 ballistic, frenzied, glass-shattering wood-splitting firefights trying to find the light of day. 
 The lighting (and moreover the lack thereof) has you constantly peering through shadows, flicking 
 your flashlight, looking back over your shoulder, and then turning back to your original POV to 
 find something right in your face.
  
  The audio is fabulous, such that you'll scare yourself tripping over a paint can or inadvertantly 
 backing into a loose painting on the wall. If you can support EAX, well, prepare for goosebumps..
 
  
  The supernatural aspect of this game is near torture. The producers have made such good use of 
 2 aspects: the lack of lighting in some areas, and the lack of noise in some situations. You'll 
 be battling a rip-roaring gun fight, machine guns and grenades and yelling and running footsteps 
 and bullets zinging off metal and scorching through painted walls and... then when it's over there 
 will be several minutes of silence, just you and your footsteps and the ambient effects of the 
 area. These moments just leave you on pins and needles as you know any minute something will jump 
 out at you. And this quite suspense is compounded by eerie, dimly (but not frustratingly so like 
 Doom 3) lit areas with only a sparking wire, a fallen over floodlamp, or a blinking phone to light 
 the room.
  
  There are two problems with this game. One, is that it's a little too cardboard-cut-out repetetive: 
 the same type of environments, over and over, all indoor office spaces and small rooms so far -- 
 it's getting just a little tedious. 
  
  The other problem is the story is convoluted and paper thin -- it's "press a button" then "flip 
 a switch" and then "go save this guy from yet another small office-space environment." It does 
 what it does, however, and for a shooter like this, who needs a emmy award-winning tale?
  
  The game features the best firefights of any game ever in the history of electronic media, as well 
 as most box-office films to boot. It's just amazing. If your computer can support a decent game 
 these days (I have a gig of RAM, a 6800 GT, and an AMD64 3200) the entire experience is a visceral 
 overload to the senses. And the ending is worth the wait. The game builds up and up and up, and 
 rewards you for blasting through countless buildings, corridors, and office basements. The final 
 intervals provide some of the most stunning visuals I have ever seen on a PC. And the final end 
 scene... OMG.
  
  If you play any type of shooter, you will be completely out-of-the-loop if you don't own a copy 
 of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth-revan
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 28, 2005 8:20 pm PT
Review:  lets get right down to it, FEAR is the most fun ive had with a pc game since last year [ because 
 of half-life2 people ] . it manages to impress in every aspect. first the graphics are f***ing beautiful 
 they can even be run a crap computer sometimes with a minimal of slowdown. the creepy corridors 
 and the dust flowing freely in the air the massive damge revealed after the smoke dust and blood 
 from your enemys slowly appearing and the creapy as hell little girl who scares you EVERY SINGLE 
 TIME! the developers never over use her and the story keeps you hooked with plotlines like "why 
 is this girl killing everybody but me" "what connection do i have with her that she always scares 
 me and why does this fettle guy keep appearing and telling me thiings then running off!!! and you 
 find youself saying WHAT THE HELL IS GOING ON!!!!!!!!! the gripping voiceovers are very well done 
 on caliber with grand theft auto and half-life 2. the music always keeps you in tuned and keeps 
 you wondering whats next and you think it will give you hints about the girls appearence. nope, 
 never does. the games enemies are fairly varied but you'll never notice that they arent very different 
 because the fast as hell action makes you think about unloading your lead into thier thick cloned 
 skulls. the only really bad thing about the game is its length. 10 to 12 hours guys that about 
 it but every single adreniline pumping moment of FEAR makes it worthwhile even though its not so 
 bad its length is bad because if they had it longer the enemies and the girl may have gotten kind 
 of boring and unpleasing. if it isnt obvious about what i say then let me spell it out for you 
 almost everybody will love this game and almost every person who buys this will enjoy the creepy 
 moments. If you proned to heart attacks after experiencing large ammounts of shock then stay far 
 away if not WTF are you waiting for buy this now go buy it buy it buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThyBecomingXVI
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 28, 2005 6:40 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a Action-Horror Shooter that combines an eerie storyline with a cinematic sense of gun 
 slinging action. Where rough around the edges, the unique gameplay, mind blowing A. I. and cinematic 
 feel makes this game a future classic.
  
  Gameplay:
  First Person Shooters are exactly what they are, shooters. You point and you shoot. F. E. A. R stays 
 true to the FPS genera while creating a unique sense that developers will always referenced to. 
 As you already know, Melee combat is a big part of F. E. A. R. The controls and the feel of melee 
 combat is incredible, yet with a few adjustments, it could be that much better. Simple punches 
 and a couple of different roundhouse kicks get the job done, but different combos and evasive moves 
 could definitely add some extra spunk to the game. Another huge achievement is the addition of 
 'Slo-Mo' to the game. It really brings the whole cinematic feel together and is very useful in 
 many situations. It would be very hard trying to complete the game in its entirety without using 
 'Slo-Mo'. 
  
  The A. I. in the game is indeed incredible. Enemies will challenge you mentally, and will outsmart 
 you when you first fire the game up. They will do various things such as flank you or try to flush 
 you out with grenades. After a while it tends to become a little predictable. However it will continue 
 to challenge you whether you anticipate the enemies next move or not. 
  
  Graphics:
  To fully appreciate the gameplay in its entirety, you must have a powerhouse of a computer. Playing 
 the game on 'Low Effects' simply isn't the same as having everything cranked up. It makes a noticeable 
 difference in gameplay, so keep that in mind if you plan to buy F. E. A. R
  
  Simply put, the graphics are amazing, but as listed above, they require a top of the line computer 
 to fully appreciate them. The carnage that takes place before you eyes during a gun fight is amazing. 
 After every battle you'll simply say 'wow', and day dream about the next.
  
  Sound: 
  The audio portion of F. E. A. R also plays a huge part in the cinematic feel of the game. Surprisingly, 
 there is almost never any background music during the game. Only eerie effects or wind, things 
 of this nature. I was a little disappointed with the sound of the weapons. The guns do not sound 
 realistic or deep at all, just very bland.
  
  Value:
  F. E. A. R is a game you can play over and over again and never get tired of it. The gun battles are 
 different every encounter, yet still very much exciting. The promising multiplayer can also be 
 a hour eating time of your life. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edgemaster666
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 4, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  To put it simply, you've never experienced a game quite like this. The gun fights are simply amazing, 
 with the great particle effects, superb enemy AI and your arsenal of weapons, you've never seen 
 gun fights like this.
  
  I'm not going to write a lengthy review like a few of the others I have, I'll just point out the 
 major perks and flaws.
  
  Most amazing (as you can probably tell by now) are the gun fights. It's just done so perfectly, 
 and is tremendous fun. All the weapons seem to pack a good realistic punch to them, and even dual 
 wielded pistols in the right hands can take down almost anything with relative ease. That's not 
 to say they're overpowered, just that every weapon has its uses in the right situations. Though 
 I have to say, that as soon as I picked up the shotgun, I didn't put it down. This game and Quake 
 show just how good and useful a shotgun can and should be, it is simply satisfying and necessary 
 to use, and also has the pleasing effect of being able to completely blow bodies apart or at least 
 dismember them with its power. It was my primary weapon throughout the game, occasionally but not 
 frequently backed up by the G2A2 Assault Rifle and the Type-7 Particle Weapon which literally sears 
 the flesh off its target and leaves behind nothing but a skeleton and a ton of blood. The games 
 nail gun type weapon (I can't remember its name) apart from being extremely accurate, also keeps 
 to its names and nails corpses to their surroundings. The more-than-above-average physics system 
 in this game also lends to the fun, with bodies being hurled realistically backwards by the force 
 of lead or the pointman's melee attacks, which include his fatal sweep kick, roundhouse kick and 
 bicycle kick all of which are satisfying and highly effective to use.
  
  The pointman also has super fast reflexes, and this can be activated by using a Bullet-time like 
 feature in Max Payne. It's just that FEAR does it so much better. In 'SloMo' mode as the game calls 
 it, you can see the vapour trails left behind by bullets, the way the bodies jerk around as they 
 are hit by bullets, the great particle effects and the way a grenade seems to distort the field 
 around it. All this coupled together makes for an amazing bullet time effect, and just someone 
 telling you about it doesn't justify how good it really is, you have to experience it.
  
  The mostly enclosed locales in this games, though mostly overused, are still great for gun fights, 
 with plenty of cover and corridors to hide behind and ambush from, both from the player's perspective 
 and the enemy's. And I have to say the enemy AI is the best I've seen n a game. They take cover, 
 flank and throw grenades at the right moments, and if you're not quick with your trigger finger, 
 you won't survive for long, not even on the easiest difficulty setting.
  
  The sound in FEAR is also another high point. The effects for the weapons are great and sound powerful, 
 yet not too much so. The voice acting is also well done, and the Replica soldier's and ATC guards 
 provide frequent battle chatter and yell out orders appropriately. But there is little to no music 
 present throughout the game, though this was probably done to heighten the games atmosphere, which 
 is yet another high point but one I won't go into. The graphics in the game (though slightly outdated 
 today) are still done well enough to be called slightly above average, especially with the character 
 modelling and more so with the lighting and shadow effects, which are done superbly, further heightening 
 the atmosphere of the game. Though most mid to high range computers today could probably run the 
 game on near full graphics settings with ease, when the game first came out, it took a hell of 
 a system to run it well, and keeping the balance between playability and effects could be hard 
 to achieve, though the in-game FPS test made that task somewhat easier.
  
  The main bad points in FEAR are its recycling of both its locales and its enemies. The game is 
 set basically over three areas, all of which are deserted and seemingly desolate. There are only 
 a small number of unique enemy types, and about 3 different groups of infantry soldiers, ranging 
 from the standard issue soldiers to the elites, which appear only briefly late in the game. They 
 can still be tough foes though, especially in their squads and with their AI. The Heavy Armour 
 and EVE's change the pace when they make their appearance's and can be very tricky to take down, 
 especially the EVE's. The genetically enhanced ninja soldier's from the disbanded Icarus project 
 make only a few rare appearances, which is a shame, as they are unique and engaging enemy to face, 
 with their cloaking ability, blinding speed and melee attacks.
  
  Playing through the game only once will probably leave you puzzled as to exactly what story the 
 game had to tell, and several ends of the story aren't tied off at all. This warrants a replay 
 solely to get to know exactly what the hell was going on. But seeing as the gunfights are a hell 
 of a lot more fun the second time round (seemingly) , this is not a chore, and blasting through 
 the levels again is fun, as the long periods of traversing through empty offices and corridors 
 is interspersed with frantic gunfights. I replayed this game and several of its levels multiple 
 times just to replay the games battles, that's how fun they are. This game is simply the best shooter-wise, 
 with its excellent lighting, particle effects and enemy AI and every FPS junkie should experience 
 it. You won't be let down.
  
  My bad, turns out that I did write a long review... Ah well, just shows you how good the game is 
 ;) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eerron
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Fear is everything a shooter needs be these days. It has extremely nice graphics, the sound is 
 just right how it needs to be, and the gameplay is nothing like we've ever seen, it just beats 
 everything away.
  
  Let's start with the story of the game. Fear places you in the boots of a soldier in the F. E. A. R (First 
 Encounter Assault Recon) team. It's a special unit that takes care of any anomalies. You are a 
 kind of a high tech soldier. You have extremely fast reflexes, meaning that you can active some 
 sort of bullet-time. You are able to increase your max health, and you are just simply pretty much 
 better than all of the others, which is one of the things that make this game so interesting. Well 
 you, the mighty nanotech fighter are going to investigate some sort of strange things going on 
 at a plant. Your technitians have caught a strange guy named Paxton Fettel on the security cams. 
 Everything evolves quickly, and you will soon find out that he is one of the bad guys, and that 
 you need to take him out.
  
  The story of the game is actually a bit suprising, and I think that it's one of the better stories 
 in games so far. A little girl named Alma can suprise you in the most awkward places, and you get 
 scared every single time she appears.
  
  The graphics are extremely nice in this game. I have never seen anything better in a shooter. The 
 textures are of very high quality and the effects are the nicest ever. I have only seen fire made 
 better in one other game. But you know, all of this eyecandy requires a preeeeetty strong machine, 
 mine's able to do it, but if your computers system specs aren't much higher than the recommended 
 don't expect anything more than usual.
  
  The AI of the game is actually a lot better than we have seen before. The enemy soldier are able 
 to jump over half-walls, slide under things that are blocking their way forward, and a lot of other 
 cools moves. The soldiers talk together, shouting commands to each other, and you can hear it all. 
 It is very convincing, and I think it actually is the same way in reality, they call for backup 
 when needed, and shout "fire in the hole!" when they throw a grenade.
  
  The weapons are also pretty impressive. I mean, there is a machine gun, a rocket launcher, a kind-of 
 lasercannon, and a thing that just blows holes in stuff. It is very varied when you get the weapons, 
 you always get them when needed. For example: You always get a rocketlauncher when a robot that 
 only can be harmed by rockets appear. I think it's a great way of introducing new items. One of 
 the places in the game you walk into a dark room with a switch and a rocketlauncher. Of course 
 you pick up the rocketlauncher first, and then click the button. Out of the window you can see 
 an elevator running down. When it reaches your level it stops, and a giant robot fires a missile 
 in your face. You barely manage to duck, and run into the next room. The robot chases you, but 
 then you realize that you just found a rocketlauncher and are able to fight back. Some of those 
 little things happens all the time. I was pretty suprised when I almost died of rockets flying 
 at me.
  
  The sound is also impressing. You can hear your own gear when you walk, and as said before, there 
 are loads of enemies that you hear talking when you get close. All of the sounds the weapons make 
 are good, exept one weapon who sounds so booooooring. But that weapon isn't that great so you won't 
 use i that much!
  
  All in all the game is the best shooter I've ever played, and that's saying some. I've only given 
 it 9.4 because I think it's lame to give a game top score, I never believe in those guys who give 
 the highest score, either they are just noobs are pretty screwed up people.
  
  Happy playing! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloader_feni
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2005 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I have not heard that much about FEAR before it hit the shelves, i was concentrated on much more 
 known games like, Call of duty 2, Quake 4 and Age of empires 3 but they got my a bit dissapointed. 
 And then we have FEAR, a scary game with action but you know what, the action part is the best 
 think to happen in a fps genre for a long time, i have not had so fun ever since i palyed half 
 life in 98.
  
  A complex that focuses on a bit different science research is taken by a very well armed military 
 force and they have also taken hostages but any demands have not been spoken of. The gorevment 
 sees this as a large threat and they are sending a group of special trained squad to take care 
 of the problem but only to be wiped out. Geverment whineses how ther forces is masacred to death 
 and the military leaders is scared of the situation so they have only one weapon left to use, YOU. 
 You are not a soldier, you are a weapon. Your objective is to kill a man only known as paxton and 
 also find out what is happenig in the facility. As you arrice, you will notice that ecerything 
 is beyond normal, your quest will be difficullt one, not only do you have to take care of Paxton 
 and his mercenaries, you have to deal with your FEAR as well. 
  
  When you are fighting you will notice how good the AI is, something that Half life 2 could have 
 been. The soldiers will block your path with tables, they will take cover and so on, it is sometimes 
 very hard so see a difference between human and AI soldiers becouse the AI is so realistic and 
 very very good. This is the best AI in the entire genre of fps games to date. The sound is very 
 well done as well and weapons sound realistic too. It gets difficullt in the firefights that this 
 game offers so you can slow down time much like in Max payne and in this mode you are faster than 
 your foes are, it gives you time to use your medkits if needed and of coure shoot, very impressive 
 done, without this bullet time, the entire game would be very hard to beat. 
  
  FEAR is not that long game but if you think you will run ttrough it, then you are wrong, becouse 
 the AI is so challenging that it wount let you go that easy. FEAR have also a mult player mode 
 and it is very basic, deathmatch, CTF, the usulal thing but something new that you can use is bullet 
 time in mp mode. Every map have one item that will slow down time and ony one player can have at 
 time but when paying team deathmatch, a different tactics can be used and that will add a bit more 
 deph to allready popular internet game.
  
  FEAR took my by suprise, i never really had to much intrest in it at all, becouse i belived that 
 it would be just a standard fps game but when i played the demo i was hooked by its graphics and 
 AI. FEAR is the biggest suprise of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SupaTrupa
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 12:54 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is yet another first person action-thriller-shooter that finds you creeping through dark hallways, 
 shooting at anything that moves. I am not always in the mood for this sort of thing, so this is 
 yet another shooter I can only tolerate in spurts.
  
  This is fun for a while - until the novelty of the bullet time function wears off, and that near 
 the end of the game - if you see another cubicle or office space - you'll swear you never left 
 work in the first place.
  
  It's a tedious experience at times, often repetitive, mundane and predictable. Other times it's 
 exciting, suspenseful, mysterious and includes some of the best shoot-outs gaming has had to offer. 
 And yes, it'll scare you at times or make you jump.
  
  What would've really helped FEAR is some more variety - environments, enemy types, and a more interesting 
 and coherent storyline. I could care less about any of the characters (there aren't many) nor the 
 protaganist, and the story itself was just a muddled bunch of jibberish about some psychological 
 thriller lore, involving a little girl with supernatural powers who was killed by a big bad man 
 in her pre-roaming-spirit days. Raise your hand if you've heard of this before.
  
  The game is saved by excellent weaponary - the stake gun is reminiscent of Painkiller and is a 
 fun alternative - and the slow motion skill that makes for a lot of cinematic and exciting firefights. 
 Grenades are effective and mines can be fun to experiment with as well.
  
  The enemy AI is of course outstanding, and they use a variety of techniques and take cover often, 
 in order to flank, out-gun and out-maneuver you throughout the 10 or so hours of play time.
  
  Hefty system requirements are the norm here - but I got my game running quite well at 1024X768 
 resolution, with 4x FSAA and high detail options with a P4 2.4ghz cpu, 1 gig of DDR 400 system 
 ram, and a 128MB Nvidia 6800 AGP video card. The game is quite flexible allowing you to add or 
 subtract or tone down numerous individual graphics options in order to get the best performance 
 - and it'll take a little while at first to find your sweet spot.
  
  FEAR is a solid game, nothing spectacular or overly memorable, and is often too repetitive and 
 dull for the senses in order to get a higher score from me. The multiplayer has merit and is comparable 
 to Quake 4 or any other FPS online shooter - not my bag, but those who like online shooters will 
 find some quality time with it I think.
  
  Due to it's length and repetitive and some times downright monotonous nature, I'd advise picking 
 it up for around $30 when it gets to that point, and not sweating the lightened wallet so much. 
 
  
  Ultimately I was a bit disappointed after playing the demo (thinking it would be much better) but 
 it managed to keep my attention and provide for some spectacular showmanship for my PC. :) 
  
  If you're a shooter fan - hard to pass this one up, but a 9+ score from Gamespot I think is 
 a bit misleading when compared to other, more entertaining shooters. There is nothing really remotely 
 interesting about the story (it's vague) and the cut scene voice acting is laughable. The environments 
 are drab and plain, and anything that reminds me of work is not a good thing if you're into games 
 for the escapism factor.
  
  FEAR is a solid shooter, but nothing more, nothing less, with a hokey trick that keeps it above 
 water and some solid action elements.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Comic_Link
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 28, 2005 11:40 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. at first looks like a crappy game (hence the name FEAR) Who would ever think that F. E. A. R. 
 would actually be scary? Boy was I wrong. This game scared the crap outta me the moment I first 
 saw Alma, a little girl in a red dress who kills people in a bloody way.
  
  The Graphics are what makes the game. It gives you a better experience.
  
  The Sound makes 
 the environment of the game come alive. The music puts you into moments of suspense and paranoia 
 waiting for something to happen.
  
  The AI is probobly the best AI I have ever seen in the game industry. The soldiers act like real 
 soldiers. They run from cover to cover, retreat, and suppress and flank.
  
  The Story is okay, since it gets a little boring in the middle of the game.
  
  Above all this 
 game is simply one of the best games ever made and hopes for a sequel are high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Spartan796
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2005 9:07 am PT
Review:  
  F. E. A. R. was released earlier this year for the PC, and is a modern first-person shooter with an 
 extreme creep factor. F. E. A. R. stands for First Encounter Assault Recon, which is a group of 
 highly-trained soldiers who go into areas and investigate paranormal activity. 
  
  You are a nameless soldier who is the newest addition to F. E. A. R., but youre no rookie. Your reflexes 
 are off the charts, and youre experienced in all forms of melee combat, from punches to flying 
 dropkicks and roundhouses. In fact, while youre playing the game, you can use your reflexes at 
 any time to slow down everything around you, giving you more time to react in a firefight, but 
 this comes with a cost. Your reflex meter will drain as you use it. Dont worry, it replenishes 
 on its own. As you progress through the game, you will find hypos that you can inject yourself 
 with. Blue hypos will permanently increase your health by five points, and yellow hypos will permanently 
 increase your reflexes. Make sure to find all of these so you can have the best edge in combat. 
 
  
  F. E. A. R. is a very dark and morbid game, and you will see some very creepy things as you play. 
 Sometimes things will flash in front of your vision; and sometimes you will see people who just 
 seem to crumble into ash. The creepiest part is you may enter a new area or drop down from a vent, 
 into a room where all is not as it seems, and you will be in slow motion. At one point, you drop 
 down into water, only to see that youve dropped into a hallway and are wading through blood. At 
 another point, you will go through a door, into a hallway where blood is dripping off the ceiling. 
 As you make your way to the exit, it vanishes, and when you turn around, a dark figure with glowing 
 eyes is creeping towards you, and then falls apart. These experiences are often accompanied with 
 echoing voices, multiplying the creep factor a huge amount. Just when youre at the peak of fear, 
 everything flashes back to normal, and you find yourself in a normal hallway. 
  
  The physics and realism in the game are phenomenal, and when youre not fighting for your life, 
 or being scared to death, take the time to look around some of the rooms. If you move a soda can, 
 itll clink like aluminum should, and itll bounce and roll around depending on where you hit it 
 and how hard. Punch a computer monitor and the screen will break and spark, and the circuit boards 
 and computer chips will fly out. Even by nudging a telephone you can put it off the hook, and the 
 receiver will dangle on the cord. Some phones in the game have messages on them, indicated by a 
 blinking red light. Hit the use key to listen to the messages, and they might give you a hint. 
 Some laptop computers in the game have valuable information on them, and their screens are turned 
 on and the Alienware logo is displayed. Hit the use key, and the F. E. A. R. director will interpret 
 the data and maybe give you another hint.
  
  Another thing to die for (and you probably will) in the game is the AI for the soldiers in the 
 game. Instead of being scripted and having pre-planned patrol routes and fight sequences, the AI 
 interprets what you do and what happens to the surrounding environment to select the best course 
 of action. If you go into a guarded area and make a noise, the guards will ask each other if they 
 heard something. If your flashlight is on, theyll shout Flashlight! to the rest of their teammates. 
 Its a real combat experience, because youre fighting a whole group working together instead of 
 the individual soldiers, which forces you to multitask. If you shoot them, theyll duck for cover 
 behind anything they can, whether its boxes, couches, or shelves. 
  
  F. E. A. R. can also go online with multiplayer supporting up to 16 people.
  
  Unfortunately, 
 the system requirements are very demanding, needing 512 MB of RAM minimum, but needing over 4 GB 
 of RAM to play at the optimum speed. 1 GB of RAM is twice the requirement, but gives an adequate 
 number of frames per second to make the average player happy. 
  
  F. E. A. R. is a masterpiece, and I believe itll win game of the year. Its immersive, creepy, realistic, 
 and one of those games you should play with the lights off at midnight.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaeMillz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 27, 2005 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Hmm... Fear... Fear is a great game, it offers some of the most intense action out right now (besides 
 RE4) . With Enviroments creepy, sounds making you think something is behind you... all and all it's 
 pretty creepy. Images of people can be pretty disturbing too. 
  
  Fear's story however is lackluster, it never brings you into the game. You never ask yourself why 
 or what? Your kinda like i wanna just murder stuff. The graphics are insane and you will need a 
 good graphics card to run it. I have a 7800gt and i can't run everything all max without some sort 
 of frame rate drop so be prepared. The enemies in this game are pretty smart. They command eachother 
 to flank, throw nades and call for backup also swear at you alot. It's pretty sick.
  
  Gameplay is the key in FEAR though, if you love to shoot things be creeped out a bit and jolt out 
 of your seat a few times u will love this game. It's a little on the short side and there are times 
 when u dont know where to go which are pretty annoying. Plus the Slo-mo feature owns but it makes 
 shooting severly eazy. All and all Fear is a great game but u need a powerful G-card to handle 
 it, so if u dont, dont even waste your money, you will not enjoy it to it's full potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trigun0006
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:23 pm PT
Review:  This is an Exceptional First Person Shooter. To anyone who likes this kind of game, its a must 
 have. It combines high intensity action, the grudge, and max payne. The A. I Is incredible. They 
 avoid grenades, return grenade fire, can navigate the most complex environment. But with this said, 
 thair are a few blimishes in the A. I. like at one point in the game, one of the enimies saw me 
 and i shot him and got behind the corner where we were at a window with a door next to it. well, 
 when he got to the door he slowly moved to it and went through the door instead of shooting through 
 me at the window were he easly could have. The Part thats like the Grudge is taken lightly, as 
 in The Grudge wasn't remotely scary and this is. I mean it is the kind of fear that the grudge 
 was trying to convey. When your in the shadows and that girl just appears out of nowhere, you will 
 likely waste about half a clip of machine gun rounds before you realize what happened. The Max 
 Payne part comes in with the good use of bullet time and the compelling story.
  
  Gameplay: The game has amazing gameplay. The combonation of Almost perfect A. I. (as far as a video 
 game should have) and an amazingly well implimented bullet time. The bullet time is actually used 
 in a way that requires its use. In most battles, if bullet time isnt used properly, the battle 
 ends quickly in favor of the enemy. 10
  
  Graphics: The best graphics of any game this year. The game has great animations. The game has 
 great flame and smoke affects, but the watter is lacking. The slow motion affect makes for good 
 and I love the shock wave affect from the grenades and it is extremly gory. If someone is hit with 
 a grenade directly, the grenade will spray blood and chunks of the persons body in a cool way. 
 Thair are some wierd things thoug. The main thing that bothers me is that the bodys mainly disapear, 
 unless you separate it from the rest of the body. If you shoot his body in half, it stays. Also 
 the lighting affects are amazing. Lets just say that when a ghost is comeing, you will probably 
 know. 9
  
  Sound: The Enemies have chats about the current battle, like man down, we need back up, grenade 
 run, frag him, flush him out, ect... which make you feel like you are in a real battle. The radeos 
 spread through out the game make you feel like thair is a huge world other than the game. The guns 
 make realistic sounds, the thuds of bullets hitting the enemy, hitting walls, hitting metal is 
 what you would expect, nothing better nothing worse. 9
  
  Value: Long game, lots of levels, fun multy player. 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kayko_05
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 27, 2005 8:46 am PT
Review:  I just recently bought this game (Director's Edition) and I just have to say that it rocks. 
  It's one of the best first person shooters I have ever played. 
  The graphics are amazing, if 
 however you meet or exceed the minimum requirements. That's one downfall that this game has; it 
 requires so much. Gamespot put it best: It's a system hog. Before you buy it, make sure your computer 
 can handle it. 
  Two other things I disliked about this game is: 1) It does get repetitive sometimes. 2) It wasn't 
 scary. But maybe that's just me. I was rather disappointed after hearing from a lot of people on 
 Gamespot and other places that this was one of the scariest games they ever played, and that they 
 had to actually stop playing the game for a while after something happened. I played this game 
 in the dark, and it still did nothing for me.
  
  Besides that, this game is a keeper, and I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rokoblak24
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 27, 2005 6:37 am PT
Review:  Awesome gameplay when you kill enemies within Slow-Mo, but I only miss team-work, some daylight-missions 
 and more levels becouse I finished playing this game in two days. Authors spent too much of time 
 for fear effects. They don't scare you, if they are built for scaring. You don't come to the end 
 of Alma' s story. Is that meaning F. E. A. R.2 ? I am waiting for it. 
  In multiplayer are too small maps and 16 players maximum is not enough. 
  But it rox anyway. 
 Five stars. 
  Graphic. The game needs high processor and graphics card, so it didn't work properly on all-high 
 on my PC. I have 1.7 pentium, 128 ATi 9250 and 512 of ram... so I am waiting for new PC to experience 
 it grapics.
  
  - SUGGEST-
  -SUGGEST-
  -SUGGEST-
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yukaimk
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 27, 2005 3:28 am PT
Review:  FEAR is a great game, great sound, great graphics, great storyltelling. I just wanted more variety 
 in the damn enemies! 
  Now i know it was meant to be a clone army but sheesh, just a few more bad guys when you make a 
 sequel? I really enjoyed it when the invisible ninjas came along. However that was short lived. 
 
  
  The controls are pretty much classic FPS and configurable too. Which makes getting into the game 
 much easier. 
  Also the actual slo mo feature of the game is well used for a change! on the harder difficulty 
 settings, you will need to use it just to give yourself a little advantage. 
  
  I like the enviroments in the game as they all tied in well with the plot. However a few more open 
 locations would have been appreciated to make it feel less like i was being guided along. 
  
  The set pieces in this game are still great and it certainly knocks the socks off any FPS this 
 year.
  
  Well done FEAR, for being a great atmospheric game to play with the lights out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-miller
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 26, 2005 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Finally after all these years of waiting my dream rig is finally here and it rocks. Plus the game 
 I got is one of the most bizarre and creative shooters of 2005 F. E. A. R. aka First Encounter Assualt 
 Recon! The game starts off with Paxton a former F. E. A. R. operative whose ability is cannibalising 
 his victims through interragation. Because of this he was locked up for being mentally insane but 
 was released by some paranormal force even more terrifying than some crazed cannibal. This is where 
 you come in to investigate this threat and try to stop by at all means necessary. Your enemy: Paxton, 
 1,000 super clones, and a creepy telepathic 10 year old who can tear you apart with the power of 
 her mind. Luckily for you, you have the ability to slow down time and out manuver your enemies 
 with superhuman speed and reflexes.
  The gameplay in F. E. A. R. is relatively well done but it's a little hard to poerform melee attacks. 
 Also the slo mo was a nice touch but moving through slo mo is pain staking and takes a little to 
 get used to. And a few scenes makes the gameplay seem a little out of whack.
  The graphics are incredible and well textured and the physics are realistic enough to challeged 
 Half Life 2.
  Although the graphics are outstanding, it is the sound that brings out the best out of F. E. A. R. 
 Sounds include doors screeching, chains rattling, the buzzing of electric machinery, and intense 
 gun fights. But the voices echoing through the halls, and the mischeifous giggle of that evil moppet 
 brings out the horror of this game.
  Multiplayer is a blast and the single player may be 10 hours but it's the most intense 10 hours 
 you'll ever had period....
  F. E. A. R. is the best horror shooter to date and makes others like Doom 3 and Clive Barker's Undying 
 seem more like a Saturday morning cartoon show.
  
  Gameplay: 8 out of 10
  Graphics: 10 out of 10
  Sound: 10 out of 10
  Value: 10 out of 10
  Reviewer's Tilt: 10 out 
 of 10
  
  Overall Score: 9.4 out of 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: draco947
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 26, 2005 5:07 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, the first time I saw the trailer for this game, I was awestruck. The graphics 
 were the most developed and detailed I'd ever seen. (This was back when it was first viewed at 
 E3.) I was really anticipating this game, and was ecstatic when the demo came out!
  
  When I got a hold of the demo, the graphics were incredible, and the physics were phenomenal! Unfortunately, 
 the gameplay left me wondering if I really wanted to buy the game. Sure, it seemed scary, and intense, 
 but I wondered if it was going to be another linear hallway shooter like so many others. 
  
  I got the game, and started playing. Needless to say, I got sucked in deep for the first 6 
 levels or so. The graphics were awesome and pushing the envelope, bringing even my 7800GTX a bit 
 of a battle. The physics were awesome. The gameplay and story were very immersive, leaving you 
 craving for more. The thing I couldn't seem to get enough of was the extremely intense firefights, 
 with AI more intelligent than I had ever seen before, including Far Cry. I'd never played a game 
 that had firefights so intense; guys surrounding you everywhere, and you barely being able to save 
 your butt. I did tend to stay away from bullet time, until I got further along and I basically 
 HAD to use it, or face death.
  
  The problem I had with the game is that, after playing 5 or 6 levels, things started getting a 
 little monotonous, and I started losing interest. I saw less and less of the girl, and heard less 
 about the story; the intervals between the story lines during gameplay got much further apart than 
 at the beginning. I guess the developers thought once they hooked you at the beginning, they figured 
 you'd just keep on going. Well, I did, but not as adamantly as before. 
  
  The gameplay also started to get fairly predictable, and, honestly, kind of boring. Sure it was 
 still intense, but you knew basically what was going to happen where. Every time you entered a 
 large open space, for instance, you knew that a slew of enemies were going to bombard you. It just 
 got to be a little too linear for my taste. You're always inside, for the most part, or occasionally 
 on rooftops. I would have loved to see a little more outside level development. 
  
  So, conclusion is, it's a great game; a lot of fun; very intense. But, after a while, it loses 
 interest in its lack of innovative level design and predictable, linear gameplay style. All in 
 all, it's worth the money, but I can almost guarantee that, for most, there just isn't a whole 
 lot of replay value. And as far as the multi-player goes... well, let's just say it's about on 
 par with Far Cry's multi-player.
  
  - Jon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2005 11:57 am PT
Review:  If you're a fan of cinema, especially Japanese horror cinema, you'll know that those guys seriously 
 outdo the whole "scary little girl" idea. Just go to any electronics store and search for Japanese 
 horror films, and more often than not, it's about a small girl who terrorizes everyone. It was 
 introduced to U. S. audiences in "The Ring", but as most critics agree, "The Ring Two" was a flop 
 because the whole freakish little girl theme is getting really jaded, unless you're new to that 
 concept. It's true, it really is. Most of the fear in this game doesn't come from the guy eating 
 others. We've all seen many zombie movies and games, but it's that little girl with supernatural 
 powers that freak players out. Like horror films and games like Resident Evil, when those eerie 
 scenes occur, it feels like you're in a movie where the director controls everything, thus the 
 fear that you feel, because the player isn't in control. The concept, however jaded, does work. 
 Get the most out of this thing playing in the dark with the lights off, if you can. The bullet-time 
 mode isn't anything new but is needed to get you out of a tight spot. The graphics feel like you're 
 playing a Doom 3 game, with the darkness and all. After a while you can pretty much predict when 
 things occur. When you enter a large room, it's only natural for you to think that soldiers will 
 come pouring out to get you. Between fights, when you're walking down a dark corridor, you'd have 
 to be a fool to think that the developers didn't script a scary scene there. Just think, if you 
 were the director, what would you do to scare others? In the end, this game isn't as great as the 
 hype, and the name? Sounds like some drunkard came up with it, why not First Encounter Sniper Assault 
 Demolitions Scout Recon? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1stpersonshoot
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2005 5:46 pm PT
Review:  this is like a double pwnage for me, being that i like fps with great graphics and interactible 
 environments, and also i love horror, especially the creepy kind like in F. E. A. R.
  
  i have not played the entire hame, but have played both demos, and being as my computer could not 
 handle the graphics well even on teh min specs, i am waiting to purchase until i build my new pc. 
 however, the screens are amazing, with i think the best graphics a game today has to offer, better 
 than doom, quake, half life 2, or any xbox 360 game. however, i do not own a 2 thousand dollar 
 computer. this is my only complaint of the game. it eats up the power of your computer so crazily 
 much it is unbelievable. aside from that, the plot was great, seeing as it oculd have been a good 
 horror movie in itself is impressive. i fell in love with the intro movie, it was done and directed 
 better than most of todays horror movies. the multiplayer, however was not very much fun. seeing 
 that i have pretty much played it in many other games that have deathmatch, and the only addition 
 being slo mo was not that great. its just like any other dm multiplayer experirience. i do have 
 hopes that there will be a sequal, just that the creators can come up with another dilema allowing 
 you to have great shootouts and a creepy tone to it without doing another, oh no a clone army. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 450tantrum
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 25, 2005 1:36 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. works because it elevates first-person shooter combat to cinematic levels. And while we've 
 certainly seen games with movie-quality combat before, you've never seen anything quite like this. 
 Playing F. E. A. R. is like battling through a John Woo movie like Face/Off, because when firefights 
 happen in this game, they're downright glorious to behold. Bullets tear chunks out of concrete 
 and wood; blinding clouds of dust and debris fill the air; bodies are torn apart or slump on the 
 ground; and the deathly silence of the aftermath contrasts so sharply with the sheer chaos that 
 erupted only moments before. Gunfights in F. E. A. R. just feel right. 
  
  Part of the reason for that is because the weapons that you have in the game feel powerful, like 
 weapons should. You have the standard fare of guns to play around with, including a pistol, submachine 
 gun, assault rifle, shotgun, and rocket launcher. There's also a scoped, burst-firing rifle that's 
 a dead ringer for the Master Chief's battle rifle in Halo 2; an incredibly nasty particle weapon 
 that sears the flesh off of opponents; and a few other special toys. All of these weapons, even 
 the pistols, pack an incredibly satisfying punch and are capable of putting down opponents quickly 
 (you can even dual-wield the pistols, for that extra John Woo-style gunfight action) . This goes 
 against the genre's convention, since most shooters usually scale weapons on a curve, with the 
 smaller and lighter ones being next to useless later on in the game. That's not the case in F. E. A. R., 
 and virtually every gun you use can tear up the place. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thor1981
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2005 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I will just make this fairly short and sweet: This game is phenomenal. Incredible graphics, lighting 
 effects, and sound all make for a visceral experience. The addition of martial arts moves is most 
 welcome, as they are effective and easily executed. The story line is unique: both fascinating, 
 and spooky. There are several parts which have made me jump, and this helps keep the tension high. 
 The enemy AI is flat-out incredible. Lots of FPS game makers tout their 'advanced' AI, but often 
 fall short. F. E. A. R. 's enemies are damned clever for a FPS, and constantly surprise me with their 
 tactics. The controls are also a dream come true for me, as everything seems well mapped out on 
 the keyboard, and on screen movement is intuitive. Easily the best FPS experience I have had since 
 Half Life 2. This is a new classic as far as I'm concerned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzraeLskI
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 25, 2005 10:14 am PT
Review:  This game is exelent. A perfect mixture of horror and action. At the same time you could be fighting 
 the marrines and the next moment you will be shivering in the corner hoping that that creepy girl 
 or that canibal general won`t find you. And the atmosphere, oh it`s perfect. All that creepy sounds 
 and that narrow halls will make you regret why you werent born with another pair of eyes on your 
 forehead. Weapons are exelent, futuristic but not all lasers and that stuff. Also the good thing 
 is the slow motion but no one can repeat the MAX PAYNE. So: buy it, play it, F. E. A. R. it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naes177
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 25, 2005 10:02 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is the long-awaited horror FPS from acclaimed developer Monolith, who has been responsible 
 for beloved FPS classics like No One Lives Forever and Alien Versus Predator II. Their most recent 
 outing being the disappointing and glitch-filled The Matrix Online, some people did not quite understand 
 what all of the fuss about F. E. A. R. was all about. But the game is finally here, and naysayers 
 can dispel their doubts because it's really that good.
  
  In F. E. A. R., which stands for First Encounter Assault Recon, the player takes the role of a nameless 
 point man recently assigned to the aforementioned anti-paranormal special forces team. All hell 
 breaks loose beneath the eyes of the populace when an experiment at the Armacham Corporation goes 
 horribly wrong. The company was creating an army of clone super soldiers for the U. S. government 
 that could be directly controlled by a psychic commander. One of these commanders by the name of 
 Paxton Fettel has gone insane and has taken a liking to eating people. It becomes your job to locate 
 and kill Fettel before the situation escalates.
  
  This is easier said than done however, as Fettel comes and goes like a ghost and has taken a liking 
 to messing with your head. Because your character has superhuman reflexes as mentioned at the beginning 
 of the game, you can see and hear things that others can't. Fettel and a creepy little girl named 
 Alma will appear before you but not be there. Oftentimes you will see a shadow move behind you 
 only to see that nothing is there. Other times, you'll swear you could have just seen someone in 
 the darkness, but when you turn your flashlight on, there will be nothing. This game is extremely 
 creepy and sometimes downright frightening, and after awhile, you will begin to blur the lines 
 between what is real in F. E. A. R. and what isn't.
  
  It is worth mentioning that this gives this game an astonishing atmosphere. Surpassing the mood 
 portrayed by even last year's Doom 3, F. E. A. R. is downright chilling. Whereas Doom 3 used cheap 
 scares like monsters jumping out of broom closets, this game has a much more mature, almost subtle 
 kind of creeping terror. F. E. A. R. does not make you jump out of your seat; it makes you shiver 
 in it.
  
  F. E. A. R.'s atmosphere is enhanced by its graphics, which are, put quite simply, astonishing. Make 
 no mistake; this is the best-looking game ever made. The shadows are incredible, and genius dynamic 
 lighting effects enhance the setting. When you fire a gun in this game, it really feels like you 
 are shooting someone. Imagine the infamous lobby scene in The Matrix and you pretty much have the 
 firefights in F. E. A. R. down. During combat, sparks fly wildly, bits and pieces of things are tossed 
 about, smoke and dust fills the air, and grenades distort and blur the space about them when they 
 explode, showering the combatants with blazing shrapnel. No game before has ever even come close 
 to capturing such an incredible portrayal of gun play before. Games in the following years will 
 doubtless use F. E. A. R. as a blueprint for FPS done so right that it's scary.
  
  The audio likewise in F. E. A. R. is beyond good. Instead of a real soundtrack, Monolith chose to 
 fill the game with cold, creepy ambient noises and effects along with the occasional pulsing track 
 when big battles begin. The weapons sound perfect, and as you lock horns with the clone soldiers, 
 you'll hear bullets ricochet, shotgun shells impact with flesh, and shell casings clatter to the 
 floor like metallic rain. The audio in F. E. A. R. is fantastic and just enhances the perfect tone 
 and mood that the game sets.
  
  And just before you thought that F. E. A. R. could not get any better, it does. What else could possibly 
 make this game any more visceral than it already is? Why, bullet time, of course. That's right, 
 at any time, you can hit a key and send yourself into the best-looking bullet time in any game 
 ever created and dominate enemies like toys. Because your character has reflexes that are "off 
 the charts", you can put this bullet time to great use during the game, as things quickly become 
 very tough if you don't. And it does not just simply slow down time. In bullet time, you can actually 
 see the swirling trails left by your shotgun pellets as they perforate a clone soldier's masked 
 face. The shell impacts, knocking the clone's head back violently, sending blood and sparks flying 
 everywhere and sending his body sprawling wildly through the air in slow motion, his weapon still 
 blazing as he smashes to the floor is a messy heap. It simply must be played to be fully appreciated.
 
  
  It is also worth mentioning that F. E. A. R. has the best AI ever produced in a game. The enemies 
 are highly trained super soldiers, but you wouldn't expect them to actually ACT like real super 
 soldiers. In most FPSs, you're lucky if the enemy can use cover. In F. E. A. R., much of the challenge 
 comes from just how smart the AI actually is. Enemies will provide covering fire, attempt to flank 
 you, make their own cover, flush you out with grenades, and act as a squad. They know their environment 
 and use every bit of it to try and take you out. All in all, F. E. A. R. has astoundingly-good AI, 
 and you might find yourself outsmarted by the enemy in the middle of a chaotic firefight. This 
 is a real first for the FPS genre.
  
  Likewise, F. E. A. R. certainly is not lacking when it comes to an arsenal. From basic weapons like 
 a Shotgun and an SMG to the more exotic like Dual Pistols or the Perforator, the ladder of which 
 is a rapid-fire rifle that sends crystal shards slicing through foes and pinning them to walls. 
 You can also pull of awsome combat moves like scissor kicks and slides, which in bullet time are 
 truly bad ass. Along with Remote Bombs, Proximity Mines, and the wicked Particle Weapon that zaps 
 enemies into crispy skeletons, the game has a memorable arsenal that will definitely stay with 
 you long after you've finished the game and jumped into Multiplayer.
  
  Speaking of Multiplayer, you might think that with such a stellar Single Player experience F. E. A. R. 
 would have to be lacking here. Thankfully, this is not the case. Multiplayer is fast and furious 
 with grenades flying and headshots left and right. It also has the advantage of looking just as 
 incredible as the rest of the game, and with a decent collection of maps and options, fun can be 
 had with this game's multiplayer for some time to come.
  
  If there is any fault to found with F. E. A. R., it is that the levels throughout the game can start 
 to blur together. They all look sort of the same, which makes sense due to its horror pedigree, 
 but it is disappointing all the same. You likely won't notice it until you have finished the game, 
 so it won't really impede you in any way.
  
  When it comes right down to it, F. E. A. R. is an extremely scary, unique game that pushes its genre 
 that much farther. Monolith has done an incredible job, and F. E. A. R. is not only the best FPS of 
 2005 but a real contender for Game of the Year. And when a game's competition are things like Civilization 
 IV and Guild Wars, that's no small feat.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yossimitsu
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 25, 2005 7:42 am PT
Review:  Well, I think the expectations were too high and thus the disappointment. It has been a long time 
 since a really good FPS had come out (since Half life 2, that is) and I expected a lot from FEAR. 
 
  Scary: well, not that scary, spooky at times, but too much re-use of the Japanese techniques. I 
 could think of a few ways to raise the tension.
  Story: No story here, really. Just missions that repeat themselves (it is always to find a specific 
 guy that is never really found) . I paid no attention to the story line after a while. Listening 
 to phone messages, that god knows why people left them on the phone, was not my idea of a storyline.
 
  Sound: pretty good, music was not bad and sound effects were right.
  Gameplay: standard with the bullet time bonus, although the AI is not bad. the game is quite short, 
 though and makes you feel unsatisfied. 
  The game has some nice fresh ideas, but nothing exceptionally new, except for the concept which 
 makes you want for some more of this kind.
  Pretty good game, but not that amazing for me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wyatt456
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 24, 2005 10:11 pm PT
Review:  This game was well worth the money even though i had to upgrade my video card to enjoy the superb 
 graphics. my only complaint is about the dialogue or to be more precise the foul language. Why 
 did the developer decide that it was necessary to add so many swear words? It was not needed and 
 did take away from my enjoyment of the game. Otherwise I am enjoying playing over and over again 
 getting scared when the "visions" jump out of the dark at me and I especially enjoyed being able 
 to have the action in slow motion. Even the sound track adds to the atmosphere of the game. I would 
 recommend the game as long as your skin is thick when it comes to swearing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bhrigu
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2005 5:26 pm PT
Review:  PLAY THIS GAME IN THE DARK.... PUT THE VOLUME ON HIGH.... I PROMISE THAT YOU WILL BE IN ANOTHER WORLD. 
 I JUST SPENT $400 ON A NEW GRAPHICS CARD AND BOUGHT AN EXTRA GIG OF RAM (TOTAL 2 GIGS) TO GET THE 
 FULL EFFECT OF THE GAME..... IT IS SO WORTH IT. AFTER I CLEAR FEAR A FEW MORE TIMES, I'LL GO BACK 
 TO FAR CRY AND PLAY THAT ON MY UPGRADED SYSTEM... I'VE GOTTEN SO USED TO THE SLOW MO (REFLEX) GAME 
 PLAY, THAT IT WILL BE DISAPPOINTING PLAYING ANY OTHER GAME RIGHT NOW. JUST FOR FUN, I PRACTICE 
 DIFFERENT WAYS OF KILLING THE ENEMY AND STILL MANAGE TO REMAIN MY COVER.... BELIEVE IT OR NOT, I'M 
 28, MARRIED, AND AM A FOURTH YEAR RESIDENT (AS IN A MD) AND STILL AM HOOKED ON VIDEO GAMES... I 
 CAN'T HELP MYSELF.. I FEEL LIKE A KID EVERY TIME I PLAY.. ITS THE WORLDS BEST FEELING... AND THESE 
 GAMES THAT WE HAVE OFFERED TO US TODAY, IS LIKE LIVING OUT YOUR DREAMS IN ALMOST VIRTUAL REALITY.
 
  FEAR ROCKS... JUST LET YOURSELF BE IMMERSED IN IT.... ITS A WHOLE OTHER WORLD!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: leumas88
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 24, 2005 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Nice... i mean great game... after get bored with fps game like Halo and Half-Life, the F. E. A. R 
 usually bring a new feel ( sence of horror ) to a shooting game where usually all we can get in 
 a shooting game was only pick up ammo and gun and then just do all the shoot shoot shoot... the 
 fear factor which include in the game is a wow to a fps game and i enjoy a lot with it. At my personel 
 experience, this game is best play at night, with your room locked and light off, so the game can 
 come out with it's full "effect" ( haha) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seabass901
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 24, 2005 5:00 am PT
Review:  Very very nice game.. The graphics are just awesome! The gameplay moves quick and it keeps you 
 sucked in. It has a decent array of weapons with their own distinctive qualities. I also like that 
 you can adjust the difficulty durring gameplay. This game has alot of good scary elements.. you 
 never know when a dead half mangled body will pop up or when youll see a ghost out of the corner 
 of your eye. The usual blood and gore is there as well... which is always great!! I also like the 
 swat team ghost hunting mix.. kinda odd but it works. I havent gotten to try out the multiplayer 
 as of yet.. but Im assuming single player is where this game really shines. Im sure Ill be playing 
 this game for a good while. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brotherbraak
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2005 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Boy, a game that is creepy without sacrificing good play? Finally I have F. E. A. R. 
  
  F. E. A. R. combines chilling moments with awesome first person shooting. One of the cool additions 
 in a game like this is that the bodies do not disappear, so you know where you've been. The physics 
 are awesome, you can slow-mo on enemies and blow off arms, legs, and even torsos clean off. It 
 has one of the most adaptable A. I, as enemies use tables as shields and shelves to block your entry 
 to them. The game delivers frights as well. Your HUD displays paranormal occurrences that you will 
 soon see. You will see walking bodies limping across the corridors and the little girl Alma making 
 surprise entrances. In one part, you step down a ladder, as soon as you look forward you see her 
 on the platform and then disappear. In the sewers, you see her walk past the hallway. If you keep 
 walking forward you'll notice a dead man in the corner. As you walk by it you'll hear Alma laugh, 
 as soon as you turn around, she walks in front of you and disappears. This game will give you the 
 creeps at night as it does me in the day. Thank god I don't play it at night or I would $**t myself. 
 Creepy game that doesn't sacrifice gameplay. Perfect for those who want more than a couple jumps!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magadass
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2005 8:48 am PT
Review:  The game was intense and had you pretty scared at moments. Had me jump a couple of time, best played 
 in a dark and quiet room at night. 
  
  The gameplay control was excellent, very easy to manipulate the character and control all of the 
 weapons. I found it interesting how you just keep stumbling on new things as the game progressed, 
 different from alot of games how they just toss new weapons and mobs at you!
  
  Some flaws are the story is a bit to complex to understand at times and its very hard to understand 
 your what the person on your comlink is saying alot of the time. Also the game almost always depends 
 on you to die, you cant go through the game without dying, its like you have to learn things by 
 dying which i find is sort of a dumb way to introduce invisible obstacles.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deepdishpizza13
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2005 7:15 am PT
Review:  This games gameplay is so freakin good. The graphics makes other games graphics look like crap. The 
 sound, man oh man the sound is sooooooooo good. Threw the game it whispers and sounds perfect. The 
 value, hmmmmmmmmm I'll pay $100$ for this game. The difficulty is pretty hard i'm using cheats :D 
 The reason i'm using cheats is because the story is really good. The time I played this game is 
 um around 150 hours. This game took me about 2 weeks to finish but I'm just re-playing the fun 
 levels.
  The controls are good, you can go into the matrix thing. There are cool gun like the nail gun, you 
 can nail people in to the walls and other places you can shoot them everywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanconnery31
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 15, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  When I finally finished the last sequences of "F. E. A. R." , I was sweating, exhausted, and surprsingly 
 , amazed. I immediately knew that this game was easily one of the best games of the year, but, 
 before I purchased this game, I didn't know how scary and frightening it would be. In fact, I don't 
 know what to expect out of "F. E. A. R.". Yet, "F. E. A. R." turned to be the most horrific and terrifying 
 experience i've ever played through in video game history, period. The style has a gory-cinematic-tense 
 feel to it, added by hauntingly beautiful graphics - a completely new engine that brought visual 
 sites that blew me off my feet. Yet, the greatness of this game couldn't have been created without 
 it's amazing team that constructed "F. E. A. R." 's outstanding gameplay. First person shooter fans, 
 this is the game you've been waiting for. "F. E. A. R." is a true horror masterpiece. 
  The first thing you notice about this particular video game, are most likely the graphics. It's 
 put down to one word : gorgeous. Each tiny detail of your view is fantastic. The models are spooky, 
 the lighting is spectacular, and the design of the rooms/areas are simply amazing to look upon. 
 In the buildings , they have realistic looking objects such as doors, closets, desks, and lamps 
 to add a sense of realism to the experience. Also, nearly everything in the game is highly destructible. 
 If you shoot the shells of a shotgun on the chip of a concrete pillar, little specs of rubble will 
 fly in the air, as each piece lands on the floor. Because of this, huge firefights with your enemies 
 will create dusts of smoke and dirt, which is breathtaking to view. AND, all of these moments of 
 action look incredible with your "slow motion button gadget. By using this, every thing you do 
 is slowed down nearly 2x-4x times, kind of like the matrix "bullet time effect" in "Enter the Matrix", 
 or "Matrix Path of Neo". As you shoot bullets from your guns , a trail of speed flows behind your 
 bullet, sometimes creating wild and noisy battles. Of course, it's a blast! Speaking of noisy, 
 I've never heard audio as good as "F. E. A. R." . Beautiful , movie-like music, with a full piece 
 orchestra, adding a cinematic feel to the game, really helps the more dramatic and emotional moments 
 to this game (including the opening intro) . As far as gun noises and special effects sound, it's 
 simply amazing. I've never heard gun audio quite as real as this game. If you have a sublifer hooked 
 up to your speaker system, prepare to be amazed, because this game sounds incredibly realistic. 
 
  Though, what makes "F. E. A. R." truely top notch is it's frantic, and often exciting gameplay. With 
 it's revolutionary Artificial Intelligence, Your enemies will kick down shelfs desks for cover, 
 hide behind walls or doors, and throw grenades in tough situations. Not only that, they will find 
 different paths to defeat you. Surprisingly, this happened to me many times. At the same time I 
 became frustrated by the A. I's smart plans, but was amazed by the brains of this ingenious technology. 
 The A. I. if "F. E. A. R." can't be missed by any gamers. To defeat these intelligent bots, you'll 
 need to perform special actions. Like I said before, you can literally slow-down time with one 
 of your "mechanical gadgets". Of course, this makes it much easier to kill your enemies, which 
 is a definite plus to the intense and difficult gameplay. Also, your character can perform kung-fu 
 moves, and I'm not joking either. You can jump in the air, and give your enemy a slashing kick 
 in the face, or beat the living daylights of him with your heavy fists. The brutal melee attacks 
 are one of the best aspects of "F. E. A. R." , because it's simply very fun to do. "F. E. A. R." also 
 includes online multiplayer. It's great fun , but nothing we've seen before. Standards deathmatch 
 or team deathmatch, where people just try to kill one another with their weapons of choice. 
  All in all, "F. E. A. R." is definitely a game to check out, not just for the first person shooter 
 fans, but for every gamer in the world. It's horror at it's best, with great visuals+audio, and 
 out of control (in a good way) gameplay. If you want to be blown away by a video game experience, 
 you must pick this game up. "F. E. A. R." hit's you with a knockout punch that you wont expect, and 
 by the end, you'll want more and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JapMex
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 22, 2005 8:55 pm PT
Review:  in my opinion this game should be considered one of the best pc games, if not one of the best overall 
 games of the year. F. E. A. R. is an excellent fps with many good qualities. However, like most games, 
 except for an elite few (half-life 2) , F. E. A. R. does have its downfalls.
  
  The Good:
  
  probably the best and most original action and fighting i have seen in a fps since the original 
 half-life. i found myself slowing down time a lot with the enhanced reflexes. this is also one 
 of the best looking games i have ever played. enviroments and weapons all look amazing.
  
  The Bad:
  like i stated above the game looks great, so you better have a monster of a machine. 
 mine is beginning to become outdated (nvidia 6600 Gt, P4 2.4, 1 gig of RAM) . i can run most modern 
 games, HL2 and Doom3, at high quality, but with F. E. A. R. i had to turn all the settings down to 
 medium to get smooth frame rates, but make no mistake the game still looks good. the only other 
 bad thing i have to say about this game is that the enemies you fight and the enviroments become 
 really repetative.
  
  Overall:
  great game with few downfalls, worth buying especially for the multi-player. if you are just going 
 to play the campaign try and find a used copy somewhere like EB Games where you can trade it back 
 in after you are finished with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lau_chen87
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 22, 2005 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Oh My God~Have gonna buy this game! I really this type of game like Counter-Strike... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchebaby2
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2005 3:26 pm PT
Review:  holy crap... the creepiest game i have ever played.... one of the best games i have ever played... 
 it beats out doom 3 and half life 2 because of its awesomeness. Kills in graphics, buy it now!!! 
 unless you are afraid of having so much fun. I rank it number 1 in my list. It is downright fun 
 wit it's slomo capabilities (and i you combine it with duel pistols, you have a majorly fun game 
 worth any money you might spend) buy it now. The scariest parts of the game have to be when the 
 little girl appears out of nowhere, and just as quickly disappears, and you hear voices in your 
 head.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: morcegohoman
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 22, 2005 3:01 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I compare all games to my favorite, which was the original Half-Life. The reason 
 was because of the story, set in a shooter type environment. the story makes all the difference.
 
  
  I found myself not caring about FEAR's storyline, you are briefed at the end of every level with 
 a screen full of text, and sporadically through levels by hitting the button on a telephone to 
 listen to a voicemail. Most of the voicemails were boring and had very little effect on what was 
 going to happen.
  
  The video was not beautiful, as I've heard some say. I think Doom 3 was beautiful, if nothing else. 
 this was Halo-esque to me... a system hog that wasn't worth the eye candy. i just bought a Dell 
 XPS 600 with a GeForce 7800GTX, so I know my card was worthy.
  
  I had fun, but it's not the shining star that I had read about and expected. Buy it off EBay used, 
 and make sure your computer is a strong one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Ninjah
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 22, 2005 2:01 pm PT
Review:  well then!
  I just recently installed F. E. A. R. and I had only so-so expectations.
  I have a Radeon 9800 graphics card and a gig of RAM on my 2.5ghz p4.
  
  I just let the game 
 auto detect the settings, it set everything to medium, which shocked me considering I can play 
 Doom3 and Farcry on High - Highest settings.
  
  I left it on medium however, and even on that setting this game looked better than both Doom and 
 farcry on high.
  
  The gunfights are crazy awesome, as long as you have decals on, you can actually see the missed 
 shots do some real damage in a room... example: You walk into a room full of boxes and lights and 
 such. Two enemies on the other side, you just go nuts on each other, and you'll realize that the 
 mess you make up the room is much more than just bullet holes in every thing.... unlike the dissappointment 
 that Doom and Farcry....
  The AI is the most realistic I've seen yet too! and they're RELENTLESS! I ran outside of a building 
 only to find about 10 guys shooting at me in this parking lot... I ran away, literally half way 
 back through the level, up a couple of floors and such... they followed me, I didn't even notice 
 them hiding behind corners and stuff...
  I only played the first couple of levels, but this game is AMAZING so far! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucky769
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 22, 2005 10:51 am PT
Review:   The thunderstorms out side my window made it more 
 exciting to play. If you never played a first shooter game this is the one to start with. All past 
 games will seem boring after this game. I know there have to be a sequel and I will be first on 
 line. My wife who don't play computer games was looking over my shoulder and she now wants to try 
 it after I complete it. I let my 4 year old grandson play one seen and he is pretty good. That 
 is scary in itself. Glad he doesn't really understand what he is looking at right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viejafea
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 22, 2005 10:07 am PT
Review:  I think all the positive things about F. E. A. R. have been said, so Ill stick to the negatives.
 
  
  - Few weapons: I dont think there are just enough, after all, the weapons you commonly use are 
 pretty much always the same ones.
  
  - Repetitiveness: After finishing the game, i felt like i played one long level. I was really pissed 
 off that the mission would always be the same, and not change, especially when you thought the 
 storyline would change or twist a bit and it didnt. 
  
  - Levels: As I said before, same here, the levels are all the same. At one point I thought the 
 underground facility would be at some island (kind of FarCry-ish) or something just to change a 
 little the setting, but of course it wasnt. That was a disappointment.
  
  - Storyline: When I buy a game named FEAR, i expect it to scare the hell out of me. Well, i didnt, 
 i do have to admit, every time I saw that girl, i got goosebumps, but that just didnt cut it for 
 me. Very straight forward story.
  
  - Enemies: Same enemies all the time, no change at all.
  
  - Details: Simply that, I felt that 
 the game needed some details like maybe secondary objectives that REALLY had to be taken care of, 
 or some keycard that you had to fond to be able to open a door. These little secondary objectives 
 really make the game more interactive.
  
  Overall, i cant be unfair, I think it is a great game, Although i think it could have been much 
 better. The one positive aspect of the game id like to mention is the AI, ive never played a 
 game with intelligent enemies like this one.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dementary
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 21, 2005 7:56 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. has everything needed to make a fantastic game. Groundbreaking graphics that indulge you 
 into it's powerful, hypnotizing world. This game is very enjoyable, because it is naturally scary, 
 unlike other titles from the genre, such as Doom, monsters don't have to jump out at you to be 
 scary. With an undertow of compelling music, gripping storyline, and sequences that make you question 
 your own sanity, F. E. A. R. sets a new standard for all games like it. 
  
  Aside from few minor plot holes and hardly-noticeable glitches, F. E. A. R. redefines the word perfect. 
 The only problem I had in playing this game was that storyline was really hard to understand. ::fingers 
 crossed:: F. E. A. R. 2?? Maybe that will answer questions left for us to ponder while we wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickJam
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2005 6:34 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is one of the best first-person shooters i have ever played. IT is thrilling, exiting, 
 and bone-chilling game, especially at night when you play in the dark. The graphics are perfect, 
 crisp, and detailed. The slomo sort of makes me feal like im actually in the game. The sound quality 
 is also a good part of the game. The little girl in the game creaps the **** outa me. The gameplay 
 is awsome and especially when that girl is there, she makes the whole game better. I would recomend 
 this to first-person shooter gamers. And get ready for the biggest first person shooter F. E. A. R. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aramoe
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 21, 2005 9:46 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a really good game but you have to have a fast computer to play the game. The game looks 
 so real looking and has a good story line to it. It has pretty hard bosses but they arent that 
 hard for you to kill in the game F. E. A. R. It is good to have the setting of putting slow-mo in 
 to slow down the game so you can kill the enemy faster than if you didnt use slow-mo. If you werent 
 to you would have to aim precisely at the enemy you were going to kill. This game is still pretty 
 hard to beat and the bossesget a little harder as you go and F. E. A. R is an exellent game to play 
 for the year 2005. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killswitch127
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 21, 2005 12:17 am PT
Review:  OK first off this is a must have game in your collection. If your one of those gamers that don't 
 get scared easily then your in for a treat. I have nightmares thinking about the game especially 
 that little girl who reminded me of the girl from the ring...... creepy. The AI Is in credible, 
 when you think you killed someone the entire squad leaves one man behind while they start flanking 
 you, CRAZY!!!! This is a game where you really have to watch your own back. But on the multiplayer 
 side its really fast pace when there are alot of players involved. But...... I recommend you DO 
 NOT PLAY THIS IN THE DARK!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aoshi_a
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2005 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Not only did f. e. a. r have incredible visuals and an incredibly eerie feel about it, it also had 
 some of the best and most innovative artificial intelligence found in any game today. With enemies 
 thats lifelike, this tittle was a huge success in what it brought to the gaming table!! I'll admit 
 there were times in where I actually jumped out my seat, enemies pop out of nowhere and there so 
 real that you skip reality and jump straight into the game. This tittle grows on you you to keep 
 on going and going nonstop, there strange feel to it that just lures you in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricwhite
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 20, 2005 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Overall Score: 7.6 out of 10 
  
  The Good: Graphics are very good. Sound is excellent, although there were a few sounds - such as 
 barely touched boxes - that seemed unrealistically loud as if they are thrown across the room. 
 The slow-motion feature is well implemented. The battle sequences are entertaining and suspenseful. 
 The horror aspects are somewhat frightening. 
  
  The Bad: The single player campaign is short. The environments are often sterile and repetitive. 
 It appears that every office and hallway has a wrench and hammer laying around. Too many maze-like 
 offices and hallways. Many of the environments appear the same except for some slight texture changes. 
 
  
  The most disappointing element in F. E. A. R. was the story and characterization. Deus Ex or Half-Life 
 this is not. The characters are very generic and sterile. The story is not well implemented. There 
 are many occasions when files are uploaded and buttons pressed to activate certain machinery without 
 any idea why. Even when the game is finished, there is not a full understanding of what the story 
 was about. 
  
  Overall, F. E. A. R. is an enjoyable first-person shooter; however, it lacks environment variety and 
 the story and characterization that would have made it excellent. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingMonkeyPC
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 20, 2005 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  + Graphics are gorgeous in this game, lots of neat special effects
  + Sound is top notch and down right creepy at times
  + Plain fun shooting and knocking enemies 
 with "bullet time"
  + The super soldiers are just awesome in this game
  + Lots of humor placed through out the game
  + Lots of goosebump moments
  
  Cons:
  
  
 - A really short game thanks to the level design
  - Most of the story gets told at the very end
  - Multiplayer is a little too insane for my taste... 
 (personally)
  
  Summary:
  
  F. E. A. R. is a great game. The gun fights with the soldiers are just simply unique compared with 
 other current first person shooters out there and it's fun! The "bullet time" effect of the game 
 is one of a kind and just had to be played in order to know how cool it is. Plenty of creepy moments, 
 thanks to that little girl, Alma, I must've yelled out the S word around four times in this game. 
 Of course Monolith wouldn't leave their games without any humor, they placed plenty of gags in 
 this game... there's one gag where I laughed pretty hard *thinks Office Space*. And yeah... that's 
 pretty much it.
  
  Now the bad things for this game, I was expecting a longer game. The levels were really straightfoward 
 on where to go, which is probably why I felt it was short. I also wished that they could've added 
 more story depth throughout the game. Most of the game's story just gets thrown at you in the end, 
 with not much details either. Also the multiplayer was a wee bit too insane for me. When play team 
 deathmatches, it was really difficult for me to see who were the enemies and who were the allies 
 and everything is so freaking fast... it was like playing a Quake 3 deathmatch on crack!
  
  Anyhow this games deserves to be played for its unique presentation on first person shooter games. 
 Highly recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_grip
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 20, 2005 9:40 am PT
Review:  First off, this is a pretty fun game. The A. I. makes firefights quite a bit of fun.
  
  The "fear" factor in F. E. A. R. is repetitive - if you pay attention to horror movies at all, you're 
 likely to say, "Been there, done that in the past year."
  
  That said, this game is pretty much a standard scripted event shooter. Nothing fancy, nothing mentally 
 taxing. Shoot up enemy group 1, move to button 1, press, enter door, shoot up enemy group 2, move 
 to button 2, repeat ad naseum.
  
  Most anything else that is positive about this game is the graphics. However, strip away the graphics, 
 and you've got a run of the mill shooter plus some nifty A. I. Does that make good value? Somewhat. 
 It's a fun game, just don't expect lights out revolutionary content (and content is where it's 
 at) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Gundam01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2005 2:46 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  In terms of shooters, this is an amazing one. It draws inspiration from games like Halo and CS 
 (the good parts of CS, not the stupid crap) . its got a half-life quality story line with the graphics 
 to match. I honestly think this is one of the best fps games i've ever played.
  
  The Bad:
  
  The gameplay, while being just an FPS, is somewhat simple. I suppose people do 
 look for that but i feel like it could have been a bit more challenging. On its hardest difficultly, 
 it was too easy and had a very limited Replay-ablity factor. I was in awe of its graphics and realism 
 but can't say that it was anything more. Very... linear... i suppose.
  
  The Bottom Line:
  
  I think its amazing in terms of graphics and realism but lacks difficulty; the storyline is 
 half-life quality; is worth your money but will probably be sold back to EB games within a few 
 months when you bore of the repetition.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ekfrench
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2005 9:25 am PT
Review:  As A fan of single player FPS games 
  This game is the best tactical shooter game bar none!
  Lots of action, great graphics, emersive, 
 scary story, are just a few of the reasons you have to play this awesome game. Definetely not a 
 kids game and it requires a pretty high end machine to play. Mine is a 2.8ghz P4 with 1 gig of 
 ram and a geforce 6800 card. The game played perfectly and scared the crap out of me the first 
 time through. But I keep still keep playing it since it's so fun and I never play multiplayer. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadj
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 18, 2005 7:27 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome! Its graphics are really amazing and gameplay is 
  
  good too. I like the kicking feature of this game which is a really 
  
  different thing from 
 all other first person shooter. I've never seen 
  
  something like this. Its really fun shooting enemies in the head with the 
  
  nailgun in slow 
 motion and they fly backwards and get pinned in the wall! 
  
  The soundtrack suits the game. Multiplayer is really fun to play. I 
  
  wasn't able to understand 
 its story at first but then came to understand 
  
  it clearly later. This game simply r0cKsS!! A must buy game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zsciaeount
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 17, 2005 7:58 am PT
Review:  Monoliths highly-anticipated shooter is a surprising letdown, featuring a bland story and uninspired 
 level design that rarely capitalizes on its potential.
  
  In F. E. A. R., you play a new agent of a super-secret government organization designed to investigate 
 and control dangerous situations with a paranormal bent. When a military research facility is decimated 
 at the hands of an army of clone soldiers captained by an insane telepathic commander, you are 
 sent in to investigate the situation and neutralize the threat. But, as you might expect, things 
 dont necessarily go as planned, and you soon find yourself mostly alone, exploring desolate areas 
 of gruesome bloodshed.
  
  F. E. A. R. s gameplay mechanics will be familiar to anyone whos played Doom and Max Payne. Most 
 of the time, the game is a simple point-A to point-B shooter with simple puzzles involving switches 
 and gunfights. Your character is endowed with extraordinary reflexes, which are represented in 
 the game by slow-mo capabilities that allow you to dole out maximum punishment in a minimum amount 
 of time. Its an old concept by now, but is one of the few things about F. E. A. R. that feels exciting.
 
  
  F. E. A. R. also features some pretty interesting melee attacks. Not just limited to butting people 
 with the back end of your gun, your character is able to pull off a number of punches and kicks 
 that can quickly disable an unsuspecting nearby enemy. These are easy enough to pull off, but if 
 youre that close to your enemy, youve done something wrong, so their utility is limited, except 
 as a last-ditch effort when firearms fail.
  
  Unfortunately, F. E. A. R. s gameplay is pretty substandard by todays standards. While the game advertises 
 itself as a tense and suspenseful horror-themed shooter, there are precious few moments when the 
 scare factor sets in. On occasion, you will be visited by the visions of your adversary, Paxton 
 Fettel, as well as a strange young girl named Alma, who possesses the power to telepathically rip 
 men to shreds. This could have been utilized to great effect, but it sadly is not. While the first 
 time you see Alma creep through the shadows ahead will send a chill down your spine, the mechanic 
 of seeing an apparition appear and then vanish is overused to the point that it induces nothing 
 but yawns. Occasionally, you will snap into playable visions, mostly involving blood-covered hallways 
 and screams, but they really lack the impact that they should.
  
  The tension does build a little bit in the middle of the game, when you explore an abandoned office. 
 The rattling in the rafters and the thunderous sounds of empty soda cans hitting the floor make 
 the times in between the firefights somewhat tense, but this sort of tension could not be extended 
 to cover the entire game.
  
  Part of the problem here is that the enemies, while extremely clever, are very repetitive. You 
 will basically fight less than half a dozen different enemies, all of whom look pretty much the 
 same bundled up in their gunmetal gray. They organize and attack well, but when its the same thing 
 over and over, the challenge quickly fades.
  
  The level design is also extremely bland. You are basically limited to offices and warehouses, 
 and each area looks pretty much like the other. This is made worse by the extremely linear path 
 you must take through these offices, with doors being mostly barricaded or destroyed in a manner 
 most artificial. A little more effort into the design would have gone a long way, as both Half-Life 
 and Splinter Cell were able to make bland locations pretty exciting by mixing it up a bit here 
 and there.
  
  The weapons are also pretty standard fare. The assault rife is very capable, so much so that you 
 will rarely find use for the other weapons. The shotgun packs a punch, but since it really is useful 
 only at close range, you will find yourself taking a lot of damage if you want to get in close 
 enough to use it.
  
  Also disappointing is the physics. While things react incredibly to gunfire, the environments are 
 surprisingly non-interactive. If you were used to knocking things over and shoving objects around 
 in Half-Life 2, you will be disappointed to find out that very few things can be manipulated in 
 other ways than direct gunfire.
  
  The graphics in F. E. A. R. are a mixed bag. The characters and textures are decent, if not a bit 
 blocky, but the bland gray overtones that mark everything from the enemies to the hallways just 
 seems to muddy everything up. The particle effects, however, are simply fantastic, and the slow-mo 
 effect successfully creates a dreamy sense of hyperacuity that really makes the mode something 
 special. The lighting, while better than Half-Life 2, is still not as dynamic as that found in 
 Doom 3, and it rarely contributes to a suspenseful ambience.
  
  The sound in the game makes excellent use of surround sound to envelop you in almost deafening 
 quietude. The weapons all pack a punch that will make your subwoofer growl, and the voice acting 
 overall is pretty good. This is perhaps the only area in which F. E. A. R. lives up to its name.
 
  
  Overall, while F. E. A. R. looks good on the surface, it doesnt take too long to realize that this 
 is a largely unspectacular shooter with tired concepts and very uninspired gameplay. If youre 
 looking for exciting firefights and slow-mo capabilities married with excellent physics, Remedys 
 Max Payne 2 is still at the top of the heap. And, if youre looking for thrills and scares, you 
 might do better to check out Resident Evil 4.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: titomag
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 2, 2006 10:56 pm PT
Review:  This game has had a really huge hype, and let me tell ya... its real! This is a great FPS for your 
 PC and it must be in your collection... PERIOD! The thing that everybody loves about this game is 
 the enemy AI, these clone soldiers actually think for themselves and will do anything possible 
 to eliminate you. If they have to flip over a sofa or a rack next to a wall.... they will do it, 
 if you are hiding behind a box or in a corner waiting to ambush the enemy, they will throw a grenade 
 at you. also, they comunicate with each other, its like if you were playing with humans instead 
 of the CPU. The graphics are amazing, it has alot to offer, sadly this game is a real system hog 
 and could give you poor performance even with a high end card if you want all the settings in max... unless 
 you have a rig with dual GPU's. Another great thing about this game is the gun fights, its so amazing. 
 you will love blasting the enemy and make your bullets rip thru objects and see how the particles 
 and dust clouds fill the battle zone. The weapons are incredible, you have all you need, dual weilding 
 pistols, shotgun, SMG's, a particle weapon that fries your enemy to the bone, a rocket launcher 
 and even a cannon that does a big hole on walls. The story is a bit complicating, i had to beat 
 the game twice to understand it completely, this game is scary! it will creep you out... and the 
 sound in the game is well done. The multiplayer feature is fun, you have deathmatch, capture the 
 flag, team death match & CTF, and slow motion deathmatch also with teams. Overall, this game is 
 a defenite success.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  + Incredible graphics engine that will amaze you everytime you play this game.
  + bouncing particles 
 and dust clouds caused by the hectic gun fights makes the game realistic.
  +/- levels seem to be the same and this game is a real system hog wich is not that desired for 
 those who cant upgrade their PC's
  
  Sound: 
  
  + the sound effectes of each weapon sound realistic, when enemies fall from high ground it sound 
 so real
  +/- the music is ok, could have been more creepy, you hardly hear any music in this game (unless 
 you activate the HW sound mixing and EAX 2.0) so it could be a good idea to hear the ambient and 
 soldiers lurking around
  
  Game Play: 
  
  + incredibly smart enemy AI will make you play this game more than twice... i know i did. cool slow-motion 
 effect makes the game even more fun
  +/- Multiplayer has some nice features but has too many empty servers, a bit hard to find people 
 to play with online.
  - you need to download the patch once you install the game, this game has alot of glitches and 
 bugs like the floating mines and constant clipping
  
  Replay Value: 
  
  + its worth every dime in your wallet, get this game now!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerdestroyer
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2005 8:16 pm PT
Review:  What do you get when you cross ghosts with the matrix and resident evil? the answer : F. E. A. R.! 
 this game is a revolutionary fps game that is one of the few actually scary ones out there. let 
 me tell ya this game will scare the living crap out of you. the main ghost alma, an innocent girl 
 just looking for life and cheer? YEAH RIGHT! shes out to kill every living human out there... including 
 you! sure the storyline is hard to follow but that is patched up by the nonstop action and blood 
 everywhere. the ending leaves you hanging so you will probably expect a sequel. make sure to watch 
 all the credits because a secret message is after them. (like the metal gear games) the dark levels 
 add to the creepy pop-up-for-no-apparent-reason ghosts. you get warned every time a ghost is nearby 
 by your flashlight going out and your HUD blinking and making static noises. if your not into gore 
 and creepiness dont get this game. if your looking for that game GET IT ALREADY IF YOU DONT HAVE 
 IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimeSync
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 16, 2005 6:22 pm PT
Review:  As Monolith's newest entry into the first person shooter genre, the question of whether or not 
 F. E. A. R lives up to it's name is the first question you should ask. The veteran developer responsible 
 for the Matrix Online, Alien vs Predator, and Condemned: Criminal Origins tried something new with 
 this genre by mixing true horror with gunplay and there is no question they succeeded. The game 
 plays out like a blend of Alfred Hitchcock and Half-Life 2, with a dollop of Predator thrown in 
 for good measure. The in-game atmosphere and nail-biting firefights will leave you tense and twitchy, 
 while the impressive storyline, smooth gameplay, and soundtrack combine to form an effect so creepy 
 that you'll have to wipe the sweat off your seat.
  
  You are the newest addition to the top-secret military team called First Encounter Assault Recon, 
 tasked with handling situations involving paranormal activity. You're thrown right into the thick 
 of things from day one when Paxton Fettel, a telepathic military operative, takes a turn towards 
 insanity. After breaking out of a secret military facility where he takes command of an army of 
 cloned soldiers, Fettel heads off to an unnamed American city and proceeds to wreak havoc in the 
 hopes of achieving some mysterious objective. Soon after Fettel begins his rampage, the military 
 dispatches your team, along with a handful of Delta Force operatives, to rein in the clone army 
 and retrieve Fettel.
  
  If the plot sounds like a cheap George Lucas knockoff with some serious Jerry Bruckheimer influences, 
 rest assured the storyline is much better developed than any movie the Star Wars genius has written 
 this century. In fact, part of the appeal of F. E. A. R. is the deliberate and somewhat staccato plot 
 development. In order to get a full understanding of what's going on, you will need to interact 
 with laptops, telephone voice mail systems, military communications, television, radio and some 
 often freaky psychic encounters. The variety of mediums through which the plot is communicated 
 builds a sense of realism. It's very clear that they are only meting out small snippets of the 
 story as you progress through the game, but it's just enough to keep you wanting to find out a 
 little bit more. Unfortunately, one of this game's biggest downfalls is the disappointing and somewhat 
 predictable finish. After spending ten to fifteen hours weaving such a mysterious plot, the resolution 
 of the story is a complete and total letdown. However, it must be noted that the disappointing 
 conclusion is partially balanced out by an incredible ending twist.
  
  The foundation for the sense of realism in F. E. A. R. comes from four elements: graphics, gameplay, 
 artificial intelligence, and sound. Monolith has outdone themselves with the graphics presented 
 in this game, as it is without a doubt a cinematic powerhouse. While it may be hard to imagine, 
 F. E. A. R. looks even better than Half-Life 2, the current front-runner for best FPS graphics. Not 
 only do the environments in the game look real, but the underlying physics engine allows you to 
 interact with each object in near-realistic fashion: you can smash the glass encasing a fire extinguisher 
 or use the butt of your weapon to sweep a mug off of someone's desk. 
  
  The atmospheric effects are on point as well. If you try to hide around a corner while enemy soldiers 
 fire at you, the bullets will hit the wall and spew back huge clouds of dust. Dark corners and 
 hallways add to the tension. Darkness can envelope you to the point where you cannot see the gun 
 in your hand when you look down. The effect can be very chilling, especially in combination with 
 the soundtrack and other environmental effects.
  
  Of course, no game about the paranormal would be complete without a gimmick; F. E. A. R. is no exception. 
 Your character is described as having incredible reflexes, and has a special ability that allows 
 him to slow down the action around him. When you trigger SloMo you enter a Neo-like state straight 
 out of the Matrix. While this sounds like the pinnacle of all things gimmicky, it works surprisingly 
 well, and is a welcome addition to the game. To its credit, Monolith didn't develop this special 
 skill in a way that makes you feel like a cheat with god-like powers. The amount of SloMo you have 
 is limited, and while it can be increased (just as your total health can be increased) , you really 
 don't have enough to do more than get yourself out of a serious jam or watch the coolness of an 
 enemy's arm flying off in slow motion. No worries though, as it regenerates at a decent enough 
 clip that you should have enough of it to use whenever necessary. The graphical effects for the 
 slow motion action are also very well rendered and polished.
  
  With all that's positive about the graphics and gameplay, there are a few negatives. This game 
 is definitely a resource hog. Despite the fact that Monolith provides many different graphical 
 settings, don't expect to be able to max out the settings on your NVIDIA 7800 or your ATI X850. 
 On our system, which included an X850 PCI-Express card, a 64bit Intel P4 3.6 processor, 2 gigs 
 of RAM and a 7200 rpm SATA hard drive, approximately 20% of the frames were coming in between 20 
 and 30 FPS on the maximum settings. Whereas many other games perform well at the maximum settings 
 and 1280 by 960 resolution, F. E. A. R. behaved less than admirably. However, after reducing some 
 of the graphical settings and dropping the resolution to 1024 by 768, there were no framerate issues. 
 It was slightly disappointing to see that there were no widescreen resolutions available; they 
 would definitely have added to the cinematic feel of the game.
  
  On the gameplay side, there was only one occasion where a bug was spotted. During some deliberate 
 horsing around, we managed to get stuck in a wall with no foreseeable way of getting out. While 
 the option to reload from a previous quick save point was available, jumping our way out seemed 
 to be the only acceptable solution, as backtracking wasn't on our agenda. After a minute or so 
 of furious button mashing we managed to escape. Aside from that one brief incident, there were 
 no other bugs in the gameplay. 
  
  In fact, one of the beautiful things about F. E. A. R. is that gameplay augments the overall tension-riddled 
 atmosphere. There won't ever be a constant stream of enemies coming at you as you traverse the 
 game's environments. In fact, there will be long stretches of time where you will go for several 
 minutes with nary a foe in sight. These breaks in the action aren't there to give you a breather; 
 quite the contrary. Instead they leave you in a state of heightened alertness and tension as you 
 slowly creep past obvious choke points without so much as a voice coming through your communicator. 
 The fits and starts in action do such an excellent job of adding to the horror movie-esque plot 
 that by the end of your gaming sessions you will often find yourself emotionally drained. Aside 
 from the Silent Hill series, there are very few games that have been able to achieve this kind 
 of effect.
  
  The largest part of the gameplay is the artificial intelligence. It deserves to be highlighted 
 separately from the traditional gameplay experience simply because it is a perfect example of how 
 A. I. should be implemented in a first person shooter. It is simply some of the best A. I. ever to 
 be encountered in a first person shooter. As you go through the game you should get used to enemies 
 communicating with each other as well as using copious amounts of objects in the environment. In 
 addition to hearing when you knock over a cup, they will also notice when you use your flashlight 
 within their view. And once the action starts, it's not unusual for enemy soldiers to push a table 
 over to use as a shield against your gunfire. Furthermore, that same enemy may start shooting at 
 you from above the table, providing cover fire for the teammate who is positioning himself to flank 
 you. And if you're thinking about just sitting there and waiting for them to run out of bullets, 
 then think again. If the enemy sees a strategy isn't working, they will either cease firing and 
 go radio silent or they'll toss a grenade your way to flush you out of hiding. F. E. A. R. has managed 
 to single-handedly raise the bar in terms of enemy A. I. With A. I. as intelligent as this, it is 
 slightly disappointing that there isn't a larger variety of enemy agents. There are only so many 
 clone warriors you can go through without getting a little tired of it. There are a few more types 
 of enemies, but the most entertaining ones come few and far between.
  
  There is still one element of the single player campaign in this game that deserves special recognition: 
 the sound. There are only a handful of games that utilize sound to its fullest extent, and by now 
 it should go without saying that F. E. A. R. is one of those games. The fact that Monolith paid enough 
 attention to detail to create a truly eerie soundtrack just shows the kind of spit and polish they 
 tried to put on F. E. A. R. The sound, and sometimes lack of sound, only serves to improve the overall 
 atmosphere of the game. Walking down a dark sewage drain, you will jump at the silence just as 
 much as you'll cry out at the sound of a rat scurrying in front of you. After a hail of bullets 
 from the enemy soldiers you will actually hear the dust settling. 
  
  But sound effects are not the only source of creepy auditory goodness. As with any Oscar-contender, 
 there is a musical score that enriches the gameplay experience. As you round a dark corner, the 
 music, previously absent, may suddenly kick in with an organ rendition that will leave you gripping 
 your mouse in eager anticipation of a frag-fest only to find out later that there were no enemies 
 within three minutes of your location. The music keeps you on your toes. While it can sometimes 
 give you clues as to what you should expect when you enter the door behind you, it can just as 
 easily elevate your adrenaline for no other reason than to leave you wiping the sweat from your 
 brow.
  
  With all of these positive remarks about Monolith's epic, where are the downsides? In two places: 
 the last stage of the game and the multiplayer aspect. As was alluded before, the last stage is 
 a major disappointment: it's just too easy. Without revealing too much, this is the only part of 
 the game where I wasn't constantly concerned about whether or not I was going to die. And without 
 that fear, the game loses its appeal. It almost seems as if Monolith ran out of time and had to 
 rush to get the product delivered.
  
  The issues with the multiplayer are somewhat different. With such an innovative single player campaign, 
 an equally unique multiplayer campaign is expected. Instead, Monolith delivers a bland, barely 
 altered rendition of the standard multiplayer fare: deathmatches, capture the flag, team deathmatch, 
 et cetera. There is one twist on the standard formula: one player in each round gets the ability 
 to use slow motion. However, along with this ability comes a bullseye. That same player is always 
 marked on the map and every player in the game can see that player's location. Whoever kills the 
 marked player then acquires the SloMo ability. Sometimes you can use the bullseye to your advantage 
 and lead the enemy team into a trap. While this is a somewhat interesting twist on the standard 
 formula, it's not enough to really differentiate the game from others in the genre. You'll have 
 plenty of fun playing multiplayer F. E. A. R. but it's a relatively forgettable experience and you'll 
 go back to Battlefield 2 or Counter Strike: Source sooner or later. If Monolith had built upon 
 the strengths of their single player campaign and added a cooperative play mode, it would have 
 added a lot of appeal to the multiplayer mode. The only thing better than being scared alone in 
 the dark is sharing that experience with a friend.
  
  All told, F. E. A. R. is one of the best first person shooters available. It has taken some of the 
 better aspects of its predecessors and put a very nice spit-shine on the genre as a whole. The 
 innovation that comes from the addition of fright to the standard FPS formula is a welcome change. 
 While the emotional roller coaster had the potential to be just another cheap gameplay gimmick, 
 Monolith's near flawless implementation and attention to detail lay those fears to rest almost 
 immediately. You'll marvel at the graphics and you'll jump at the sounds. You'll almost feel the 
 gun firing, you'll wonder what strategy the enemy is going to use on you next, and then you'll 
 cry out when you realize that the game is playing tricks with your mind. And finally, when it's 
 all over and you're breathless, emotionally drained and exhausted, you'll turn off your monitor 
 and question whether or not it's really over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GPLforever
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Well I have played enough FPS games to believe I am a fair judge of the genre and so old that I 
 have played Doom & Duke Nukem back when they stretched my good old 300MHZ system to the max. Anyway 
 FEAR's approach to AI management, its atmospheric lighting and cool slo mo effects presents a pretty 
 complete package and certainly deserves all the credit it gets. I have only 1 major gripe. The 
 story line provides no real reason for you to be there. The typical mission seems to simply have 
 you walk down a few corridors and press a button which might turn off an alarm or disable a security 
 system - they could have just as easily taken away the entire story line and just had you go from 
 one engagement to another and you wouldn't change the game experience at all. Game writers have 
 got to give you reasons for doing things beyond just - go over there and shoot some guys. Don't 
 get me wrong, FPS are exactly that - shoot guys with various different weapons - but the measure 
 of the quality of an FPS is if they can create tension through the mission types that are presented 
 to you throughout the game. FEAR fails in this regard and as a result the game actually gets to 
 be a bit boring after awhile. Everything else pretty much measures up - good weapons, fantastic 
 AI and pretty good atmosphere. (Deux Ex is still my vote for the best FPS ever) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortel3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 15, 2005 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Scary dude. Everything is very cinematic, and uses effects to chill. thats all i want to say, please 
 ignore:
  
  
  vv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv 
 vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv 
 vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv 
 vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv 
 vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv 
 vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv 
 vvvv vvvv vvvv vv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv 
 vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv 
 vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv 
 vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv 
 vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv 
 vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv 
 vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv 
 vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv 
 vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv 
 vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv 
 vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv 
 vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv 
 vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv 
 vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv 
 vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv 
 vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv 
 vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv 
 vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv 
 vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv 
 vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv 
 vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvvv vvv 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmrwacko
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 14, 2005 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Holy crap. Those are the first words I uttered when I stumbled across my first gunfight in FEAR. 
 With the inclusion of slow motion shooting, martial arts drop kicks, akimbo pistolsd, and awesome 
 special effects, playing this game feels like participating in a scene from the Matrix. Almost 
 everything about this game is sweet, and I'll tell you why.
  
  The strongest point of this game are the graphics. Although FEAR is a system hog and lower resolutions 
 can cause models to have jaggy edges here and there, the lighting and notably the graphics effects 
 in this FPS almost topple half life 2 and even match Doom 3. It's just so awesome to run up to 
 someone, dodge an grenade, kick them in the face, turn around with pistols blazing and cap three 
 armed baddies in the head, all in slow-mo with dust and debris filling the air. In certain sequences 
 in the game, this immersion will give way to freaky "nightmare" sequences that will scare the pants 
 off of you, considering how realistic the rest of the game looks. FEAR shows that high resolution 
 models and 6 times antialiasing aren't what save the day in the graphics department, but clever 
 use of video card effects and gore. 
  
  The sounds in this game also add to the immersive factor. Guns actually sound like guns, and the 
 cries of dying soldiers and phantom ghosts are really awesome. There's not really a soundtrack 
 to speak of though, but this game doesn't really need one, considering its similarities to half 
 life in that you are always in your character's head.
  
  The singleplayer portion of this game is possibly the best shoot-em-up action I've ever had with 
 a game, save some great moments in Battlefield 2. There are so many ways to tackle each situation 
 and take out each bad guy that you will see yourself quickloading repeatedly just because each 
 encounter is so incredibly cool and can happen in so many different ways. However, the multiplayer 
 is another story. It's fast, brutal, and quick, but by this time, most people have abandoned the 
 multiplayer servers, and although there are mod developments in progress, there's not really much 
 hope for the multiplayer aspect of this game. You literally die in one hit in multiplayer, the 
 weapons are completely unbalanced, and the maps are bland. This game's value lies in the singleplayer 
 alone.
  
  If you have a competant computer and are looking for a nice first person shooter experience, buy 
 this game. It is both a technical marvel and a brilliantly fun video game with a great plot and 
 cool, innovative elements. And above all, it will scare the crap out of you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomgamer90
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 14, 2005 7:02 pm PT
Review:  FEAR simply blew me away with its powerful AI and thrilling atmosphere! FEAR is one of the most 
 intense shooters I have ever played and scared the crap out of me the first time I played it. Sometimes, 
 objects would move for no reason other than to scare you. The one thing I do hate about the game 
 is not being able to fire when reloading. The multiplayer is a blast and loads of fun! This game 
 seems very familiar though yet a bit far off for looking familiar of a certain game of last year 
 that was very similar in gameplay but not at all in plot. In fact, the game's plot is much more 
 similar to ____. If you're a PC Gamer you'll know what other impressive game of the year 2004 I'm 
 refferring to. FEAR is a mix between two of the best games and FPS games of the year in 2004. FEAR 
 is probably a great competitor for game of the year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjolnir334
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 14, 2005 6:41 pm PT
Review:  The fps market is mainly made up of sequels. And, even when an original attempt is tried it is 
 fairly likely to fall flat on it's face. In the last two years the market for fps has probably 
 been one of the last places for originality to appear. And other than Far Cry I can't really think 
 of any other games that did something new. Thanks to F. E. A. R. we have another original title that 
 can be added to the unique games in the fps market.
  
  One of the reasons F. E. A. R. is so unique is the fact that it combines a survival horror game with 
 that of a intense first person shooter, along with some cinematic qualities. In F. E. A. R. your play 
 as an unnamed soldier who is sent in to deal with some "disturbances." You soon find supernatural 
 things happen as you see your squad boiled down to skeletons. You will begin to see a little girl 
 that seems to be following you around. This really helps to make you feel that there is always 
 something behind you and will always have you on the edge of your seat. F. E. A. R. helps to keep 
 this going by taking a page from one of the best known fps's of all time, Half-Life. In the game 
 you will never leave your first person view and does it just as well if not better than Half-Life. 
 The other remarkable thing about this game is how well the shooting feels, and how cool it looks. 
 Part of the reason for this is that you can use your "reflexes" to slow down time and make your 
 job a little easier. I'll admit I am getting really tired of bullet time in video games but what 
 happens while your in bullet time is some of the most impressive spectacles I've ever seen in gaming. 
 As bullets create sparks and the physics take effect. It creates a kinetic feel that I've never 
 seen in any game before. I would also like to comment on the excellent sound in the game that will 
 add to the immersion of the game, and totally recommend using some 5.1 headphones. One of the best 
 things in F. E. A. R. that really helps to make it a challenge and make you come back is the amazing 
 A. I. Not since Far Cry have I seen such smart A. I.
  
  That being said F. E. A. R. does have it's problems. The parts designed to scare you can get on the 
 repetitive side, and you'll probably be able to expect what's coming a little under half way through. 
 It is also a bit on the short side with the single player lasting about 10 hours. Although you 
 are paying for 10 hours of quality. And, it is a bit of system hog too. My computer is fairly good 
 (6600 GT, AMD 64 3500+, 1 gig ram) , but I had to run the game on a medium level, although it still 
 looked fairly good.
  
  Overall F. E. A. R. is a great game with one of the most cinematic experiences since Max Payne. It 
 provides a single player that for the majority doesn't get old, and if you can run it, I totally 
 suggest buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MJRoberts55
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 14, 2005 4:28 pm PT
Review:  The majority of video games will produce fear by impressive graphics or lighting effects but F. E. A. R. 
 combines a number of elements correctly to produce a scary and addictive formula. There are so 
 many moments when you will have to look twice as you think you have seen something that may or 
 may not be there. Multiplayer is like nothing else, especially when play includes slow-mo time, 
 which can really mess things up! I would recommend upgrading your hardware for this game, it is 
 worth a good 200 of your money to see some of the effects. The main effect being able to see your 
 bullets fly through the air, which may not add to the gameplay but does make you think why no one 
 has done it before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greatwasabi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 13, 2005 11:16 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 10/10 
  Incredible AI, especially on the higher difficutly levels. The weapons they use always do the same 
 damage to you as you do to them, they use great tactics and often pin you behind an object with 
 grenades or huge sprays of covering fire and then send a man or two to flank you. Chunks blowing 
 out of walls and huge clouds of dust kicking up into the air make this game that much more immersive, 
 this game does firefights much better than any other game. Another thing i loved about this game 
 was the mix of halo and doom. Great firefights and high action combat and much much scarrier than 
 doom, i loved this game.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  Only if you have a high end computer, with everything set on high this game looks amazing. If you 
 dont have an amazing computer you can still turn off some of the less important things and still 
 have the game looking pretty good but this game really comes alive on a high end pc.
  
  Sound 9/10
  The sound really shows its worth when this game is scaring the crap out of you, often 
 youll be walking through a hallway and the sound cuts off and is replaced with very creepy, ambient 
 sounds, mix that in with a freaky little girl giggling and a picture of a bloodied face flashing 
 across your screen and youll be ready to piss your pants.
  
  Value 9/10 
  Often youll find yourself replaying certian parts of the campaign because it feels so rewarding 
 after you take down a group of ten soldiers on the hard difficulty setting. But once you get tired 
 of singleplayer there is great online play to fall back on. The games are fast paced and the levels 
 are designed very very well. You wont be able to go ten seconds without getting into a fight with 
 someone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackhawkknight
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 13, 2005 3:30 am PT
Review:  My score may not be as high as other community reviews but i still think that this game is awsome, 
 here's why.
  The graphics are kick A** and the sound is crisp and clear.
  The AI make great and sometimes hilarious comments, example, one time i had just killed 2 out of 
 4 members of a squad and the 2 survivors were in hiding. I was searching for them when i herad 
 from a dark corner..
  .."i can't see him..."
  as i turned and got ready to fire I heard his squad-mate say (hilariously)
  .."shut your f***ing 
 mouth!.."
  really funny...
  My only problem is lots of the maps and missions seem a bit repetitive, it gets quite clostraphobic 
 in places and objectives get tired quickly.
  It's still a great game and if you have not bought it yet, i suggest you give it a try (that is 
 if you have a ridiculously high-end PC) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timts
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 12, 2005 12:05 pm PT
Review:  the little touch of 'fear' in the game is nice, it makes feel feel like 'fatal frame'. all those 
 sound and blurred scenes are nice, just those shooting parts totally ruined it. 
  
  the game uses a lot detailed model like doom3, a lot dynamic lighting like doom3, though it's using 
 hl2 engine. so it's not like hl2 but rather like doom3, everybody is shinier than hl2, I prefer 
 the mixed lighting in hl2 myself, not really a dynamic lighting fan, but the over all result fan. 
 
  
  most of the places in the games are narrow, you run around small tunnels a lot, not many enemies 
 to fight at the same time, luckily, this game is not as dark as doom3.
  
  the ending is nice, that's the best part for the game, hopefully every fps player can finish this 
 game before feeling bored.
  
  the enemies move very nicely, they can do a lot of things the role player control cannot do, they 
 have high AI. just that they dont have the edge - 'bullet time'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonphoenix123
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 12, 2005 12:27 pm PT
Review:  The game is very thrilling and entertaining
  The Computer's A. I. is really awesome, the best i've ever played.
  The graphics and sound is 
 really good and the 'Slow down Time' addition is really original too.
  
  The game itself is fairly difficult, the thing you need to do is master your surroundings, use 
 tactics, dont go in all guns blazing.
  The creepyness is, well, creepy and a nice touch.
  
  The online play is great also, very competetive. Due to the fact that the missions demand a 
 high standard to conquer them, almost all online players have a great quality and skill level when 
 it comes to the online game.
  
  The few factors that let down the game are the: graphic technology, you need the top graphics card; 
 the repetition; the same enemies. They could have added a 'more player per map' setting aswell, 
 your limited to 16 players, maybe 32 would have been better.
  
  These minor factors are the only influences that stopped me from giving this game a 100%.
  
 
  I would advise you buy this game because i have enjoyed playing it immensly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emanuel801
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 12, 2005 8:27 am PT
Review:  godlike this game ...
  first game i ever get scared to play ...
  amazing ...
  when you play you feel that its reality ...
  the sound and the grafic are just perfect ...
 
  in my pc i can play in INSANE resolution the game look amazing 
  thanks to giga-byte... and AMD ... godlike this game ...
  better than QUAKE 4 AND HAlflife2 AND 
 Doom 3.. godlike this game ...
  first game i ever get scared to play ...
  amazing ...
  when you play you feel that its reality ...
  the sound and the grafic are just perfect ...
 
  in my pc i can play in INSANE resolution the game look amazing 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shooter_elite
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 11, 2005 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Fear is by far one of the most technologically advanced video game to come out this year. It has 
 a creepy atmosphere, a physics system that is cinematic and immersive, top notch visuals and audio, a 
 storyline that is great but dissapointing at times, and also powerful, sleek, futuristic weapons 
 that obliverate your enemies to hell. All of these fantastic concepts make a game that should be 
 held up in your collection of FPS shooters. The only thing that I didnt embrace to much was the 
 enviroments. Your mostly in the same surroundings so there isnt to much to look at, but all of 
 the other superb qualitys of Fear cover up that issue. So in conclusion if you want "THE RING" 
 type of horror with a punch of hard core action in it then Fear will be a must buy for any one 
 in need for that type of thriller! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terradestroyer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 11, 2005 10:52 am PT
Review:  Ok the game is extremely fun to play, Fast action, good fights and it keeps you on the edge. The 
 graphics are very good... but the game is a system hog, the graphics arent the best out there and 
 they seem to drain every bit of your pc performance to give them.
  
  Ok this isnt a big spoiler... but the game was good right until section/chapter 9 i dont remember 
 the divisions but after that the game is goes so fast you jump from section 9 to 11 in a mere few 
 minutes and the game is done... while 1-9 each section took around 45min to 1hr. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GizmoSimo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2005 3:08 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. Not only is one of the greatest First Person Shooters to date , its innovative , its creepy 
 and its gory , it will have you hooked up in no time , recommended only for high end computers 
 , cause this game is meant to be played the way the developers wanted to make sure you have a nice 
 rack before buying it.
  
  F. E. A. R. first of all sets you in an atmosphere of total creepiness , that will make your heart 
 bump faster than ever , as you start to play it is full with gut pumping action , and body limbs 
 flying everywhere as you get to immerse into the gameplay , the storyline makes the game even deeper 
 , as you find your way walking through the paramilitary base infested with a malevolent presence 
 .
  
  Overall this game is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante7-X
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 10, 2005 6:14 am PT
Review:  I really don't have any complaints against the game. I found the storyline to be pretty interesting. 
 The things that I really found that made me want to play this game was the sound and the overall 
 atmosphere. F. E. A. R. does it perfectly. All the lighting, and sound really help to convince you 
 how eerie this game is. The weapon effects and decals, as well as the particle effects all add 
 realism to the chaos and action that goes on during gameplay. The AI was good, except I sometimes 
 found the enemies to be a tad too predictable, at least on the easy and medium settings. The mutliplayer 
 is fast and furious, something I enjoy, and the game seems to run pretty stable online. This game 
 also has some good value thanks in part to the recently released SDK for F. E. A. R. Hopefully the 
 community can form some really good mod teams and add soem content, or make a whole nother game 
 with the mod tool. It's John Woo meets the Ring, and I have to say thats one deadly combination 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeatMith
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 10, 2005 4:09 am PT
Review:  The first thing that strikes you in this game is the firefights , the enviroment flys apart , dust 
 fills the room , and the AI is some of the best in the FPS genre to date . All this in a wonderfully 
 designed enviroment , but they do get a little repetitive at times . The game is yet to break the 
 mold of profoundly linear gamplay in the genre . The storyline is rather good , considering the 
 challenge of combining "horror" into a FPS , however not considering that it really is just bad 
 .The game really isn't groundbreaking in anyway , but is just another notch of improvement in these 
 style games . 
  The multipayer really is good fun but I personally didn't find it remotely addictive , so it was 
 fun , however shortlived . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shift_
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 9, 2005 11:04 pm PT
Review:  I feel that the multiplayer mode can get very fusterating. Its really hard. The game is hard in 
 multiplayer. All the jumping and kicking just drives me insane. Now the single player mode is fun, 
 and creepy. I enjoy this game alot if they would turn off the kicking and jumping/punching. When 
 I 1st was introduced to the game I was at FRYs and joined a lan game. I was hooked. Purchased it 
 and got online. Man talking about getting my behind kicked bad!! I enjoy Rogue Spear more in multiplayer 
 then this one. I like to see it feel more realistic. Still a 9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokobo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 9, 2005 10:24 pm PT
Review:  I had actually only bought this game today while i was in search of a half life 2 silver edition. 
 I had been playing the demos alot, so i guess this kind of ruined the whole experience for me since 
 i knew what to expect, and had really already had enough of the game. Some say that the single 
 player campaing is too short but it seems to be quite lengthy in my opinion. 
  
  The gameplay is excellent, as are th graphics if you have a nice card. I think everything in the 
 game is very well done, except for a few aspects. The weapons arent very enticing, the are nice 
 to use in the beginning, but get a tad repetetive after a while. Also the enemies. A clone army 
 of super soldiers, very intelligent, but very very boringto fight against. You just see the same 
 guy all the time. The level design is horrid. I think the factory/office/run down whatever the 
 hell you wanna call it levels worked well at the start but get REALLY really repetetive. 
  
  There isnt much of a story in the game. Each mission seems to be inspired by, eliminate paxton 
 fettle, but you just end up battling to clone soldiers. 
  
  The scare factor in the game is nice though, there are some moments where you literally jump out 
 of your chair, but as the game goes on, these get less scary and basically are just there for the 
 sake of being there.
  
  The multi-player in FEAR is probably the funnest part. I dont know why people keep on paying it 
 out. You DO die alot, but you get heaps of kills, provided your not too bad at fps games. 
  
  All in all the game is alot of fun, and my advice to anyone who hasnt picked it up yet, only 
 play the demo once to see if it works ok on your pc, otherwise the experience will be somewhat 
 hindered by your knowledge of what to expect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seram
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 10, 2005 9:44 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. i. s. r. e. a. l. l. y. g. o. o. d. Ok, enought of that. F. E. A. R. is a scary game, and is inspired 
 by a lot of Japanese horror films (The Ring for example) especially with the freaky girl that blows 
 the limbs off people withought really doing anything. And the way she crawls up to them. Gives 
 me the chills just thinking about it. You need a high end PC to really enjoy the game, because 
 the graphical effects add a lot of the horror aspects to it. This game is scary, and you will like 
 it if you like horror movies, and are a fan of FPS's. The graphics are just amazing. And the particale 
 affects are un matched. I didn't buy this game because I don't like scary stuff, but even so, I 
 still enjoyed this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 9, 2005 4:27 pm PT
Review:  In a few years me and some friends will be sitting on a stoop. Someone will say, remember the plot 
 to FEAR? I will say, FEAR had a plot? Then we will laugh and say that FEAR was truly a wonderful 
 game inspite of it's horrible story, or lack there of.
  
  FEAR stands for First Encounter Assault Response unit, I think. Who cares what it stands for, FEAR 
 is great game. Despite requiring a gas drinker that you can't afford, a system built with most 
 of last years goodies can run it with ease on Medium settings... Unless you have last years best 
 of the goodies...
  
  The most outstanding part about FEAR is the enemy AI. They'll throw everything at you, well mostly 
 bullets and grenades, but they get the job done. They'll flank, supress, and surprise you. Enemy 
 AI in this game is outstanding, it's pretty much the only reason to play since you wont understand 
 the story.
  
  FEAR attempts to have a good story. The characters in the game seem interesting to the point where 
 slice bread is required to run this game. With that said Slice bread doesn't have much to do with 
 this game, unless you're eating some while playing this game, the games story is just lacking plot. 
 It has an ending thats would be good, and it would leave you to wonder what happens next, however 
 you just wont care since theirs no point that leads upto this ending which is just too good for 
 this story.
  
  If you over look the story, and you just progress for the firefights, then you'll enjoy FEAR. FEAR 
 is a wonder to look at, even at medium settings, it looks damn good... The sounds great too, and 
 it's extremly creepy.
  
  Turn the lights off, becuase Doom 3 has run away because it's afraid of FEAR. This game will make 
 your spine tingle... It will make the hair on your body stand up and shake, it's realy creepy, so 
 don't play it in the dark.
  
  FEAR has more faults than it's story. You wont find a variety of enemy types here. Their are about 
 4-6 different type of enemies, which is sort of a drag since you can figure out how to kill each 
 of them from the first time you encounter them.
  
  The final draw back to FEAR would be the level design. You'll often feel like you're in the same 
 enviorments over and over again, with only a different coat of paint on the walls of course. Sometimes 
 becuase of the same enviorments you'll probably get tired of the enemy AI becuase it's like your 
 always ontop of them... All in all it's still worth playing.
  
  I recomend FEAR to anyone who has the system and the stomache to handle it... It's worth playing, 
 however with it's bad story you may just not care to finish unless you want more of the intense 
 fire firghts, in which case you'll play it again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hook357
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 8, 2005 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Maybe I'm just getting old, or the FPS genre is getting tired. FEAR is no "must buy". The game 
 borrows heavily from others. For example, the weapons, enemies and combat are a lot, and I mean 
 a lot, like HL2. Did you notice that the Doctor in the opening cinematic even looks a lot like 
 an older Gordon Freeman? The game also feels a little like a first-person Max Payne with the bullet-time 
 gimmick (which makes the game too easy) and did anyone else get a little deja-vu (Max Payne again) 
 walking down hallways hearing a baby cry and following bloody footsteps? Anybody remember System 
 Shock 2 while those ghosts would pop up in hallways? The single-player mode is ultimately just 
 another dark corridor creep-and-crawl that we've all done before. It's really pretty, sure, but 
 very familiar. I don't do a lot of multiplayer, so you'll have to get that review from another 
 post. Not a bad game at all, but it's all been done before. It's presented very well here, but 
 hardly feels original in any sense. Also, I don't mind the trend of shorter games - I wouldn't 
 want it to drag out and bore me, and I don't have lots of free time. FEAR does have one thing on 
 HL2 though - no Steam! For that I am truly thankful! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Half_Life_
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2005 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I havn't played a game that addictive and good in a while. I went into it thinking it 
 would just be the same ol' FPS that i've played over and over again in the past couple years. Definitely 
 one of the top 5 for the last couple years.
  Not only was it action packed... it was scary as hell... not at all a bad thing in this case though. 
 It's no Doom style jump out at you scary crap you play for 20 hours. FEAR had the perfect balance 
 of it all. The effects, like nothing I've ever seen in a game before. Stunning and well polished. 
 I highly recommend getting your hands on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tekken0908
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 7, 2005 9:04 am PT
Review:  Fear is a great game far none. It brings horror, great FPS, and awseom all out multiplayer. The graphics 
 on this game is great, but dont let it fool you this game is a system hog and even the best cpu 
 cant run this game on max graphics whitout laggin a bit. This game has a great story/gameplay but 
 it will fall short with beating it around 10-15 hrs. the sound is great i couldnt count how many 
 times my mom told me to turn it down and it was barely even up. it makes u feel like u are actully 
 there. This game is only 40.00 bucks i recommend this game to anyone who likes FPS and horror.
 
  
  9.4 Superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnonymousThing
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 6, 2005 7:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is excellent. The gameplay is fantastic, you can go anyway through a situation, be it 
 hiding, shooting or just rampaging. The AI guess's what your trying to do, and flanks you, or throws 
 a grenade as a distraction. The suspense is fantastic, and the music is great and plays just at 
 the right time. In this game the graphics are excellent. The one bad thing about this tittle is 
 the fact that at some times it can be extremely challening to the point of non-completion. Another 
 good point is, when u die, and go back to your save, the characters act differently, no experience 
 is the same. In my oppinion this is a go out and buy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamespotkingsag
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 6, 2005 1:33 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a game worth buying when you're really into the FPS genre. Its stunning graphics and 
 intense combat make this game what it really is. I would not recommend this game to someone who 
 gets easily scared when playing games, but I would recommend it for someone who likes "wupin" ass 
 with all kinds of different guns. The AI is awesome and the character models look really cool (especially 
 the guys with Penetrator guns that never seem to die) . The one things that really annoyed me in 
 this game were the identical looking hallways, and the repetitive environments. It sometimes takes 
 me a while to find out if I'm going the right way or not. The Slowmo ability also makes this game 
 interresting, because the way it works adds a great deal of "spice" to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rrobito
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 6, 2005 10:08 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is one of a scary experiance. In horror movies you watch the story from a safe place, 
 but here, well you actually have to FEAR, cause here you are the protagonist and there is absolutely 
 no safe place to hide. They can get you whereever you are. In fact, the enemy AI is so unbelievable 
 that it could compete with the best human players. on very hard difficulty, they aim at you with 
 deadly accuracy, flank, seek and destroy. Apart from shooting, in places where you least expect 
 it, where there is complete silence, you cant help but feel being watched. There is constant moment 
 of fear. The astonishing graphics, the great sound, and even silence, they all add to the scary 
 setting. This game has all that it needs: a great gameplay and a great story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xyriel
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 6, 2005 8:39 am PT
Review:  This is by far one of the best single player FPS I have played. The story is immersive and down 
 right scary. Youll be jumping out of you chair more than once. The game uses interactive cut-scenes, 
 to work you through the story of a psy experiment gone wrong, which brings this gaming experience 
 to life. The use of light and sound gives an eerie feeling to all levels without sacrificing gameplay 
 (too dark) . 
  
  The game also has a Slowmo function that is very similar to the Max Payne slowmo. This function 
 gives another dimension to the game because it allows the level designer to setup impossible combat 
 situations which raises the challenge bar. Another interesting exception to the game is the 3 weapon 
 limitation. You can only carry 3 weapons at a time. Since there isnt any ammo, once a weapon is 
 empty, you just throw it away and pickup another one. It also forces you to decide on your arsenal. 
 I had a hard time deciding between a sniper gun and a rocket launcher at some point. There is also 
 a hand to hand combat available but I hardly ever used it.
  
  The only downside is that I found the game a tad too easy. I played at the highest difficulty setting 
 and hardly had instances where I had to reload my saved games more than once to go though a tough 
 spot. Even then, I hardly died. I think I may have spent 30 hours to go through the whole game 
 which isnt bad for a single player game. 
  
  I wouldnt call this game revolutionary but it definitively is one of the best FPS of the year. 
 If you liked Half-life 2, you will love this game.
  
  PS: I didnt try the multiplayer function; Im too busy in BF2. I bought this game for the single 
 player game. So I dont know about this part.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: larchange
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 4, 2005 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Hands down one of the best game i have ever played. Extremely great graphics. Beautiful story-line 
 with a kicker ending. Leaves you satisfied at the same time dying for more action. The game may 
 feel a little short but it is well worth the gaming hours. This game just makes it feel like you 
 are playing a part in an action movie. There are creepy sequences that are sprinkled throughout 
 the game are entertaining, marvellous and chiling although there may not be too much of these sequences. 
 
  You need very powerful hardware to play it smoothly though, and loading times may be quite long 
 but the adrenaline rush of each level makes it hard to wait each time a level loads. In game loading 
 is fairly fast, luckily.
  The game's beauty is just beyond words. you just got to try it and you will definitely love it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AsaltWeapon
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 4, 2005 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Im a serious PC Gamer I've played them all and beat 90% of em.. i bought this game and beat it in 
 5 hours flat on moderate diffaculty ( next to highest diffaculty) then switched to Extrem diffaculty 
 ( the highest) and it took me just over 6 hours to beat...
  The game is a cross between half life and Doom III and good thing is the NPC's are rouge S. W. A. T. 
 guys no make believe creatures whick i liked .
  AI is good they call for back-up when your kicking thier butts and flank you ,.. the even lay down 
 suppresing fire to cover one another to advance thier positions !! very NICE.. overall a great game 
 .
  The bad news --a RETARDED story line and made no sence at all. lsting to all the lame voice mails 
 helps you in no way whatsoever.. and the clip scenes are so stupid...
  If you just ignore the retarded story line youwill like it. and whoever said this game is scary 
 and makes you jump out of your chair like DOOM III was a moron this game is not scary at all.... but 
 you will like it . i did for a day this game is not 9 but more like a 7.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acurev
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 4, 2005 2:12 pm PT
Review:  FEAR, one of the most highly anticipated games of 05'. Does it live up to its hype? No.
  
  Graphics: 8/10. There are some very nice looking effects to see here but unfortunetly you need 
 a more then steller computer to run it good. The game was said to be well optimized but it just 
 doesnt feel that way. Textures look nice even at medium! One of the problems with the graphics 
 is the character models and the fact that theres about three different enemy models in the whole 
 game... Lighting is very good and of course the particle effects like great. But graphics dont 
 completely make a game....
  
  Sound 5/10 The sounds in this game arent to good. Gun shots just dont sound realistic and get annoying 
 after a while. Youll often times get radio communications from your allies back at HQ. Though the 
 voice acting is good its very hard to hear when your in combat.
  
  Story 4/10 The story is god awful. You get the intro then the middle just runs on and on and then 
 right at the last 5 minutes the complete story is revealed and thats that. Very sloppy story.
 
  
  Gameplay 5/10 The gameplay gets very boring very quick. After you see the same things and do the 
 same things you start to wonder why your still playing. I almost didnt finish the game it got so 
 boring. Shooting the same things over and over and missions with very bland objectives.
  
  Overall this game probably isnt worth a play unless your getting it for 40$ or less. spending 50+ 
 on this just doesnt seem worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nubie453
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 4, 2005 9:15 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is the best computer game ever wow i love it so much the campaighn is so fun and multiplayer 
 is amazing wow i love first person shooters and scary games when you put them both together its 
 tottaly out of control graphics gameplay and sound most of all is amazingly amazing!
  best game u have to get it there tons of stuff and its really fun its not a cheap game that gets 
 boring in 3 days its ever-lasting love it u cant hate it i want to play it right now haha if u 
 like first person shooter get it for sure the movies in the game are actually fun to watch it really 
 is like its real! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felraiser
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 3, 2005 7:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is the pinnacle of all that the FPS genre stands for. It is beautiful, atmospheric, intense, 
 and unbelievably polished. But that's not all - F. E. A. R. also delivers one of the strongest stories 
 seen in a top-tier FPS in years, one that actually has a fitting and satisfying conclusion. In 
 short, this is easily one of the best games of all time. 
  
  From the beginning of its exposure to the public, F. E. A. R. was touted as a great-looking game, 
 with screenshots that showed ridiculous numbers of particle and lighting effects and gave the game 
 a gnear-insurmountable wall of hype. It's safe to say that F. E. A. R. has lived up to expectations, 
 however. Calling high-resolution play in the game "pretty" would be a huge understatement. The 
 experience is smooth and impressive throughout, with great effects everywhere from muzzle flare 
 to the parallax-mapped holes left by bullets in walls. Human characters are animated realistically 
 and look very real (except for Jin, a female member of your team) , and the game's solid physics 
 engine handles enemy deaths very well. On top of all that, the texturing in the game is quite good 
 (maybe not on Half-Life 2's level, but way above average) . The performance demands of the game 
 have been overstated by many - my nVidia 6800 GT (the comparable 6800 GS sells for just $208 now) 
 was able to run at 1280x1024 with 0xAA and 8xAF at completely acceptable framerates, and the game 
 looked fantastic. It's true that certain areas are more intensive than others, and the game doesn't 
 seem to scale back textures and effects at long range, which makes framerates in larger areas a 
 little worse, but most of it looks great and runs great on a mid-end setup.
  
  But enough about graphics. The real beauty of F. E. A. R. is its gameplay, which is fast-paced and 
 almost perfect. All of the weapons feel like they have great power and weight to them, and each 
 becomes very useful in certain situations. Melee doesn't seem to be as prominent as initially thought, 
 but it still works well enough on foes in multiplayer and is immesely satisfying against unwary 
 enemies. There's nothing quite like kicking your enemy's legs out and watching his body fall to 
 your side. Surprisingly, slow-mo isn't as fun to use as it might seem. It is awesome to see certain 
 events, such as when a just-killed enemy holds the trigger down long enough to squeeze off a few 
 extra shots, with emphasized tracer fire and reduced game speed, but the power makes fights much 
 easier than they would be without it. It may become a sort of crutch after a while, encouraging 
 you to be a coward and recharge your "reflex power" behind cover after each slow-motion-fueled 
 assault. It does look great though, and the Normal difficulty setting is just right for a first 
 play with slow-mo on. If you go through the game again (I fully suggest you do so!) , however, try 
 and use slow motion as little as possible. Fights, especially against troopers, will feel even 
 more fluid and intense, and you'll start to really see the brilliance of the game's A. I. Eventually, 
 one actually begins to act like them - you'll need to move behind cover, use suppressing fire, 
 and time your attacks against your enemies' to be most effective. I even found myself using melee 
 attacks to dispatch hand-to-hand attackers later on in the game. Once you're used to the game, 
 turning off slow-mo (except for the admittedly frustrating turret sequences) will elevate your 
 experience to the next level. It is there that F. E. A. R. truly is at the top of its genre.
  
  While the sound of F. E. A. R. is very impressive for the most part, a few technical glitches 
 make the experience a bit less convincing. The score and effects do a lot to help give the game's 
 combat its stylish intensity, and the background noises are absolutely top-notch. The environments, 
 repetitive though they may be, feel very immersive and accurate, down to alarms that actually ring 
 when you hit them and the variety of sounds for hitting each material. The aural mastery of F. E. A. R. 
 is most apparent in the striking horror sequences throughout the levels, with musical cues set 
 at just the right moments. Unlike Doom 3, this game will scare you. Its subtle build and release 
 of tension is an excellent example of what game designers should be doing with horror games. That's 
 why it's such a shame that (at least on my system) sounds sometimes cut out unexpectedly, such 
 as when a fairly prominent sound suddenly stops when you round a corner rather than being muffled. 
 This doesn't seem to be a problem with EAX, and it's probably the most disappointing part of the 
 sound presentation. Still, this happens infrequently and is only a minor setback for such great 
 sound.
  
  The string of recent first-person shooters with poor stories is huge: Doom 3, Half-Life 2, Far 
 Cry, Halo 2, and The Chronicles of Riddick all offered disappointing narratives with bad endings. 
 F. E. A. R. is the first game in a while to break this trend, as it tells a provoking tale that interweaves 
 your immediate objectives with a quest to understand the situation and your own identity. And it 
 ends well, a very rare thing amonst such games. The conclusion technically doesn't explain everything, 
 but it contains so many shocking revelations that you honestly will not care. Even if you don't 
 take the time to replay the game as suggested, there's still a fair amout of value in the multiplayer. 
 Here, once again, the integration of slow-mo is good but sometimes a bit out of place. Plain deathmatch, 
 the pure form of F. E. A. R.'s amazing full-speed gunplay, is where it's at. The limited modes may 
 not give the average too much play time, but what's there is fantastic.
  
  There are very few things wrong with F. E. A. R. It's arguably a bit short, the sound isn't always 
 spot-on, performance is occasionally uneven, and slow-mo isn't a complete success, but when it's 
 at its best F. E. A. R. is truly one of the best games ever made. Do not pass this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BammBammBamm
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 3, 2005 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Seriously though I just dont understand why everyone is raving about this game. The graphics were 
 nice but that was the only high point of the game. The story was lame, big time. The voice acting 
 was ok but I felt like they threw in profanity every chance they got whether it fit the context 
 or not. People think the A. I. was great but truly they werent so tough. They were easy to confuse 
 and befuddle especially with the reflex time slow down maneuver. The sound was good but nothing 
 exceptional. It was somewhat scary the first two or three times a little girl popped out of nowhere 
 and then melted into scattering pixilation, but seriously how many times can you use the same trick 
 over and over and over. The story was a joke. They had flashbacks alluding to a greater story that 
 simply never happened. The main mission to hunt down this one goon took the entire game and provided 
 a pitiful showdown. They took a few good things and repeated them until the player is browbeaten 
 and expecting the same thing again and again. I also greatly disliked the guns. The only thing 
 that felt decent were the handguns everything else was pretty much a joke. Forced burst fire jeeze. 
 I think this game didnt really break any new ground for FPS. It was just a bunch of running, listening 
 to dead peoples phone messages and shooting the same damn enemy 9000 times before abruptly beating 
 the game. Its finished? Oh umm ok then. I never really got into the story, the game didnt go 
 that extra mile to grab my attention and never let go. Id say overall this game was decent but 
 not spectacular. 
  
  Bamm
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: irxproductions
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 3, 2005 12:57 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is breathtaking. If you have a system fast enough to be able to support its high requirements, 
 you will be rewarded ten-fold with FEAR's beautiful graphics, amazing AI, and downright terrifying 
 plot. As a quick side-note, I have an Athlon 64 3500+ with 2GB of OCZ matched DDR400 memory with 
 a BFG GeForce 7800GT and a Soundblaster X-Fi XtremeMusic running on DFI's LanParty UT nF4 SLI-DR 
 motherboard with a 74GB Western Digital Raptor providing the power to run this game. It runs with 
 the maximum settings without a single degree of chop. If your system beats these requirements, 
 you'll be fine. Otherwise, you'll probably have to turn down some settings.
  
  At any rate, FEAR places you as a strike point operative in an American recon division that investigates 
 paranormal (ghosts, strange phenomena) activity throughout the U. S. And, oh yeah, you're supposed 
 to kill bad-guys with big guns and blow lots of stuff up along the way.
  
  From the beginning, FEAR feels different from a lot of first person shooters out there. It doesn't 
 really do anything to break from its FPS roots, mind you, however the cinematic approach where 
 things really go bump in the night and ghostly apparitions wander the halls is very, very scary. 
 When I first played Half-Life 1 way back in 1998-1999, there were times where I wouldn't want to 
 wander around the corner in some air-shaft because of what might be on the other side. I would 
 jump out of my seat when something was there. FEAR takes this concept and runs with it in a very, 
 very big way.
  
  As you progress through the game, you're introduced to the big bad guy who uses his mental powers 
 to control the incredibly intelligent underlings that you'll fight through the majority of the 
 game. There's also this little girl who looks like a direct rip-off from the movies The Grudge 
 or The Ring. However, I don't begrudge the developers for this because it's never been done in 
 a video-game before and she's really scary. Ghosts of dead people wander the halls (yes, YOU see 
 dead people) , dead bodies litter the various locations you're sent to investigate, and every once 
 in awhile you're teleported to a spooky hallway where footsteps echo, bloody footprints litter 
 the floor and, oh yeah, the ceiling is a flowing river of blood that drools down the walls. Did 
 I mention this game is scary?
  
  The sound is where the game will truly make you wet yourself. If you have a Soundblaster X-Fi (any 
 of them) , the position and quality of the sound is so good that it makes your heart race just to 
 hear what might be coming down the hall toward you. The X-Fi also makes placing your enemies aurally 
 extremely easy and gives you quite the edge up on figuring out where they might be.
  
  All in all, FEAR is an excellent game. Though it doesn't evolve the FPS genre much, the introduction 
 of terrifying events and really good enemy AI makes this game a must-buy for anyone who's a fan 
 of good FPS like the Half-Life series. Pardon me while I go cower in the corner and suck my thumb 
 for a few more hours -- FEAR really got to me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zzacck
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 3, 2005 11:33 am PT
Review:  this is defenetly the freakiest game I have ever played I know a kid named alex he used to be my 
 friend and when I went to go check on him he was passed out!! we took him to a hospital. we almost 
 sewed but my brother said it was worth it even after he fainted. it is one of or even my favoret 
 pc game that I think I ever played. I think it could do a tency tiny bit better on the sound quolity. 
 I know it's not my speakers since I bought brand new omes but over all it's superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8ter_151
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2005 9:10 am PT
Review:  Basically all i can say is this game delivers action to any age i well say and suspence and thrill 
 to your life and the slow mo is another two thumbs up .
  
  SINGLE PLAYER: the single player campaigne is very intense as when u walk around some corners a 
 man well be standing there giving u a chill down your spine or when you see that little girl that 
 playes a extreme roll in the game. 
  
  MULTIPLAYER: i would have to say multiplayer only derserves one thumb as of the gameplay does go 
 buy pretty quick when your getting mowed down by other players. But multiplayer does have its up 
 and downs. They also let u have the slow mo action in it which is by far the coolest thing in games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerguy31315
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 3, 2005 7:35 am PT
Review:  Ok i got the multiplayer demo of FEAR and its amazing, the graphics are sweet and its constant 
 action. There are many different weapons to chose from, each with its pros and cons (which are 
 helpfully listed for you) . There are also weapons u cant spawn with placed around the map. These 
 include rocket type launchers, a beam weapon which is very cool as it disentigrates your target 
 down to his skeleton. The enviornment is amazing, the bullets make cool holes in the wall and knock 
 around objects. Some of the weapons can even tear apart your opponent. With this amazig multiplayer, 
 i can't c how the real game wouldn't be as awesome. Do yoursel a favor, download the multiplayer 
 and/or the singleplayer demo. Check em out then go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GautamIyer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 6:10 am PT
Review:  At first glance, F. E. A. R seemed to digress from the usual run & gun fps genre. With games like 
 Quake 4 and Half life 2 to compete with, it certainly rose to a new level. While the atmosphere 
 in F. E. A. R transcends its genre, it also tends to, "scare the living crap" out of anyone that plays 
 the game. 
  
  Fear tends to delve into the psychological hindrances in the human mind. While games like Doom 
 3, specifically, try to induce scares in us via creepy noises and surprise monster attacks, F. E. A. R 
 works on an entirely different level. It psychologically tramautizes the player until he pretty 
 much can't handle any more. 
  
  The initial few levels don't really portray much as many parts had already been displayed in the 
 demo earlier in the year. The demo, however, left the story undone only for the full version to 
 take its toll on us. 
  
  The gameplay is phenomenal to say the least; however, I felt that the overall difficulty of the 
 game was rather easy. I played the majority of the game on high difficulty and a bit on extreme 
 and despite doing so, I beat the game with relative ease. The AI is simply amazing and I actually 
 felt proud when I outsmarted a group of clones (they have a specific name but I forget) into an 
 ambush just to finish them off; however, there were too many med kits lying around and most of 
 the time, I was always in full supply.
  
  Overall the gameplay was magnificent and the graphics were top notch. The "fear factor" had a helping 
 hand as well in transcending this game beyond many others. My only qualms with the game was that 
 it was relatively easy to beat (especially the final level) . 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: knowledgewizard
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 2, 2005 9:05 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. has been surrounded with much hype since its first appearence; from its great storyline, 
 fantastic sound and drop dead gorgeous graphics to that creepy aftereffect from play the game.
 
  
  F. E. A. R would have seemed like your other FPS with nothing new. In fact, F. E. A. R has redefined 
 the way FPS have to be like. F. E. A. R. boasts a storyline that can rival or even surpass that of 
 Half-life 2's and not forgetting that creepy little girl in red dress that constantly haunts you 
 throughout the game. Another winning point in F. E. A. R is its incredibly intelligent AI no other 
 game or gamer has ever seen. They think. A hell lot. They know how to change tactics dynamically, 
 like flanking or creating a assault formation. They know how to utilise the environment they are 
 in to their advantage .. they hear and see too. Knock down an object and you'd probably have alerted 
 them to your presence ... Shine your flashlight in the next room or corridor and you'd better prepare 
 for a dog-fight.
  
  Unlike other FPS games which allow to fill all nine slots of weapons, F. E. A. R only allows you a 
 maximum of three weapons. Measly? I think not. Gone are the days when pistols are considered the 
 most pathetic and  weapon. Every weapon in this game has been 
 very welled balanced so that every weapon you carry has an advantage to it. Another winning feature 
 is probably Slowmo (ala Matrix) . The protagonist's reflexes are insane, allowing you to dodge bullets 
 and have advanced accuracy over your enemies. With this you can also carry out your kung-fu (scissors 
 kick, slide kick and bicycle kick just to name a few) . It adds a new depth to FPS games. The bullet 
 time effect is also beautiful as you can see how bullets and grenades warp space and time. It's 
 just god-damn cool. The addition of the supernatural injects fear as the game's name suggests. 
 The little red girl that constantly appears when you least expect is just creepy and sometimes 
 shocking. The game call only be fully understood when played (Incentive to buy the game isn't it?)
 
  
  Moving on to graphics, the game is just plain beautiful with its realistic lightings and environments. 
 The implementation of soft shadowing also contributes heavily to the game's creepy atmosphere. 
 Gun shots and explosions are realistic and particle effects are just one of the best you'd ever 
 see in games now. Blurring is used heavily in the game to give a stylistic look. Neat.
  
  Sound in this game is just off the charts. The sounds are so accurately portrayed in every way 
 you'd probably feel that you're immersed in the game's world. Once again, it all creates the creepy 
 atmosphere that is F. E. A. R (little girl's giggles are what you'd expect, something that is sure 
 to make your hair stand) .
  
  All in all, the game's satisfyingly long campaign and game play features are sure to keep you mesmerised 
 for the time being til a better FPS comes out. This is one game all gamer's should get (granted 
 your computer is powerful enough) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exclusiveburner
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2005 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Im gonna make this short and sweet. 
  
  Pro's
  - Shootouts in this game are amazing, shell casings droping, chunks of wall flying in every direction 
 and realistic feel to the gun your wielding.
  - Graphics are great in this game which improve the realism, depeding on your computer will depend 
 on how good you can experience this
  - Weapons are pretty good (especially the grenades) i thought theyre could of been a few more but 
 once you get a grip for those pistols you'll never want to go back
  - Blood/Gore in this game is great as well, adds to the realistic factor of taking a shotgun shell 
 to the skull. Explosive bodies are always a plus with me also
  - SDK modding tools add more fun to the game but they're hasent been too many mods b/c it was only 
 realeased a week or so ago.. so wait sum more and we'll see
  
  Con's
  - Multiplayer is pretty weak with your basic game types, easily could have been expanded and more 
 maps added, but the modding tools have also been released and expansion is always there if your 
 up to it.
  - Single player was great but very short with a semi weak story at that. I cant lie i still play 
 it but the story just wasnt enough for me to pay attention, so im just in it for the fire fights
 
  - Overall the game is meant to be played on pretty good computers, and isnt as optimized as games 
 like Half Life 2, but this is a Next Gen game so what can you expect.. time to upgrade
  
  I gave it a 9.0 which is very good because this is simply the best game i've played since Socom 
 2, most reviewers throw around Perfect 10's like its nothing but this is one of those games that 
 once you play you never wanna go back to playing anything that looks less pretty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 2, 2005 12:13 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R.  first Encounter Assault Reconnaissance is undoubtedly the game of the year 2005. Why 
 for three reasons.
  First one is its incredible visuals though some areas are look like other games that doesnt affect 
 the game at all. The damage effects after each fight are just eye catching you can do damage to 
 almost all objects in the game. The slow motion effects are just great. 
  Second one is the sounds because there is a horror theme behind the game and the sounds are sometimes 
 gives you horror feelings other times some good you can hear some good music tracks that are well-matched 
 to the game situations.
  And the last and the best one is the enemy A. I. its the best among this years game and best for 
 all times up to now. While playing the single player missions you have to think that you are playing 
 against human not against bot. They will work as a true team against you and there attitude and 
 combat style is just remarkable.
  Besides these reasons its a straight forward FPS game with some great levels and some of them 
 are a bit confusing though but its the part of this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 2, 2005 11:39 am PT
Review:  Great graphics & environmental sound, combined with a decent (for a FPS) and creepy single player 
 storyline, with excellent gameplay. OK....... a number of F. E. A. R.' s gameplay elements have "been 
 there, done that", but as they're implemented in F. E. A. R. they strike a unique balance giving a 
 unique gameplay experience. The weapons are fun to use (the exception to the great sound is the 
 weapons........ they're strictly "Toys R Us") , and your ability to carry them is limited enough 
 to add to the challenge of playing this game. The slo mo effects are cool, and quite useful when 
 encountering multiple enemies, who BTW are reasonably smart, and quite aggressive. F. E. A. R. has 
 both save points and quick saves, in effect, giving it an unlimited save capability. NOTE: parents 
 reading this........ the language is definitely adult in places........... you may wish to consider 
 this, and the graphic horror and combat elements, before exposing those delicate little psyches 
 to F. E. A. R. If you liked HL2 you'll like F. E. A. R. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Autaron
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 2, 2005 8:53 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is such a great game especially the graphics really amazes you. You would need the best 
 new hardware if you want to run this game in high performance, and even then you could experience 
 times when the frame rate is low.
  One of the things in this game that is really amazing is the Artificial Intelligence. The computer 
 acts like a real human being would do. They will tip tables over to protect themselves and attack 
 more aggressively if you are totally outnumbered. Another thing I must add is the beauty of grenades. 
 It looks truly amazing when a grenade explodes. It is hard to explain but you can actually see 
 waves coming out from the blast destroying everything.
  The game has a real tense and realistic touch to it, and it really gives you the feeling that you 
 are actually there. Bullets really make a mess, as chunks of concrete will be torn out of the walls 
 when you hit them and boxes will blast into pieces.
  F. E. A. R. will definitely be just the game for you if you like fps games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marco1402
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2005 7:54 am PT
Review:  I was happily surprised by the way they tried to inweave a story-line into this game. I'm not sure 
 if i understood it entirely at the end of it, but it was kind of a unique feature. You feel like 
 you walk slowly towards answers to some questions about yourself (the character) , and that keeps 
 you going. It reminded my a bit of the way the story is told in Max Payne.
  
  The fights themselves are difficult and strainfull. That's mostly because every time you shoot 
 your gun it will backfire a little. And that makes you having to re-aim constantly. Add this to 
 the fact that your enemies will go down only after you have shot them several times... It makes 
 the fights both more realistic and frustrating sometimes. A shooter shouldn't be easy, and i thought 
 it to be a welcome way of creating realism in the gameplay.
  
  As for the graphics, they are very well done, if you have the hardware that can support all the 
 features. That's maybe one of the few minor downsides of this game. They make you need to upgrade 
 your system... again!
  The music and sound in the game is perfect. 
  
  If you have played a lot of other shooters before, you will notice that ideas introduced by those 
 shooters, reappear in this one. There is the way of telling the story in fragments delivered in 
 packages by notes or recordings along the way. In this game telephone messages left in the office 
 buildings will tell some of the story. These kinds of deja-vu's will make you feel that this is 
 not a revolutionary game. For that reason this game wont be an "all time classic" I guess. But 
 an enjoyable one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddarkedge
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 2, 2005 6:40 am PT
Review:  What a game, the physics and gameplay are intense BUT i had to stop playing = ( Reason? My PC just 
 couldnt handle it. It is such a demanding game.
  There are so many Graphics settings to edit but as soon as i started messing with those the lighting 
 cut out and areas that were supposed to be dark became fully lit. 
  
  Not really worth playing unless you have a PC on the cutting edge.
  Otherwise, felt fully amazing 
 for as much as i played. But i couldnt handle the lag of firing a gun and waiting for my crappy 
 PC to load the impact decals!!! ARGH! How depressing.
  
  So, im saving it untill i build another PC... =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2005 4:00 am PT
Review:  I played this game and boy did I felt good.
  
  Gameplay: Unbelivible. You have this tons of weapons, the areas are big and you can slow time like 
 the Matrix. How cool is that?
  
  Graphics: Beautiful. The weapons look almost perfect and the areas are beautiful.
  
  Sound: 
 The sound of the weapons is the same sound as any shooter game but the slow time sound is the best.
 
  
  Value: You can play for hours and hours trying to finish the game. The storyline is very long and 
 the online can last forever.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is almost the best shooter game out there and you should definitely 
 go and try this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pironic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2005 11:16 pm PT
Review:  The game takes you through what im calling phases... of gunfire and then complete silence. The 
 silence it takes you through are disrupted by flashes of corpses and gives the fealing of being 
 in a nightmare. The fealing in the game reminds me alot of Vampire: Masqerade the bloodlines when 
 you have to go through the haunted house, except the ghosts and creepy disruptions dont hurt you, 
 ever. 
  
  If the apparitions were to hurt you a little more i think it would become a lot more intense, but 
 after a while its the same little girl doing the same creepy things... and it gets predictable. 
 Not something you want from a horror game. The fire fights are deffinatly something to be revered 
 in this game though...
  
  After triggering your slowmo and going ape **** on a crowd of unsuspecting 'gaurds' and maybe 'stapling' 
 few to the wall with your penetrator, you can take a step back and thank the creators of this game 
 for their inginuity. The ammount of detail they put into the fire fights is astonishing. With EAX 
 enabled sound you can even hear their caseings hit the floor as they shoot past you. 
  
  Throughout the game you are given little hints of who you are and where you came from as well... 
 which the game does not start off with. The plot of other characters is not the only one that is 
 developed in this game.
  
  Downsides? repetative ... repetative ... repatative... sorry. Not enough dynamic to the level designs 
 in the game. each office room looks identical to the last one and you start getting the feeling 
 that you've already been here before after a while of walking around. The gaurds you kill become 
 droll, as they arn't changing from the last gaurds tactics and they become very predictable.
  
  Overall i thought the game was a nice, but lacked more story... maybe this one was rushed out 
 by sierra for the holidays? and on that note of it being released by sierra, you can really get 
 the fealing that your in a half-life maintence shaft at many points in the game... does this game 
 run on the source engine? ;-)
  
  its a must play, but not a must buy... figure out how your gonna get your copy . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFmasterVII
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2005 9:41 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is perfect, the graphics are amazing, the sound is great, it is an all around incredible 
 experience. I love this game. I'm not even gonna write a long review about it becuz im wasting 
 valuable time that i could be using to play F. E. A. R. Just don't hesitate, this is a must have. 
 Period. End of Story. Go get off your lazy **** asses and go buy the damn game, u wont regret it. 
 In faact, the only thing you'll regret is that you didn't buy it earlier than you did. I can't 
 believe u actually read this whole thing when u could be out buyin it and gettin home to play it. 
 See ya, I'm gonna go play it myself.
  
  P. S. - If possible, I highly recomend the director's cut DVD version, it rocks hard! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sooske_pa_talay
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 4:02 am PT
Review:  6 month ago i was seeing fear image on game spot and i had no idea what may come 6 month later. 
 it's a little late for fear review cause everyone know how great this game is. but i just finished 
 it for the third time and know some thing more....
  first of all fear has a Great Story like HL series. it follow you to the end when all the door open 
 to you and you will know every thing and some of them is really shocking!!! but for sure you forget 
 some thing and this is the result you must play it for the second time or maybe third.
  F. E. A. R isn't really horrible you will not see scary face or something like this in the game. Doom 
 3 is a good example of how scary moments can come over and over and become boring. in doom 3 when 
 you enter a room you know some thing will happen and it always happen but in F. E. A. R things are 
 different. this fear always follow you ... you said to yourself all the time "she come now.. she 
 will come from that place and ...." .
  your flashlight you check your batteries all the time... you don't want to catch by the dark when 
 your batteries are low cause something may and running to you but it doesn't happen always most 
 of the time you are just scary but nothing really happen ,and Alma knows the best time to scary 
 you. when you play fear even for the third you will really scary for some moment. that god damn unknown 
 origin ... when it come you will know something will happen you ready yourself to be relax but.......................... 
 . one of the moment you are walking in one of those empty office and then you see that un known 
 origin ,the phone ringing ,you look to your left, that girl crawl to you and then disappear .. left 
 you behind your pc ... you cant do anything for some second you reallllly scared ,shocked.
  Music: it cant be better, Awesome one of the best game's musics. it don't stop always playing and 
 stick with you all the time make you more and more ready for what may come.
  graphic is really great... models are well designed every thing looks as it must be. dynamics are 
 just look real every thing floating in the air. 
  shadows , it isn't like doom 3 , you will see every thing but it really make a creep atmosphere.
 
  and the fast pace shooting you don't think of the target ,i mean you will not shoot the heads 
 like other games ,you don't have the time you just click and fire everything you see to take down 
 the enemy as fast as you can.
  let me give you some advises if you do this you will enjoy this game more that the normal:
  play 
 this game at night ,turn off the lights all of them, turn up the sound ,play this game without save 
 or quick save use the check point and auto saves it really make more fun ,when you hear soldiers 
 say"FlashLight" it scare you same as Alma running to you!!! And don't use slow mo ,try killing 
 soldiers without using it and you will see how Fast shootings are. use it when you really need it 
 !!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinky51575
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 30, 2005 2:15 am PT
Review:  This is by far one of the best shooters I have ever played. Only problem is for me to get the best 
 I can from this game I am going to have to update my computer. This might be the best reason I 
 have yet for that new Geforce 7800 graphics card I have been wanting. Yes folks, this might just 
 be better then HALO. But I would not go as far to say it is better then Call of Duty. I am still 
 tweaking the settings, I love the fact that you can test your game play settings, no longer do 
 you have to go in and out of the game till you grafics and sound are set just right. I can not 
 wait to get back and start some more hunting and killing, one of the most addictive games I have 
 played to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reallife_batman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 29, 2005 9:55 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is scary, it is haunting and it is thrilling. It is also short. The singleplayer took me personally 
 4 hours to complete, the first time through. Whilst the game does have alot of movie likeness I 
 expected more for my money in terms of length.
  The graphics are amazing however, and very well optimised considering the quality. Shadows, lights... 
 its all there and really amps up the scary bits.
  Sound is great as well, the enemy footsoldiers often can be heard giving orders to eachother and 
 it always brings a smile to my face when I hear them say "Where did he go?!"
  The multiplayer is nothing special, it is good and it is fun but it isn't like Quake IV or Counter-Strike 
 and realistically I only played Multiplayer for 2 hours before going back to CSS.
  The game is worth it, treat it like a movie, something that is great to sit down on a weekend and 
 play through. Don't expect it to remain on your Hard Drive too long though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xdancexyayxnayx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 29, 2005 11:57 am PT
Review:  Ok ALL my reviews are done when i finish a game and are written with +/- points
  
  + Graphics (Great looking game if you have a good pc)
  + Gameplay (Great gameplay and a nice 
 length)
  + Physics (Great physics/Game engine, i know alot of games have the ragdoll physics now but they 
 still amaze me)
  + Story (One of the few games this year were i had to watch the story aswell little girl freaks 
 me out)
  + Replay Value (One of the few games i have brought this year that i will defo be going back for 
 more to)
  
  - Content (Not alot that has not been done before but its all done very well) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saikokitten
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2005 6:47 am PT
Review:  What is there to say that hasn't been covered indepth already by other reviews? This is one of 
 my favourite games of the year. Great AI, good graphics, great story, excellent scares, it kept 
 me glued to the seat until I finished it.
  
  My only "complaints" would be that the game is too easy (played on the Hard setting) , and could 
 have been a little longer. The multiplayer could do with a bit of work through patches. Those are 
 minor compared to the amount of enjoyment I got from this game. I highly recommend this game to 
 any gamer, especially if you like FPS games, and if you're a fan of Japanese horror. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxdemobster
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  OVERALL: Combine Half-Life 2, Enter the Matrix, DOOM3 and The Ring and you will have F. E. A. R.
 
  
  GAME PLAY: From the beginning to the end, I enjoyed this game very much. Amazing story, which is 
 somewhat similar to the movie The Ring, but is perfectly integrated in this game along with the 
 story of the evil, that ATC (Armacham Technology Corporation) has unleashed and is actually responsible 
 for this mess. Although was this story of involvement of a mega-corporation used in some other 
 games (like DOOM3 - UAC was responsible for Hellstorm) , someone had a really good idea of the mutiny 
 of clone soldiers and psychic commander.
  Other good things are that you will not have to always fight - sometimes you will have to explore 
 certain area and although there will be no enemies, someone will always be watching you. It will 
 even appear in front of you for a brief of moment and will quickly disappear. The next thing is 
 that you will get accustomed in this game - the character is quite    emotional   acceptable fiction 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kid_Righteous
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 28, 2005 4:45 pm PT
Review:  GRAPHICS :
  From The Beautiful Looking Water , To The Great Shadow , And Lighting. This Game Truely Has Next 
 Generation Graphics That Should Never Be Overlooked. 
  To Truely Enjoy The Beauty This Game Has To Offer , Your Really Going To Need A Very Powerful System 
 , This Game Was Meant To Be Played In High Quality.
  
  GAMEPLAY :
  This Game Has Some Of The Best Firefights I Have Encountered In Any FPS.
  After 5 Or 6 Hours 
 Of Playing , It Can Get Repetitive. The Physics Engine In This Game Is Really What Makes The Firefights 
 Look Nothing Short Of Amazing. When You Shoot An Enemy , They Truely React How They Should , From 
 Flying Back Suddenly From A Shotgun Blast , To The Splitting Of Limbs Caused By Fragmentation Grenades 
 , It Really Is Amazing To Watch.
  
  SOUND:
  They Did An Amazing Job On The Soundwork. From The Guns , To The Ambience , In All You Will Be 
 Struck In Awe.
  
  ENVIRONMENT:
  You Will Pretty Much Be Playing In The Same Looking Levels Throughout The Game. Bland , Empty , 
 Warehouse Looking Levels. In All They Get To Be A Bit Boring. This Game Is Very Dark ! , Maybe 
 The Darkness Was Thought To Over Look The Levels , So They Did Not Have To Make A Vast Quantity 
 Of Level Variety ? Who Knows.
  
  MULTIPLAYER :
  This Is Where I Really Found Enjoyment , The Multiplayer Is Amazing.
  Thats All You Need To Know.
 
  
  IN THE END:
  I Really Think You All Should Go Out And Give This Game A Shot. Its Worth It. 80% Percent Of You 
 Will Not Be Dissapointed , For The Rest , Theres Nothing Really I Can Say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hemanoob
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 28, 2005 1:51 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games this year. On my personal list. World of warcraft is the only game 
 that beat this. It is a amazing FPS game. The graphic is fantastic. but I heard it was better then 
 it actually was. The AI is incredible. Sometimes it feels like one is running around and fighting 
 a bundch of crazy Einsteins. Anyway. the story is kinda weak, but i scares the **** out of you. 
 I waked the entire house by screaming while i played this game. This is probably one of the best 
 FPS game ever. And defintly the best FPS game this year. A must have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnlivedPhalanx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Fresh from Monolith comes a game with a very dingy, very creepy feel. F. E. A. R. is the First Encounter 
 Assault Recon team who are deployed into situations that are considered paranormal. Armed with 
 an assortment of weapons to fight whatever evil you face, as a part of the First Encounter Assault 
 Recon you will often be presented with situations that are somewhat awry, or out of place in a 
 creepy manner.
  
  The situation is this: A commander named Paxton Fettle has taken control of a battalion of clone 
 (referred to as replica) soldiers and started what seems like a random attack on various people 
 and buildings. Lines start to be connected and it appears that Fettle has been targeting employees 
 of Armacham Corporation. Known for aerospace defense and recon, Armacham had started a project 
 named Origin the purpose of which is still a mystery. The company had to shut down and quarantine 
 the place due to some abnormal things occurring down there. Oddly enough, Armacham had decided 
 to reopen the area recently but since no one came back out to report again, they shut it down yet 
 again. Now a psychic commander has taken the forces and tried to wipe out Armacham employees and 
 you need to find out why.
  
  While F. E. A. R. plays just like any other first person shooter out there with the noticeable exception 
 of matrix style bullet-time gunplay. In the game you can hit a key that will momentarily put you 
 into a slow motion (your reflexes) . This gives you a noticeable edge in a frantic gunfight, or 
 any gunfight for that matter. As you progress through the game you will find boosters that will 
 increase the time you can use your slow motion powers for, although it seems that the recharge 
 time remains the same and does not increase.
  
  Another thing that sets F. E. A. R. apart from any other first person shooter is the melee attacks. 
 You can do flying dropkicks in the game! Also, FEAR manages to pull of the creepy setting really 
 well. It isnt tacky or stupid; the creepy stuff in the game really comes from your own imagination 
 while you play in the dark late at night. Sometimes in the game if your room is dead silent, there 
 are some audio parts of FEAR that will literally make you jump.
  
  There is a nice assortment of weaponry in FEAR and most of them are diverse and interesting. The 
 GA8 Assault Rifle and the SMG are fairly similar, while the HV Penetrator and the Type 7 Particle 
 Rifle are extremely dissimilar. The variety of weapons is one thing that makes FEAR such an awesome 
 game, not only are the weapons different but each employ a different tactic to use, adding that 
 much more to the game.
  
  A nice little thing done with the game is the puzzle-solving element. Each situation is literally 
 a puzzle and you need to either get around it or find some way to proceed. F. E. A. R. never uses 
 block pushing or any other menial task that most other games use as filler. Most of the puzzles 
 will vary from trying to sneak past mounted turrets to figuring out a way to kill a certain enemy 
 or trying to find the unlock control for a gate.
  
  F. E. A. R. is the perfect combination of action, horror, suspense, and mystery. Sometimes playing 
 the game feels a bit like a re-run of things similar to The Ring, but never manages to stoop down 
 to the level of the clich spooks and such that the movie uses.
  
  One of the only setbacks is the fact the game is a bit of a system hog. If you dont have a top 
 of the line, most advanced PC you can find then you might be disappointed with some performance 
 or graphical issues. It takes a monster of a PC to run this game with every setting cranked all 
 the way up.
  
  Overall F. E. A. R. is one of those rare games you simply cannot miss, since it feels like a next-gen 
 game come early. I would heavily recommend this game if you have the computer to stomach it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: badgerman92
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 1:40 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is the best horror game i have ever played, it does not cheaply try to scare you. 
  The gameplay is great, and killing has NEVER been so much fun before! you can shoot heads off (if 
 you have a shotgun) and kick them around! Too hard to get a good shot? Use slow-motion! in this 
 game, its not everythings slow but you, its EVERYTHING is slow including you, but it does a lot 
 more than you would expect to your aim. 
  there is one part of the game where there is blood on the ceiling, and, if you have your graphics 
 settings high enough, shooting it will make blood ooze down from it, its awesome! Graphics are 
 amazing, shooting lights will make the light move, along with the effect, shoot a projector, same 
 effect! 
  sound quality is great, and the music is fantastic, my favorite is the same as the developers, 
 the music at the starting cimatic.
  most cimatics take place from a controllable first person veiw, like hl2. the DVD extras are OK 
 7/10 developer commentary has no rewind or fast forward so if you have to leave it for a reason 
 like, a bomb has been planted in your house and you need to diffuse it, you have to watch all the 
 way through again to get to your part, and that sucks because its like, 10 hours long, how you 
 you even have that much time on your hands in a day to watch it anyway? developer commentary is 
 the main reason i gave the DVD extras a 7/10. i give this fantastical game 9.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodootree
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 8:50 am PT
Review:  Innitially it took some effort to handle the ambiance. Seriously - I was scared out of my witts 
 more than once early on... I even hurt my toe in a rediculous reflex-induced kick once. Sadly, 
 we get used to things. We acclamate, and the designers of this game failed to raise the bar enough 
 to maintain that apprehension. By the end of the game I was relaxed and drinking soda while dealing 
 with what (in the early stages) would have had me chain-smoking on the deck with all the lights 
 on.
  
  This isn't the first xcellent game about which I have had this complaint - so I suppose it should 
 be taken with a grain of salt.
  
  Also - I like to take ambiance-intensive games relatively slow (soak it all up, if you will) , and 
 take advantage of lethal head shots with low power, yet accurate, weapons. It's a silly complaint 
 - but I was frustrated with how useless the pistol was. And then there's my standard complaint 
 about almost every FPS: This guy can run indefinately while carrying 100 pounds of equipment arount 
 with him, jump to vertically (at least) 3 feet in the air - but can't do a pull-up? I can do none 
 of those things (even without the gear) but can do a bunch of pull-ups. I know its a game and I 
 know everything you are about to say - BUT - Lara Croft could do pull-ups... and she's a girl ;) .
 
  
  On the up side: The AI was impressive (though they need to shut up - as they kept advertizing how 
 impressive they were being - which made them not so impressive) , and combat is very enjoyable (especially 
 with the hand-to-hand abilities) .
  
  Overall - a really good game . Don't let the fact that it isn't the end-all-be-all of FPS games 
 and the fact that I won't be pleased until we REALLY feel like we are IN the game deter you from 
 playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: User_13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 7:59 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. blew me away. Not many games do that. F. E. A. R. is a very unique and fun game. You'll get 
 your money's worth if you buy this game, especially the director's cut, which has lots of extras 
 about the game.
  
  Now, moving on. F. E. A. R. takes place in modern time, in a modern world. There are no futuristic 
 laser beams. There are no dropships. It's just hard-core, bullets flying everywhere, sparks igniting, 
 and glass breaking. 
  
  I love the gameplay in F. E. A. R. F. E. A. R.'s gameply is very deep, it sucks you in, and you won't 
 want to leave. The enviroment is dark and eerie, making the game very tense. You'll jump at the 
 slightest sound. You'll shoot at the next moving shadow you see. It's very immersive. There are 
 even some creepy flashbacks, like those in Max Payne or The Suffering. 
  
  The graphics depend on your PC. Got a high-end gaming monster? Great! Now you'll enjoy F. E. A. R.'s 
 graphics along with it's gameplay. If you don't want to shovel thousands of dollars into your computer, 
 you may not like the low graphics setting in F. E. A. R. Low graphics means choppy characters and 
 animations, but the game runs very smoothly on low graphics.
  
  The sound is amazing. Go and watch the movie you're most afraid of, and listen carefully to the 
 sound. F. E. A. R.'s sound will blow it away. Lights flicker and crackel, rifles spurt out short bursts 
 of bullets, and constant eerie whispers help your inner-most fear scream. It really is a great 
 sounding game, I don't think I've heard a horror game that sounds better.
  
  The A. I. is the best part of this game. The A. I. is extremely smart. You won't believe how smart 
 the soldiers are in combat. They anticipate your moves and try to counter-act them. They communicate 
 often, checking in to see how many squad members are still alive in a firefight. Depending on how 
 many are left, they'll react in different ways. They aren't brain-dead at all, and you'll have 
 a blast playing against such a smart enemy.
  
  Multiplay is very fun to play. It's fast paced and the adrenaline keeps pumping through you as 
 you move through the level, looking for your next target. The maps are fun to play, and generally 
 the competition will be tough. You'll get a good challenge every match.
  
  Overall, this game gets a 9.3 in my book. With it's unbelieveable graphics, sound, and gameplay, 
 F. E. A. R. is a must buy for all you FPS/horror fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game__Spy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 28, 2005 5:06 am PT
Review:  Firstly the game is a system hog mainly because of the amount of blood and other particles effects 
 that are constant through every fire fight there is in the game. People need the best of the best 
 to play the game therfore they couldn't create even more lushous enviroments to wander in. The 
 A. I is easliy one of the best ever, with the only thing that could come close to it is Metal Gear 
 Solid 2. Whether it be spliting into groups of two to search for you, or use cover and work as 
 a team. Squads literally scream orders to other team mates and the sound almost makes you feel 
 there. Personally I'm not a fan of scary games, however even with those heart stopping moments 
 and the eerie atmosphere presented almost all the time in F. E. A. R. It also has some of the best 
 fire fights someone will see in a long time to come, with blood staining the area, dust, concrete 
 and wood particles flying all over the place as each bullet comes flying towards you. Slow-mo is 
 also another feature of the game, despite many games trying to incorperate this and failing, F. E. A. R 
 dose an astonishing job with the ripples of air shown through the explosions of grenades and blullets 
 "Ripping" through the air. It also has a solid campaign, and some really intresting mutiplayer 
 maps and types of ways to play it. In conclusion this is one of the best first person shoot 'em 
 ups this year and it has been well worth the wait for something as brilliant as F. E. A. R 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antibody007
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 27, 2005 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Good graphics although again the maps are limited in size and type. The AI is good and so the single 
 player game is challenging in the harder levels. The types of characters and weapons are limited 
 and nothing you've not already seen. I liked the unarmed combat feature which allows you to sneak 
 up on an opponent and silently take him out, which is useful in multiplayer games so that you don't 
 give away your location. The particle effects are good and I was able to turn on full graphics 
 using a laptop 6800 GO card. Although, it is a memory hog, and I had to upgrade from 512Mb to over 
 1Gb to obtain smooth animation. The single player game is fairly short and the multiplayer games 
 are slowly reducing in player numbers as gamers move on to other games, try and get a second-hand 
 copy if you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcio_castro
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 27, 2005 10:54 am PT
Review:  If you have fear of darkness, dont play F. E. A. R. This game is cool  its environment, sound, music 
 and a strange girl visions make you are frightened. 
  The sound of gunshots is amazing, and music starts at the right moment to create a scary scene. 
 
  You are a soldier from special paranormal force and you have outstanding reflexes. A secret base 
 has a problem with a psycho commander and you must stop him. During the game, you understand that 
 the real story is another.
  Enemys AI is very good, but there are only 4 types of enemy soldiers. In single player mode, its 
 possible to end the game in 10 hours  short time, its true, but the final compensates this feature. 
 
  The graphics are good but demands a powerful graphics card to medium quality of resolution and 
 textures. 
  Multiplayer mode is like others from same genre but with the scary atmosphere.
  The only thing to comment is storyline and at the end you can think theres something to be explained 
 better. At Gamers Temple site (www. gamerstemple. com) theres an explanation about the game and 
 I transcribed here  if you dont know about this before you play, please dont read this! 
  In summary, its a excellent game that combines action with scare at right proportion. Enjoy!
 
  
  From Gamers Temple
  
  You, the main character, were the first prototype created in the Origin project. Fettel was your 
 brother, as you were both conceived by Alma.
  Alma was Harlan Wade's daughter, and she was used as a maturation chamber for the Origin prototypes. 
 After it was discovered that Alma could still reach out to Fettel, despite being unconscious, Origin's 
 directors decided to kill Alma, and seal her body in that giant sphere within the Vault. This much 
 is told to us in the game, but then things get complicated.
  After the credits roll, Genevieve Aristide is heard making a phone call to the Senator, stating 
 that the first prototype was a success. You can interpret this to be in reference to the main character. 
 Knowing this, it is plausible that the entire point of the game was an extreme test of the prototype's 
 abilities, and that Aristide, with the Senator's help, created the situation purposefully by re-opening 
 the Vault. This isn't a far-fetched conclusion, as there was a message left on a phone within the 
 game that stated Genevieve had called the Senator to bring in military troops. Under the guise 
 of a hostage taking at the Armacham building, the Senator provided the prototype with ample soldiers 
 to test his skills on. That soldier is you, and assuming you beat the game, you performed up to 
 expectations.
  
  This interpretation sounds like Resident Evil 2 story.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shrade12
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 26, 2005 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Pretty decent but wait for the price to go down. It claims a lot of things and really is a lot 
 of half-hearted promises. It's redeeming qualities are a Max-Payne esque first-person bullet time 
 sort of skill that is needed to kill your enemies because the character can't run for jack. The 
 story is pretty dry with the stale horror/rambo plot. The multiplayer is just straight up deathmatch 
 which can be fun for an amount of time but is more of a serious FPS than a real good time. I'd 
 say the game is worth a good $39.99, and realize that like Doom 3 it relies more on its graphics 
 and gameplay than story and interactivity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeevan1983
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2005 1:20 pm PT
Review:  .. this is definately something worth looking into try combining max payne, doom 3 and any kung fu 
 movie u can think off ... yep consider getting a surround sound system with a sound card -creative 
 and trust me... u're going to get spooked till the very end... there are some parts that did spook 
 me out and make the hair on the back of my neck stand up and a wierd cold feeling...
  if u're a doom fan you would definately want to play this game cause it rocks defiantely rocks 
 
  ps there is no little girl under your bed.. nor in your closet.... it's just in your head 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yorkieay
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 26, 2005 12:26 pm PT
Review:  I liked the idea of this game from the pro reviews i read. But what i dissappointment when played. 
 No real variety, obscure story, and nothing particully new in the weaponry or enviropnments. I 
 became a little bit bored with this to be honest.. Great graphics and atmosphere saved this game 
 but played much better games (Farcry, Half Life 1 or 2) . This is the first time i've written a 
 review just because I felt I had too. The Pro reviewers must been a bit drunk whilst playing this 
 one. Sum up. NO REAL STORY. TOO SHORT. TOO EASY. NO VARIETY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hayaja
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 10:13 am PT
Review:  FEAR is the kind of game that makes u want to never go into the place where u saw that little girl, 
 but makes you move on because u know u will be rewarded with one of the best firefights in any 
 FPS. I would havta say that the firefights in FEAR are the best because u get Slo Mo. U can run 
 into a room with a few enemies and then Slo Mo it and waste a clip into three enemies while u run 
 up to another and kick him in the face making him fly across the room. I guess u could call me 
 a wimp because i do get scared easily from games thats why i dont buy scary games. But one day 
 my brother bought FEAR and i decided to try it out. Once i got past the first mission i loved the 
 game. If ur looking ofr a new horror or action FPS this is the game to go with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari20091
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 26, 2005 7:02 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R a new top of the line 1st person shooter with amazing graphics. The graphic may be top 
 of the line but is not what makes this game unique. The game is like a horror movie you play in. 
 The graphics make it realistic and movie like and with the lights off may make on jump out of their 
 seats. The only problem with the game is there are many cinematics throughout the game a little 
 to many as a matter of fact. Other than that the game is awsome, scary and very realistic. The 
 game is worth the good graphics card you will need to play it and the amount you will spend in 
 stores to buy the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ab0o
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 26, 2005 2:22 am PT
Review:  Do you like great fps game's? Do you like to jump out of your chair? Then this is a game for you 
 my friend! No it arent that scary, it's just pulse driving like hell! But who dont like that?: D.. 
 I highly recommend this game for all fps lovers; it's the best fps game in a while. i can only 
 tell that "Half-Life 2" it's way greater. 
  
  "Graphics good", "sound's amazing", "gameplay; OH MY GOD", "Value; after some hours the its quiet 
 the same, then you just go on routine"!
  
  So Long And Thanks For All The Fish!
  
  Have a nice time with this game!
  
  Over and out!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minhveryhard
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2005 11:59 pm PT
Review:  This is a perfect game. It contains Horror and Action Thriller!
  Gameplay: 
  It's not only shoot and run but it has hand to hand combat like slidekick or punch with a gun. 
 And when Alma appears, it's really SCARY. And the Multiplayer too, sometimes are very funny like 
 when you are shooting suddenly a beautiful kick make you "bit the dust" immediately.
  Graphics:
  The graphics are surprisingly GREAT. I love this game because it's graphics are much 
 much better than the other game like Half-Life 2. But it recomendes a KILLER GRAPHICS CARD like 
 6600-7800 series.
  Sounds:
  Sometmes you will be frighten by the sounds of this game. The sounds are good but there is no music 
 in this game. So Monolith make this game scarier by this part.
  Others:
  This game is a Special gift from Monolith to the FPS fans, I'm sure that they won't disappointed 
 this game. Maybe F. E. A. R. will be the GAME OF THE YEAR in 2005 (WOOT) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alrenchy1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 25, 2005 10:16 pm PT
Review:  We've all played some type of horror survivable game FPS, steath based TPS and just pure shooting 
 game. Well this game has it all beautifully combined in the gameplay. With all this elements althogether 
 makes this game one of the best FPS. It is very emmersive playing the character as you battle out 
 some elite supersoldier and seeing ghost. It creeps on you as if you're in the game itself, try 
 using a 5.1 heaphone with all the lights off. The eye popping candy couldn't have been better, 
 but it's one of the most graphics hungry game to date, requiring the best graphics card out there. 
 I used the BFG 7800 gtx oc sli and this game it just amazing. The lighting are well placed as well 
 as the shadows, and the details are outstanding. One of things that I like about this game is the 
 enemy AI. It's has intelligence and able to compansate your every move. The enemy will work together 
 to take you out and they communicate very well. They used their surroundings during the shootings, 
 they hide behind wall and boxes and sometimes shoot point blank as if they were scared. They give 
 alarms to their comrads and gives orders as well. The sounds of the game are nicely blended to 
 the gameplay. Some sounds are just plain scary and sometimes I thought I was hearing things, once 
 again this game is very emmersive as I've said before. In conclusion, this game is very innovative, 
 setting new standards and might as well a new genre. The visual are eye-popping, the sounds are 
 amazingly creepy and the whole game is worth while playing over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhankeydinks
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2005 2:40 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game I was sure that I would be able to play this on all high graphics. Well 
 it did..... kind of. When I went to check the FPS I averaged 32 FPS. This was not good for me and 
 I could tell that it would chug in huge action sequences. So you can see the only downfall I have 
 with this game is that it is a resource hog and you need a good computer for it. Now for the real 
 review.
  
  First thing you notice when you load the first level is that this game has a very good storyline. 
 The voice acting and cut scenes in this game are phenomenal. You will notice high character res, 
 and the voices are done by the low people in Hollywood the way Half-life 2 actors are. So obviously 
 with the cut scenes and voice overs I have made my point. Which these renditions add more to the 
 immersive value of the game.
  
  Graphics while a resource hog you will notice are great anyways. With shadows on the enemy will 
 see your shadow they will react and get to cover and prepare for the fire fight. I digressed from 
 the point of this paragraph. This game seems to always take place at dusk or in the middle of night, 
 which adds to the immersion of this creepy game. When something blows up and a fire erupts it looks 
 like a fire erupts. Water reflects the way it would if you were at a pool and light was bouncing 
 off of it. It is hard to describe graphics for a very exceptional game, basically it is very good, 
 and brick walls look like real brick. Guns look very nice, not sure if sounds are authentic but 
 thats soon be talked about. Basically graphics wise you will not be disappointed with this game 
 unless you have to run it on low graphics.
  
  Sounds in the game are nice, in between fire fights there is creepy music and whispering from the 
 little girl and Fettle. More on them later. You will hear your footsteps change with the change 
 in ground from concrete to water it all changes. The only things I wonder about is are the gun 
 sounds authentic. It makes me worry if they invented those sounds or if they are real. Otherwise 
 the guns have their nice sounds which will vibrate off the walls. The sounds in this game if turned 
 all the way up and you have all your lights out and you are alone in a room will send you for a 
 shiver hear and there. Just remembering creepy little girls and men possessed by those girls whispering 
 is always creepy.
  
  For once I can talk about a storyline in a game. I won't give a way much though. All you need to 
 know is this game is Half-Life 2 meets The Ring. You are a soldier with an unknown name working 
 for FEAR. Uprisings of super human clone soldiers have been taken under control by Fettle. Alma 
 is the little girl of Mr. Wade you will find more on that later, if you play the game. Alma can 
 rip through anyone just by being near them so tread softly and quietly.
  
  Multiplayer for this game isn't that impressive though. Sure its fast paced, you can use slow 
 mo. it has really cool maps. Still not worth playing. Stick to your favorite multiplayer game for 
 now.
  
  This game holds lots of surprises from aspirations of Fettle and Alma in the weirdest and creepiest 
 places. To delusions and quick glances at whats to come before you see it. We finally have a game 
 that can scare people. If you love first person shooters, creepy actions and finally a good story 
 line pick this game up. A must have for Pc Gamers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: javis1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 1:52 pm PT
Review:  WOW.... my feelings about this game are "WOW".... so scaring atmosphere, I was in some situations 
 so afraid... This game is like the movie "the Grudge"... Little bloody girl is passing the corridors.... 
 and you dont know, what is happening.... Only a very inteligent opponent can jump from his barricade... 
 and you are dead...
  My feelings?
  absolute
  breathtaking
  horrible
  terrible
  scaring
  action
  blast!!!
  with very cruel scenes....
  Ive played DOOM III, and I can 
 say.... that was nothing.... but F. E. A. R. scares me everytime if I remember this game...
  my last word: SUPERB!!!!
  F. E. A. R. is this years best FPS!!!!!!
  Check it .... definately..... 
 all FPS fans..... CHECK IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Docto878
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:52 pm PT
Review:  This is a terrific game. It has a great AI and some truly fine weapons. The guns feel powerful 
 and when you hit windows and walls they leave their marks behind. Sometimes you kick up a lot of 
 dirt and have to wait until it clears. Truly a cool effect. In the beginning of the game you seem 
 to have a lot more ammo and health packs but as the game progresses you have less and less resources 
 and you have to manage your arsonal better. There are also some creepy moments with that little 
 girl that seems to pop up at the right times to scare the pants off you and make you waste ammo. 
 So there you have it, great fight scenes, great AI and great weapons. That being said there are 
 some problems. First of all the game is short and I beat in about 10 hours. Also the scenes became 
 very repetitive. At times they were downright monotonous. I mean room after room after room. There 
 were a few times it varied but that was the meat of the game. Also you have to have a nice rig 
 to really see this game in all its glory. I have a P4 with 1GB ram and an ATI 9600se 128mb. I could 
 play it at a descent level, but if you have to go to lower settings than I had you will miss a 
 lot of what it has to offer. I dont understand why that has to be because I played HL2 on high 
 settings and had a great picture wiith no framerate slowdown. Because of the reasons stated I cannot 
 place these games in the category of HL2 or Call of Duty. However it was real close. I recommed 
 the game to any FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robinhood_1983
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:41 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is the long anticipated game from Monolith which blends a First Person Shooter with the Horror 
 genre and comes out smelling like a rose. Graphically the game looks supurb with heat effects, 
 warping from grenade explosions and sparks from riccoshading bullets really making you feel like 
 your in the environment. The level design also feels very authentic with office spaces littered 
 with folders, files, phones, empty coffee mugs, staplers etc, which really helps to immurse the 
 player in the world.
  
  The AI is something special, and although it's possibly scripted it still does a fantastic job 
 of scaring the crap out of you if you don't watch your back. An example of this is when I was pinned 
 down by enemy fire, but while i was taking pot shots back at soldiers one of them snuck around 
 behind my position and let fly with a hail of bullets.
  
  The story is somewhat old. If you've seen any japanese horror films such as "The Grudge" or other 
 films like "The Ring" you'll be quite familiar with the feel of the story in FEAR. But it's done 
 very well and for a FPS is a refreshing change from lacluster stories FPS are used to.
  
  The only item which lets this game down is the some what repetative level design, which is understandable 
 since you really only visit 3 major locations throughout the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitestmanevr
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 23, 2005 5:40 pm PT
Review:  I would say it is the one of the best games to be released this year. The story mode is superb, 
 lasting roughly 18 hours. The difficulty settings are well set and suitable. The multiplayer is 
 highly addictive and a blast; there are a variety of maps, options, and other features that make 
 it worth every dollar. The story was extremely well designed with excellent cut scenes, gameplay 
 (was fanatastic and very immersive) , and characters represented well balanced emotions, voice overs, 
 and acting. Every aspect of this game has been produced with great precision and professionalism. 
 I am impressed by the entire game and recommend it for anyone with a computer (especially gamers 
 with a high end PC) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 23, 2005 5:25 pm PT
Review:  I don't play every shooter around, but I've played my share of the popular one's. Thus anticipation 
 for a shooter that promised some chilling moments with the demo was somewhat high.
  
  And all I can say, is that I wasn't disappointed.
  
  I don't know where to begin. There isn't 
 exactly anything particularry special I'd like to concentrate on, everything was pretty much the 
 way I'd like a shooter to be. Well except for the weapons, for the reason that I'd prefer realistic 
 and preferably "real" weaponry. But kudos for the whoever came up with the weapons, 'cause they 
 were still fine, and for once the pistol (s) didn't turn completely useless after first few scene's. 
 In fact, I kept'em as back-up guns and one-hit-one-kill -kind of weapons, since they were quite 
 accurate afterall.
  
  Graphics are excellent. Only complaint I can think of is the pre-scripted points of wall breaking, 
 so it doesn't completely react to the shots you make, but breaks from pre-destined spots. Fortunately 
 this doesn't jump to your face, unless you try it out.
  
  Sounds are fine too. Sadly my speakers weren't good enough to put out the full chilliness of the 
 sounds of particular moments, but they still were able to deliver the goods well enough to keep 
 me pounding the quicksave button way too often.
  
  The game's story is... well, not great, but it's still quite decent to shooter-standards. Nothing 
 spectacular, but you don't really need to think about it that much, afterall.
  
  The action itself is one of the finest I've seen so far. Unfortunately there isn't many times of 
 enemies, which I personally found quite satisfying, 'cause for the most (if not for all) they were 
 more or less humans.
  Usually they come in squads of at least few, and besides SMG's and assault rifle's, not forgetting 
 the occasional grenade to throw, they're armed with thus-far one of the best shooter-AI I've been 
 fortunate to encounter. If there's a possibility to go around to your back, most of the time that's 
 exactly where you'll find one or few of'em shooting at you. They hide behind covers, throw grenades, 
 etc. They're still not human-like in their actions, but getting close enough for me.
  Added to the normal shooting action, the "slow-mo" is usefull and adds a great effect to the shooting. 
 Visually the shootouts are excellent - dust, rubble, bullets and whatever seems appropriate for 
 the situation, fly around in the air when bullets hit various places. On funny side, it was reasonably 
 hilarious to find out that even while some glasswindows are bulletproof, they seem to filter the 
 effects of a blastwave. In other words, toss a grenade to bulletproof window, the window stays 
 intact and isn't harmed in any way, but the stuff inside, computers, chairs and such, have changed 
 places due the blast. I presume it's some new technology I'm not aware of, or something.
  
  Besides the shooting, seeing that small girl over every once in a while, spiced up with some flash 
 of music that fits to the scene, does effect how you approach the next corner. Maybe not everyone 
 get freaked out when they see a girl when turning around to go down the ladders, but the first 
 time I saw that, think I said couple of things out loud that I probably wouldn't have said in a 
 church. This is why the game is probably best played in an enviroment that's as dark as possible, 
 with headphones on, and most importantly, being alone.
  
  Depending how fast you play the game, it should be either short'ish or just fine. I found it being 
 longer than most of the shooters, but just fine for my taste. Only bit of a downside are the surroundings, 
 which do not vary that much. You got your office building, slum-house, factory -kind of surroundings 
 and... well that's about it really. Nothing spectacular on that department.
  Since half of the fun were the chilling moments, instant replaying wasn't as addicting in the least 
 compared to the first time, so I'd wait a while for the new run through the office's. But the action 
 was still up to the par.
  
  As a recap, an excellent game, worth the possible nominations for best game of the year, and so 
 far is having my vote. A must-have if you like FPS-games, and a worthy try even if you don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nwnoodle
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2005 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I have tracked this game since the E3 in 2004 with anticipation. After much hype and a lot of time, 
 Im completely satisfied. This game is impressive in so many ways it just smokes any other game 
 Ive played before. It exceeded my expectations in every category. The story line is great, the 
 graphics are kick-ass, and the action just doesnt come any better. You will be blown away by the 
 gunfights in F. E. A. R!! Its a creepy, gory action nightmare. You will be blown away by the AI in 
 this game!
  The only complaint I can raise is that it is extremely system intensive. Check your specs before 
 purchasing; it is at the top of the performance level.
  
  Though I am not a heavy MP gamer I have enjoyed playing F. E. AR online. The CTF and TDM are fast 
 and furious with lots of kills and plenty of action to go around. 
  
  I HIGHLY recommend!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluecity05
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 21, 2005 8:46 pm PT
Review:  A very good B+ type of game.. fun slowmo features and ragdoll effects... Solid gameplay and good 
 length; enemy AI very challenging. The major problem was the often borning enviroments and very 
 derivitive plotline (this game could almost be called "The Ring 3") , and still manages to fall 
 into many of the well worn cliches of the first person shooter (can we really have a game for once 
 that does not take place in some large industrial complex that doesn't seem to make anything?) 
 In addition to the uninspired plot, the characters were very undeveloped and had no personality. 
 I was also a little annoyed by the constant swearing; while I expect a bunch of Military types 
 to engage in it, it just seemed very out of chacter for the "respected scientist" types of characters 
 to be dropping the "f" word in every other sentence. Someone needs to tell the writers that a little 
 goes a long way. 
  The hardware requirements are unreasonable steep; the graphics don't seem to be all that complex 
 (doesn't even look as good as Monolith's No One Lives Forever 2) , not sure what that's about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxtheonexxx
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 21, 2005 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Before reading this review, be aware that running F. E. A. R. will need a powerful computer, in my 
 case I have an Athlon 64 3700+, 1GB Ram, a GygaByte motherboard, and an XFX Geforce 6800 with 256 
 Ram.
  
  In most shooters the goal is clear; plow your way through the predictable A. I. This statement is 
 true about a lot of games. Half-Life 2, Battlefield 2, Painkiller, and Call of Duty were impressive 
 games that gained a lot of popularity for their presentation and innovations, but unfortunately, 
 did not provide a challenge for experienced players. F. E. A. R. will remind you what playing your 
 first horror / action game was like. The A. I. in the game proves to be very challenging, and determined 
 to destroy you. If a comparison was made between the A. I. and a group of people from an online 
 match, the difference would be minimal.
  
  Another great aspect of the game is the visuals. The game's artwork is very immersive due to the 
 subtle details that you notice and make you feel as if you were there. The game introduces real 
 time damage to all objects in the surrounding area, which could be anything from glass, to walls 
 and ceilings. As gruesome as it may seem, blowing an enemy to chunks can be very satisfying. The 
 details in this game go as far as chopping enemy's heads with bullets, as well as burning them 
 to the bones, and blowing them up. The physics in the game also help for some glorious moments 
 in the game, including pinning people to walls, as well as seeing them fly after a heavy explosion.
 
  
  The environments are full of interaction, and everything around will react to the pull of the trigger. 
 The lighting of these environments is impressive and can help you find cover during difficult situations. 
 Perhaps the only negative part about the environments is that at times they feel repetitive, specially 
 offices and apartment complexs, and when detailing certain objects in the game, especially the 
 cars, one can see low qualities.
  
  The gameplay of the game is what makes the game really stand out. The game is very immersive, and 
 the strong gameplay easily glues the player to the game. Many of the game's action sequences can 
 be brutal, and provide a high level of tension similar to that of a heated online match. All the 
 weapons provide satisfying results, and add a level of strategy, since you can only carry three 
 at a time. Although the puzzles only require you to press the action button, the outcome will always 
 be the thrill of exploring a new area while staying alive. Multiplayer also proves to be extremely 
 new and refreshing. Online matches can easily be confused with the firefights experienced in the 
 game, and while teamwork is benefitial, skill can easily reward a player who knows what he is doing.
 
  
  The game features a very interesting story. Without spoiling anything it is safe to say that it 
 will get under your skin, and make you wonder about what is happening. The stories allows for the 
 game to truly scare the player by messing with the sense of reality within the game. Many times 
 in the game you can see Alma walk past you laughing, and many other characters narrating events 
 that drive the story. The voice acting is excellent, and the characters have a very appealing and 
 unforgetable nature about them.
  
  F. E. A. R. is the result of a dedicated team of talented people who know what a game should deliver. 
 From a technical point of view it shows what advanced physics and graphics should behave like, 
 and it is an excellent showcase of what a great game should be like.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stryderone
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 2:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. Graphics are top notch. AI is some of the very best of any FPS. Gameplay 
 is extrarordinarily fun -- its a rush. Weapons are powerful and innovative. Story is crazy. If you 
 enjoyed Farcry and Half Life 2, You love this game. It's a great game. A MUST HAVE for FPS fans. 
 Some have complained that it is too short. It took me about 15 hours to finish, but I never felt 
 it was too short. It was intense, fun, and I enjoyed all 15 hours. Million times better than Doom 
 3 and Quake 4. A MUST HAVE for FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: igl
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 29, 2005 5:34 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing fear since the demo and i didn't bother to wait any longer to buy it, but on 
 the release day. It has all what to expect from a new game. Murderous System Requirements ahead.
 
  Single player is fun and definitly kept me hooked for days. The AI really suprised me, those guys 
 are for sure smarter than in all other FPS out there that crossed my fingers yet. You will also 
 notice that Warner Brothers had its fingers in the production. Not only the great straight storyline 
 which guides your thru the levels, you may also notice movie-like sounds and music-samples played 
 during scenes, you will feel like in a interactive movie somehow. It's a straight game and all 
 you will miss are different Enemys to shoot on... No you dont because every different enemy is 
 more bad-ass, and you really just want to run away in some scenes.
  
  It seems that Bullettime is a "must have" feature in games these days, even NFS-MW is wielding 
 a bullettime feature for sharp curves. But F. e. a. r. certainly has the best of them all (Speaking 
 of effectiveness and Visual effects) You will need it on some points.
  
  When you put away the super weapons in your Multiplayer battles, its a good balanced shooter. I 
 also suggest to set the running speed not higher than 1.3, because everyone will just use melee 
 attacks with the ability to run faster. I must also say the config file of fear is huge, you can 
 tweak your multiplayer server to all your wishes and tweak even more where you can't think of right 
 now, without looking at this file. I havent seen such wide config abilitys since quake 3.
  
  I mostly spent my time playing fear multiplayer which is fun and fast action. Even there you 
 will find the Bullettime, which is a fun mod for a few games but gets pretty boring when you find 
 out, that the best tactic is to ignore the Bullettime item. 
  Another bad thing is that there is currently no anti-cheat tool out there. As i heard Punkbuster 
 for F. e. a. r is in development, and it will come out pretty soon because there is _alot_ cheating 
 going on currently.
  
  Its a unique game wih unique features and a fresh wind in the FPS genre.
  So long, may the patches 
 fix all this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarukaSawaguchi
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2005 1:30 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is Monolith's make up work. With the horrible Contract J. A. C. K. and the good, but just 
 not good enough Tron 2.0 their previous games F. E. A. R. brings them back to the top with FEAR. A 
 beautiful engine powers their first game in almost a decade to use a new engine, and at the base 
 of that engine is the game. The levels are stunningly beleivable, the story has only one flaw, 
 the ending. The ending leaves you wanting more, otherwise the story is perfect. The sound matches 
 everything perfectly, with a great soundtrack, great voice acting, great sound effects, and spooky 
 ambience everywhere, everything about this game is pure bliss. The story can't be explained in 
 an understandable way without spoiling the game, and this is not a game you want to have spoiled 
 for you. The AI is amazing, you never know what it's gonna do, it always surprises you. You will 
 die, alot. The only moster closets in fear are hallways you can walk into and then have your skull 
 blasted out of it's skin casing by a shotgun. FEAR's horror aspect lies within 4 things. Ghouls, 
 these strange dark clouds *That show you the massacre that happened there*, Alma *The girl from 
 the ring, only scary* and sightings *On occasion you'll see Paxton Fettel or your missing Team 
 Member in these sightings that just bug the crap out of you* FEAR doesn't try to startle you much, 
 though it does on occasion, FEAR is more about getting your heart racing and then giving you a 
 full on heart attack with a dose of action that blows your mind both literally and mentally. Do 
 not miss FEAR, buy it, enjoy it, beleive the hype!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 20, 2005 10:09 pm PT
Review:  It seems that the whole FPS needed a boost some time ago. And while Riddick and Farcry managed 
 to deliver, Doom failed to revitalize the horror theme that is usually much more gracefully implemented 
 using a third-person perspective. F. E. A. R. comes along to do to the horror FPS genre a great favor.
 
  
  F. E. A. R. (First Encounter Assault Recon) is a group of anti-alien specialists who kick extraterrestrial 
 butt, and youre a part of that group. In terms of gameplay, the action is intense and will grow 
 on you most of the time. The A. I. of the soldiers is not only amazingly realistic, but it can shred 
 you to nincompoop in no time. One of the best FPS combat engines since Riddick, F. E. A. R. never 
 disappoints even with its repetitive combat and redundant environments. It will always inspire 
 you, all the way. Multiplayer is excellent although not varied. So if you like classic, fast paced 
 shootouts with a twist (the bullet time mode) , you'll be pleased.
  
  The graphics, while not on par with those of Doom III, are a hundred times more inspiring. Its 
 not always about how it looks, it is mostly about using the engine to its extreme. That is where 
 Doom III and other similar titles failed eventually. In F. E. A. R., the developers have used every 
 corner of the environment to chill you out. Characters look fantastic, so do the weapons, which 
 are really loud and shocking.
  
  A perfect 10 goes for the sound, which will blow you away and leave you on the edge of your seat 
 from start to finish. You will hear screeches, hisses, unknown ambience All this, along with the 
 excellent presentation, makes F. E. A. R. live up to its title. Music is also atmospheric and so well 
 done.
  
  To cut things short, youve been waiting for such a title on the PC for a long, long time. So dont 
 waste your time reading about it, you should be playing it instead! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karpar
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2005 3:28 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited when the first shots of F. E. A. R. began to surface. The game looked gorgeous, 
 using state-of-the-art lighting, particle, and normal-mapping tricks to create what looked to be 
 an eerie, unsettling world. Knowing that it was coming from Monolith only sweetened the deal - 
 after all, they created the brilliant No One Lives Forever, its delightful sequel, and the excellent 
 Aliens vs. Predator 2. In addition to being solid, nicely varied, and enjoyable in terms of gameplay, 
 those games also had fun plotting and likeable characters that made everything come together particularly 
 well. Unfortunately, that fun and attention to character are sorely lacking in F. E. A. R., and their 
 absence seriously impacts the game's quality.
  
  The F. E. A. R. story is one we've played countless times before. A scientific experiment of some 
 sort has gone wrong, and it's up to the player character to piece together why as he or she struggles 
 to get out alive. Just because it's been done before doesn't mean it can't be done well - Half-Life 
 proved that pretty definitively. So I was ready and eager to dive into the weird, paranormal mess 
 at the center of F. E. A. R.
  
  At first, it was a blast. The gunfights are chaotic and demanding, moving at a blistering pace 
 and requiring a good helping of thought to survive. The weapons feel solid and powerful, and Monolith 
 cribbed from the excellent carry system found in Halo - you can only carry a limited number of 
 weapons at any time (in this case, three, along with three types of grenades) . This forces the 
 player to really think through what they choose to take with them and creates lots of situations 
 where you'll have to swap out an empty favorite weapon for something with more ammo, or you'll 
 stare longingly at a rocket launcher, knowing full well that it isn't the right tool for the job 
 at hand. Again, like Halo, the designers have done a great job balancing the weapons so that different 
 players will be able to carry a set that suits their style of play. While I go for rapid-fire long-range 
 weapons, others might prefer heavy hitters and close-up fights. F. E. A. R. can be played both ways, 
 and plenty of others in between. There are even hand-to-hand attacks, though I never found myself 
 using them much. The player can also enter a slow-motion mode when the combat gets too intense, 
 giving them an advantage over their slowed enemies. This mode becomes critical in some of the larger 
 fights, and it's well executed.
  
  F. E. A. R.'s graphics are lovely, if a bit on the drab side. The action takes place primarily indoors, 
 so the world is primarily one of right angles and tight hallways. The environments are sprinkled 
 with nice bits of stuff to make them more believable, like office phones with voicemail messages 
 from loved ones. Every desk sports details like coffee mugs and Post-its and staplers (in fact, 
 in one of several nods to the film "Office Space," you'll run across a few red Swinglines) , and 
 running across a pool of blood is all the more unnerving for the humdrum furniture and bits of 
 stuff all around it. The special effects, like tracer rounds and particle effects, are excellent. 
 Gunfights kick up clouds of dust and debris that can really obscure what's going on, making things 
 tense and engaging. A rag-doll system controls how enemies fall when killed, and the bodies seem 
 to have more weight than in other rag-doll setups. As such, they fall more believably. The game 
 also throws a lot of paranormal activity at you, mainly apparitions half-glimpsed out of the corner 
 of your eye. These are appropriately unnerving, and the creators showed a lot of restraint in their 
 placement, making them all the more effective. Instead of being able to predict where something 
 is going to pop out, the player will instead have a constant awareness that things could get spooky 
 at any time. There are also "nightmare" segments, where a nice blur effect compliments the general 
 weirdness of things to make it clear that you're not in Kansas (or wherever the game takes place 
 - it's never explicitly identified) anymore.
  
  So if all of things are so good (or at least above average) , where's the problem? As I said before, 
 it's the story. Technically, it's fine. It spools out carefully and gradually - this game is clearly 
 a product of the post-Half-Life storytelling mold - and it dangles a handful of half-answered questions 
 to keep the player interested. Thing is, many of the questions aren't really that interesting, 
 and the answers are fairly obvious almost from the beginning of the game. What's worse, the non-player 
 characters are annoying at best, and genuinely unpleasant at worst. For one thing, they swear too 
 much. Don't get me wrong, I'm no prude - I have no problem with four-letter words. Grand Theft 
 Auto: San Andreas features plenty of salty language, and I have no problem with it. In fact, I 
 think it's pretty well scripted. In the case of F. E. A. R., however, it comes off as though the dialogue 
 were written by a 12-year-old who has just discovered the giddy thrill of saying naughty words. 
 You'll scarcely hear a communique from your commander or listen to a voicemail message without 
 being hit by an handful of f-bombs.
  
  Another major flaw with the dialogue is a persistent and particularly bothersome undercurrent of 
 misogyny. Almost to a one, the female characters are repeatedly referred to as **** and are constantly 
 in need of rescuing. Yes, the damsel in distress is a time-honored video game set piece, but even 
 Princess Toadstool can hold her own in a fight these days. The ladies of F. E. A. R. are a long way 
 from Half-Life 2's Alyx, Far Cry's Valerie, or Monolith's own Cate Archer. Again, it seems unnecessarily 
 adolescent.
  
  My strong negative reaction to the game comes primarily from the fact that it could have been so 
 much more. The crew that made the NOLF games for Monolith showed a deft storytelling touch, creating 
 likeable characters and genuinely effective dramatic situations, with fun and good humor showing 
 up when appropriate. They were at the top of the games-as-storytelling heap, up there with Half-Life, 
 Far Cry, Halo, and others. F. E. A. R. seems to want to rise to similar heights, but its sophomoric 
 writing and bitter tone end up coming off a lot like Doom III. It's fun to play and pretty to look 
 at, but in the end, there's just nothing there to care about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w2knever
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 20, 2005 3:13 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME LOOKS GREAT.... TRBL IS I CAN ONLY PLAY A LITTLE OF IT BEFORE IT CRASHES ON MY PC... P43.0 
 GHZ DDR2 1GIG+ RAM, AGP8X MOBO ASUS P4C800-E, BFG 256MD DDR3 GEFORCE 6800GT OT, SATA1
  HD'S PLENTY OF SPACE ON MY HD'S ,XP SP2+, LATEST DRIVERS & UPDATES FOR MY VID CARD, MOBO, OS, DX9C.... I'VE 
 NEVER HAD A GAME CRASH ON ME LIKE THIS ONE DOES.... IT DOESNT' MATTER IF I CHANGE THE RESOLUTION, GAME 
 SETTINGS FOR EFFECTS & SHADING.... THE SCREEN GOES BLACK AND MY PC LOCKS UP... I'VE GOT THE LATEST 
 1.02 UPDATE FOR THE GAME BUT NOGO.... TECH SUPPORT AT LEAST RESPONDS TO MY QUERIES BUT ALL THE SUGGESTIONS 
 THEY GIVE ARE USELESS OR I'VE TRIED THEM ALREADY... MY FEEL FOR THIS PROBLEM... I'M NOT THE ONLY 
 OWNER OF A GEFORCE 6800GT 256MB
  AGP8X CARD THAT HAS THIS TRBL PER VU GAMES TECH SUPPORT MESSG BOARD.. ITS A SOFTWARE ISSUE BY VU 
 GAMES THAT HASN'T BEEN ADDRESSED YET... I'M FRANKLY SURPRISED THAT A GAME OF THIS CALIBER WAS RELEASED 
 WITH SUCH A GLARING TECH ISSUE... I KNOW ITS NOT A HRDWR ISSUE (AS VU SUGGESTS) OF MINE CUZ I OWN 
 2 OTHER GAMES THAT USE DX9C SHADING AND THEY DON'T CRASH.... SO SADLY I MUST WAIT UNTIL A NEW PATCH 
 IS ISSD B4 I CAN PLAY THIS MARVELOUS LOOKING GAME... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigboss766
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2005 7:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutly awesome... i am astounded by the graphics and effects. The story is creepy 
 as hell and has a pretty surprising twist at the end. You start out as some new recruit for First 
 Encounter Assault Recon or better known as F. E. A. R... duh... and you pretty much have the reflexes 
 of a god. You have to take out this guy named Paxton Fettel who has been telepathically linked 
 to a Battalion of clone soldiers and killing everyone he see's... even eats them. (and for some 
 who dont know thats 1000 soldiers) He's doing this because of some strange little girl who seem's 
 to have driven him crazy. Now get this... these guys aren't your typical dumbass AI guys who just 
 walk around in predictable patrols by themselves. They know the consept of strength in numbers 
 and usually travel in packs. All looking to kill you the "intruder". They will not just stand in 
 one place whil; e shooting you. They'll find cover and move around making it hard for you to hit 
 them. If you end up trying to hide they'll just throw a grenade at you. And if that doesnt work 
 they'll try to surround you and attack you from all sides. Given how intelligent the AI is and 
 the great story this just makes F. E. A. R. a really great game. I recomend it to anyone who likes 
 PC FPS's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bert2005
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 19, 2005 1:23 pm PT
Review:  First, the graphics in this game are unreal.... they are the best I've ever seen. People who say 
 this game has no substance and lacks what Half Life 2, Doom 3 and all other games that were compared, 
 have no idea what they are talking about. Yes, to feel the real affects of this game you need to 
 have a high end system. But please, there is no other game that compares to this. And stop trying 
 to compare it to Call of Duty 2. It doesn't even come close to F. E. A. R.
  
  The storyline was well written out, but the only thing I didn't like was the annoying ghost things 
 that kept popping out towards the end. That was a little unrealistic. As for Alma, that was more 
 believable in a character. We've seen that in movies, but what I wanted more of was her to have 
 jerky, random movements. The ending was pretty awesome, but to survive a nuclear blast..... idk 
 about that. 
  
  I figure most reviewers played the game on Easy and rushed through the game. I challenge you all 
 to play the game over, on the hardest level, and take your time. There are plenty of things to 
 do in the game besides just killing people. Try and go through a whole level just killing people 
 with melee attacks. If you get through this game in under 30 hours play it again except don't rush 
 through rooms. I would suggest getting surround sound with a subwoofer also. The sound in this 
 game is magnificent.
  
  As for value of the game. I paid $30 at Wal-Mart the day it came out, and was super happy it didn't 
 cost $50..... although this game is worth as much as any out there. 
  
  It doesn't take long to learn it especially if your used to FPS's. This game is widely under appreciated, 
 just like how Half-life 2 was last year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHAMPANERIA
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 11:32 am PT
Review:  "WHAT'S THAT NOISE?" "Is someone there?" "What the heck was THAT?" you'll ask yourself when playing 
 F. E. A. R., 1 of the creepyest first-person shooter I've ever played., but 1 thing it doesn't make 
 Doom3 feel very weak in fact for me the scare factor was so dissapointing : ( that killed it for 
 me alot... its like going in for a scary movie not getting scared after that you just wanna bash 
 it alot... you kno the feeling you expect so much sure it delievers amaing AI and Slowmo Matrix 
 and the graphics are there but the scare factor so dissapoint for me : (
  
  
  This game is AMAZING the artificial intelligence (A. I.) 
 will actually scare you, it's put together like a great movie, literally parts of the game had me 
 sitting on the edge of my chair, everything about the game is top notch. Again the AI is amazing 
 you try to flank someone they will flank you and jump threw windows to try to kill you. The gun 
 selection is decent not bad at all I sticked with the shotgun and duel pistol alot well the whole 
 game having a differen't 3rd weapon only, always keep the shotgun close even in the dark so when 
 something appears your ready to shoot off rounds like crazy. Its a mix between a horror movie, the 
 matrix and Doom. This game creates a sense of fear with out monsters and dark corners like doom 
 poping out every time but when they do pop out SCREAM!!! like a little girl. When engaging some 
 enemies, others will fan out, flank you, and even enter buildings, climb stairs, and shoot at you 
 from totally different positions. When you try to flank them, one enemy will notice it, call it 
 out, and all the others will scramble to counter. It is common for several to pin you under suppressing 
 fire while another moves to a flank position out of your line of vision. There smart but since 
 I knew they were so smart nothing you can't notice in fact you want them to try it cuz your ready 
 for example in front was 3 guys shooting on the left side were truck loads and the door behind 
 the 3 guys opened I was focused on the 3 guys but the other guys that came out the door started 
 making there way on the side beind the truck loads I ran across kicked in slow mow and was ready 
 with the shotgun to blow there brains out when they came. They love to use grenades, and use them 
 to force you out of cover and to create smoke clouds for concealment. Anything movable will be 
 used by them to create obstacles for you. If they loose your position, they will call out for a 
 return to formation and will start a grouped 360 degree 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spelman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 19, 2005 10:07 am PT
Review:  So you've thrashed the hell-spawn in Doom, kicked the Combine in Half-life and even taken the Flood 
 to the cleaners, well be prepared for to face some REAL opposition in F. E. A. R.! 
  
  When you first start F. E. A. R. you will wonder what all the fuss is about. We've seen better environments, 
 it's all a bit blocky and flat compared to Half-Life2. The interiors lack the detail of Doom3/Quake 
 4 and we're missing the large outside that is FarCry. The characters are plain and expressionless 
 and the opposition lack the visual variety of other shooters. And the plot, whilst well done, is 
 a fairly predictable genetic/psychic experiment gone wrong one, which will be familar to anyone 
 who has ever had a brush with anything manga. However, all of this becomes irrelevant once you 
 get into the first real fire-fight and the brilliant pacing of F. E. A. R. takes over.
  
  This game has remembered what gaming should be about; the game play! We finally have opposition 
 that plays well against you. So, get your tactics wrong in even the most simple situation and you 
 will be in a world of pain! The enemy work as a team; they will support each other, attempt to 
 flank you, hide behind cover and try to ambush you, use grenades to get you to move and all manner 
 of other tricks which, well, make it great FUN to take them on. The only real advantage that you 
 have is "bullet time" where the world slows down and you get a chance to take out one or two of 
 the opposition whilst they flee in slow-motion. This works very well and gives you just the edge 
 that you need. Mastering slow-mo is the key to success in the game. 
  
  It is during the combat that the graphics and sound shine. Bullets whine past your ears as walls, 
 floors and just about anything else explode in clouds of blinding dust. Whilst in slo-mo, the concussion 
 waves of the bullets make the air ripple and shimmy around you. But be warned that you will require 
 some serious hardware to really appreciate this without the action moving into single digit frame 
 rates. So, if you've wanted an excuse to upgrade then F. E. A. R is it!
  
  Because the combat is so good, you find yourself treating every corner or new corridor as a threat. 
 Suddenly the bland office interiors get transformed into a tense and claustrophobic world. This 
 is where the fantastic pacing of F. E. A. R. comes in. For what seems like large portions of levels, 
 nothing happens. You're searching empty buildings with the tension rising, and just when you might 
 be getting complacent, there is some scripted event or bunch of enemy soldiers waiting to get the 
 heart racing. Immerse yourself in this game and it can be exhausting to play.
  
  In summary, F. E. A. R. has the game play that makes all of the other shooters jealous. The AI here 
 is as close to playing against real players as you can get in a solo game. This combined with great 
 pacing turns an otherwise cliched plot into something much better and elevates F. E. A. R. to the 
 level against which all others will now be judged.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omali
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 18, 2005 3:20 pm PT
Review:  This game answers the question, "what if the ring, or the grudge was placed in a game?". FEAR is 
 a first person shooter where you, a generic nameless super soldier attempts to hunt down Paxton 
 Fettel, a genetic superhuman who has taken control of a clone army.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay received an 8. One one hand, the fighting is very intuitive and easy to learn. 
 At higher levels of difficulty, the game becomes impossible to play unless you have excellent strategy 
 in first person shooters. At lower difficulties, it may seem like the soldiers simply kill themselves. 
 The gameplay ranges from quick and heartstopping, to slow and gut wrenching. In some parts of the 
 game you'll be fighting waves of enemies (all the while finding ammo and health) . Other times, 
 when applicable, stealth can be a fun addition. FEAR gives you the ability to pocket your guns 
 (which you can only hold two of, along with 5 of each grenade) and dish out some close quarters 
 pain. You can throw a punch, or jump and drop kick, or jump and swing your leg around, instantly 
 killing all who get in the way.
  
  FEAR also banks on the bullet time craze, although instead of calling it bullet time, it's your 
 reflex. Being the supersoldier you are, you have amazing reflexes unmatched by anyone (unless you 
 play online) . You can find Health and reflex boosters which permanently boost your maximum health 
 and reflex time (although the most we found was about 6 health and 5 reflex boosters) these are 
 hidden around the game, many in obvious spots, but others not so obvious.
  
  Multiplayer allows for slowmo games, where a reflex booster is placed somewhere in the map. The 
 player who gets it first gives him and his team the ability to slow down time. Multiplayer, however, 
 turns out to be not much more than running and gunning, camping and spraying. The HV penetrator 
 will soon be your best friend, and it is the most used weapon (even more than the rocket launcher)
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are amazing, although you probably won't be able to see it. This game requires 
 a lot of oomph to play. I personally have 769mb of ram with an ATI Radeon 9550 128mb and could 
 play this game on low quality max. But even on low quality, the game still looks spectacular. The 
 sequences where you have encounters with alma (the generic scary little girl) or Fettel. 
  
  Sound: What can I say about the music and ambiance? Right from the opening credits, the sound 
 never failed to impress me. From the sound of static over your radio, to the barely coherent chatter 
 on the radio, you'll feel immersed into this game from the start to finish.
  
  Value: From the points I just listed, FEAR is definitely worth the 50 bucks it costs, and even 
 more to get the DVD directors edition.
  
  The ending left a little more to be desired, as it didn't wrap up the story as well as I thought 
 it would. But those aside, i give this game an 8.6 out of 10.
  
  Pros: I think I had a heart attack several times from some of the ingame "scares". The graphics 
 are amazing, the ambiance rivals that of movies, and the multiplayer is smoother than doom3 was 
 (even with slowmo) .
  
  Cons: The graphics are amazing, but it's a huge system hog and if you have a low end computer, 
 don't bother unless you have money to upgrade. Also, while the gameplay is intuitive, you get tired 
 fighting the same enemies all the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaiser634
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 18, 2005 1:35 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. definitely impressed in terms of gameplay. I've never played a game that made me as comfortable 
 and excited about "bullet-time" than F. E. A. R. has. The layout of weapons is fairly generous, and 
 the 3-weapon carrying maximum makes it tough to decide what to tote with you into the next room... which 
 leads to my first criticism.
  
  The single-player gameplay is repetitive. There were only three major environment types in the 
 story, and although exciting at times the action didn't ramp up or contain the kind of variety 
 we've come to expect after playing games like Half-Life 2. The story was intriguing off the bat, 
 but there wasn't sufficient character development or satisfying plot development so by the end 
 of the game it was pretty much a let-down.
  
  The multi-player is the game's saving grace after the short single player mode, and I'm sure it 
 will keep gamers logging on for a while.
  
  Overall, fun game... good gameplay, gorgeous graphics, kept me on the edge of my seat sometimes... but 
 not the most satisfying title I've played lately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gm_jyoo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 18, 2005 11:32 am PT
Review:  Seems like this title came out of nowhere. But that doesn't stop this game from being totally awesome. 
 The single player mode is short (as expected from latter day games) but sweet and memorable (maybe 
 more creepy than sweet) . The game successfully executes a feeling of eeriness without overdoing 
 it. I'm pleased to say, the game truly felt like an interactive movie. The action is intense and 
 heart pounding, thanks to the outstanding AI. 
  
  The only beef I have with this game would have to be the single player mode's shortness and plot 
 holes. But it is otherwise executed very well. From a graphical standpoint, the game looks fantastic, 
 but a bit dark for me. The sound is incredible, but the music sometimes gets on my nerves. Overall, 
 this is just a great game.
  
  And the multiplayer mode will keep you going for hours on end. The multiplayer mode for this game 
 is among the most intense, fast, and furious. First time I played the multiplayer demo, I was in 
 awe. Tracers in the air, smoke clouding hallways and doors, explosions everywhere, body parts and 
 blood splashing all about, and let's not forget about the crazy kung-fu-esque moves... simply among 
 the best fps multiplayer experiences ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Richnamy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2005 8:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is sick. Forget the part about it being a scary game, let's talk about the shooting. 
 This game has the most INTENCE shooting I have ever experienced. The A. I. is the BEST of any game 
 out there so far. A lot of poeple are afriad that the Slow-mo effect the game has was a rip off 
 of Max Payne's, but it's not it's very different and it works. 
  
  The games story line is great but I felt that it left me with a few unanswered question such as, 
 "Why did Paxton Fettel eat poeple?" he wasn't a zombie or anything. I think the game left it open 
 for an awsome F. E. A. R 2!
  
  But beside that, this game will scare you. It's non-stop and action packed, I had goosebumps from 
 being freaked out many many times throughout the game. The sound is flawless and the music is great. 
 The music took a big part in adding to the freakiness to the game. GET IT PLAY IT. never buy a 
 game for $49 when you can get it for a lot less on eBay even the day it comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbriceno
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 7:56 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R definately had chills running up my spine at times with the spooky images and electrifying 
 gun fights that happen all throught the game. About the only problem I had with was its lack of 
 stealth. Sure the hand to hand combat is nice but without the element of surprise or ambush it 
 almost did not exist for me playing it. Enemies can see you even though you are in a dark corner. 
 All the enemies are the same with the exception of one or to more variations. I do have to hand 
 it to the developers for actually making the A. I quite smart. Enemies flank, use cover, coodinate 
 attacks and outsmart you at times. Overall I think this game is a must play for PC and would me 
 a great addition to the X-BOX 360 is subsequent sequels are to come in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEARowns
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2005 11:26 am PT
Review:  FEAR was a highly anticipated game I was looking forward to for some time. First off, this game 
 is down-right freaky. If you think RE4 is scary, wait till you play this one. Its real similar 
 gameplay to the game Half-Life 2 in the sense that you are always alone, and your enemies are numerous 
 and all look the same. The little girl on the front of the box is designed to be like the girl 
 from The Ring. She plays a role throughout the whole game and uses her mind to tear apart soldiers 
 (litteraly) . There are times when you are walking down a hall and an image of a ghost walks in 
 front of you and you get so startled... Im not joking, if you wear headphones when playing games 
 like I do then you will be scared. You'll run into the little girl when turning corners. But, aside 
 from the fact that the game is very scary, the gameplay is very good. The action is some of the 
 best ive ever seen. The slow-motion is a huge fun factor in this game as you can do a wide-variety 
 of cool tricks against your clone-army men. The way everything that you shoot tears up is so fun 
 as well. To go along with all this great gameplay, the multiplayer is a good alternative once you 
 beat the game and you can build up your skills and go beat it again. All in all, this is a great 
 game and a must have for any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IREDGE
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2005 9:32 am PT
Review:  Fear was such a promising title on the paper. And we must admit that the advertisment campaign 
 and the fuss surounding it is for something in this case.
  So much secrecy has been kept around this title, but with a good sens of humor you could just assume 
 that it was because there wasn't much to say.
  Like everybody involved in FPS games I couldn't wait to get my hands on this promising title. So 
 much that I even got convinced by the demo wich wasn't an actual level of the finished product, 
 but more of a compilation of everything the game had to offer: Good physics engine, atmospheric 
 gameplay, good and challenging AI (somewhat doubtfull at times though) , good use of the latest 
 shaders and light effects, and of course the scary moments. When I playd the full product I realized 
 that it was just that. If you didn't buy this game yet just download the demo and play it over 
 and over until you're bored, because nothing new; exiting; or thrilling will happen.
  The scenery rarely breathes anything new into you graphic card, the plot is as flat as a bottle 
 of champagne left open for a month, and on top of that there are a few graphical issues like the 
 scenery getting black all of the sudden forcing you to look at your feet (well modeled by the way) 
 to get a sens as to where you are going. 
  True the sens of combat is there and at times it's exhilarating to act like a John Woo wannabee 
 but this is repeated ad libidum and you will get just as much if not more sens of combat in COD2 
 or Quake 4, there is no ally at any time to fight on your side, and no boss or really out of this 
 world scary moments.
  I think what makes everybody say that this game is great is nothing else than the mass hysteria 
 created around it.
  Overall, I am left with a bitter taste in my mouth knowing that Quake4 got a lesser mark when it 
 should have got all the glory (cutting edge graphics, great Ai ennemy and ally, great plot, great 
 level design, and most of all GREAT SCARES.
  So Fear is a good shooter with a lot to give to the FPS world, let down by a uninvolving plot, 
 some rather poor (inexistant interaction with NPC's, and a repetitive gameplay.
  Painfully desapointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzynutz_usa
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 17, 2005 5:14 am PT
Review:  Honestly, I was a little let down with the solo, and am not ALL that impressed with the multiplayer, 
 but I sure as hell keep loading it up for another round or two of multiplayer whenever I get the 
 chance. 
  
  Hmmm............. Really, I think we are almost there to the perfect first person shooter. I wish 
 there would have been more cut scenes, more interaction with teammates when playing solo. The ending 
 was kinda like wha.... just those zombies and then thats it??
  
  I dunno..... the multiplayer really needs more people first of all, there are not really enough 
 people playing. I wish they would have done more of a counterstrike style, with the cash and a 
 lot of different weapons. Some of the maps can be a little better, don't these people play some 
 of the greatest games ever? Like Dust, come on people make something similiar. There is a reason 
 everyone has played Counterstrike/Quake/UT and some point. Anyway....
  
  This is a good game, a little expensive for a PC game, but hey whatever.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintivan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 16, 2005 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This is a great FPS, and breaks new ground in several areas. 
  1) Best indoor environments (graphics) ever. Most realistic.
  2) Best characters (graphics) ever. 
 They look and move like they're real.
  3) Best firefights ever (but Max Payne 2 comes close) . 
  
  As for the scary factor....
  1) 
 Best blood ever. (Doom 3 comes close) .
  The girl is NOT original (the Ring (great movie) , the Grudge (awful movie) , but she is still pretty 
 damn creepy. The eerie effects flashbacks are too similar to Max Payne dream flashbacks. 
  Sum: Not great, but good enough; adds a nice element to the game.
  
  As for the plot....
 
  It doesn't suck! This alone is a miracle. The dialogue is a cut above the rest, definitely a pleasant 
 respite from the corny melodramatic (or insipid) crap we're used to. (Doom 3 expansion.... WEAK!) .
 
  
  Best of all, the gameplay rocks. Fragging is FUN. These weapons rule; no lame pop like the impotent 
 shotgun in Doom 3. Bodies everwhere, it is carnage as it should be.
  
  If you are too poor to shell out the $50, get a job. It will be worth it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quiet_Riot55
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 16, 2005 4:56 pm PT
Review:  This game was in general a great game and you should stop reading this and go and buy it. The story 
 mode was very interesting and had a decent length. In addition it is not that hard or that easy.
 
  The most amazing thing about this game is its AI. I was shocked when i found enemies actually 
 taking cover jumping trough windows flanking you doing possibly anything they could to kill you. 
 Aslo unlike other games its very easy to die and kill. Several rounds can kill a person depending 
 on the gun. As fot the multiplayer is decent there are not many types of gamepaly however. Just 
 capture the Flag and Death Matches (team no team slo-mo not slo-mon) . But it is decent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nico3650
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 16, 2005 10:33 am PT
Review:  same as hl2 this game can take out almost every time off your life. in the personal i feel this 
 game like half life the first time when i played.
  my play hours can be controled by a game and ruin something date that is very dangerous.
  almost 
 perfect =) i dont have much time plus my english is not very good but i like share my opinion with 
 others, my mind is in blank the next is the same in spanish.
  gran juego consume muchas horas pero vale la pena, tiene exelentes graficos y una atmosfera muy 
 bien lograda me recuerda la primera vez que jugue al half life me atrapo la historia y no dejaba 
 de sorpredenrme. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeeshan_malik
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 16, 2005 3:27 am PT
Review:  This game is actually very different from other game. The game story of this game is very different. 
 Its kind of horror game which we never played before, like little girl come and freak you out every 
 time. First time when I saw this girl I suddenly remember The Ring movie girl. She looks like ring 
 two girl. I just played this game 4 to5 times so I don't know much about this game yet so I hope 
 that this game will be more exciting when I will go forward. I really want to finished this game 
 as soon as I can. 
  Online game is also amazing like we have lot of fun in online game. You can't see time when you 
 play online, you just keep playing and playing up to 10 - 12 hours and you can't realize that how 
 much time you have spent on playing online game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nico_619
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 15, 2005 12:23 pm PT
Review:  This is downright THE coolest gaming experience I've EVER had! The graphics are onlevel with graphical 
 toppers like Doom 3, Half-Life 2, Call of Duty 2... The game sounds exactly like it should, it's 
 perfect! The gameplay is a mix of good ol' run&gun, mixed with cool new elements like slow-mo shooting. 
 The awesome gfx (that includes the physics and the particle effects) really help make the gameplay 
 a lot better. And ofcourse, the creepyness of this game makes it all that extra bit special. The 
 game is quite lengthy, with a nice multiplayer to continue the fun. The only mentionable downers 
 I can think of is that sometimes you get lost in the hallways trying to go through, and it could 
 use a bit more outdoor action.
  
  All together, play it! WARNING you'll need a real gaming rig for this, else forget it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nrautava
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2005 4:35 am PT
Review:  Short description:
  The best game for a long time.
  
  Graphics:
  - incredible, fabulous... I do not find words to describe how great it is. Doom or Far Cry are 
 nothing to compare this.
  
  Action:
  - This is problame... If you start to play this game you do not want to stop playing. And because 
 of that I have not get sleep these last nights. But atleas i have had great time :)
  
  Guns:
  Sometimes you feel like that your enemy can take more that 20 shots to head... What is 
 not cool. 
  But I like that thing that you can go back and change your weapons when you want (not always) . 
 
  
  AI:
  Smart. (There was couple fun thing... But AI was better than other FPS games.
  
  If you like FPS games like Doom or Painkiller or someother this game is for you ) :
  You want 
 to experience this. You will love this.
  And trust this: You will know what FEAR is if you play this....
  
  My score: 10.0
  That is 
 all you need to know :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cimmy2005
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 14, 2005 8:14 pm PT
Review:  It was up until I played both demos of FEAR, did I realize that this game had Editor's Choice written 
 all over it. FEAR has a perfect combination of The Ring, The Matrix, and Die Hard rolled up into 
 one great FPS burrito. Yummm! For hardcore action hungry gamers, this game has it all. Special 
 FX! Oh boy, let me tell you of the insane effects! Glass shatters into hundreds of little pieces, 
 blow holes in the wall kicking up dust, sparks flying and bouncing off everything, explosion shock 
 waves way superior to Doom 3. With the ability to slow down time and see it all happen in front 
 of you with Matrix style bullet trails flying in all directions. 
  It's not just the special FX that makes this game a masterpiece, it is also the great sound FX, 
 music, and physics engine. The Physics is advanced as, dare I say, Half Life 2. 80% of what is 
 in the game is movable, even lights. Shoot a overhead light and see the light projector move across 
 the room. Shoot a soldier and watch his corpse fly over things and tumble down stairs. Shoot a 
 box and watch it awkwardly roll to a halt on the other side of the room. 
  The AI plays a big roll in games and the enemy AI is the smartest I've seen in any FPS. Enemy soldiers 
 know how to react to danger, weather it is ducking for cover, knowing when to fall back, flanking 
 you, or throwing a grenade at you when you are pinned. 
  The atmosphere of the game is always filled with tension, occasionally throwing in some scary moments. 
 The overall experience after playing is quite satisfying, even though the player was bombarded 
 with repetitive urban settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ira282
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 14, 2005 6:09 pm PT
Review:  After F. E. A. R, I tried to play Doom 3, Half-Life 2, and even Call of Duty 2, but there is no first 
 person shooter that compares to F. E. A. R. F. E. A. R. is the best first-person shooter ever released. 
 From its suburb graphics to its great gameplay innovations to its brilliant story, everything about 
 this game is expertly executed. 
  One of the biggest features of a first-person shooter gamers look foreword to is the graphics. 
 And although that is a poor outlook for a game purchase, F. E. A. R. thankfully has very well-done 
 graphics and gameplay environments. With graphical settings turned up, an intense gunfight fills 
 the air with dust, pockmarks the walls with bullet holes, bullets send everything flying and more. 
 Physics also play and important role in the undeniably awesome gunfights, and they too are very 
 accurate. The sound effects also work great; the sounds of different weapon fire, grenades, and 
 impact of bullets will probably never leave my mind. All of these factors work hand-in-hand to 
 provide a gameplay environment which few other games can match.
  F. E. A. R. s gameplay itself is perhaps the most fun of any first-person shooter before it. While 
 very few of the gameplay elements are original, they are all blended together so masterfully that 
 you will truly have trouble believing it. The tactical, intense, and vibrant gameplay is made possible 
 by the vast array of features, everything from a Max Payne-like Slow-mo, to limited weapons (you 
 can carry only three at a time) , to an unmatched enemy AI system. The enemy AI is probably the 
 best of any game Ive ever played, and provides an actual tactical challenge, unlike most other 
 FPS games, which just have you fight enemies who shoot well quickly. Enemies flank, cover each 
 other, and use the environment to a level that must be experienced to be understood. This game 
 is meant to be played on at least moderate difficulty, as easy difficulty takes all the tactical 
 joy completely out of the game. 
  F. E. A. R. s story is, quite simply, unmatched by any other game to date. The game starts off with 
 a disturbing cinematic of the initial antagonist eating someone. While this could be a very bad 
 sign for pretty much any storyline, F. E. A. R. incorporates this into a complex supernatural story 
 which is gripping, intense, and honestly frightening. Hallucinations, voice mails, and data files 
 all help advance the story. The story gradually builds up to the end, and then explodes into one 
 of the greatest endings ever conceived in a video game. 
  F. E. A. R. does away with some annoying first-person shooter conventions. First and foremost, you 
 dont fight onslaughts of enemies who really have no explanation as to why they are there; In F. E. A. R. 
 , the enemies are tied closely with the story and actually have a reason to be in the game. Another 
 great addition to F. E. A. R. is that there are no real boss battles; sure, armored solders serve 
 as a much bigger challenge than the normal infantry, but even those are really just additional 
 tactical variables. The primary antagonist throughout the game is thankfully not a boss, nor is 
 he given a fancy introduction (although his last moments are seen in a hallucination) . Near the 
 end of the game, you aim and shoot, and he falls like everybody else. This is the most convincing 
 and enjoyable ending Ive ever seen.
  Altogether, F. E. A. R is a masterpiece. There are no other games which compete on F. E. A. R. s level 
 of brilliance. This game is a must-buy for first-person shooter fans, and fans of computer games 
 in general would do well to purchase this title.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IronChefCarnage
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 14, 2005 11:40 am PT
Review:  Introduction:
  
  F. E. A. R. blew my mind the first time I played the demo. I had never heard of the game, and the 
 graphics, gameplay, slomo and enemy AI were astonishing. The single player demo had such a creepy 
 ambience, such impressive gunfights, and such intuitive map design (without getting me lost or 
 making me feel like I was on rails) that I couldn't stop playing through it again and again.
  
  Multiplayer was even better. The first useful leaning feature I've seen since the Infiltration 
 mod for UT combined with great maps, satisfying team play, good use of the slomo feature, fun and 
 useful melee attacks and the good weapon balance (if only the pistols weren't so useless!) made 
 the multiplayer F. E. A. R. demo my favorite online game. Until I got my hands on the full version, 
 that is.
  
  F. E. A. R. isn't perfect, but you have to take the lumps with the good.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9
  
  Single Player: 5
  
  The full version was everything the demo was, and more. 
 Unfortunately, it was more of the same. Having played the demo I had seen almost everything F. E. A. R. 
 had to offer. The gunfights were great, the enemy AI was impressive, and the map design wasn't 
 too confusing. But nothing ever really changed. The enemies became a little tougher, and there 
 were two or three novel fights, but it was mostly a grenade-tossing, slomo-kicking, head-shooting 
 fragfest with a few good chills in between.
  
  The atmosphere was there, too, but it got old after a while. The little girl creeped me out in 
 the demo, but after a few hours of sporadic giggling and fleeting glimpses, she was more of an 
 amusing diversion than a spooky presence, because she was always so harmless.
  
  The story didn't suck, but it wasn't that great either. The boards here are jammed with speculation 
 over the implications of the single-player story. It's not the kind of speculation that comes from 
 a great cliffhanger, like the end of StarCraft, or a well-spun mystery, like Asimov's robot novels, 
 but more of the confusion that followed Revenge of the Sith -- a sort of general, "Wait, that didn't 
 make any sense!" reaction. The pacing is weak, too. You get ten hours of the same few vague hints, 
 then Monolith tries to wrap it up in the last ten minutes, and it just winds up feeling sloppy 
 and clumsy. Even with all the supplementary material and in-game narration, there are countless 
 loose ends that just aren't tied up to anyone's satisfaction.
  
  The Lumps: The story is very promising at first, but it becomes monotonous about halfway through, 
 then baffling at the end. You always think you're just one level away from a squad map, but it 
 never happens. The gameplay is very homogeneous: Kill everything, move to next fight, kill everything, 
 repeat.
  
  The Good: Single player is good for learning the controls, enjoying the visuals and hunting for 
 easter eggs. The AI is terrific, and the clones have enough character and strategy to keep me amused 
 and on my toes. Adjustable difficulty is scaled reasonably, so you can always find a fun challenge.
 
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  The multiplayer continues to rock. More great maps, plenty of action, and the possibility of effective 
 teamwork all combine to make F. E. A. R. one of the most satisfying multiplayer experiences available 
 today. It's proof that you don't need fancy vehicles or expansive outdoor environments to make 
 a game fun.
  
  The maps do tend to get a little claustrophobic, though. The spawning sometimes puts you right 
 in an enemy's crosshairs, and it also drops bad guys in behind you, making it very difficult to 
 hold ground in team deathmatch games. It's fun to dole out those cheap kills, but on the whole 
 it reduces my enjoyment of the game. I haven't experienced any real instances of rampant teamkilling 
 (killing a squadmate is actually more detrimental to your score than a suicide is) , nor have I 
 seen any hacking online, though I've heard of a few.
  
  The Lumps: The pistols, so useful in single player, are next to useless in multiplayer. Spawn killing 
 will make you want to find some of the servers and put an axe through them.
  
  The Good: Everything else. Multiplayer F. E. A. R. is an absolute blast, and is enough to justify 
 purchasing the game even if you never play the single-player mode.
  
  GRAPHICS: 9
  
  F. E. A. R. is beautiful. There are plenty of people who will fight to the death about which games 
 are prettier, but nobody can honestly deny that F. E. A. R. is a very pleasing game to look at.
  
  The bumpmaps used for bullet holes look so deep that I had to shoot the edge of an object to 
 make sure it wasn't a geometry change. Explosions and slomo bullet trails shimmer and refract light 
 as though space is warping around them. Smoke clouds from bullets impacting concrete walls can 
 obscure your vision, and shafts of light from grates add to the spooky feel of the campaign. Great 
 ragdoll physics make it worth my while to shoot a guy off of a high ledge and then spend a moment 
 watching him tumble down some stairs.
  
  You'll hear that you can't enjoy F. E. A. R. without an two 7800GTX cards in and SLI configuration, 
 but I don't find that to be the case at all. It is demanding, but with enough RAM, I've seen great 
 results on a 6600GT. My 6800 vanilla is entirely adequate.
  
  My main complaint about the graphics is monotony. Endless warehouses, labs and office buildings 
 can become tedious. Everything's made out of the same stuff, and explosions fail to trash walls 
 and floors the way they should.
  
  The Lumps: The campaign gets a little stale with five or more hours of play in the same setting. 
 Explosions don't ruin a room like I expect them to. Some of the larger spaces in the late game 
 cause a dip in framerate. Close-ups of character's faces are just a little plastic-looking.
  
  The Good: Lighting effects, textures and special effects are top-drawer. Models and animations 
 are so sophisticated and pleasing that I sometimes wish I could just put the game in slow-motion 
 and watch... oh wait, I can, and it's terrific. Bullet-holes and blood spatters stay in multiplayer 
 long enough for you to look around and marvel at the destruction, but not long enough to make the 
 maps ugly.
  
  SOUND: 10
  
  Great sound. Guns, grenades, voices, all of it. I'd complain about the lack of voicechat in multiplayer, 
 but the menu lets you choose a pre-recorded comment for almost any situation, and I don't miss 
 hearing about what my squad-mate's cat threw up on the keyboard.
  
  I love the distortion of sound during slomo, and the clomping of enemy boots, and the ratle of 
 a thrown grenade.
  
  The enemy banter isn't just amusing, it's useful. They call out status reports to one another, 
 and you can use that to gauge their number, location and condition. It's great.
  
  The Lumps: Okay, there's no voicechat.
  
  The Good: Sound is spectacular. I can think of nothing 
 that didn't satisfy me.
  
  VALUE: 9
  
  Yeah, buy it. Don't expect miracles from the campaign, but it's fun and pretty. Multiplayer on 
 a solid connection can't be beat. Even if you don't trust my judgement, download the free demos 
 and try it yourself.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hittin
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2005 11:21 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is activion's first big pc first person shooter game, but it isnt as good as most games 
 out these days, why? well read my review.
  
  Graphics:::::::::::::::
  Graphics are absolutely stunning in this game, and Activision have done a good job, but this game 
 doesn't beat the half life 2 engine. its called the source engine. You need a really good graphics 
 card to run this game, and if you have a good graphics card, except to see a game with awesome 
 graphics.
  
  Story::::::::::::::::::::::::
  The story begins when a paramilitary force infiltrates a multi-billion dollar aerospace compound, 
 and the government responds by sending in Special Forces. The group loses contact with the government 
 when an eerie signal interrupts radio communications -- and when that interference subsides moments 
 later, the team has been destroyed. That's where you come in. As part of a classified strike team 
 created to deal with threats no one else can handle, your mission is simple: eliminate the intruders 
 at any cost, determine the origin of the signal, and contain the potential crisis before it gets 
 out of control.
  
  Gameplay::::::::::
  F. E. A. R. is definetly and obviously a single player orientated game, and for the direction that 
 PC games are going these days, this is great to see. Since the gameplayer has been discussed many 
 times and you probably already have a good idea what it is like, I will try and keep this short.
 
  
  The best thing and most unique thing about F. E. A. R.'s gameplay is of course the renowned enemy 
 Artificial Intelligence. Since they do not follow scripts but react to what the player does, the 
 soldiers are very dynamic and can sometimes almost seem human in their 'intelligence'. Stand out 
 in the open and you will get shot to pieces, hide behind cover and many different things can happen. 
 Your enemies may try and flush you out with a grenade, wait patiently for you to show yourself 
 and then fire away, or eventually send a pointman out to check if you are still there. They will 
 also lean round corners and even make their own cover, pushing over shelves or other objects to 
 save them from your wrath. Paired with this is the fact that you die very quickly in F. E. A. R. if 
 you do not think strategically in battle, not only because your enemies actually think, but because 
 you die very quickly compared to other games in the genre.
  
  The weapons you have at your disposal are not really anything special, apart from how they sound 
 and look that is. You have double pistols, machine guns, a shotgun, a rather painful needle weapon, 
 and an excellent sniper rifle that turns people into skeletons. These are the slightly more common 
 weapons, but there are also a few special ones for the more tough enemies. Since you can only ever 
 carry three weapons at a time you are often forced to make sacrifices to carry another weapon for 
 a certain situation. Also, melee combat attacks are an original twist if not always all that useful, 
 and they include a scissor kick, a sliding kick and a weapon butt attack. Grenades are also plentiful 
 and make for some great experiences with the Replica soldiers, either for their terrorfied screams 
 or the results of the impressive explosions.
  
  Of course the one remaining special thing about F. E. A. R.'s gameplay is your super reflexes. Any 
 time at your will you can slow down time in a 'bullet time' effect where you can still aim at full 
 speed but all the enemies see you moving at double speed. This not only makes for some amazing 
 looking effects but is invaluable if you want to survive some of the more furious firefights. The 
 problem with this is that it can make the game too easy if you use it intelligently, but if you 
 on purpose lay off the slow motion it can make the game more exciting in places.
  
  However, the one snag in this great gameplay is that it is not infinitly enjoyable, at least not 
 for me. For most of the game I enjoyed every firefight because there are so many memorable moments 
 that are created and unique situations that emerge. But since there are so many of the same enemy, 
 with only a few variations on the common soldiers at key points in the game, it can get slightly 
 repetative fighting them over and over again.
  Another uncomfortable thing is the pacing of the game. There will almost always be a long (or short) 
 action sequence followed by a 'scary bit', when there are no enemies, just Alma or Fettel trying 
 to scare you and on my part, usually failing. If only these bits were mixed in with the action, 
 for example if Alma made you think you were safe but suddenly drew you out of a vision to find 
 a squad bearing down on you, this would have made the game much scarier for me.
  
  Multiplayer 5/10
  
  Although multiplayer really does not mean much to me for such a single 
 player oriented game, it is still worth mentionning as I know some people will get this game just 
 for its multiplayer. There is not too much to say here.
  
  The levels all seem to small to cater for 16 players, spawn points are almost always camped and 
 you often die within ten seconds of spawning. True I am definetely not the best multiplayer gamer 
 ever but neither am I the worst, and I have to say that you will die, a lot, in this multiplayer.
 
  
  However on the positive side it is fun in short bursts if you enjoy mayhem. The weapons also seem 
 fairly balanced, and although the slow motion power up often seems completely pointless as it will 
 hardly ever get activated, it is amusing when it does. Overall the game is definetely not worth 
 getting just for its multiplayer in my opinion, but its a nice extra.
  
  Overall the gameplay needed to have a bit more variety, and although first person shooters are 
 not known for their varied gameplay elements, I feel there needed to be just a couple of different 
 types of enemies in F. E. A. R. to make the gameplay all the more lastable.
  
  -----Lastability -----
  6/10
  
  F. E. A. R. has no unlockable extras, at least not to my knowledge, 
 and nothing aside from ramping up the difficulty will be scripted differently on a second play 
 through. However, many will want to play it through again (possibly after a break I will do so 
 too) for more encounters with the unique and exciting enemy A. I.
  
  The single player takes about 10 hours to complete but the drab level design and rushed last fifth 
 could make it a bit of an effort to play through again for some people. This is certainly not a 
 bad length for a first person shooter, but slightly better pacing could have made it more consistant 
 and overall a better experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: britneyyy
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 12, 2005 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Very dissapointing game with very high hardware dejmands 
  Is not that spectacular as hardware demand.
  really everyday FPS game i have hardly waiting to 
 see but i am now dissapointing in this entertaining genre.
  Game is boring and have steal idea from the RING horror movie but very good made and i expected 
 more horror scenes they are rare but very creepy,
  but Cold Fear and other games with horror scenes and athmosphere are much better. We can see little 
 help grom Half Life 1st part (same idea)
  A. I. spectacular with moving furniture and hiding and backing when they hit.
  I have played lot 
 of FPS games but this is totally misshoot.
  I bought new GT 6600 nvidia but still don't have the maximum.
  I can tell everyone to try demo 
 first cause the game is not better.
  than you decide to buy or not.
  I am little overreactred but still one of the best who have good GTS 7800 graphic card maybe. Very 
 addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtusween
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 13, 2005 9:59 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because of the great review and score that Game Spot gave it. I was sceptical 
 at first, but then I started playing it. Good graphics, great plot (so far because I'm not done 
 yet) , and it scared me a bit. A very good game overall. 
  What won me over is the AI. The soldiers aren't dumb. They don't just start bum rushing you blasting 
 away. They see you, report you to the reinforcements, and take cover. It doesn't stop there either. 
 They then begin to apply strategy. Will the flush you out, will they wait for you to come get them? 
 It all depends on what is going on at the time. They do so many other intuitive things that I don't 
 have time writing them all down. So A+ on the AI.
  The only part about the game which I don't like isn't the games fault. It is my computers. It is 
 a resource hog. Which I would rather have than a poor graphic intensive game.
  This is a game I definitely recommend people buying. You will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinjennison
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2005 9:02 am PT
Review:  This game was exactly what the title implies, and much much more! Not only was this the scariest 
 first person shooter I have played to date, but is also one of the most fun. Another "bullet-time" 
 rip-off, I know, but man does it work well in this game and it LOOKS incredible. Every time you 
 hit that adrenaline or whatever it is, everything gets a little blurry and the colour changes and 
 you just star unleashing PAIN on anyone who gets in your way. It doesn't make it easy either, but 
 damn does it make this game fun. On top of the perfectly implemented "bullet-time" this game offers 
 a story that will freak you out. Or maybe its not the story that freaks you out, maybe it's just 
 some of the things they do. Anyhow, turn the lights off and crank up the volume if you want to 
 really experience this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 14, 2005 12:55 pm PT
Review:  FEAR has been in development for a very long time, and we've seen all the spooky pictures and videos 
 from the game, so we're all glad it's finally out cause we're ready to get shocked!
  
  The graphics are incredible. FEAR looks just as good, or even better than Far Cry and Half-Life 
 2 and that says something. You can shoot the lamps and see the light swing from side to side and 
 just enjoy thow beautiful it looks. The lighting is amazing, and the game features a whole lot 
 of objekt for you to knock around. The enemy soldiers look awesome, and the way they get nailed 
 up on the wall by your "nail gun!" is just awesome.
  
  The sounds in FEAR are also just magnificent. The sounds of your bullets, the explosions and your 
 character breathing heavily when spooky situations occur, all helps to create the perfect mood 
 for this game. The music is very good and is both fast paced and there's even elevator music here! 
 Cool! Hearing your enemies talk together about tactics and so on is awesome, especially in slo-mo. 
 Oh, haven't I told you jet! This game features top notch Matrix style slo-mo!
  
  FEAR is just awesome in every single way. The gameplay is very good, and features both fast paced 
 slo-motion action and spooky "the Ring" inspired horror scenes. The story is very good and there 
 is a plot twist (of course) which is quite good. Over to what FEAR does best of all, and that's 
 the enemy Artificial Intelligence. I've honestly never seen better A. I. than this. The enemies 
 work together and you'll often encounter situations where they are trying to flank you, surround 
 you and of course lure you into traps. They're talking together telling each other what to do, 
 and that's when you've got to sharpen your ears so that you can hear what their next move is going 
 to be. The bad things about FEAR is that it's pretty short, (around 10 hours of gaming) and that 
 it's pretty linear and doesn't change much from start to finish. The environments looks pretty 
 much alike, and the enemies doesn't change much. I was honestly hoping to see more of those invisible 
 guys, cause they where so scary. The game isn't as scary as I thought it was either, it's mostly 
 just very exciting. FEAR ends up being an awesome game featuring some of the best action on any 
 game out there. The game even features a great multiplayer which is said to be very cool. 
  
  +
  Awesome shooting with some very cool slow-motion. The sounds are very good featuring great 
 music, voice overs and sound effects. The game is creepy and very, very exciting. Good story. Cool 
 weapons. The invisible guys!
  
  -
  The game is a little bit short. The environments doesn't change much, neither does the gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramzimaher
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 13, 2005 4:04 am PT
Review:  When I first bought this game, i was kinda disappointed. For one reason, it didnt run well on my 
 PC. Im not going to brag like so many people, I mean how come 90% of the worlds population has 
 a 7800GTX or a Radeon X850 XT, i have a 5950 ultra, 512 ram, and 3.2 ghz hyperthreading.
  I had no problem with the computer setting, it was the graphics setting that sucked, i had to turn 
 the resolution to 800x600, all setting medium and shadows to low, it managed to give me 40-50 fps, 
 but 800x600 sucks... it has jagged edges and well you know what its like.... so i had to BEG and 
 BEG and BEG and BEG and BEG.............
  At last i had got it, a 6800 gt, it ran greater than I though it would, i pumped the graphics up 
 to high (except shadow, medium) changed the rez, and enjoyed the acceptable graphics (im saying 
 acceptable because compared to doom and HL2 they are much worse.. and doom ran way better than 
 FEAR... I wonder why?)
  I also was disappointed at first, for some reason I didnt like the game, but once I got to Interval 
 4 that change, I loved the office setting although not as scary as the sewers.
  Its not a scary as it is creepy, i cant play this game at night.... but then i cant play any FPS 
 at night because they are too tense, the gameplay is awsome but i wish it was easier to aim without 
 the slow mo, becauase the game is best enjoyed when its full speed and all
  The sound is amazin... thats all i have to say
  The replay value is okay... but once the story 
 is known... whats the use of playing it again, unless you want to play your favorite firefights.. in 
 which case you just save before that part
  Get this game if you want a thrilling experience.. but check your PC first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeZLee
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 12, 2005 9:12 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. (First Encounter Assault Recon) is "2005 Game of the Year". Be warned, you need a state-of-the-art 
 computer system to play this game. If you do not meet the RECOMMENDED system requirements (FX-55+ 
 & nVidia S. L. I.+.) then wait for XBox360/Playstation3. With that said, I must state that F. E. A. R. 
 is simply amazing. Game's visuals set new standards, the audio is phenomenal, control is perfect, 
 and gameplay is fierce, chaotic, and creepy. The Neo of Matrix slow motion action is the absolute 
 best ever done in a video game. Run into a situation with 4-5 somewhat intelligent enemies and 
 kill them all in hyper-realistic slow motion in just under 2 seconds. If that is not enough, then 
 how about the sick and twisted paranormal story. This game is R rated. Game's level design in some 
 parts is extremely complex on a psychological scale. The most brilliant game ever created... BUY 
 SOME F. E. A. R.... I'm out of characters : ( JeZ+Lee http://www. JeZLeeOnline. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weiyin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 12, 2005 8:25 pm PT
Review:  
  I'll start by saying if you like FPS at all, you should already have this game by now... If not, 
 here's a review of why you should go for it:
  
  Gameplay: 
  Realistic gun fights. You'll be amazed by how the bullets tear up the environment. The guns sounded 
 like they should have, and, unlike other shooters, even the pistol has its own uses. The A. I. is 
 also one of the smartest ones out there. You might want to turn the settings down a bit since the 
 framerate drops quite a bit during major fights.
  
  Graphics:
  It's just excellent. Shadows plays a big part, which sometimes cover up the small details that 
 is in the environment. However, having every option maxed out is not advised even if you have a 
 high-end machine. Be sure to have a decent video card since this game chews on it...
  
  Sound:
  Plays a big part in the game. It sets the atmosphere really well, like the madness during 
 gunfights and the silence afterwards.
  
  Value:
  Not much to say here, it's well worth the $50 bucks. If you like a little extra content, go gor 
 the dvd version, which is at about $55.
  
  Overall I think this is probably the best shooter this year, and also the best in term of story... 
 which the less you know, the more you'll want to finish it. (Just to be fair, there are some little 
 plot holes here and there though. Be rest assured that you'll get the whole picture.)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: oroeovo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 12, 2005 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I bought a ATI x800 XL last March. I was a little disappointed in myself because I'd already played 
 through Doom 3, Half Life 2, and Far Cry with my old graphics card. But then F. E. A. R. came along!!! 
 
  
  This is a very immersive experience. The first thing you'll notice about the game is its crazy 
 lighting effects. Sparks everywhere, explosive lighting, excellent sound, super intelligent enemies, 
 slo-mo and of course a story line that is actually quite intriguing. I actually prefer this game 
 to Half Life or Doom for a few reasons. In Half Life I felt a bit like I was on a rail the entire 
 time and I found the pacing a little too break neck. FEAR has and excellent pacing. You can sneak 
 up behind enemies and kill them stealthily and then take off and hide if you want or run in bullet 
 time blazing and clear a room in less than a minute. You have enough time in between battles to 
 think about how you want to attack the next set of foes or just get creped out by the hallucinations. 
 
  
  The sound is excellent. The weapon sounds really pack a punch and give you a reason to use every 
 single weapon throughout the entire game. You can duel wield pistols, use the sub machine gun, 
 the machine gun, the nail gun, and of course the shot gun. You wouldn't be at a disadvantage if 
 you kept the pistols or the sub machine gun through the whole game. Each weapon gives you its own 
 special gift when you turn slo-mo on and take down enemies. There are heavier weapons (rocket launcher, 
 beam cannon, and another heavy gun that appears to bend space time when you fire it - it actually 
 makes your ears ring in the game!) but you don't run across ammo or many enemies that require such 
 weapons. 
  
  The environment and enemies are enough to keep you interested. You spend most of the game in an 
 office building; it does have its share of narrow corridors but often opens up into something bigger 
 and offers quite a few outdoor areas. There are only about 4 different kinds of enemies, but oddly 
 that's ok. They range from a standard soldier, to an armored soldier, to an extremely acrobatic 
 soldier with a cloaking device to a sort of ED 209 like heavy suit. All of these enemies will find 
 cover when they can and try to flank you whenever they can. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brnkid
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 11, 2005 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Still not convinced after reading the gamespot review? Don't waste another minute to get your grag 
 on. Doesn it live up to the hype concerning the A. I.?
  Oh yeah it does, and in fact its the first game I played were the computer A. I. was tougher than 
 the people I played with online.
  
  What makes the A. I. so good? They're unpredictable. Once they've made contact with you they can 
 do many things. Fire from behind cover. Toss a grenade to flush you out. Crouch and move to a better 
 firing postion. Or, just flat out out flank you. Most of the maps have locked doors that you pass 
 oas you complete your objectives, that can be opened during such firefights. Pay too much attention 
 to the guys ahead, and don't be surprised if you get a shotgun blast in the back. The greatest 
 thing o\is... it's all random.
  
  Random you say? Picture yourself peeking aropund a coner and you see 5 bad guys and you're spotted. 
 What the A. I. does usually depends on you. Rush in and they take defensive positions and eliminate 
 you. stay hiding aroung the corner and expect a grenade to fall in your lap. Mess around too long 
 and you'll be fighting them from both sides. Depending on what you do and the health of their squad 
 determines their action. I played on shootout over 5 times with a different battle each time. If 
 I lobbed a grenade arouond the corner and sniped a man, the opponets may play a little defensive. 
 Or take a few shots and have your health low, and watch them swarm in for the kill. I'll let other 
 reviewers talk about grahics, sound and such, but the A. I. makes this guy and is the MAIN reason 
 you should own it.
  
  Stan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeepMeepoo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 11, 2005 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Well, to start off, F. E. A. R. (First Encounter Assualt Recon) is supposed to freak people out with 
 the appearance of The Ring's "Little girl", and the game capitalizes on every aspect of scaring 
 people. I've counted, I've flinched for a grand total of 16 times. If you say, wow, you must be 
 a "Scardy-cat". Well, you're wrong. If you've played the campaign for the first time, you would 
 freak out. My friend got scared by the tutorial. Now, let's start with the gameplay.
  
  Gameplay-
  
  10/10, the big 1-0. The gameplay really gets you into it. From the scares and 
 suprise appearances of Alma and Paxton Fettel, to the sudden yells of enemy guards. The A. I (Artificial 
 Intelligence) is astonishing. When enemy guards spot you, they call for help. When you've wiped 
 out almost all the guards, they call in for reinforcements. They can lean left, they can lean right, 
 they will do anything to get you eliminated. The actions of CPU characters are lifelike, from jumping 
 over metal railings, to going under a garage door. The A. I of enemy turrets also suprise me. They 
 fire on sight, and know not to waste bullets if you're hiding. The gunfights are incredible, the 
 scares are scary, and the story is immersive. Even though the campaign took me only about 9 hours 
 to complete (Which was a little dissappointing having only a 10-hour campaign) the single-player 
 is worth playing again and again and again. AFter your done with the single-player, why not go 
 play online? There's several different options to choose from. The gametypes can range from Elimination 
 to Teamdeathmatch. You think you're good? Prove yourself online! Now you know why I gave F. E. A. R. 
 a 10 for gameplay, let's jump ahead to the graphics.
  
  Graphics-
  
  Why the 9? As the review on Gamespot said, the game is a system hog. I had to play 1280x980 using 
 DOUBLE PIXELS, but I turned on the lighting and effects but unfortunately, I didnt turn on the 
 shadows. If I did, I would have an average of 20 FPS. I use an ATi X300SE and I average about 40 
 FPS using double-pixels. I was even thinking of buying a new graphics card for my PC, but I thought, 
 "If it ain't broke, don't fix it". Overall, the graphics are amazing.
  The lighting is well done, shadows were realistic, demons look as deadly as the ones in Doom3, 
 and the gun models are amazingly detailed. There is one thing that bugs me though. There are always 
 recycled items. Telephones, explosive barrels, computers, and even cups. Everytime I go into a 
 cubicle of an office, I see the same cup and telephone in every other cubicle. Why don't they make 
 some white phones instead of white? Why don't they make a yellow cup instead of a dark blue cup? 
 One thing I really liked about the graphics are the slow-mo effects and explosion effects. In slow-mo, 
 you can see the bullets and trails. And in explosion effects, when you shoot an explosive barrel, 
 bits and pieces of the yellow barrel fly everywhere, with a tad bit of fire caught on it. Aside 
 from the recycled items, the graphics are insaningly impressive.
  
  Sound-
  
  Another 10. The eerie sounds are very well done, and the voice acting is above average, maybe even 
 above good. How about Great??? The voices suit the model of the character and the voices sync with 
 the movement of the characters' mouths. Like I said, the occasional eerie sounds and quiet whispers 
 of Paxton Fettel make you feel like you're actually in real life. It also adds to the already impressive 
 suspense. The gun shots sound real, the Particle gun sounds like a ray, and the pistol sounds like 
 a Colt. The footsteps feel like someone is trying to assualt you from behind. This game deserves 
 the 10/10 for sound because it adds to suspense, and makes the gameplay more immersive.
  
  Value-
  
  No, I didn't give it another 10. This time, it's a 9. I think it's a bit pricy, at 
 $60 CDN. If it was $50, it would definately be worth it, with awesome replay value and fast-paced 
 online play.
  
  Conclusion-
  
  All I have to say is, the $60 is worth it, and this game is more that what it was, "Cracked up 
 to be". Think of all the stuff you can do. Slow-Mo, martial art-style melee, getting scared by 
 a little girl in a red dress with wet-hair. O. o Anyways... buy this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Interpol1212121
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 11, 2005 2:58 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is one of the best FPS ive ever played in my life!
  
  The gameplay is awesome and fast paced plus the fact its very scary
  The bad thing about it is 
 the fact the mulitplayer is very hard, its very easy to die and when your againest 16 pros its 
 about impossible to get a few kills.
  The story is very confusing, its very gory too! 
  Alma is the little girl in the game who posesses people and can tear people apart with her mind, 
 during gameplay you see her quiet alot, she pops up alot too, try playing the bit on there called 
 ''bad water'' that was very scary for me. Over-all F. E. A. R is a great game and is worth the money, 
 if your a hardcore fan of FPS and you like a good horror game then F. E. A. R is the best one to get 
 but if your light hearted and carnt stand being scared then dont bother. YOU MUST GET THIS GAME! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulbreakerx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 11, 2005 10:54 am PT
Review:  For the first thought, i think the game was a sequel for the movie The Ring because i watch the 
 movies provided with the game but it was not. This game is really awesome! With a mix up of first 
 person shooting and horror. It really make the player's nerves up! Especially the ghost or scary 
 part. And a really jaw-dropping graphics. i have never seen a game that moves the camera correctly 
 such as when you are waking up form the floor or moving out from the car. This is the first time 
 i have experienced this awesome camera moves. This game should be a must have for FPS fans. Good 
 job V. U Games & Monolith! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juancorazon
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 22, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  What is First Encounter Assault Recon (FEAR) ? FEAR is a game that involves first person shooting 
 with paranormal scary stuff. So, you can say that it is the perfect mixture of The Ring with a 
 John Woo film. The game places you as the member of FEAR (First Encounter Assault Recon) on your 
 first mission day. You have demonstrated that you are qualified for the mission. The mission is 
 to investigate a riot of an experimental cloned assault team. This team is telepathically controlled 
 by Paxton Fettel, and you must stop him. As the game advances you find out several paranormal and 
 scary things which would be terrible to spoil, so that's it for the story. Technically, F. E. A. R's 
 graphics are marvelous, they illustrate perfectly every action you take, you really feel like everything 
 in the game is happening which is very attractive. It would have been nice that you were able to 
 pick up everything ala Half Life 2 but I guess the people at Monolith didn't take it in that direction 
 for some reason. But, I presumed by looking at the richness of the way they handled the physics, 
 they could have done it better with no effort. Shooting at a roof lamp and watching it tumble sideways 
 illuminating the whole room is really amazing. The sound..... oohhh boy the sound. Well it is great, 
 truly atmospheric and immersive it helps building the tension at a very high extent. The incidental 
 music fits perfectly in the game. The musical score's presentation is spotless. High praise to 
 the developer in this matter. Controlling F. E. A. R is your day by day FPS along with some nice touches, 
 like bullet time. Something I personally did change, was the keyboard mapping, at some extent I 
 accidentally used med kits while turning the flashlight on and vice versa. But that's nothing an 
 option menu couldn't fix. As a final aspect I decided to look at the most impressive one A. I. really 
 everything you've heard of F. E. A. R 's amazing A. I. is true. It is impressive how your enemies handle 
 situation, they use cover fire, the move tables to block paths they shoot defensively. The A. I 
 behaves in a extremely real like way. The only drawback, I found was maybe because of the hype 
 for the game, don't get me wrong F. E. A. R is worth all the hype. What I really mean is that the 
 trailers showed too many scenes that they shouldn't. Or at least they should have included new 
 ones. So I believe as many others that I wanted more Alma. I believe she really makes the difference. 
 But that's only a personal opinion aside from that F. E. A. R is of the best and most addictive games 
 I have ever played so I guess the real score would be a 10 for everyone but for personal reasons 
 it's a 9.8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 11, 2005 9:54 am PT
Review:  Most first person shooters follow the same formula. You explore levels and trigger scripted events 
 one by one, many of which are enemies spawning behind you or popping through a door somewhere. 
 Enemies exhibit simple behaviors like just charging right at you shooting or staying behind cover. 
 How you approach each situation doesnt really matter. But then, theres the exceedingly rare great 
 game like Halo or Far Cry which breaks out of that formula and gives you great fights based on 
 tactics and great AI. Now, we can add F. E. A. R. to that list. F. E. A. R is incredibly intense and 
 has the best battles of any first person shooter to date. The awesome visual effects, cool weapons, 
 creepy atmosphere, and interesting story are wonderful bonuses for a game that gets all of the 
 basic stuff right. More variety in the level design and enemies would have made this the greatest 
 FPS ever made.
  
  The centerpiece of any FPS is the combat engine, and how the firefights play out. F. E. A. R. has 
 arguably the finest gaming engine to date. When a firefight rages, it ravages the room and leaves 
 behind a tornado-like wake of destruction. Glass shatters, objects fly off of desks, bullets leave 
 huge divots in the wall, sparks fly all over, and dust stirs up so much that it blinds you sometime. 
 Blood splatters and grenades explode in huge concussive bursts that blast everything around and 
 cause any loose hanging lights to shake. All the while, youre furiously playing cat-and-mouse 
 with your enemies, squeezing off bursts of fire with your powerful weapons, and trying to bullseye 
 your cunning enemies with grenades. Direct hits sometimes blow enemies into bloody chunks. Other 
 times, they blow off arms, legs, or even heads. 
  
  This games excellent AI is the crown jewel of the action. Other than the occasional creepy moment, 
 this game doesnt have a lot of scripting. Enemies patrol small areas, and you get as close as 
 you can to them, and then engage them. They are great at using cover and finding ways to flank 
 you. The scariest moments in the game come not when you see the creepy little girl, but when you 
 get surprised by some guy who found a way to get behind you. The AI is also refreshingly imperfect, 
 which is to say that you can sneak up on them, hide from them, or fool them. Enemies cant wallhack 
 you like they can in lots of other shooters. This makes for some exciting and realistic shootouts.. 
 
  
  The weapons in this game are terrific. Every one of them feels powerful, almost as if it were in 
 your hand instead of the mouse. They sound overpowering and they really pack a punch. The shotgun 
 is perfect. It feels like a cannon and when you hit a guy square in the face from a few feet away 
 its liable to take off a limb or send him flying back five feet. There is a booming assault cannon 
 and a nail gun that can stick opponents to walls. The particle gun isnt just the games obligatory 
 futuristic energy weapon. It practically melts the flesh off of your enemies and leaves behind 
 a charred skeleton. As you can probably tell, F. E. A. R. is a game that wears its violence on its 
 sleeve.
  
  Technically, F. E. A. R. sports some of the finest visuals in any PC game to date. I was able to get 
 the game to run wonderfully on my PC (Athlon 3500, 1 GB RAM, Nvidia 6800 GT) at medium-high settings 
 with all of the eye candy turned on. The game takes the dark atmospheres of Doom 3 to a new level 
 and provides some great bells and whistles like dynamic lights and shadows, cool-looking water, 
 and the blast wave that a grenade makes. The NPCs in the game are particularly impressive-looking, 
 both when they stand still, and when they move. There is one problem with the games look though 
  repetitiveness. This game could have used a lot more artists. Wheres the brilliant creativity 
 of the No One Lives Forever series? Its part of the games overall repetitiveness, which is its 
 most notable problem.
  
  F. E. A. R. s audio is even more terrific than its visuals. The game is perfect in the sound department 
 in every way. The music is foreboding and always appropriately moody. The voice acting is top notch, 
 especially that of Paxton Fettel, the crazy captain who is causing all of the games trouble. Battles 
 sound intense, whether its the boom of the shotgun, the deflection of bullets off of the wall, 
 or the dozens of AI barks that your enemies have. F. E. A. R. repeatedly uses audio cues to warn you 
 that some sort of creepy supernatural moment is coming. Its a big part in establishing the games 
 atmosphere.
  
  F. E. A. R. does have on major drawback, and that is its lack of variety. When it comes to variety 
 in enemies and locations, this game falls short. About 85% of the enemies that you fight are clone 
 soldiers. They are excellent opponents, but there are too many of them. The game throws a small 
 amount of other enemies in the game, but they are underexposed, especially the elusive ninja-like 
 characters that show up halfway through the game. Likewise, there are only three environments in 
 the game  dark industrial facility, dark office building, and dark run down ghetto house. Every 
 screen is covered in brown, grey, or black. 
  
  The game lasts about 12 hours, which is about right. During the game, the story does a great job 
 of tying the levels together and keeping you interested enough to get past some of the repetitive 
 spots. The final 30 minutes is awesome -- one of the best that I have experienced in a first person 
 shooter.
  
  F. E. A. R. is a fantastic game that is not to be missed. The game is a huge step forward for the 
 genre. It sports a good story, outstanding production values, and a level of intensity in its action 
 that no other game has provided. Hopefully, well see more games with this engine, because its 
 a great one. In the meantime, if you are at all a fan of the FPS genre, or you are looking for 
 a good one to start with, you should play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedMonkeyPoo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2005 9:00 am PT
Review:  Gawd I love this game it is so awsome buy it now or die everyone buy it so it sell s enough for 
 a sequel so i can have more fear buy it or i will kill you with my bare hands so please buy it 
 now or die buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it gawd i love this game! its so awsome buy it 
 now buy buy i love this game i love it i love it i love it i love it i love it i love it i love 
 it i love it i love it i love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SrMancilla
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 11, 2005 6:05 am PT
Review:  (REVIEW IN SPANISH)
  El juego no me interesaba y no me atraa para nada hasta que jugu el demo, para mi mala suerte 
 3 semanas antes de que se lanzara, estaba rayando por este juego , la demo es cortisima y te deja 
 prendidisimo para jugarlo y cuando por fin sali puedo decir que este es uno de los mejores juegos 
 que he jugado hasta el momento (primera persona shooter) desde las grficas EL SONIDO que te mantiene 
 tenso todo el tiempo la jugabilidad y la historia, esta increble, para que hablar de la versin 
 multiplayer, es un juego infaltable y totalmente recomendable
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeorgeTopouria
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 27, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  The game begins with a very intresting intro scene, which shows Paxton Fettel getting control over 
 a whole army of clone soldiers which in result capture and occupy a research facility under his 
 command.
  You yourself are a recruit into First Encounter Assault Reacon - a squad mainly concentrated upon 
 investigating pananormal happenings.
  The first level starts with you sent inside the captured facility, and while running through and 
 shooting a whole brigade of clone soldiers through the building, you encounter some visions of 
 your mind at specific locations, some of them are just memories, but some are really spooky visions 
 including Alma - a small dead girl appearing in unexpected moments.
  Even though Alma is considered only a vision at beginning, she later on murders a whole bunch of 
 innoncent people using a sort of psychic force.
  You sometimes even encounter her in close range, and since she is immortal, the only choice is 
 to back off from her, otherwise she will kill you instantly.
  She also calls in demons from parralel dimensions, which are dangerous only when in large numbers, 
 since they are taken down with a shot or two from any weapon.
  Talking about weapons, F. E. A. R has one of the most detailed weapons ever conceived in a game, not 
 only that, it really feels like firing a gun, especially in large battles when every object in 
 the game is totally destructible and reacts to bullet shots with maximum realism.
  Speaking of realism and graphics, Monolith has done an outstanding job combining such outstanding 
 visuals with an addicting spooky gameplay.
  And even though the spooky moments of the game are quite short, it's way better what Doom 3 had 
 to offer.
  Scary things appear here in such unexpected places, that it stops you from continuing playing the 
 game for some seconds, especially when Alma suddenly appears running towards you in the vent, believe 
 me, this is one of the most spookiest moment the gaming industry ever offerred.
  But the scary parts are not only about visual, but also about the spooky sounds which are all around 
 the game, the sound effects are truly perfectly conducted and combined along with the gameplay 
 process
  So as you might understand from this review, F. E. A. R is truly a masterpiece of gaming art and it 
 sets a new high standard for horror games.
  It also proves that a game can be nearly perfect in every aspect, wheither it's the incredibly 
 smart A. I which keeps you challenged or the terrific spooky gameplay along with perfect visuals 
 and sound.
  I have only to hope more high quality games like this will appear in soon time, or at least F. E. A. R.2.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CerpinTaxt85
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 11, 2005 1:49 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best FPS's... period. 
  
  To start off, the fire fights are far more intense than any game i have ever played. The visuals 
 are stunning and the AI is intelligent. From the insant you step out of that car... your hair's 
 begin to raise. If you have a good enough system, this games graphics and physics are amazing. 
 The shadows and all the little things they implemented into this game is what makes it possibly 
 the best game of the year. 
  
  Another great aspect of this game is the ongoing fearful experiences. This game did a better job 
 at suprising you than another other i have played. After having the first few encounters... you 
 go through the game more cautious and alert, adding to the experience. 
  
  I highly recommend this game for any avid FPS player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drswank
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 10, 2005 12:39 pm PT
Review:  While Doom 3 may have excelled at giving us a cheap scare thanks to enemies jumping out of hidden 
 closets and awkward use of a flashlight in a remote base on Mars, FEAR ups the ante and brings 
 us the true definition of horror: ghostly little girls and cubicles. Lots of cubicles. Okay, that 
 may have sounded a tad condescending, but rest assured, beneath the special forces facade lies 
 a great and incredibly creepy game that will not only test your wits but will scare the hell out 
 of you at the same time. The result is one of the most immersive, plot driven first person shooters 
 since Half-Life. 
  
  FEAR puts you in the shoes of a nameless soldier who is part of a special recon team in pursuit 
 of an out of control commander named Paxton Fettel who has taken control of an army of cloned soldiers 
 and is wreaking havoc on a city in search of something, though your superiors cant seem to put 
 a finger on what exactly hes looking for. Thats for you to find out as the lone point man of 
 the team. 
  
  While the visceral experience in FEAR will jump right out and grab you by the throat right away, 
 its not just a case of all looks and no substance. The gameplay is about as smooth as a FPS can 
 get and manages to combine a great sense of strategy (thanks to the often brilliant AI) with the 
 shooting gallery style of gameplay employed by earlier games. There are even some enhancements 
 to the formula with the ability to perform slide and bicycle kicks to take out enemies and a bullet 
 time ability to make everything slow down and give you an edge in turn. Your standard compliment 
 of weapons is here like pistols, shotguns, submachine guns and assault rifles. There are also a 
 few surprises thrown in like a hand cannon, the penetrator that pins most enemies against walls, 
 a triple barreled rocket launcher, and a particle cannon that turns baddies into skeletons. The 
 conventional weapons all do a great job of getting the job done and offer their own strengths and 
 weaknesses like certain assault rifles are great at long range while shotguns are best for close 
 range encountersthough FEARs take on the shotgun is almost ridiculously satisfying and has a 
 better range than expected. The rocket launcher, while scant on the ammo, is possibly the best 
 of the unconventional weapons since it has more practical uses than the particle gun or penetrator 
 due to their slow rates of fire. Youll also have grenades, remote bombs, and proximity mines at 
 your disposal as a means of crowd control or to flush the baddies out. 
  
  Dont think for a second that youll be clearing rooms with grenades  the AI pretty much makes 
 sure that theyre not taken out that easy. Youll be taking on full squads of enemies as opposed 
 to trickling out one at a time. In essence, theyre like snakes  when you encounter one, its 
 guaranteed hes got friends nearby. The AI controlled enemies will realistically file into a room 
 and find the nearest means of cover while occasionally popping up to take a few shots at you. If 
 you decide to hide, youll eventually get flushed out with a grenade yourself  a move that I fell 
 for more than once I might add. Lucky for you, the replica army consists of a bunch of loudmouths 
 that youll be able to take verbal queues from and adjust your strategy accordingly. Theyll announce 
 to each other that theyre going to flush you out, advancing, or just in a panic to which one will 
 tell another to advance and the other will respond with an adamant f-you. The AI really shows 
 its genius status when you start firing on them as they come into a room. If you manage to take 
 one out, the rest will wait outside for you to come to them and start to put the pressure of feeling 
 trapped on you. Sometimes the AI will slip up and opt to come charging straight at you, but its 
 a rare occurrence. You can also try to make them follow you into hallways and wait blow them away 
 as soon as they enter the door, but again, that only has a limited success rate. Its also possible 
 for you to sneak up on enemies as theyre easily taken out when theyre not alert. While this is 
 a neat feature and helps to introduce some simple stealth elements into the gameplay, its a tad 
 flawed. You can find one guy all alone and get an easy kill while his squad mates are alerted in 
 another area. No matter how much you try to hide, the rest of the squad will always know where 
 to find you and fire on you no matter how hidden you are. 
  
  Rest assured youll be navigating a fair share of dark corridors which youll be able to pull out 
 your handy flashlight instead of having to feel your way around or blow more stuff up just to get 
 some illumination. The downside to the flashlight is that its power is constantly draining and 
 will eventually shut off and have to recharge after a few minutes. While this may get annoying 
 after a while, your flashlight will never go out at inopportune times. 
  
  The driving force behind FEAR lies in its storytelling. Youll start the game as an unassuming 
 rookie in the beginning and end up feeling totally different by the end. Ironically, most of the 
 story isnt exposed during the periodic mission briefings but told to you through a series of ghostly 
 hallucinations, flashing images, and voices youll encounter as you work through your operation. 
 Youll also be able to get an even deeper view of the story through voice messages youll find 
 on phones and data you find on laptops. While it all may start off sounding like boring office 
 politics at first, the tidbits will get juicier as you progress. FEAR also has its fair share of 
 memorable moments where you will almost end up jumping out of your seat or inducing moments of 
 panic. The presentation as a whole really comes together well. Each mission is fairly large and 
 checkpoints are placed strategically to where you wont have to replay large sections over and 
 over again. You can also quick save right before you get into a particularly hairy situation. 
 
  
  FEAR offers up a good deal of realism behind all of the supernatural chicanery. Admittedly, no 
 game has quite captured the essence of an intense firefight quite like FEAR both visually and aurally. 
 Objects will realistically fall or blow up when hit by gun fire or some well placed pistol whipping 
 thanks to a nicely done physics engine under the hood. Stray bullets will leave realistic bullet 
 holes in walls or sparks flying off of metal objects. FEAR also has the best use of smoke effects 
 hands down. In some really intense firefights your field of vision will be affected by lingering 
 smoke. Shining your flashlight into the smoke will do nothing but illuminate it if its thick, 
 just like in real life and youll sometimes be forced to wait for the smoke to clear before you 
 can make your move. The realism is really pushed in the fact that there are no boss battles whatsoever. 
 Your only real obstacles are the replicant soldiers, their ilk, and your environment. 
  
  Youll venture through a variety of locales that range from a water treatment plant to navigating 
 through cubicles in an office building and exploring dingy industrial areas. Each environment has 
 been creepified for the game and the great level design helps to ease you along to your next 
 mission objective without a lot of backtracking or confusing WTF? moments. Those interested in 
 following the storyline will feel at home since the game will always attempt to lead them in the 
 right direction with minimal trouble. Every environment youll go into is appropriately creepy 
 to where even a normal office building becomes dark and foreboding once you step foot into it. 
 The same goes for some of the less sanitary environments youll find yourself in where every surface 
 seems to have the right amount of grime, rust, or dust coating it. Of course the lighting and shadowing 
 are excellent and really bring depth to your environments, especially when an explosion rocks the 
 room youre in and the lights start swinging back and forth. 
  
  In addition to taking on the enemy AI you can also engage in the games multiplayer modes. The 
 standard matches are here with deathmatch, capture the flag, and team deathmatch. All of your moves 
 and abilities are carried over from the single player game with a couple of strings attached. Only 
 one player is able to use bullet time during the match. In turn, that player will be visible to 
 everyone and make them basically a primary target. The player who kills the bullet time player 
 inherits the ability at that point. Aside from that, all of the weapons and martial arts are available 
 for you to use as you see fit. 
  
  The great visuals go beyond the environments. Every character in the game looks great no matter 
 how trivial a part they play. While the replica soldiers are repeated, theres a good variety of 
 them to keep things interesting and just when youve seen every ace in the hole they throw at you, 
 youll continue to be surprised up until the very end. 
  
  Great visuals and a forboding visceral experience will only take you so far since a game needs 
 a great set of noises to compliment the dark visuals, and FEAR has that in spades. Youll be immersed 
 into the experience thanks to an excellent ambient soundtrack that will seamlessly shift from menacing 
 to all-out creepy in a matter of seconds. There is an occasional music track here and there but 
 theyre put in to add to moments of danger or pivotal points in the game and do a great job at 
 it too. 
  
  Beyond the ambient effects, it seems that every item seems to have a sound that has been hand crafted 
 for it; from the lowliest mop bucket to the mightiest box, every item will clank and tap with realism 
 for the lack of better descriptive words of course. 
  
  Of course nothing beats the pulse pounding sounds of a gunfight. Explosions, gunfire, and even 
 punches to the face pack a wallop. Its a treat for the ears so to speak. While your character 
 remains silent aside from some breathing and grunts here and there, the game features a good amount 
 of voice acting. All the parts are played well from the abrasive civilian engineer to your superior. 
 Paxton Fettel does a great job of delivering his lines and sounds appropriately creepy as well. 
 
  
  FEAR has managed to cement itself as the forerunner of the FPS of the year competition. While it 
 may not have the pizzazz of Quake 4 in terms of visuals and environments, it excels in terms of 
 sound, story, and providing a great gameplay experience overall. FEAR offers an experience that 
 any fan of first person shooters will enjoy. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LukeP82
Rating: 5.6
Date: Nov 10, 2005 10:45 am PT
Review:  Ok, i am a big fps fan, and owing to the lengthy drought of quality shooters that had come out 
 i was looking forward to fear. So i was really dissapointed to see just how boring and pedestrian 
 i found it to play thru.
  
  I beleive Call of Duty 2 and Quake 4 are both far superior games, and am suprised their rating [s] 
 are lower across the board compared to this one.
  
  I must admit to not finishing the game, i got to about Interval 10 and then uninstalled, i just 
 couldnt put myself thru anymore, i was actually getting a bit angry at just how lame the environments 
 and setup were.
  
  This is rare for me, i would usually always see a game thru of this nature, but fear just had something 
 working bigtime against it, it lacked something certainly.
  
  I beleive the game to truly be one of the most overhyped and overated of the year, the scores it 
 has received baffle me to be honest.
  
  the sound is good, the graphics are decent, not bad, but hardly as revolutionary as some would 
 have you beleive. and the game is shameless system hog considering its graphics arent that amazing.
 
  
  Gameplay is fairly stock standard, nothing new there - the guns are terrible imo, they really seem 
 weak and werent very fun to use. And of course, as mentioned, the environments were just sooo boring, 
 i mean honestly, these guys made NOLF and Tron, i loved the environments and rich color palette 
 in both those games, so why is this one so uninspired and drab? And of course, the enemies compliment 
 the evironments well with how repetitive and unvaried they were.
  
  The 'scare' factor was pretty non existant aswell. I had one moment over 10 intervals where i jumped, 
 and that was in a crawl space when ma was crawling towards me. 
  
  I know i didnt finish it, but i feel i played enough of it to be comfortable critiqueing it, and 
 the fact that it is no longer on my hard drive speaks volumes about how little i was enjoying my 
 trip down this generic route. 
  
  Not a terrible game, merely a passable one. Definitely an overhyped peice of software. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 10, 2005 4:09 am PT
Review:  Fear is one of the most highly anticipated games this year. It's an acronym for First Encounter 
 Assault Recon. Who couldn't be excited about the screenshots and movies we all saw. The multiplayer 
 is just as great, but the physics is where the game really shines overall with some incredible 
 enemy AI that I'll explain in more detail.
  
  Lets start out with the story of Fear which is both sick and twisted, but at the same time, takes 
 some thinking to do like survival horror games. I don't really want to spoil it since there's this 
 huge payoff right at the end that makes it all come together but I will say this, it starts off 
 interesting and never lets go.
  
  The story does center around you and your name is uhhh.... Your nameless and talkess (like the 
 Doom 3 guy) , but unlike Doom 3, your not invincible and aren't the only marine (or in this case, 
 First Encounter Assault Recon) that doesn't get harmed by weird stuff. It's all about you going 
 after this guy named Paxton Fettel who for some reason, gets away every time. This is of course 
 the worst part, for the game does start off pretty strong and don't get me wrong, it stays that 
 way, but for the most part the middle portions of the game gets pretty repetitive. That's where 
 the fun all begins though.
  
  Fear has 2 things going for it, outstanding physics and outstanding enemy AI. Lets start with the 
 physics. You get this ability to slow down time for a while. As you do this, the entire screen 
 goes into this slow motion effect and you can take out your handy dandy shotgun and totally invicerate 
 your enemies by blowing their heads off or their bodies being blown apart. This is extremely satisfying 
 and never gets old. The 2nd thing is the enemy AI which always puts up a fight. No matter what's 
 going on, the enemy can outsmart you quite a bit and has to be the first game where they actually 
 do. The enemies will talk as if their talking in a radio, so you can always understand what their 
 saying. They always work as a team and will jump through windows, flip and roll around, work together, 
 support eachother, and well, if it wasn't for the fact that you get slow motion ability this might 
 be the hardest FPS made in a while. SInce you do, the game is insanely easy, you'll find plenty 
 of healthpacks along the way.
  
  The health packs are, like I said pretty plentiful. Whenever you want to bring your health back 
 up, you press a certain button to bring back 50% of your health and you can only carry 10 of these 
 at a time. I seriously had so many health packs, that I would have to use up one just to bring 
 back like 5% of my health and then pick up the one in front of me.
  
  Still, the game is pretty fantastic and the firefights never get old. The sound is fantastic, from 
 the great voice acting to the great weapon sounds and explosions from the slow motion ability. 
 The sound is totally flawless and is satisfying to another level. 
  
  The graphics on the other hand is a toss up. Indeed they look great, but somehow Fear has some 
 of the most repetitive environments that can be found. How they can make a sewer and an office 
 complex look the same is pretty odd, but it does look the same. It is worth noting that you'll 
 need a powerful machine to run this game on, but once you do find a pretty powerful machine, it 
 runs pretty smoothly, without once, it looks just ok. 
  
  Fear is a pretty cool game, the story doesn't quite add up, but you'll get scared quite a bit, 
 especially when you run into this little girl named Alma who plays an important role in this game, 
 trust me. She can kill people with her mind, but she likes to play with your mind, which is how 
 this game gets pretty scary with these visions. Unlike the visions in Doom 3, these are scary. 
 Mindless imps don't spawn behind you, instead, you get these ghosts in these vision that if you 
 don't kill, will hurt you badly. Paxton Fettel has these visions with you too. 
  
  You only face a few different enemies in this game and there's no real boss, but they AI is so 
 fantastic all around that it doesn't really matter.
  
  Fear's weaponry consists of machine guns, shotguns, pistols, rocket launchers, all that good stuff. 
 You can only carry 3 weapons at a time and although this isn't really a big deal, the game has 
 fast reload times for weapons. Games like Battlefield 2 take forever to reload, but this game is 
 insanely fast. Just taking off the clip and putting it back on in a split second, it really works 
 when the AI is trying to flank you out. Like I said, you can only carry 3 weapons at a time, so 
 choose carefully, I suggest a shotgun, machine gun, and a weapon of your choic. Shotgun for slow 
 motion and the machine gun for firefights. You can dual wield pistols and they pack some punch, 
 especially since most pistols suck in FPS games. Other wapons, like this laser that shoots out 
 a one shot one kill works great. So the weaponry is unique and lots to choose from, but all of 
 this is just some suggestions.
  
  The game also has you increasing your health and slow motion ability to increase your gauge. The 
 blue lighted packs are for health and the green for the slow motion ability. The health packs regenerate 
 all your health and increases it by 5 while the slow motion green lighted packs increase your gauge 
 by a little. By the time I finished Fear, my gauge had increased like almost 2 inches and the health 
 was from 100 to almost 200. It works out great and you'll want to search through every knicknack's 
 to find these. 
  
  The game is pretty linear and it is non stop. You can go almost half an hour without a single firefight 
 and then go for an hour without any stop. The game is intense through and through. Of course it 
 will try to scare you while your not fighting, but it's all pretty standard. Shoot enemies, run 
 through halls, occasionally turn a valve or push a button.
  
  Overall, Fear comes highly recommeneded, it is a ton of fun and the phyics and enemy AI is incredible. 
 The game is about 10 hours long and it packs in some replay value despite the repetitive level 
 design and deep system requirments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razvantmkiri
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 10, 2005 3:31 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R.. what a game , I started playing it and I realized that it will send chills up my spine. 
 The game has an exciting engine which reproduces a gun fight in every detail, up until now in shooters 
 when you shot a gun nothing much happened except for a few marks on the walls, but in FEAR all 
 of this changed because when you start blazing all hell is unleashed: dust, debris and shrapnel 
 making the game quite an experience. The enemies arent just a bunch of suicidal maniacs that lunch 
 themselves strait at you, in FEAR you can clearly see that they work as a team an that they attack 
 with theyre heads, the dialogues between the enemies really make you fell that you are in the 
 middle of the action. 
  Like all almost perfect games it has a downsideyou need a state of the art computer fully experience 
 what FEAR has to offer .
  Lets get back to some good parts : what I really liked about this game is that it reminded of 
 two of my favorite games: Half-Life and Max Payne. The part with Max is easy enough to understand 
 because of the bullet time (Reflex in FEAR) but the part about half life may be a little subjective 
 but thats what I felt, maybe because of the level design or who knows.
  All in all FEAR is a superb game containing the best gun fights ever seen ,great effects, a captivating 
 story (I never said anything about it because I didnt want ruin it) and simply a great feeling.. 
 You will see
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: royboy2100
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2005 2:11 am PT
Review:  No other games have frighten or made me never walk in the dark was this game. Although Doom 3 had 
 its shall of creepiness, F. E. A. R. brought me the same fear I had after watching The Grudge and 
 The Ring. 
  
  The gameplay plays out almost like Doom 3 where you're there to find out what the heck happen to 
 everybody and the people in the building. Several times you'll get some freaky moments of seeing 
 this little girl or recently dead soldiers walking around and making their presences known to us. 
 
  
  The AI of the soldiers was very excellent. Even after playing Half Life 2, I had more problems 
 with F. E. A. R. then in Half Life 2 as the soldiers did what a real soldier would do in real life, 
 put us out of misery.
  
  The sound was just same as you would have experiences in System Shock 2. I couldn't play the game 
 in pitch black because the sound was so good, it really scared the heck out of me. The music was 
 just haunting like in The Ring and The Grudge as if the game developers really took notes when 
 watching those movies to make F. E. A. R.
  
  If there was things to complain about F. E. A. R., there would be 2. For one, there wasn't enough 
 type of enemies. There was only the one type of grunt all in different models. I was hoping there 
 was more then one type of grunts like elite force or more ninjas. The 2nd was the cussing was on 
 average like a true Rated R movie with the F-word. Although not on Quentin Tarantino's level of 
 language, but it was enough to have your parents come in and say whats all that cussing is all 
 about or your children starts copying their lines. 
  
  All in All, F. E. A. R. is a sure winner for both FPS fans and horror movie fans. If there is anything, 
 this game deserves in a different class from Half Life 2, Resident Evil, and Doom 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poyo143
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 9, 2005 10:58 pm PT
Review:  This game should be one of those 'best game of all times'
  i'll tell you why this game deserve such honor...
  The AI is definetely one of the most intelligent 
 out there in the gaming world and well most of the good stuff have already been said by most people 
 in their reviews so I'll just say this: GET THE GAME IS WORTH YOUR MONEY
  This games sometimes wishes you were surrounded by enemies then walking in dark corridors and just 
 suddenly get your pants craped on by the sight of the ghosts... really trust me
  this game does a good try in becoming one of the best games to play
  monolith and vu games should 
 get some credits for being rather ambitious
  The graphics is also damn superb and so is the sound but in order for optimum quality, you definely 
 to upgrade your comp for those low end users
  well to tell the truth i am not that very good at reviewing games but i hope u people enjoy this 
 review (for what particular reason would one enjoy a review?)
  anyhoo thats all folks...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NitroDriven
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 9, 2005 10:40 pm PT
Review:  This is one hell of game.
  
  Gameplay is almost flawless. Combat is very different than other FPS games and demands the use 
 of tactics. Running and gunning is out of the question because the debris will cloud your vision 
 immediately, plus the enemies will chew you up. Brainless shooting is out of the question. AI is 
 the best I've ever seen. Far Cry doesn't even come close. Not only do they interract with the environment 
 (IE, kicking over a table and using it for cover or knocking over a shelf to slow down your pursuit) 
 but they interract with eachother and flank very effectively. They use grenades with devastating 
 accuracy, so watch out. You have to be really careful with these guys. If they so much as see your 
 flashlight around the corner, expect a grenade to roll under your feet in 3 seconds. Every weapon 
 has its set of advantages and disadvantages against certain enemies, or in general to keep things 
 in perfect balance. You can carry just 3 guns at a time. The game has its fair share of intense 
 action, drama and tension, and it's all at exactly the right places. The storyline is very very 
 interesting and it unwraps throughout the game nicely and the conclusion... good god. Someone FINALLY 
 does an ending right! It wrapped up 10 times better than I could've imagined, and left the gate 
 wide open for an expansion pack. That final hallucination was extremely well done and chilling 
 and the last moment before the epilogue was mind blowing. Unbelievable really how the storyline 
 was presented. Masterfully done.
  
  I could go on and on about how fascinating the game engine is, but words can't possibly describe 
 what it's capable of. Let me just say that the graphics, special effects, sound effects, ambience 
 and in-game music are all out-of-this-world fantastic. I especially liked the way the blur effect 
 was used in SlowMo, hallucinations and cutscenes.
  
  The only thing I have to complain about is the way the engine runs. My computer was able to run 
 fairly smooth at 1024x768, 2XAA, 4XAF, all highs but SoftShadows off but at intense moments, it 
 really slowed down. Half the time it runs at 60+ FPS, which urges you to turn the graphics higher, 
 and the other half it runs at around 25 FPS, which urges you to turn the graphics down. You just 
 gotta live with it. Can't debate, and you certainly wouldn't wanna turn the special effects down 
 and miss all the glorious eye-candy.
  
  One thing I can't help but mention are the ghost ninjas. They are the best enemies I've ever faced. 
 So damn fast and sneaky. They use camoflauge, so the only thing you see is a twisted view of the 
 environment in the shape of their bodies moving around at like 100 MPH. They turn it off when they're 
 right in front of you and smack the **** out of you, then go back before you can do anything about 
 it. Even in SlowMo, they are very hard to target. A lot like fighting a cross between Gray Fox 
 and Spiderman.
  
  10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlwillin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 9, 2005 6:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is almost as good as it gets right now on the PC for FPS Games. This game has a twist 
 though it's scary as **** and because of that i can't play more then ten mintues at time. F. E. A. R. 
 has a way of just geting you when you least expect it... WOW OR as i like to say "OH ****". I want 
 to close my eyes and hope its all over with its that scary in the dark. However that would be a 
 waste of a great game this game is worth picking up just be sure to buy some extra underwear while 
 your out because you'll crap yourself about every 7 min and 30 secs. I'm on my 15th pair right 
 now in case you were wondering. Which I know you were... sick monkeys. I'M so tramatized that i 
 catch myself making scarfs on W. O. W. yes tailoring is one of my skills even a dwarf (male) can 
 nit. LOL . And another thing its good to see PC games still making its mark on the gaming world 
 even if they are only FPS or MMORPG. GAME ON! 
  
  P. S. thx for the nightmares. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: michel1348
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 9, 2005 8:02 am PT
Review:  Simply the best 1st person shooter up to now. It combines sound, graphics, intensity, control at 
 a new level. Turn off the light, crank up the volume and... you'll know what F. E. A. R. means!! Worth 
 buying, and the multiplayer is just great too. Something great also on single player is taht you 
 need to make good choice for your weapons... cause you can carry a maximum of three only.. so that 
 make sense and it gives the game a bit more difficult... GO GO GO against PAXTON... The AI of your 
 ooponent is just amazing.. never been seen before... they react to everything you do.... they even 
 detect and tell averybody if they see your flashlight turned on!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StalkerEST
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 9, 2005 7:06 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R.... A good game with good initials, but a bad name. The words what the initials mean arent 
 bad, just the formation of them is. But now down to the point.
  
  The Good and Suprising about F. E. A. R, wahey:
  What suprised me the most was the graphics, how 
 good it looked on 640x480 (My pc has 1.5Ghz, 256MB RAM, 256 Video Mem) Reso, all minimum except 
 World detail, which was on medium, and shadow's, which was also on medium. But... it all looked 
 superb... not to exaggerate, but to me it seemed like Doom3 on 1024x resolution with shadows, bump 
 mapping ect. on medium or high. The effects, water and models also look purely fantastic. The animations 
 looked real, sounds, world effects.
  Also, the A. I was pretty good to as mentioned. But I didn't think it would be that good, the clones 
 suprised me from both ends at some points. They ducked, crouched and so on, almost created the 
 feeling of fighting medium skilled players. 
  And the lack of medpacks in some areas made it harder to survive, but that was the general idea.
 
  
  The "down the hill" part.
  
  Tuntuntuuun... the power of machine hogging compels you.
  What i mean't to say was that the game's 
 engine is something that eats up most of you're resources and drags the gameplay down.
  And at some points, yes i said the A. I was superb, but at some points they seemed to do the same 
 thing what the others did.
  
  Thats what i thought was bad in my opinion.
  
  Well, all in all, it was a superb game, the experience would have been better if the engine was 
 built differently... no offensivities against the developers.
  
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: glassesgeek
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 10, 2005 9:40 pm PT
Review:  The lights go dim as I stumble into an elevator. The door quickly slams shut as my heart tries 
 to stop me from thinking. I quickly reload my assault rifle and try to shield myself in the corner. 
 My breath gets louder and I know I cannot wait any longer. They will find a way in. I reach for 
 the button to open the door while my pulse leads my finger to the trigger. Glass shatters as the 
 bullets spread in front of me. I see my own blood and hit the ground in fear. She is standing there. 
 The little girl keeps her head down and is completely motionless. I raise my gun, but it is too 
 late. It is too late.
  
  F. E. A. R. is the 2005 first-person shooter for the PC that achieves what every great first-person 
 shooter accomplishes: gripping fear and action. Developer Monolith spent years developing their 
 gem and finished with a solid game that will not be quickly forgotten. F. E. A. R. delivers elements 
 to the first-person shooter genre that will leave you breathless after extremely cinematic and 
 glorious gameplay experiences.
  
  On its surface, F. E. A. R. is a story about a top-secret paranormal military team, First Encounter 
 Assault Recon, that is practically dropped into a war against a clone army. Unfortunately, you 
 never get the opportunity to fight alongside this exceptional team, which leaves you in the typical 
 lone ranger role. The clone army idea is becoming quite repetitive in the first-person shooter 
 genre and is primarily used in order to justify the use of a grand total of five enemy models (a 
 wise budget decision, but still an annoyance to any gamer) . As the story progresses, however, the 
 standard clone army story becomes far more intricate and engaging as it frightens, disturbs, and 
 leaves you breathless.
  
  Amongst the myriad of first-person shooter games on the market, there are few that are original 
 and creative enough to distinguish themselves from the others. F. E. A. R. will certainly always 
 be known for its impressive enemy squad AI. Enemies will always try and flank you or send team 
 members at you one at a time. You can listen to them talking to each other and plan accordingly 
 in how you will counter their strategy. There will also be encounters where the enemy will be more 
 afraid of you than you are of them. The squads use brilliant AI when interacting with their environments, 
 which, while sometimes dramatically scripted, is all too real during gameplay.
  
  The progression of the game is very cinematic, a feature that unfortunately causes a great deal 
 of linear and limited gameplay for a 10 to 12 hour game. The setting mostly takes place in a factory 
 where around every corner tends to be a feeling of deja vu. This setting does, however, allow the 
 firefights to become more involving and the environments to be more destructive, but it can also 
 cause the game to become very monotonous. The list of weapons available is quite short for a first-person 
 shooter and you will find yourself always resorting to the assault rifle as opposed to the less 
 accurate alternatives (shotgun, dual handguns, submachine gun, rocket launcher and a few other 
 heavy-hitters) . F. E. A. R. includes a "reflex meter" that allows you to slow down time to make 
 ambushes far less difficult and, naturally, more enjoyable to watch. Its never explained exactly 
 why you have the ability to slow down time and, like most features in the game, serves only in 
 making an entertaining first-person shooter experience. The cinematic feel that accompanies this 
 feature allows the player to witness body parts being torn up by bullets, and in more dire situations, 
 heads may tumble to the ground. Without the cinematic experience offered in F. E. A. R., the game 
 would be no more than a straight line looking for an end.
  
  Bugs are inevitable for PC games and F. E. A. R. has a fair share of common problems, such as enemies 
 walking through doors or having the ability to shoot through walls. Beyond a handful of minor bugs, 
 F. E. A. R. does well to overcome the common downfalls in the first-person shooter market.
  
  A now increasingly common feature to well-made first-person shooters is not excessive bugs, 
 but rather a soundtrack that enhances the experience entirely. The standard Halloween-style soundtrack 
 is implemented nicely in F. E. A. R. and is supported by several well-recorded sound effects that 
 sound beautiful on surround-sound speakers. The sound effects are all perfectly placed and contain 
 creatively composed mixtures of sounds that form chillingly eerie environments and daunting climaxes.
 
  
  F. E. A. R. is a graphical powerhouse that will rip apart most PC video cards. Any card below 128 
 megabytes of video memory will not stand a chance powering the detailed facial expressions and 
 lighting effects. The overall artistic graphical presentation of F. E. A. R. is enjoyable to watch, 
 but could use some variation from time to time.
  
  While F. E. A. R. may be a bore for some with its repetitive level designs and drawn-out story that 
 requires time to progress, it knows how to deliver gripping fear. At any given time, you can be 
 tossed into a vision of skeletons chasing you in swamps of blood or a little girl standing patiently 
 waiting for you to face your fear and approach her. Doors may randomly slam shut in front of you 
 as you are forced to follow a trail of blood and enter into your own fear. F. E. A. R. is certainly 
 not for those with a weak stomach, but uses all of its art in what I like to call a disturbing 
 beauty. It is this experience that F. E. A. R delivers unlike any other first-person shooter and 
 makes the game well worth any fan of the genres time.
  
  The time for the PC first-person shooter of the year has come. Shes waiting and its not too late.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickstock
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2005 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Dispite the outstanding graphics and sound quality. F. E. A. R. left me too many things to desire.
 
  
  In the fact that the game always advance to you when danger is coming. 
  You can hear your enemies talking in his radios after a shooting scene is about to come, or the 
 shingle when a paranormal event is about to occur makes the game become almost too predictable.
 
  
  After a few hours spent, its quite frustrating not to found any boss or nothing really astonishing 
 to get yourself more involved on the game
  
  However, it redeems with a lot of realistic good action, outstanding graphics and exquisite sound
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conrad_QS
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 8, 2005 4:30 pm PT
Review:  I start playing FEAR - and i think this is one of the games that will remain in the history (of 
 games, at least) as one of the best action game. His power is in the fact that you are let to imagine 
 the worst things based in some freaky noise, bad intercom radio transmissions or anything that 
 could fright you indirectly. The enemies are very, very intelligent, hiding or using the objects 
 to annihilate you. They hear when you are out of bullets... and they work as a true team, with 
 cover fire and tactics. If you are having a bad heart, don't play this game. Or at least don't 
 play it at night, with your headphones at maximum. Because you surely will start to have problems 
 with your heart. Good luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slowram
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 8, 2005 2:34 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is similar to other FPS games in that it lacks the adventure qualities that make the top FPS 
 games more than just a shoot everything in site game.
  As a shoot everything in site game this one succeeds in pushing itself towards the forefront with 
 its spooky environment, ability to slow down enemy time, and the AI.
  Perhaps I'll appreciate the spooky storyline of this game once I finish it, however currently the 
 side show spook characters seem more a hinderance than a plus. With that being said the creepy 
 sounds and not knowing/but knowing an enemy is just around the corner can put a player on the edge 
 especially under the right playing conditions (sound turned up, playing at night with lights off) . 
 The sound in this game makes a real difference in the spook category.
  Once you discover how much slowing down the enemy turns the tide of the battle you'll continuously 
 be using that ability and amazingly it will be there to use more often than not as it charges quickly 
 and doesn't have to be fully charged to invoke. This adds little to the fps experience aside from 
 making battles with multiple enemies easier to win. The game without this feature as well as less 
 enemies would have been comparable.
  I find the AI to be the most distinguishable feature of this game compared to other shoot em all 
 fps games. The AI talk to one another and this actually impacts the enemies actions and you get 
 to hear this communication. This adds some realism to the combat and some fun options to the game. 
 You can run down one corner of a building attack the enemy and they'll expect you there, but you 
 can then runaround to the other side and see their backs turned. You can shoot an enemy to draw 
 out nearby hidden foes. 
  
  I wanted more from this game and from the hype and reviews expected more. Aside from the AI and 
 environment there is little to get excited about. However as Half Life 3 probably isn't due out 
 until the turn of the century, this is a fun distraction just don't expect more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 8, 2005 1:15 pm PT
Review:  This is the scariest shooting game in history. If you like horror and shooting this game is for 
 you. The sound is scary. This game freaks you out like a maniac. It is very scary with the sound 
 on loud. There are really cool weapons such as a machine gun, rifle, double pistols, shotgun and 
 sniper. The cool part of the game is slow motion. The best part is online. You can play capture 
 the flag, deathmatch, team deathmatch and more. You can even play with your friends! I recomend 
 this game to people who are good at games and if they are not too scared at horror. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedibob152007
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 8, 2005 12:47 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is awesomely done. The graphics are spectacular even though not every thing was on max 
 for my comp. Alma is just... scary. I mean COMMON shes a little girl that walks around and rips 
 people apart, then liquefies them. the settings do seem at times a little dull, not alot of different 
 and like DOOM you just walk around and shoot things (or bust out slowmo and jujitsu there butt) . 
 woulda been mice to have some allies there to help you and add a little spice. but most the time 
 your left wondering halls solving little clues. the game also seems to some to an abrupt end. like 
 everything falls together a little to fast. its still by far better then A LOT of games. It is 
 well worth the money to buy and play and you dont need a top end machine to play it. the sound 
 is great play it in the dark with the sound all the way up, it will scare the bajeezus out of ya. 
 I would have to say my favorite part of the game has got to be the ending sequence, which i wont 
 spoil, but say i just started to cry because you just sit there and when you see what happens theres 
 nothing to do and no where to go. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fusible
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2005 9:35 am PT
Review:  This is 2005's other must have besides BF2, hurry up and get it. Before you miss out on one of 
 the greatest playing games of all time this game will take you and spit you out twice before you 
 know it don't miss out before you're to late. The A. I. in this game is something I've never seen 
 in any other game it is very annoying at times because right when you think you got it down think 
 again for most average gamer try it on normal, for the hardcores try it on hard and you'll see 
 what I mean. Also you'll better be sporting at least 1G of ram or you'll be lagging big time this 
 game visually, is worth it. Also if you got that extra buck get a new GPU it'll make the big difference. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spurrv
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 8, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game i have played in a very very long time, in the fps-genre. The only better 
 game is half life : Cs, but we all know that. Right?
  
  I mean, people thought that half life 2 was good looking and fun but honestly it sucked. Then came 
 the disaster quake 4 (well after f. e. a. r, but anyways) but there is ONE game that is quite original 
 for a computer game in the ways of mixing genres and its f. e. a. r. The graphics in this game is 
 underrated, with the crappy graphics in like hl 2 this game would not been as great as it was. 
 The ambience is so perfect, the scares are good and the shooting is wild and very detailed.
  
  Although a bit short, when you think about it, it still provides lust to play it again. The 
 multiplayer is great, but not cs-great. BUY THIS GAME... NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cigarillos
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 7, 2005 9:57 pm PT
Review:  My 16 year old daughter torments me with stories of Saw, Saw II, Hypertension, Scream, movies that 
 she is both enjoying on DVD and in the theaters. I had her sit with me for the first several levels 
 of FEAR, and she was hooked. She asked that I not play, unless she could watch. Call it a Father/Daughter 
 moment ... but let's call it for what it is ... a great game, packed with emotion.
  
  Skin tingling, wanting to leave my office for some additional Depends Diapers, this game is very 
 scary. I am somewhat dissapointed I can't play with my headset ... however, frankly I am glad for 
 the company of my emotional daughter who was there with me through some of the games more tense 
 moments.
  
  Congrats to the FEAR team more hitting a home run. I am engaged ... thrilled ... and close to sitting 
 in a corner in my tiddy whities, hugging my knees, and begging for forgiveness! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manchild99
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 7, 2005 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Oh boy i have been waiting a long time for this game. And let me say it lives up to almost all 
 teh hype. I absolutly love this game. So far it is game of the year for me. But before you all run 
 out a buy it , beware. This game is a system eater. It will consume your pc. To run it on maximum 
 settings, i almost impossible without a super high end graphics card, or for that matter 2 super 
 high end graphics cards! But once you have those settings up, this game is absolutly beautiful. 
 It is one of the best looking games i have seen this year. Although you will feel like you are 
 in the office buildings, and warehouses, the sound is what really puts you in the game. From the 
 creepy music playing in the background to the sound effects. I will admit that some of the paint 
 can sounds get annoying if they get stuck in the corner. It sounds like bongo drums. And while 
 we are on the topic of office buildings and warehouses, you should get used to them, because you 
 will be seeing A LOT of them. The game is kind of repetative, in the sense that you will be killing 
 the same bad guy for houres, and running through the same office building for houres. Also the 
 color seems to be all the same. I know that the developers were trying to scare you with the dark 
 colors and shadows, but they use the same black and green for all of the game. Which brings me 
 to the levels thenselves. The game is pretty straight forward with a lot of doors blocked by desks 
 and shelves. Which isn't all that bad, but i would like to have seen some changes in the level. 
 With the great physics engine, they could have included a few more enviromental puzzles, or any 
 puzzles for that matter. 
  Another great thing about this game is it is scary. There were many times where i had to take a 
 break and do some thing else, after i had just been creeped out. I think that this game is great 
 over all, and with a few changes could be the best pc shooter of this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoloJon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 7, 2005 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Please note, there may be a few mild spoilers below, but Ill try and keep them to a minimum. With 
 all the recent success of Japanese horror in American cinema, it was only a matter of time before 
 a game meshed the idea into a FPS. From the moment the game was announced, I was intrigued and 
 eagerly anticipated its release. Unfortunately, the game lacks some key elements to really make 
 it scary, but its far and away a more enjoyable shooter than the recent disappointing Doom games.
 
  
  Doom 3 was a great game and represented some terrific technical achievements in terms of graphics, 
 but at the end of the day, window dressing can only go so far to immerse the player. Gameplay counts 
 for a large part of the experience and I felt a bit let down by the recent forays into the Doom 
 universe. While the mechanic of keeping the player in the dark was a great idea in theory, in practice 
 it required some stretching of the imagination and it resorted to lots of cheap scares in order 
 to frighten the player.
  
  FEARs palette is much broader and definitely has some incredibly creepy elements, while trying 
 to keep you guessing about the story. Unfortunately, though, whilst playing through the game so 
 far, I have very rarely been actually scared, and feel that some of the design work could have 
 used improvement. The first conclusion I came to was that while the little girl Alma was creepy, 
 I didnt really feel that she was out to get me, the player, in particular. That, coupled with 
 the fact the main villain, Paxton Fetteljust as an aside here, where on earth do they get these 
 terrible names?! With all the improvements in scripts and voice acting it would be nice if some 
 attention was paid to naming the characters themselves. Characters names are often greatly unimaginative 
 and seem to stem from horribly comic book-type references or are ridiculously made up, fake-sounding 
 names. Paxton Fettel? Even Max Payne is shaking his head on hearing that one.
  
  In any case, Paxton Fettel seems to be manipulating or somehow in collusion with your character, 
 a nameless, faceless super-mandroid hero character (another tired clich of gaming) . Of course 
 it all fits into the story, of which the elements are quite light and primarily just serve to urge 
 you from location to location, shooting up more of the AI-controlled baddies. The AI really is 
 fantastic, with the opposing force working together as a team to try and take the player out. Unfortunately 
 for them, the player still has the advantage, not only of being human-controlled, but of the always-fun-but-now-trite 
 Matrix style slow-motion effect.
  
  One of the things I noticed first off is that the design has changed somewhat from what was shown 
 at the past two E3 events, and not for the better, in my opinion. In one of the E3 videos, your 
 character is dropped off onto a rooftop office complex, with some witty banter amongst the helicopter 
 crew just prior. He is given cover by a twin-vulcan cannon support, spectacularly and with great 
 excitement. Perhaps I have not gotten to the level where this takes places, although I am a good 
 2/3rds through the single-player game, but I have played a level which was similar but much less 
 spectacular.
  
  Additionally, in the E3 demo, there were some completely different exchanges that take place inside 
 one of the office levels, that have been changed to more of a headset conversation, most likely 
 due to some design changes that pertain to some of your teammates in the FEAR squad. That was another 
 large disappointment, as by the design, you still predominantly feel like the lone super-hero with 
 very sparse contact with team-mates, which serves to emphasize the fact that this is a game created 
 for one, rather than an immersive experience. There are some attempts made in this direction, but 
 far and away, it was a wholly different experience than what I was lead to believe from the E3 
 videos. There were some great scenes that seem to have been omitted entirely, like coming upon 
 one of the weird little imp creature that seems to be tearing at the dead flesh of a former security 
 guard, which only leaps into the ceiling and disappears with a strange electricity. Perhaps that 
 moment was in there and I missed it, or it is yet to come in the last part of the game.
  
  That aside, FEAR is a fun game to play, but while I find it nearly as engaging as the short but 
 sweet Half Life 2 experience, it falls slightly short of the mark. Going through blasting faceless 
 enemy after faceless enemy might not be boring for some, but in all, the genre is beginning to 
 show its age already, as there seems to be little innovation beyond dressing things up slightly 
 differently, or with a shiny new graphics engine.
  
  On that front, FEAR is a terrific-looking game, with lots of little details that go a long way 
 to bring the player into the world (glass effects and the slow-mo sounds, shockwaves from explosions 
 and the little puffs of dust, to name a few) , but the game ultimately feels like a one-way maze 
 to lead the player through to the next section. This is not necessarily bad, as one rarely gets 
 lost, or is confused about where to go, but it simply feels like an evolution of the original Half 
 Life concept.
  
  On the scary side of things, I believe it would have been worthwhile to build up the idea of Alma 
 being some thing that no one could really figure out what it was, what it wanted, or if it even 
 was really ever a little girl at all. It would have been much more interesting to not encounter 
 her at all in the early game, but just hear NPCs talking about her, overhearing that the fact anyone 
 whos seen her has died, or seen some horrible aftermath of some encounter with her (a la, the 
 Rings victims twisted faces) . Some attempts are made at this, but she seems more like a capricious 
 spirit whos barely messing with you rather than a demonic force that bears ill will to all living 
 souls. Additionally, the enemies that you as the player face time and time again are not creepy 
 or even remotely scary. They sound too human (or, too robotic) and theres nothing really frightening 
 about them. Perhaps if they had creepy voices or there was a bit more mystery to them, the tension 
 level would be higher. There are a few enemies that can be quite sneaky and when you hear them 
 rustling about it can be unsettling, but honestly, its another clich to set enemies on you that 
 can turn partially or completely invisible and it has been done to death. There are some menacing 
 enemies that you encounter, but it quickly becomes about pounding the snot out of them until they 
 go down, using the slow-mo as much as possible to minimize your own damage.
  
  In all, FEAR is a great experience, if a little cookie-cutter, and most FPS fans I suspect have 
 already played through the game by now. Theres a lot to like about FEAR and its definitely heading 
 in the right direction for action games, but theres also room for improvement in the genre as 
 a whole. The only major letdown is the rather steep system requirements, but the engine scales 
 nicely, if you have a fairly recent computer but perhaps not the absolute latest (and most expensive) 
 graphics card. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: milsvaard
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 7, 2005 12:21 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that recieved a lot of hype and it delivered on some levels, dont get me wrong, 
 this is a good game but when it was over i kinda felt disappointed.
  
  Pros:
  Cool particle effects.
  Good lighting.
  Good AI.
  Interesting plot (somewhat in the beginning) .
 
  Fast pace multi player.
  
  Cons:
  Same enemies over and over again.
  Very few weapons.
  You can only carry 3 weapons at a time and only the shotgun is necessary.
 
  No boss battle in the end.
  Not really scary.
  
  Aside from the graphics, the game is not as good as Half Life 2 was, the enemy AI is very good 
 although i dont think its going to make you play the single player game after you finish it. You 
 need to look past the good presentation in order to see the flaws and there were enough flaws to 
 make me feel a little disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demolisher12
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 7, 2005 11:00 am PT
Review:  Upon first impression this game really tenses you up (just like doom3) for something scary to happen. 
 Yet, in this game they really waste no time in gettin' your heart racing. Unlike DOOM3 where you 
 run aimlessly for a good hour until it really starts gettin' creapy. The AI in this game seems 
 like it was a bunch of talk. Many of the enemies in the game seem to act and or do what you'd expect 
 in any first-person shooter. If they didn't boast about it before release no one would really notice 
 a difference in the AI. Weird thing is the game get's dark and scary and than your wandering around, 
 kill a few enemies, and mission is over. There's a good chunk of jump scenes in the game that make 
 you want to turn all the lights on and get back to the desktop but not like Doom3 did. The slow-mo 
 is cool but it get's boring over time. The enemies appear to be the same for a while. The emotion 
 in the game messes with you a lot, it's not scary all the way through. It's off and on. The Kung-Fu 
 moves get old quick also. The flashlight running low and charging keeps you nervous but can sometimes 
 get annoying. Overall it's a good game, seems like they got a few ideas from The Ring (the movie) , 
 and if you really want to get scared, use your surround sound with EAX. You'll start lookin' behind 
 you even though it was just your character kicking a trash bag on the floor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ontain
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 7, 2005 8:25 am PT
Review:  It's not just a regular shot-em-up type FPS. This one has a real story and tries to deliver it 
 well. I for one thought they did a very good job of it too. Unlike doom3 where creatures jumping 
 out at you were the heart of the scare. FEAR is more psychological in it's attack. Your character 
 sees things. creepying things from death of team mates to a hall full of blood and a little girl 
 (think the Ring) . As you go through the game you find out who she is. and why you're having these 
 vision. things in your dreams can sometimes harm you as well. 
  
  I really enjoyed this game. sometimes the music alone was enough to get me to pause and take a 
 few breathes and release the tension that the game instills. also the slo-mo effect was well done 
 too. almost felt like max payne but without the diving and john woo style. the only problem i found 
 with the game was that it ended pretty quick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meisterNL
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 7, 2005 7:25 am PT
Review:  It's simply one of the greatest FPS ever made :D :D It doesn't look that great as Far Cry but the 
 scary parts make it up big time ^^
  
  Enemy's give covering fire and support each other, that creepy little girls come's back all the 
 time to **** with your head. Believe me it's as scary as watching a great horror movie!!
  
  the gameplay is excelent and very easy to learn, every thing in the game can ne broken and moves. 
 The gun's are very good and look sharp, the effect of some guns is very nice :D
  
  everybody, THIS GAME RULEZZZZZZZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nurettinakhan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 7, 2005 2:33 am PT
Review:  This game is a work of art. Oh sory this isn't game this is F. E. A. R . Trust me gamers. Take that 
 game, hold that game, love that game but very love that game. Because it's deserve that.
  
  The graphic is superb, atmosphare is superb and so on...
  
  F. E. A. R have a great in game video. 
 I like it.
  
  The best things i like about this game is the Slowmotion its the best slowmotion ever in a game 
 that i have played, it kicks Matrix real good.
  
  The A. I is nothing what i have seen before they are really smart and thinks where to hid and other 
 stuff.... some people think that the A. Is on Counter Strike: Source is good and Far Cry but nothing 
 can out smart these A. Is so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f8ld8a
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 6, 2005 11:34 pm PT
Review:  I just don't get it.
  
  The Pros of this game are:
  Nice particle effects
  Some good DX9 effects
  Melee combat freshens up the combat
  AI is similar to Half-Life 2
 
  Scary - this game will make you jump outta your seat
  Bloody
  
  The Cons:
  Graphics - Modeling is average and lackluster. Talk about abuse of primitive shapes! Texturing 
 is uninspired. Please see Half-Life 2 and Quake 4 for what is the best in textures today
  Ambient sound - a gimmick in this game is that you can walk near something or past something like 
 a garbage bag or piece of wood, and it makes noise, making you think something is behind you. it's 
 over used and annoying
  Guns are weak - i feel no connect to my guns whatsoever. the hands holding my guns are too small, 
 do i have girl arms or what? Refer to Call of Duty series and Quake 4 for the best feel of guns 
 today
  Walking + Running - this is not mixed well, when ever you shift position to walking, running, or 
 crouching, your character does this little shift backwards that completely ruins the feeling of 
 momentum that you would have while moving
  Little Variety in enemies to fight - I think they decided the fewer the better
  Not engaging 
 - play CoD2 and Quake4 and you'll feel like your in the combat and a part of a great fight. in 
 FEAR you move room to room killing the same guys over and over and there's nothing to make you 
 feel like your fighting for something important
  Level Design - it's the same problem with the enemies, too little variety. and when the environments 
 come from 1999 you will get bored of them very quickly
  
  I had to try this game at a friends house since I wasn't going to buy it. Graphics were maxed out 
 and I played thru the game over a week. It felt like a chore playing thru it becuase hardly anything 
 new ever happens. I feel like this should be a budget title, like 20-30 bucks. The production values 
 in this game are poor except for some cutscenes, but mostly they are too short and are just attempts 
 to freak you out. 
  
  If you're looking for a good shooter that you will keep going back to, get Quake 4 or Call of Duty 
 2. Those games are worthy of being in everyone's library. If you've played thru those already and 
 are tired of them, then FEAR is a viable alternative, just dont expect too much. The novelty of 
 particle system will wear out quickly and the AI really isn't all that anyway. I wouldn't play 
 thru this game more than once.
  
  If I had to summarize this, it would be called Max Payne 3: Scary Plot Budget Title 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BogzDollox
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 6, 2005 1:28 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me say something I think is very important: to get the most out of FEAR you should 
 play it on "Extreme Difficulty" which is not remotely difficult provided you play it as it is meant 
 to be played - which is with copious use of the slo-mo feature. I'm not especially good at First 
 Person Shooters, but I hardly died at all playing the game on this setting. So, assuming you play 
 it like that, what will you get? Quite simply the best FPS combat ever, IMO. It will me some time 
 to explain why, because there are just so many factors that make up the experience that is combat 
 in FEAR, and while none of them are new to the FPS genre, I don't think they've ever all been combined 
 like this, and many of them have never been done as well as this.
  
  In FEAR you basically play a sort of soldier and you mostly fight other soldiers, which you'll 
 encounter in groups. Your enemies use the same weapons as you do, and they do as much damage to 
 you as they do to them. Damage is location based too, so you'll deal (or take) much more damage 
 to (or from) a headshot. Hitting an enemy in the leg will cause him to limp. Sometimes hitting 
 an enemy might knock him over but not kill him, and he'll take quite some time to come back to 
 his senses and get back on his feet before carrying on the fight. At other times he might be stunned 
 for only a couple of seconds, but even these are valuable (especially when combined with slo-mo) . 
 If you hit a limb (any limb) with a powerful weapon you can take it clean off, and when enemies 
 die the ragdoll physics are second to none. Meanwhile, when enemies hit your vision goes red for 
 a second and you get knocked around, throwing you off your aim.
  
  You can carry up to three weapons at a time, but the weapons are very well balanced and the difference 
 between a good weapon and a bad one usually comes down to what situation you're in rather than 
 just "bigger is better". In close quarters combat against human foes you'll want a shotgun or submachine 
 gun, where as at long range you'll ideally want a sniper rifle or rail gun. For everything in-between 
 there's the assault rifle, which is the game's "all round" weapon, giving you a good balance between 
 short range punch and long range accuracy. All of the weapons feel powerful (both when you're firing 
 them and getting hit by them) and they each have a unique kind of recoil, which further adds to 
 (or detracts from) their usability in different situations. There's the familiar "size of the crosshair 
 denotes accuracy" mechanism, with accuracy decreasing while you move and increasing if you "aim 
 down the sights".
  
  You also have three kinds of grenade: your normal sort; a proximity grenade that sits on the ground 
 and goes off if an enemy comes close to it; and a remotely detonated "sticky" grenade which can 
 take a bit of skill to use well. These, again, are extremely well balanced against the other weapons, 
 so that you'll want to use both grenades and guns in most fights (and throwing a grenade can be 
 done without switching weapons, which makes doing so very simple) .
  
  The enemies you fight against are just brilliant. They'll flush you out with grenades, flank you, 
 pin you down with suppressing fire, and so on. Of course all of that has been done before, but 
 in all the FPS games I've played (including Far Cry, HL 1&2, CoD, MoH and so on) I've never seen 
 it done this well. Enemy AI seems to be completely soft-coded here, and done so realistically it 
 astonishes me. I've never experienced such a frantic mix of diving for cover (cover is essential 
 in FEAR) , leaning around corners, listening to what my enemies are saying (more on that in a moment) , 
 briefly running and gunning before diving for new cover, switching weapons, ducking, looking this 
 way and that while reloading... hopefully you're getting the idea. Toss a grenade from your hiding 
 spot and it pays off greatly if you wait for the explosion before following it out, but go too 
 soon or too late and you're in trouble. Back off around a corner and your foes won't just come 
 running after you. Instead they'll take various positions from which they'll be able to tear you 
 apart when you come back out, and wait you out. Most parts of the game have multiple routes from 
 A to B and when this is the case, some of the soldiers may try to sneak around and come at you 
 from behind. They communicate too, shouting orders and answers at each other, and these are not 
 just sound bites either. Everything they say is context sensitive and gives you essential information 
 about what they're doing and why. If a soldier shouts "Fire in the hole!" it's time for you to 
 dive for new cover, and fast. If one says "Take cover!" and another says - in a suitably frantic 
 tone of voice - "Where!?" then you know one of your foes is stranded in the open. Every move you 
 make results in an immediate and intelligent reaction. Squads work together, but they're not telepathic 
 and have to commicate with each other avout what they're doing and what you're doing (for example, 
 if you're seen trying to sneak around behind them the guy who's seen you will shout "He's trying 
 to flank!" but until then none of them will know) . They also have a strong sense of self-preservation, 
 and will prioritise taking cover and getting themselves out of trouble just as highly as you do. 
 Squads are fairly aggressive at full strength but whittle them down to just one man he'll adopt 
 extremely defensive tactics. Add to all of this a realistic amount of swearing and cussing, some 
 of the best graphics and physics ever seen in a FPS, terrifically destuctable environments (often 
 you'll have to wait for the smoke to clear before knowing whether it's safe to come out from your 
 cover) and you've got a combat experience that is simply unrivalled.
  
  So where does FEAR go wrong? Well, for a start, pretty much everywhere outside of the combat.
 
  
  Good voice acting and a decent script fail to compensate for a lousy plot with holes the size of 
 Texas. The game tries to be scary and sometimes succeeds, but in the most annoying manner. The 
 infamous "BOO!" moments in Doom3 actually compare well to the scares in this game, because they 
 involved monsters leaping at you in-game with you being in full control, whereas FEAR frequently 
 wrestles partial or even full control from you in order to "show you" something scary before letting 
 you get on with playing, and these "cut scenes" increase in frequency as the game progresses to 
 it's frankly awful ending, which arrives far too soon (FEAR is much shorter than any other major 
 FPS game - I completed it in just a few hours) .
  
  The environments are very "samey" and you'll frequently get that "Haven't I been here before?" 
 feeling. There are puzzles thrown in here and there, but they're boring and feel very out of place 
 (especially as they are so very contrived) in a game that otherwise seems to want to be taken seriously. 
 
  
  There are powerups that permantly increase your health and the amount of slo-mo you have at your 
 disposal, but these are not matched with a suitable increase in difficulty as the game progresses, 
 the net result of which is the game getting easier and easier as you go through it.
  
  The flashlight beam only reaches about 4 feet in front of you and has an short battery life which 
 caused me to eventually stop using it altogether out of sheer frustration (by the way, leaving 
 the flashlight off actually helped me to navigate the "samey" levels because at any given time 
 the way ahead was usually illuminated while everything else was dark) .
  
  All of these faults are annoying, but perhaps the worst sin the game commits is to fail to deliver 
 its full potential in combat. There is just about enough variety in the opponents you face, but 
 the game infuriatingly refuses to mix them up. You're either fighting a few of opponent type A, 
 or a few of type B, or a few of type C. You never get to fight a mix of A, B and C all at once, 
 and that's a real shame as it would have elevated the combat from it's already high level to something 
 simply sublime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destroyerz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 6, 2005 12:19 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is a FPS (first person shooter) game that takes action, horror and thrill into one game. The 
 game is easily one of the best games ever made! 
  
  The story is about a crazy person looking for an strange girl named alma, who messes around with 
 people's head, and sometimes even kills them. So through out the game you will see strange visions 
 and her just about every single level. The game is quite short, able to beat in about 1 or 2 days 
 if your REALLY addicted, and if your paranoid about scary games, then its not the one for you.
 
  
  The game has an EXCESS amount of blood and curse words through out the game, which gives it it's 
 M rating. If you buy the directors cut, you will get some bonus features for only an extra 5$ which 
 is a GREAT deal and i would recommend getting it!
  
  the graphics are easily some of the best visuals ever seen, you fire the gun and the wall just 
 breaks apart, boxes flying everywhere! along with the sounds makes the guns feel real, you dont 
 just get machine guns and assault rifles! but the only downside is that it takes an KILLER computer 
 just to run on a medium setting!
  
  You get pistols, SMGS, assault rifles, particle cannons, rocket launchers and more! The gameplay 
 is also fun, you gotta interact with strange visions, which are like mazes and relaly freak you 
 out, and you fight enemies through the game, but its always the SAME enemies almost through the 
 whole game, but the AI is awesome too! 
  
  the game difficulty is JUST perfect, do easy, its really simple, do normal its a bit hard, do hard, 
 its tough! and the learning for FPS fans is really simple to find out too!
  
  so that concludes it: giving it an 9.3 out of 10!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: freaksanon
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 6, 2005 6:18 am PT
Review:  FEAR is the kind of game you would expect to suck. Sorry, you know it's true right? Same old FPS 
 shooter, with a little bit of story added to make it seem like the developers had talent in something 
 other than sitting at a desk playing with their gameboys. 
  
  Instead FEAR brings some very awesome and fun concepts to the table. The ability to slow down time 
 with "heightened senses" is amazing and life saving! 
  
  The story is actually detailed and enjoyable, and also as you might expect from the title, a bit 
 scary! 
  
  Well hope this helps, and hope you've got the machine to run the game the way it should be played! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuski
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 6, 2005 1:59 am PT
Review:  Back sometime when the development stage of F. E. A. R was around halfway complete I got hooked on 
 what I had seen. From screen-shots to videos, previews to press releases, I was excited about a 
 FPS with a ghostly, gloomy feel to it.
  
  When the game was released I had no money in the old pocket so had to wait till a few days ago 
 to emerge myself in this games greatness.
  
  From the get go you can tell that this game has had alot of thought and effort put into it. Some 
 points of interest raised in other reviews and on the forums are to do with the A. I and sound systems 
 in place, and I agree this game conquers in those areas and many more!
  
  The story starts off with you, the protagonist, as a member of the First Encounter Assault Recon 
 unit. You are sent in to investigate an unidentified paramilitary force who have entered a company 
 compound. Through events you discover a gloomy, ghostly feel to everything around you as a strange 
 man known as Fettel Paxton and a little girl seem to haunt you. Carrying on you duties handed down 
 by your superiors you continue investigate and uncover sealed mysterious.
  
  This game has everything for a FPS fan-boy. The story is great and the way it is explained is especially 
 tasty with laptops, phone messages, strange ghostly sightings and radio link to you leader developing 
 the story over the course of the game. The graphics are very good but compared to Half Life 2 could 
 seem to lack and the backwards compatibility for hardware + HL2 outshine F. E. A. R. 
  
  The A. I in F. E. A. R is rather amazing and after a few minutes of getting your butt kicked by running 
 out with all guns blazing, you'll realize that the SlowMo button is there for a reason. By pushing 
 over tables, throwing grenades, requesting backup and taking cover, your enemies will do anything 
 to make sure they are the ones who live.
  
  Next up. Headphones and F. E. A. R = a new pair of pants. The sound in this game along with the ghostly, 
 paranormal theme will make you jump more times than you can count. Even with the addition of boxes 
 falling over when you walk past them, you may soil yourself so beware.
  
  
  For anyone who likes FPSs with good storylines (who doesnt?) then go buy F. E. A. R. You'll enjoy 
 it and come to gamespot. com and probably review its awesomeness yourself!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackcrackerman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 5, 2005 11:45 pm PT
Review:  What can I say, my 3.0ghz HT P4, 2GB DDR 400mhz Dual channel and BFG Geforce FX 6800 GT OC (VGA) 
 Rock this game. Its crystal clear and I've never seen such amazing in game play graphics (I am 
 fortunate enough to have a system that can handle all max settings with highest res) . I LOVE the 
 realistic bloody mess it leaves when you shoot someone, it may be alittle exadurated but I still 
 love it. I have never played a game that has actually incorpurated close combat the way FEAR has 
 and I love that too. This FPS really brings some uniqueness to the tables of the FPS Realm. As 
 stated in previous reviews I have read about this game its set up like a horror movie, I always 
 ask the question of ,"Why is he going into the dark tunnel?" Now I'm that idiot going into that 
 dark tunnel!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcohSS
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2005 6:59 pm PT
Review:  I really really want to like everything about this game. I always enjoy a good government/corporate 
 conspiracy game. Deus EX did a wonderful job with this. Even the X-Com games had some secret government 
 plot devices mixed in with it's tactical strategy. And who could ever forget Black Mesa? When I 
 bought FEAR, I felt the thrill of being an elite operative. We're the ones called in when Delta 
 get's splattered all over the room by some unknown supernatural force. No, the theory and backstory 
 of this game sounds good; it's when you get to the practical application that the wheels start 
 getting a little loose.
  Perhaps my expections were a little skewed. I expected a combat game with a rich diverting plot. 
 Instead, I got a non stop, highly improbable gun battle with a rich teasing plot that only serves 
 to lead me on to yet one more set of horrible odds. I supposed I'm spoiled by games like Call of 
 Duty 2 or Vietcong 2, where you have teamates at your side. I have to admit profound irritation 
 that during the coarse of this game, events are constantly contrived to leave you completely alone. 
 Jankowski and Jin, are the only two members of the First Encounter Assault Recon team you ever 
 get to meet; I was hoping for a diverse cast of characters; Jankowski vanishes off the face of 
 the planet after the second mission and Jin shows up to do an occaisional bit of analysis. Delta 
 force might as well be wearing red shirts; everywere they go, they get slaughtered. I had really 
 hoped to have some teammates along; it would have made the halluncinations even more interesting; 
 do they see and hear what the main character sees? But no; your escorts get shot, blown up, exploded, 
 and you are left to yet another big firefight. Between the faceless armored foes, and the non stop 
 combat, this game got very tedious at times. Yes, it is gorgeous; the effects, down to smoking 
 gun barrels and breaking glass are amazing; but what separates this from a old fashioned kill fest, 
 the plot. And while it is quite good, the loose ends and the contrived deaths of your teammates 
 really hurts it. I think this game could have benefited from only two locations, fleshed out in 
 considerable detail. As it was, the dark, crummy locations just got boring. Being outnumbered and 
 outgunned got irritating. But I had to know what this was about; I had to know what happened next. 
 It was like watching a TV show where you hated the characters but you loved the plotlines.. ok, 
 it was like X-files; I never liked David Duchovny but I loved the show. Same with this game. Great 
 battles; way too many; not enough plot; should have had teammates with you; could have done a lot 
 more with the plot. Great game but certainly lacking in several areas. Definitely not an 8 or 9 
 rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zink
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 5, 2005 6:11 pm PT
Review:  
  this game has everything the graphics and the storyline. the best part of this game has to be the 
 shooting the way you can slow down time and just beat the % out of them is great. but i was 
 kind of mad because of the small amount of weopans to choose from... my weopons that i carry on 
 me was the shotgun the asp rifle and the rpl sub-machine gun. i also like the the grenades its 
 awesome when thrown. and i also dont like how the game is kind of short but i keep playing it over 
 and over. the ending of it is also great . if you dont have this game i reccomend that you go and 
 BUY THIS GAME you wont be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: williamrupush
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 5, 2005 1:38 pm PT
Review:  You can clearly say that F. E. A. R offers one of the best gaming experiences this year. Take amazing 
 effects, gorgeous graffics, outstanding sounds, cool designs, pulse-pounding action and mix it 
 all together. And then you add a flavour of horror, not to much. And voila! The results are F. E. A. R! 
 
  F. E. A. R is truly one of this years top games, and if you're thinking about buying this game then 
 do. F. E. A. R delivers an experience so sweet that once you've started playing it, you don't want 
 to stop. The only true flaw that the game has is that it seems awfully short, though it has a superb 
 ending. But when you've finished the game there is still a lot to do, there are a number of difficulty 
 settings if you want to try that out, and still, playing this game over and over again isn't bad 
 at all, only miss is that then the scary moments won't be so scary anymor cause you know they're 
 coming.
  And not to mention the game has an extrordinary multiplayer wich features modes such as CTF, Deathmatch 
 and Team Deathmatch. And the all new Slo-mo Deathmatch, wich gives 1 player the ability to engage 
 in Slo-mo, but all the other players will always know his location. 
  So F. E. A. R offers a fresh gaming experience, it's visually amazing, atmospheric and elevates the 
 FPS genre to whole new levels.
  F. E. A. R is nothing like you've ever seen before and is a must for all gamers out there, and if 
 you're already an FPS-fan then you're bound to love this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legumo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 5, 2005 8:44 am PT
Review:  I've been using a PC ever since the 1987 and played so much games i lost count, i grew with games 
 such WOLFENSTEIN 3-D, DOOM, QUAKE..
  
  I just finished F. E. A. R about 3 days ago and what an experience that was,
  i enjoyed the Max 
 Paynish BULLET TIME mode, it's innovative for a FPS shooter, i loved the AI which is so smart i 
 had problems many a times.
  
  The Animation and graphics are top notch.
  
  As a shooter.... it's the best there is, as a scary experience it wasnt that much scary like DOOM3, 
 however as a SUSTAINED sense of dread, FEAR delivers,
  you dont feel afraid, but you feel anxious and involved.
  
  this is the best FPS there is and 
 i recommend you to play it, cause the ending is extremely cool, and the story is good for once.
 
  
  GET IT! :)
  
  my favorite FPS till this day:
  
  1 - F. E. A. R
  
  2 - FAR CRY
  
  3 - HALF-LIFE 2
  
  4 - DOOM 3
  
  5 - QUAKE 4
  ------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 070758
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 5, 2005 8:02 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. puts you in the role of a nameless F. E. A. R. guy which you would eventually find out who 
 you are. The graphics are extremely cinematic and next-gen and the environments are destructible 
 also, but slowly it will "heal", which makes it a con. The enemy AI is the far best i've ever seen 
 in my gaming experience. Pushing objects for cover, disobeying, retreating... they actually know 
 what they are doing and they won't be the dumb enemies who can't jump and will get stuck in the 
 walls. Gameplay is kind of good but after you play for hours wou will feel like that you are stuck 
 inside an inside environment. Like you can't get fresh air. There's so little outdoor environments 
 and you will feel like that you got stuck in this dark office environment. Sound quality are great 
 especially when bullet time is adctivated.
  
  One problem is that all the ATC guards look the same... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danceeagle
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2005 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I play mostly FPS's because I love killing and seeing blood splatter with lots of groans and noise. 
 I didn't count how many quasi robot humans I killed in this game but it was a lot. I did my part 
 to save the earth. No appreciation is expected nor do I expect a Nobel peace prize . 
  Quite easy game to learn. Tough areas were not impossible. No need to refer to "walk throughs". 
 I got lost a few times and took a while to find the rabbit hole out to the rest of the game. Sometimes 
 this meant jumping off to what falsely appeared as a sure death.
  My computer is well..... mediocre but the game played enjoyably at "minimum" levels. 
  Game is 
 promoted as being scary and I wasn't scared all that much. Didn't matter as I enjoyed the game 
 with its lucid if slim plot justifying tons of chaos. Many scenes seem repetitive going from office 
 to office. And frankly the female team member could have been much more sexy and more physically 
 appreciative. 
  Other than all that...... the killing was fun and game play was creative and fun. Glad I bought 
 the game which gave me about 15 hours of murderous fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jingwa
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 4, 2005 8:27 pm PT
Review:  
  After finishing the game on my 1st attempt in 12 hours (also taking the time to explore and inspect 
 everything) I felt like I had gone through a great experience, with very few dislikesunfortunately 
 after finishing the game and playing multiplayer onlineIve stopped playing this gameas I have 
 found the game has little more to offer once complete.
  
  Okay lets get into the details.
  
  Graphics   well the effects are very cool, its simply cool 
 having a fire fight with the AI, overtime u feel the need to simply waist ammo for no other reason 
 then to see what cool effects occur. Of course depending on the surface type and object type will 
 vary the results, like if you shoot a wall u will see a crater or a bullet hole appear, shoot a 
 box and all sorts of dust and paper pieces explode out of it and metal things result is heaps of 
 sparks, so overall very cool
  The textures and rest of the graphics on the other hand are not as cool, very repeated and simple, 
 u wont find to much variations between the lvls or to much color on your screen at any point in 
 time, perhaps this is to allow the blood stains to stand out after a gun fight :P lol. Either way 
 you wont be focused on the walls so much, the fun is in the gun fights and the paranormal side 
 of the game.
  
  Sound  Its pretty good, all the general sound effects are ok, from guns to walking, only complaint 
 I had was I wanted a little more beef to the guns, the shot gun didnt sound just right either 
 to my taste, but still very good. Music? Not sure if there is much of that, more like background 
 sound, designed to make things sound creepy or action focused, either way its very fitting and 
 helps set the mood for any scare moments. My main prob was by the end of the game you have heard 
 the clone soldiers say the same things a hundred times and it doesnt seem so cool listening to 
 them anymore, but still cool.
  
  Game play  Very good, AI is very good for once and makes killin them ever more pleasurable , draw 
 backs is even though they are a lot smarter then in most gamesI have no difficulty taking them 
 down, even on the hardest lvls. Besides that the scare moments in the game are cool, there not 
 always the same and vary in style and execution during the course of the game, most I just found 
 cool and didnt even get surprised at, but after playing a few hours and walking down a dark office 
 cubicle and suddenly seeing something scurry towards me from a door, gave me a little fright lol, 
 I was expecting a clone soldier, not that dam girl :P.
  Either way u can just go with the action or even listen to answering machine messages if u like, 
 which offer more info into the storey and plot, but even avoiding that it still makes sense in 
 the end.
  Main draw back is in the final lvls , the main enemies u fight look. crap, I honestly cant say 
 they look cool, I would of preferred more soldiers any day, even if repetitive. It still was fun, 
 but I honestly thought something cool was coming up, because these ghost dudes looked so crap. 
 But in the end I was disappointed : ( to find out I reached the end of the gameat least the ending 
 was somewhat cool.
  
  To conclude, very good game to play through once, anyone who loves FPS games or horror based games, 
 should give it a try, its different, its cool and its definitely a blastbut unfortunately after 
 that, there isnt much left to enjoy in this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadam77
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 4, 2005 9:10 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed F. E. A. R. much more than Doom 3 and I think you will too. The only FPS that I've played 
 recently that I like better was Farcry. The Gamespot review was right on the money in regards to 
 the good and bad points to F. E. A. R.. The graphic are a wonder to behold. The weapons feel like 
 real weapons, with their blistering sound and how they tear up the environment. The enemy AI is 
 the best I've seen in any shooter to date. The bad guys will find cover, flank and use other tactics 
 almost as good as in multiplayer games. The only negative thing I can say about this game is that 
 the enemies are kinda repetitive and the levels are too similar. This shouldn't stop you from giving 
 this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_NHB
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 4, 2005 2:50 am PT
Review:  F. e. a. r is the best game i have played because its got a good feeling in the game that many other 
 games dont have....
  
  The graffic is superb and really makes it feel more that you are really in the game...
  
  The 
 best things i like about this game is the Slowmotion its the best slowmotion ever in a game that 
 i have played, it kicks Matrix real good.
  
  The A. I is nothing what i have seen before they are really smart and thinks where to hid and other 
 stuff.... some people think that the A. Is on Counter Strike: Source is good and Far Cry but nothing 
 can out smart these A. Is so far
  
  So i really say buy this game its worth the money................ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvilPinkPanther
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 3, 2005 7:57 pm PT
Review:  ok ! One that rates up there with HL2 and the first to make me come out of my seat. Ghostly images 
 appear and disappear before your eyes making the experance a step above just a first person shooter. 
 I say it was well worth buying and the Slo-Mo feature that slows down time gets you thru some tough 
 spots. One of the best games I've played this year. There's blood and bones, and a mysterious little 
 girl walks towards you sometimes the the paranormal, mysterious voices, and images continue to 
 creep you out but it also draws you in deeper. Awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anjel_Few
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Well i have the FEAR Directors Edition, had it on preorder, was also a Beta Tester for Monolith 
 on this whole project, and i just have to say that man is this one impressive game, The Graphics 
 are amazing, the AI is unbelievable, and the game is just absolutly amazing, everything screams 
 polish to me. I give Monolith Huge props for trying something new and making a new franchise, they 
 could have rehashed something old, but instead chose to build something groundbreaking from the 
 ground up. As soon as you start playing it its apperent that they spent a lot of time on this game 
 to make it as polished and finished as it is, it feels like a movie that you get to play, and not 
 have to watch ALA MGS (MGS is awsome, just using it as a comparision) The game is creepy when your 
 alone your creeped out becuase your not alone, and when your not alone your worried your gunna 
 get Owned because the AI is so great, i mean flanking, nades, calling for support, all of it is 
 combined to actally make you think about how you are really gunna take on 3 or 4 guys instead of 
 just running out there and trying to shoot em all, because they will kill you. The game definatly 
 has the best atmosphere in a long time. Then there is the Multiplayer, man how incredible is that!!! 
 Its awsome, if you ever played shogo you will undestand what i mean when i say it is very shogoesk. 
 You can definatly tell the same team made both games. Wich in my opinion is a great thing, the 
 multiplayer in FEAR is fast and furious, there are several different game modes and they are all 
 very fun, fast and genuinly feel rewarding. I find a lot of people complaining with how FEAR runs, 
 i personally have no problem at all with the perfomance in FEAR i actually think it runs very well 
 for how goood it looks. All in all what i am trying to say, GO BUY FEAR!! if you have not done 
 so yet GO BUY IT NOW, Stop reading and go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MentokMindtaker
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 3, 2005 11:20 am PT
Review:  For the first time since Half Life 2, there is some competition and it's called F. E. A. R.
  For easy reading, I have broken up my review in parts, so you can read only the parts that interest 
 you.
  
  If you are a lazy gamer who doesn't want to read a long review, in a few words fear is an atmosphere-rich, 
 horror-like, intense shooter with great AI and great graphics. It can be a bit repetitive though.
 
  
  AI
  When focusing on the single player portion of the game, fear is certainly one of the best shooters 
 thus far. Pretty much every game claims that their Artificial Intelligence (AI) is better then 
 you've ever seen. Fear is the first game that actually delivers a new level of AI. The enemies 
 are cunning and show real human emotions. They discuss strategies and when you slaughter almost 
 a whole squad, they call for reinforcements and refuse to attack you, simply out of fear for you. 
 Opponents will flip over sofa's and cabinets to build up cover and they lure you into a room from 
 where you cannot simply take them out one at a time.
  
  Graphics
  At the time, fear is by far one of the best looking pc games. The lighting is spectacular and without 
 it, the game would lose a large portion of what makes it so good.
  The system requirements are pretty high, but with a AMD 64-3200+ and a GeForce 6800GT, I was able 
 to turn on almost everything with the settings on high. The guns, characters, walls and even TV-screens 
 (which show videos) look great. The built-in bullet-time mode gives a real matrix-like feeling 
 but you cannot use it in every fight, so it is reserved for the really difficult fights mostly. 
 After charging it up, you have several seconds to use it and this gives combat a whole new feeling.
 
  
  Sound
  Fear is designed as a horror-like shooter. You can bump into things on a desk and you hear the 
 sound you created. This sounds like nothing special, but when you are walking through a deserted 
 building and you suddenly hear something behind you in the dark, it will surely make you wonder 
 if there is something waiting to kill you in that dark corner.
  The guns sound pretty good and the background music is very well chosen. The instant you start 
 a certain firefight, the music will change and when the combat stops, it is gone. The changes are 
 very subtle and add to the atmosphere.
  
  Guns
  As in every shooter, there are different types of guns. Fear limites you to 3 different guns and 
 several types of grenades are also available.
  Besides the handgun which can be dual-wielded, you have several medium ranged machine guns, a shotgun 
 (which cuts someone in half, if used properly) and some other more powerful weapons (like a rocket 
 launcher, a sniper-rifle and a canon-like gun which instantly makes you smile, the first time you 
 blow someone up with it) 
  The grenades offer a lot of fun and the shock wave you see when throwing it in an elevator is simply 
 great.
  
  Story
  For a shooter, fear has an average amount of back story, though it could be a bit more. The storyline 
 is told via voice mail messages on telephones and laptops which can be found throughout levels.
 
  
  Maybe this review was a bit to long and it may lack a lot of details, but it's my first review 
 so forgive me :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metr01973
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 3, 2005 10:30 am PT
Review:  Scary? YES, the best game ever made? Not quite, better then HL2? Almost.
  As I use my slide kick I come to rest at the feet of an unsuspecting enemy, I hit the slow-mo button, 
 time slows all around me but I am still able to move at normal speed. I stand up, shotgun in hand; 
 raise it to head height and fire! All I see is a huge cloud of red where his head should be, just 
 then the slow-mo meter runs out and everything kicks back into normal speed. The headless body 
 flies backwards towards another enemy who has just realized whats happened. I switch to my trusty 
 pistols, take aim and fire, blood splattering nearby walls the enemy lets out one last scream and 
 as he falls to the floor he squeezes off his last few rounds which echo around me as they hit the 
 walls, dust and chunks of concrete swirl around me. 
  There will plenty of moments like the one above, FEAR is an unbelievable game. You assume the role 
 of an unnamed member of First Encounter Assault Recon team and are thrust into a story that could 
 have been a Hollywood movie. Your prime objective is to locate Paxton Fettel, a cannibal who has 
 the control of a clone army and along the way you will be given side missions like searching an 
 area or finding a switch to open a gate etc but these side missions fit right in and dont feel 
 like they been crow barred in, they make the game feel all the more real. The little girl in 
 the red dress does have a good deal to do with the story and yes she s**t me up numerous times. 
 She appears throughout the game and gives the game a real spooky feeling as you dont know where 
 shell appear next. I dont want to give to too much away but its sufficed to say its a roller 
 coaster ride with twists and turns all the way. FEAR doesnt rely on Doom 3 type scares either 
 (monsters jumping out of closets or every time you pick a health pack zombies come out of every 
 darkened corner) FEAR really does scare you. For the most part the game is a shooter at heart but 
 when it scares you, it does it very well. Most of the scares will come from seeing things out of 
 the corner of your eye, figures manifesting themselves at opportune moments and scary whispers 
 from the dark, but occasionally you will see into the real reason why you are there and I found 
 that disturbing and very scary. 
  FEARs graphics are amazing but youre going to need a top end rig to play it with all the bells 
 and whistles on but for those of you with lower end rigs there is neat feature in the menu that 
 lets you switch to DX8 shaders. I have a P4@3.4ghz, 1gb Ram and 256mb Geforce 6600 and it ran at 
 1024x768 on high settings with 2x FSAA. The way explosions look like liquid, the way bullets produce 
 dust, clouds of blood and chunks of concrete, depending where they end up, all add up to an amazing 
 sense of immersion within the game. The sound is also fantastic, the weapons sound and feel like 
 they should, the music in the background is very eerie and the battle chatter of your enemy is 
 great. The enemy will talk to each other and will tell the others that theyve seen you or if you 
 are hiding behind a box or a wall etc. This gives you clues as to what they might do next or if 
 you've nearly wiped out an entire squad they will call for back-up, giving you an insight to how 
 many they might have left, a cue for you to let rip with the machine gun! 
  Weve all seen game boxes boasting about how their AI is the best ever seen and most if not all 
 fail to live up to expectations. The AI in FEAR is the best I have ever seen, they dont just stand 
 there in the open waiting to get shot, they actually talk to each other and WILL flank you without 
 you noticing, one prime example of this is early on in the game in a warehouse level, you have 
 to find a switch to open a gate and let your squad through. I encountered 4 clone soldiers in a 
 room with boxes and crates etc, I ducked down behind a box waiting for the soldier to stick his 
 head up above the box he was hiding behind and take him out with a head shot, 1 soldier was pinning 
 me down with fire and the other 2 had crawled the length of the room, managed to get behind me 
 and without me noticing, filled me full of lead. Thank goodness for the quick save button!
  Now the bad things that just dont quite make it better than HL2 or the best game ever made. The 
 levels all seem to be the same, I think over the whole game there are only about 4 or 5 different 
 areas ranging from a warehouse, water treatment plant, high rise building, you get the idea. Youll 
 spend a long time in each one, the high rise building level a prime example, you start in the basement, 
 you fight your way to the top of the building, only to have to start from the basement again after 
 a pipe your standing on collapses. Even though the way to the top is a different route, there is 
 only so much Armcham dcor you can take. The rooms all seem to be the same, with the same colour, 
 clock, desk and phone; I would have liked to see some more outdoor areas and more variation in 
 the levels that you play through. The only other thing is the lack of variety in the enemy, if 
 you seen one youve seen them all, I suppose thats the price of using a clone army! There are 
 some different enemies as the game progresses but not enough. They all look the same and this is 
 what I think lets the game down but only a little bit, it wont spoil your enjoyment of the game 
 and its only a little gripe but with some variation in level design and with some more different 
 enemy to fight, this could of knocked HL2 off my favourite game spot!!
  Overall FEAR is a fantastic game and one hell-of-a scary one at that. If you like FPS and being 
 scared half to death, and then this game has got to be in your collection. GO BUY IT!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tony71
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 3, 2005 9:49 am PT
Review:  this game astounded me, i hadnt heard much about it but saw the game in the retailers and decided 
 to buy on a whim. the gameplay is fast and furious. the graphics are superb. this game really blew 
 me away .theres a slow motion feature similar to max payne which gives you an edge over your enemys 
 but what really stands out in this game is the enemy AI which is almost as smart as real players, makes 
 the gameplay quite considerably harder. the only downside to the game is the multiplayer which can 
 become tedious after a few hours. FEAR is an all time classic in the mould of half life ,resident 
 evil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boo2k5
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 3, 2005 8:14 am PT
Review:  Its almost like a miracle. After so many worthless shooter games, there is this one in a million 
 game just released in front of us. The graphics are just speechless. The sound is thrilling. The 
 KI is unbelievable. 
  There is just no bad side on this game. 
  Every dollar is worth this game. You will be thrilled, you can experience very tough fights and 
 use such great helps like the bullettime, wich doesnt only look awesome, its needed to have even 
 a chance against the inteligent enemys.
  And you will experience the best nuclear explosion ever in a game created.
  Just everything is 
 perfect with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theholps
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 3, 2005 6:17 am PT
Review:  After the tedium of Quake 4 and Doom3 this was a way out of the darkness and into the light. First 
 rate atmosphere, weapons, graphics, sound and bad guys. All this plus the added bonus lacking in 
 many first person shooters and that is awesome Gameplay! Rarely has slowing time in order to send 
 a black clad assassin wheeling across a blood splatted office been as much fun. The weapons improve 
 throughout the game as the story unfolds but all are wonderfully satisfying to use. My particular 
 favourite happily reducing bad guys to skeletal figures bathed in crimson! What more can I say? 
 It is simply a modern masterpiece with addictiveness to spare. Go out , obtain any which way you 
 can (legal of course) and play until your alarm goes off reminding you at some point you will need 
 to sleep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PJonas
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 3, 2005 3:10 am PT
Review:  Gaming has come a long way in the last few years and this is the product of these last few. Quake 
 4 looks good and so did Doom 3 but here is something you don't see often or see at all. a game 
 that truely thinks against you as a player. Lets just for a second remove the graphics and the 
 visuals and what are you left with. This is what astonishes me about Fear is the sheer intelligence 
 of the AI. Farcry had a great run at this level of AI but nothing to date come close to this. AI 
 that actually thinks of what u are doing and then tries to out menouver you. Graphically the game 
 is brilliant and lets not forget the atmosphere. this aswell adds a new level of depth. this is 
 all good and well but the story is the only part of the game you need to touch up on as it fades 
 about halfway through.
  
  Nice game guys well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cannytitus
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2005 1:11 am PT
Review:  Hi im TiTuS and this game is just the best first person shooter i have ever played and the most 
 **** in my pants game i have ever played as well. I can't stop raving about this game .The atmosohere 
 in the game is better than DOOM 3 and the graphics are even better. It may be a bit violent but 
 its not that bad in the sense that if you shoot some one with a shotgun it'll explode and then 
 it wont be in your way anymore. And what the hell is the story with that little girl ,she freaks 
 me out , and someone must tell her to stop sneaking out on people because i cant wash my pants 
 every 5 min . The End 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samfoote
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 3, 2005 12:46 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty damn cool! Since I presume you've already read the main review i won't bore 
 you with facts about the game. But DAMN! This is a fun game. The improved reflexes is a nice feature 
 and pretty handy for taking out some really fast enemies. And the guns are nothing short of spectacular. 
 
  
  The little girl that follows you around is pretty creepy and so is the game at points. Sometimes 
 people will randomly just explode in a puff of dust and dissapear. Sometimes whilst playing the 
 game the tiles on a wall will peel off and the roof will lose some panels. This is a pretty awesome 
 feature and realy does add to the game.
  
  Even though the GAMESPOT review said that this game was a machine hog I think that by sacrificing 
 shadows and running at a lower resolution anyone with a 64 meg graphic card can get a fair bit 
 out of this game. 
  
  The martial arts added in this game are pretty cool and fun to use. Especially when you want to 
 break through a big glass window :D.
  
  The only thing I don't like about this game is it seems to constantly recycle textures and it sometimes 
 is like a maze. But otherwise this game rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldyeller
Rating: 6.4
Date: Nov 2, 2005 6:17 pm PT
Review:  I never write reviews but this time I must. I simply can't understand what people are raving about. 
 I just finished the game and this is how I break it down:
  
  Pro's: Great AI. 
  
  Con's: Terrible story line. Graphics are weak compared to the system requirements. ONLY 7 variations 
 of bad guys in the entire game and they are boring. This game is supposed to be scary but the entire 
 time you are fighting in a modern day office building. You actually fight from office cubicle to 
 office cubicle. HOW IS THAT SCARY OR EERIE? The weapons suck too... only 6 weapons and they are 
 all boring. I used a shot-gun the entire game. The game is short, but because it is so boring I 
 was actually glad it finished. The game is too easy even on EXTREME DIFFICULTY which is what I 
 played. But the worst part of it all is that the main bad guy, who you chase throughout the entire 
 game, gets killed by someone else. And you don't even get to witness it. He is just lying there 
 dead with no explanaition. THERE IS NO BIG FIGHT IN THE END. IT JUST ENDS! You will feel ZERO sense 
 of accomplishment at the end of this game.
  AND I STILL DON'T KNOW WHAT HELL THE LITTLE GIRL HAD TO DO WITH ANYTHING!
  
  Conclusion: A 
 boring game with a poor ending. I suggest trying FARCRY or HALF-LIFE 2 if you haven't played one 
 of them yet.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: czesanne
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 4:21 pm PT
Review:  My expectations were high. I played HL2 and expected something at least slightly similar, but this 
 was absolutely disappointing. I'm sorry, but innovative special effects are not everything. This 
 unrealistic nonsense-architecture of ever repeating, uninspiringly textured abondoned industry 
 buildings (all of them look no better than HL 1 many years ago) . What the heck? The level design 
 is monotone, repetitive and linear. The whole game boils down to running through dark, ridicously 
 zig-zagged corridors and shoot everything that moves.
  
  Apart from the two, and IMHO only, really goog things here - Opponent AI and Special Effects ("bullet 
 time") - it feels very much like 1996. Frame rate is bad even on a high end machine like P4 3GHz, 
 1GB Ram, Radeon 9800 Pro (HL2 did much better, even Battlefield 2 does better here) . 
  
  The gameplay is too simple and linear to be fun. No tactics, no prone position, no stealth none 
 of the funny physics HL2 once introduced (the great and unique anti-gravity gun!) . Voiceovers of 
 the localized version is too silent, hard to understand and can not be adjusted to a better level. 
 
  
  Multiplayer is a joke. I had a look at it and instantly refused to engage in a match, because it 
 felt so claustrophobic, monotone and stupid. This game proves what hype can do. I can't really 
 believe all those pro reviewers weren't paid for it in some way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dracannis
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2005 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Well, expectations wore high as i installed F. E. A. R. , certianly as an horror game aficionado i 
 was trilled of the comotion arround this one, Before playing I dicided to view the moveis, if you 
 don't whant a serius spoiler don't see the directors commend, after soon after it started i had 
 to take it off, i actualy notice it as a spoiler. Being a Half-Life fan, and egerly playing HL 
 2 my expectations to the game was huge, i expected a game that surpass HL 2. I'm sorry to says 
 that my expectations wore not meet, at least no yet. As i started the game my first disapointment 
 wass first started with the grafics, in the same PC F. E. A. R. graffics are clearly inferior to those 
 of HL 2, since my expectations wore rised also by the director comment movie, to see that i cold 
 not see the same grafics was some how desapointing, the grafics i'm playing with (medium) breing 
 the grafics below HL 2, I was realy desapointed and not even the starting level helped, a tipical 
 senario, i think the spoiler was also to blame. But not all is bad, to tell you the thruth the 
 game is picking up quite nicely, the AI is realy good, i love the gun fights with the enemys Squads, 
 and the plot thikens, as you get more into the game the "surprizes", the gostly apperitions and 
 the unfolding of the story it self is great, i can realy rent it full since i didn't end it, and 
 i allways think the ending is a key to the game success, but so far i rate it a well deserved 9 
 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raub
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 2, 2005 12:50 pm PT
Review:  I'm a gamer that likes a good FPS.. As far as this game goes, it's a classic. The gameplay is awsome 
 and the slow-mo makes you want to keep playing. But after a while, the game sort of loses its touch. 
 It gets very repetitive as the game goes on. As for the story line, it keeps you scared and on 
 your toes the whole way through.
  
  SINGLE PLAYER
  -Pros
  Great graphics.
  Nice physics engine (rag dolls on just about everything) .
  Slow-Mo Max Payne style .
  Horrific 
 story line that keeps you on the edge of your seat.
  
  -Cons
  Extremely repetitive about half of the way through the game.
  A lot of lag at places (depends 
 on your pc) .
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  -Pros
  Fun types of gameplay including deathmatch, team deathmatch, and Slow-mo.
  Intense fire fights 
 that make you want more and more.
  Rag Dolls on practically everything.
  
  -Cons
  The multiplayer gets really boring after a while. Its the same old thing over and over again. Find, 
 kill, be killed, respawn. YAWNNN.
  Trying to find a descent server is impossible. So much lag!
  And again, it takes a good pc to 
 even work descent.
  
  In conclusion, F. E. A. R. is by far a classic in the making. But honestly, the game gets repetitive 
 and I don't think it's worth the 50 bucks. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper64_86
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2005 10:39 am PT
Review:  This game blows every other FPS out of the water as far as im concerned the graphics are amazing 
 running everything on high 6600GT the only problem i encounterd was a hardware issue, my hard drive 
 at the time of playing had only 20 GB left and this made loading times take ages and the game to 
 lag in key places wheather it was the amount of space left or the hard drive itself it run perfectly 
 fine once i had my 2 X 250gb SATA in RAID 0 installed 
  
  took me 4 hours to complete but that was none stop then i went on the multiplayer that rules to, 
 all round Counter Strike: Source and FEAR have been the best game to existance i have played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33tBudDha
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 2, 2005 9:50 am PT
Review:  The Good: 
  
  1 - Graphics: The graphics in F. E. A. R. are on par with todays high-end FPS. Monolith and VU Games 
 didn't outdo anything we've already seen but that doesn't mean the grade is any less than an A.
 
  
  2 - Gun fights: Oh yes, the gun fights in this game will leave you wanting to play this game on 
 a nightly basis be-it single or multiplayer modes. Not only do they give you some of the more realistic 
 feeling, sounding, and looking weapons you will have seen in gaming thus far but the winner is 
 the effects of a gun battle. You will see chunks of concrete taken out of walls and the dust from 
 the impact playing a real tangible role in the battle. With some weapons you can even see the heat 
 of the bullets or the sparks caused when you hit metal objects. I found myself choosing some weapons 
 over others simply because I loved the feel of the gun fights when they were involved. This is 
 the biggest selling point of F. E. A. R. and it's a good one.
  
  3 - Scare factor: I don't jump at scary moments in movies or games, I just don't, but F. E. A. R. 
 actually made me flinch a couple times from some unexpected moments. If it does that to me then 
 I can only imagine that for gamers that like a good scare this game will deliver some very intense 
 moments for them. The story delivers a good creepy spooky vibe as well which goes great with the 
 holiday the game's release revolves around.
  
  4 - Multiplayer: Classic style multiplayer environment. To put it bluntly think counter-strike 
 but with improved gun fights. You will have fun playing multiplayer F. E. A. R. games though I don't 
 think it will have the following of say a CS or battlefield.
  
  5 - Performance: I have heard some complaints about the performance of this game but I am leaning 
 towards those user error on their part. I run a 2.4 ghz P4 on a not-so-great intel MB with only 
 decent FSB speeds, ATI x800 256mb vid chip makes things nice, along with a gig of memory. My system 
 runs F. E. A. R. to perfection on it's medium to high settings. I had to adjust some things but I 
 basically run it on it's second highest setting. If you are having issues with the game and you 
 have a nicer rig than mine you need to examine what's running on your system besides F. E. A. R.
 
  
  6 - Story: The story in this game unfolds quickly near the end. The game is setup by intervals 
 and when you enter the last 3 the story becomes quite clear real fast. If you want to know why 
 the story is one of the "good" things about this game just know that after playing it I am left 
 wanting more of the story. And that's a good thing.
  
  7 - A. I.: Last but not least is the games A. I. Behold a game who's bad guys actually use some real 
 strategy. Don't get me wrong, baddies in FPS still have a LONG way to go before I am ever satisfied 
 but for now F. E. A. R. offers the best A. I. that the FPS genre has seen since FarCry making F. E. A. R. 
 the #1 game in this genre in A. I. You will see soldiers flanking you, flushing you out of position 
 with nades, flipping tables and other objects over for cover, splitting up and leaving the immediate 
 area so they can come up behind you while the other half still has you engaged. There will be some 
 parts of the game where you die a couple times just getting used to their tactics.
  
  The bad: 
  
  1 - Lack of boss types: The overall challenge in this game was neither good enough 
 to be mentioned as "good" nor was it bad enough to be mentioned as "bad." Simply put the game offers 
 multiple difficulty settings and when played at the default level the game is just fine. However 
 the game lacks the classic boss type enemies that we usually expect to find. There are a couple 
 that they probably consider boss type nasties but to an experienced gamer they will be easily dispatched 
 in a couple minutes. The challenge becomes you vs. an army of the same guys over and over again 
 and a few big bosses thrown in might have made it not so redundant.
  
  2 - Playtime: As with just about all FPS I am left thinking the game was over too quick. Maybe 
 that's because the game was so good but it's pretty much universal for me in the past few years. 
 You'll have fear beat in 10 hours or so give our take. I played it a bit longer but that's because 
 I Q&A during the game and spend a good deal of time looking for little things of interest. The 
 mad on the horse was a bit odd.
  
  The Ugly:
  
  1 - Game settings: Once I began a single player game I noticed that the sound settings would not 
 change. The sound of my commanding officer in my headset was very low and I was never able to increase 
 the sound even though the settings were set to it's highest volume output. I was also unable to 
 shut off the music. This was bothersome.
  
  2 - Getting stuck: I was able to get myself stuck multiple times causing me to have to crash the 
 game and reload. As I stated earlier I spend a lot of time trying to find bugs like that. Though 
 I will admit the first one was not expected!
  
  Conclusion.
  
  This is a must-have for any FPS gamer. This game will be known as one of the best of it's time. 
 I consider this game to be superior to Half-Life 2, DOOM 3, Quake 4, FarCry, you name it. F. E. A. R. 
 I would not hold it up against the original Half-Life or even say MOHAA because these games had 
 some ground breaking advancements but F. E. A. R. does stand out among all singleplayer FPS to have 
 been released in the past 3 years.
  
  Monolith has released a patch which may have fixed some of the bugs I mentioned
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2005 5:59 am PT
Review:  Pros: Overall gameplay provided in such a construct; weapons; level connectivity; fun factor experienced 
 from slo-mo effects and tactical depth; great mix of swat/mercenary warfare with the supernatural 
 ambiance.
  
  Cons: redundant layout; some lack of enemy variety; few art cuts in the wrong places for a still 
 system hog.
  
  The hype was staggering, so were the expectations from the community, yet F. E. A. R. fully delivers, 
 as all the gimmicks ( particle effects, slo-mo, weapons ) incredibly coalesce within an otherwise 
 boring construct. The blending itself makes the game, not only the visual effects. You play as 
 a rookie - but gifted with reflexes off the charts - freshly entitled to engage the supernaturally 
 possessed Paxton Fettel, a psychic experiment now controlling a full battalion going self aware 
 against its creators. The clichd scenario involves big bad corp representatives, swat things, 
 secrecy, government, mixed with the frightening. Again, a professional montage is making something 
 solid out of conventional backgrounds. The main story always seems to be secondary, the skeleton 
 needed to justify the deeds of the campaign. Only in that regard, the game shares the same fate 
 than Doom 3 but fear not - here the gameplay doesn't suffer that much from the formulaic storytelling, 
 including some intense dramatic situations filling the experience at times, in a strange yet effective 
 pattern, leading to an above average ending.
  
  Let's get straight to it: ''layout wise'' the creators trimmed the unnecessary in order to present 
 a grim, realistic industrial rehearsal that some may find quite tedious. The whole game present 
 an awful lot of industrial facilities, corridors, metallic & concrete surfaces ( surprisingly, 
 very few light bloom and bump mapping thus adding good sense of realism ) , control rooms, desks, 
 hundreds of executive offices, intertwined with long time abandoned places that may all look the 
 same in time. Most of them corridors exist as '' walk in the park '' junctions between larger halls 
 where the meaty really is. And meaty it is: the enemy AI is impressive, act as squads and constantly 
 move dynamically. Don't expect a new varied Far Cry layout; ironically F. E. A. R's release reminisces 
 a lot the hype generated by the former in March 2004, being a technological beast.
  
  Moves and weapons are incredibly polished, now combined with the ( overusable ) slo-mo effect, 
 yielding impressive results that give the player a surreal sense of reward to say the least, if 
 not an unsurpassed satisfaction..... Weapons alone are perfectly balanced. Only a couple of features 
 this polished make the game a much better one than your average shooter, while taken alone they 
 show how extensive the testing was. Typically, a visceral shooter offering a strong tactical side 
 may be overlooked by carnage addicts wanting a fast UT style of action; but here the gameplay has 
 a lot to bolster, even to please most of them.
  
  Why not a perfect score for the graphics? The developers did cut some polygon count and texturing 
 in the wrong places in order to optimise the overall performance ( you'll still need a high end 
 machine ) . Like the horizons of the skybox at night in the beginning of 04-Infiltration and beyond 
 through occasional exterior revisiting during the long ''Armacham offices'' campaign: a basic old 
 school hue degrading horribly transcending with the rest being well rounded. Or blurred textures 
 at close range; very low polygon count on some reservoirs, pipes, valves, cars...... For example, 
 if you look closely to Alice Wade's body, her facial details are OK ( very little expression ) , 
 but the rest of the character modeling just look like the 2003 standards. That said, a good anisotropy 
 render the overall look crisp and detailed at the same time, for a visual treat between this gen 
 and the next. Although we can't unnotice the minor cuts, they remain forgivable for they are the 
 price to pay to enter the fray of high end slo-mo effects at a respectable fluidity. Again, they 
 embellish the gameplay experience to an unparalleled level of satisfaction. Or like many observers 
 stated, upgrading the cinematics of John Woo's style of action.
  
  The audio mix has some learning curve attached to it, and though it fully reach the excellence 
 it may sound tamed for the most part, sometimes missing bass calibration overall ( underwhelming 
 parts, strangely overamplified in some vaulted places ) , not to mention the commlinks from your 
 superior being barely distinct - unless you raise the volume considerably that you will have to 
 tweak it many times thereafter, as you enter boosted sequences. But enough griping: further hearings 
 make you admire the overall coding in time, the most subtle effects being somewhat in the mid range 
 trebles ( like the distortion in the proximity of the psychic Fettel or the girl ) . The soundings 
 don't make the atmosphere of the game; they nicely surround it as a tactical add-on in the background, 
 nicely coded.
  
  The single player alone totally make the price of admission, and online addicts will be delighted 
 to dig the multiplayer component being a blast to play, adding considerably to the value without 
 revolutionizing anything. It is fluid upon high end requirements; mid to low end users should use 
 it with utmost caution though. 
  
  In short, F. E. A. R. has a lot of excellency to offer in any compound a modern FPS should display, 
 without being perfect nor delivering a good array of variety in the environments and character 
 modeling. Monolith has succeeded again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IChangedMyName
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2005 11:53 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a amazing game. jes the 1st lvl alone scared me Sh**less i dunno bout many ppls opinion 
 towards it but 2 me F. E. A. R. stands out not many FPS get the same reaction while playing as F. E. A. R. 
 yes it can be accounted as sorta a half-life, a Halo but Its a FPS there no really unique one out 
 there, but i believe F. E. A. R. diserves it own credit. the style and shadowing are great. the story 
 is intense and if ur playing, the only reason u quit iz b/c some of the events are filling up ur 
 adrenaline. face it, F. E. A. R. iz the 2nd of the nex gen games on P. C. it will make u get ur P. C. 
 prepared for whats ahead if u already arent. its graphiclly nice, i reccomend ATI 512 or higher 
 for best looks, but a 256 Nvidia does the job, on RAM i wouldnt listen 2 minimum requirments as 
 the game is very choppy. but the game literlally scares me 2 hell a FPS does something other then 
 cause chaos, it causes confusion, distortion, and among the most it causes u 2 F. E. A. R. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surfarious
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 1, 2005 11:38 pm PT
Review:  I havn't finished the game yet, but I have played it enough to write my impressions so far.
  
  The combat rules in this game. I've played HL2 and Farcry , and the close quarters combat is 
 at whole new level in FEAR. The sparks, the dust, the ricochets, the flashes, the sounds the weapons 
 make, the A. I., are a site to behold. I really like how the dust and smoke affect your vision sometimes 
 forcing you to wait for it to clear. 
  
  Of course the spooky atmosphere is also done well in regards to the surprise factor during the 
 supernatual moments. On the demo I really jumped at the moment when you climb the ladder and the 
 little girl is suddenly right in front of you. It happened again in the real game and I jumped 
 again. 
  
  In regards to the A. I , it's very engrossing to fight these guys because of their advanced shoot 
 and hide strategies. I would like to see more enemies use a flanking strategy, backtracking to 
 come up behind you more often. The FEAR A. I actually does do this sometimes so I'm not knocking 
 it at all. I would just like to see it more often during gun battles because the level design seems 
 to allow for back ways in to rooms . Hearing footsteps does keeps you guessing as to whether their 
 going to come up behind you. The footsteps are a good effect but I only have a two and one stereo 
 set up on my computer. I'll bet a surround sound system would give you the feeling of someone sneaking 
 up behind you. 
  
  The story is OK and the voice acting is first rate.
  
  I have a G-Force 6800 gt video card and Athlon 64 proccessor so I can play this game with al lot 
 of detail but not at the ultra high levels.
  
  The puzzle aspects so far havn't been as interesting as HL2 with all its cool physics puzzles.
 
  
  I will up date this when I finish the game. Overall it's just a blast to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ramaveli
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 1, 2005 9:16 pm PT
Review:  First Person Shooters (FPS) have become an almost clichd genre in the video game market, falling 
 into the same traps and contrived conventions that make many of them fairly identical, if not tedious. 
 Monolith Gamesthe minds behind popular titles like Alien vs Predator 2 and No One Lives Foreverpromised 
 to avoid contrivances in FEAR, a horror FPS that, for the most part, succeeds in dodging the monotony 
 of the genre, though not completely. 
  
  In the game, you play a nameless, newly assigned point man of FEAR (First Encounter Assault Recon) , 
 a secret military organization that investigates paranormal activity. Your team is sent in to stop 
 Paxton Fettalthe insane progeny of another secret military projecta psychic commander who has 
 the ability to control a battalion of mindless clones. Your mission is to stop Fettal and to uncover 
 the source of his insanity. 
  
  FEAR has a lot of great things going for it, the most obvious being its graphics. Firefights look 
 amazing, with vivid and detailed dust and bullet ricochets. While the level design may seem repetitive 
 (there are plenty of sharp corners and long corridors) and the character models could be sharper, 
 FEAR shines in its ability to create a truly creepy atmosphere. There are dark corners everywhere, 
 thanks to some clever lighting and shadow effects that allow for some genuinely scary momentsa 
 hallmark not only of a frightening horror film but also of a scary horror game. This is helped 
 by the fact that much of the games imagery is inspired by Japanese horror flicks, the most notable 
 being The Ring. It doesnt make the games atmosphere exactly original, but it is exceedingly effective. 
 
  
  The audio in FEAR is also astounding. In a game that plays off of being afraid of the dark, its 
 often the little noises that can make you spin around, ready to blast whatevers there. The combat 
 also sounds gloriousyou can hear every noise in a firefight, including shattering glass, breaking 
 boxes and falling shell casings. 
  
  Beyond the aesthetics of the game, however, is some very intense action with undeniably the best 
 enemy artificial intelligence of any FPS game to date. The clones seem to tell each other everything, 
 from when you try to flank them, to checking in with their squad leader for advice. They use the 
 dust that flies during a firefight as cover because they know you cant see through it. Youre 
 given, fortunately, something called Reflex, which allows you to temporarily slow down time, 
 giving you a distinct advantage. This ability doesnt last very long, and in fact its its length 
 that makes it a perfect fit for the otherwise chaotic gunplay. All of these factors come together 
 to make some of the most intense shootouts youll finda good thing, since the core of the game 
 rests there. 
  
  Still, FEAR does fail in a big way when it comes to Monoliths desire to avoid FPS contrivances, 
 mostly because they use them to push the story of the game forward. Along with Reflex, you also 
 have the ability to access others laptops and voicemail at random, without requiring any sort of 
 pin or password. The only information you receive is by these means, which is a bit deflating, 
 since sub-par storytelling and overly convenient devices hinder an otherwise fantastic game. 
 
  
  FEAR is a phenomenal game that will keep you occupied for a fair whileyoull get about ten to 
 twelve hours of play from the single -player mode, and ten times more in the multiplayer. It will 
 scare you many times over, as well as challenge you in ways never seen in previous FPS style games. 
 If you dont mind a slightly unsatisfying story, FEAR is definitely an adventure youll never forget. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bribud
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 1, 2005 8:26 pm PT
Review:  This game has been enjoyable. The AI in this game is most impressive, but sometimes you can still 
 sit back and wait until they come to you. As soon as they round the corner, they're dead. This 
 doesn't happen all the time, but if you wanted to, you can wait them out because they will pursue 
 you. The graphics are top notch, but I am still waiting for a game that will let you become totally 
 surrounded by real life physics. As soon as a game comes out that is actually "realistic" with 
 damage modeling and interaction it will be big news. It is a step in the right direction but still 
 falls short to the lofty goal of real life physics. The sound is great with 5.1, which I highly 
 recommend for a game like this. You will find yourself playing the game at a somewhat slow pace 
 so you don't miss anything, and also because the game is short. Play it at a higher difficulty 
 level and you will be satisfied, medi-packs are everywhere. I have seen quick loading times throughout. 
 "A must buy" for any serious FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLAYTER34
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 1, 2005 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I will keep this short.
  
  If you have the system to run this, get this game.
  It is not on the multiplayer scale such as BF2 but this games multi-player IMO is 100 times better 
 then any Quake game!
  If you have a low end system chec-out the demo for this game and test your graphics to no end! 
 
  
  This game hit so many nails right on the head for me, I wouldnt even know where to begin to write 
 this review, except to say, this is the one for now!
  
  I love BF2 and this is my fast paced Multi-player/singleplayer game.
  
  Take it from me if 
 you honestly really enjoy gaming, and games like half-life 2, bf2, quake, soldier of fortune this 
 is the game!!! Its worse the cost!
  
  -Max 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokojambo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2005 6:25 pm PT
Review:  The graphics.... man, what can I say about the graphics? If your computer will support it, max out 
 your video settings. The dust and debris that flies during an intense firefight will leave you 
 with your mouth hanging open. Chunks of concrete, shredded boxes, and smoke will have you panicking 
 because you can't see your enemies, but you can hear them flanking you, and getting ready to turn 
 you into a blood smear. And the satisfaction of seeing the blood spray from your enemies is immense.... especially 
 when they try to sneak you.
  
  The A. I..... another top notch part of this game. Instead of just standing around waiting to be 
 mowed down, your enemies in this game will do what it takes to win.... period. They will flank, 
 use obstacles for cover, and give each other orders on how best to take you out. Learn to use the 
 SlowMo... it will keep you alive.
  
  The sound effects in F. E. A. R. are another outstanding feature of this game. And, they add to the 
 fear factor of this game quite nicely. Hearing things that aren't there, the screams, the moans 
 of pain, all make this game top notch in the sound department. And with a good speaker setup, really 
 enables you to hear when your enemies are trying to sneak up on you during a fight.
  
  There is so much more that I could say about this game, but I don't want to spoil it for anyone 
 who hasn't played it yet. At the very least, download and play the demo, and I honestly believe 
 that once you do that, you will be hooked, and going out to buy your own copy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zorganite
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 1, 2005 11:14 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. If you don't have it, buy it. This game is incredible. Everything about it comes together 
 for a top notch experience. 
  
  Everyone loves Matrix time, right? This is Matrix Time done right, you're not super fast, they're 
 not super slow.. you're both moving slowly, and of course you *do* get a pretty big advantage. 
 Also, you don't have infinite "reflex" time. 
  
  The guns are great, they feel really good when you're shooting them. You can tell you're doing 
 damage instead of just shooting around.
  
  The stealth is one thing I noticed was lacking, though it is minor. This game is so dark, but there's 
 no place to hide, because darkness doesn't hide you.
  
  You'll need a pretty beefy rig. I had no problem playing with eveything on high, but you might. 
 Be careful about that.
  
  The scary moments are scary, the intense fights are intense, everything is AS IT SHOULD BE. This 
 is a game done right, with the best graphics I've seen short of PS3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexandarS
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 1, 2005 7:08 am PT
Review:  To make things clear - this is a great game and that's something that can be confirmed by anyone 
 who played it. Actually, I haven't got such an experience playing FPS since Half-Life 1. Maybe 
 that's because F. E. A. R. does remind me of HL at some points - it has similar level design, it has 
 a mysterious, slowly revealing plot and it has smart enemies that tend to induce some intense firefights. 
 The combat in this game is by all means awesome because of several factors including good weapons 
 (nothing revolutionary, but there's no need for revolution - all of them look and function just 
 fine) , some interesting areas to demolish and well made AI for those Replica soldiers that makes 
 you feel like you're fighting a highly-trained team of soldiers who really act like a team and 
 tend to preserve their precious lives, and not like a bunch of bee-headed kamikazes, or whatever. 
 Guns, grenades and stuff are ok, but IMHO the melee-combat isn't really necessary for a game like 
 this, although it comes in handy from time to time. All that mixed with SloMo works perfect. Activate 
 SloMo, toss a grenade at two soldiers, start running to the third one who's on the other side, 
 kick him, switch to shotgun and blow away his colleague who's just coming around the corner... 
 deactivate SloMo. Doesn't that feel damn good or what? That's just the action part. The other par 
 is, the thing you'll expect from a game named F. E. A. R. - the horror. I had such high expectations 
 for it, but I came away dissapointed. There isn't much music in the game, but when it plays - it 
 sounds really spooky, and I think that's the best horror element in the whole game. Then there 
 are the visions, which come in two flavoures : the occasinal "glitches" in the world arround you, 
 like sudden motion of some objects, lights going out, very short appearaces of Alma and such, the 
 other ones are rare full-blown movie-like scripted sequences viewed from first person. Maybe it's 
 just me, but this game isn't scary as I expected it to be. I hoped these scenes will make me jump 
 out of my seat, but they all fail to do so. The setting is ideal - a military operative trying 
 to hunt down a psycic-gone-mad who's somehow connected to him and able to send him horrifying visions. 
 Just imagine what freaky things you could put in such a game, but Monolith didn't use this game's 
 enormous potential, and that's my major dissapointment in this game. Everything else is outstanding 
 - the graphics, the sound, and especially the combat. Level design is a bit borring and repetitive, 
 but won't notice it that for the most part. And the game's ending... just like HL's - it does conclude 
 the story to some extent, but poses many more questions, the plot doesn't make much more sense 
 even then, and it's wide open for a sequel. All said and done - this is an outstanding, great looking, 
 action game that failed to scare me as much I expected. Try it, you won't regret, really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tha_jocke
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 1, 2005 6:44 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R 
  its one hell of a shoot em up game it had almost everything you could wish for even SLOW MOTION 
 if you like games like unreal HL2 and matrix this is the game for YOU but you should watch it beacuse 
 wean you at list suspect it 
  a little girl will come and watch up beacuse she is not a nice little girl she burns pepole up 
 by just look at her but you have some nice reflexes so you can run away from that little bastard 
 but its quite short i hated that but then it was multiplayer thats counted nice multiplayer with 
 the slow motion i LOVED this wonderful game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adidare
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 1, 2005 6:38 am PT
Review:  i purchased other sierra games like hlf life2 and swat4 these games were called great but i was 
 disoppointed when i played them so i am not a die hard fps fan but this game impress me alot often 
 fps game dont have a strong stories in my view but fear make me wrong strong cinematics but enviroment 
 bored me alot e. g its too smokey one of the best things about this game is its sound i mean the 
 sound of gun for example make u realize as u rrealy r in the game its a title u cant miss it makes 
 me think about fps games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asfandyar
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2005 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Fear what is fear? If you dont know the meaning of it, than this game will tell you what it means. 
 This game got it all. It got suspense, action, thrill, spooks, chills everything you need in a 
 very good game. The game creators have done a very well job in blending all the elements like shooting, 
 suspense, action, and thrill, into one single game. The graphics of the game are excellent which 
 can be seen during the game play and the controls are excellent too, the textures inside and out 
 are excellent and the special effects are very cool. Shooting bullets at the enemy and missing 
 causes chunks of the walls to get blown out and debris flys everywhere. It really helps draw you 
 into the game. The AI is seems to be very smart. They will move things and knock stuff over to 
 provide themselves with protection. They will also give commands for men to sneak up and flank 
 you when you least expect it. Also this game can scarce the crap out of you. Walking around you 
 will hear and see things that when you spin around to see arent there and the game sound does 
 it very well. Its the suspense that is freaky. 
  I would love to give this game a score of 20 but i can give it only a score of 10/10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: artyboy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 31, 2005 10:54 pm PT
Review:  what really shines are the slow-mo gunfights and the physics-based particle effects which compliments 
 it. this is unmatched by any other FPS titles including the Max Payne series which boasts of such 
 a feature. the graphics are very similar to Halflife 2's but boasts a more robust slow-mo 'flying 
 debris' physics, altho the ragdoll physics are comparable. sound is where this titles also excels 
 in with impactful gunfire and every glass splincter and bullet shell droppings/scatterings crystal 
 clear. what really annoys are the unnecessarily confusing walkabouts searching for the next exit 
 or switches - its a real pain before facing the next gun battle. and the ending is, unfortunately, 
 more focused towards 'story closure' than 'climatic showdown'. as if that is not disappoining enough, 
 you're actually required to search for "several" switches (yes its very tedious!) before even getting 
 there. but what compensates for all these flaws are the gun battle sequences, which is unrivalled 
 by any other FPS game currently out there, you really do feel you are in a frenzied gunfight firing 
 real weapons at real enemies, albeit in a stylised 'slow-mo' John Woo-like cinematic world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordNelsonatTra
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 31, 2005 8:39 pm PT
Review:  I really don't have more to add to the other positive reviews except - WOW!!! This is like living 
 so many of my favorite tv shows - x-files, supernatural, night stalker - all roled into one. I 
 was a little skeptical when I first started the game - but after a great deal of jumping out of 
 my seat, goosebumps, and that amazing feeling of dread that so few games can produce. I don't suppose 
 I've been this freaked out since that middle section of Half-Life 2. I though I enjoyed Riddick, 
 HL2, and Doom3, but this is - in many ways, far superior. Get this game - it is an instant classic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timesarerough
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 31, 2005 8:03 pm PT
Review:  The graphics, sound, and overall "look", are unique. But the actual gameplay is generic Half-Life. 
 
  
  There are a couple of new mods, like slow-motion that are "cool", but not really helpful during 
 gameplay and can actually make the game more confusing and tedious to navigate.
  
  The weapons are mediocre AT BEST, basic military stuff, nothing special.
  
  Gameplay is boring...... scene 
 after scene of the saaaaaame old thing. No vehicles, no "chases", like Call of Duty.... just mediocre 
 shoot em', their dead.
  
  It's a VERY BAD copy of Half-Life & No One Lives Forever. There's absolutely NOTHING in this game 
 that hasn't already been done! Even the weapons are copied from other games...... what a bummer 
 of a game!
  
  Save your money folks, it's not worth the $50 you'll spend.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sterkey25
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 31, 2005 7:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is excellent. To start.. the graphics. The graphics are great. The textures inside and 
 out are excellent and the special effects are very cool. Shooting bullets at the enemy and missing 
 causes chunks of the walls to get blown out and debris flys every where. It really helps draw you 
 into the game. The gameplay is also very good. The guns are pretty cool ranging from the dual pistols 
 to some gun that electrocutes your enemy to a skeleton. The melee attacks are also very fun to 
 perform. The gernades you throw also have a sweet ripple effect after the explosion. Also when 
 playing you see your arms while climbing ladders and doing other things. Its small things like 
 that, that help you get into the game. Combat in this game is probably the most complex ive seen 
 yet. The AI is seems to be very smart. They will move things and knock stuff over to provide themselves 
 with protection. They will also give commands for men to sneak up and flank you when you least 
 expect it. Also this game can scarce the crap out of you. Walking around you will hear and see 
 things that when you spin around to see arent there. Its the suspense that is freaky. That and 
 when in dark areas you will see a character run across your screen to have you creep up to the 
 corner to find nothing around it. I have to say the game is very good looking and the game play 
 is extremely fun so I highly reccomend this game. And online play kicks A$$! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garnerr3
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 31, 2005 3:46 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this is no doubt an excellent game that you must try. If nothing else, try the demo 
 and you'll understand what I mean. The puzzles are very straightforward, and there are no "stumpers" 
 where you'll need a hint. All in all the game rocks, but here's my breakdown...
  
  Graphics....9
  On my system (Athlon +3200, 1.5Gig, 6800 OC) the game plays great. Excellent frames, 
 and excellent detail. I have only seen a few games better.
  
  Sound.....9
  6.1 sound just rocks. Very good job with voice overs and sound effects. At times, the sound really 
 adds a lot to the game with some of the freaky scenes. 
  
  Gameplay.....9
  Think of Max Payne meets Doom. Not quite up to the level of HL2 on the graphics/gameplay side of 
 things, but a great game.
  
  Value...7
  A very short game that's way too easy to beat. I'm playing it again to catch some of the things 
 I might have missed, and it doesn't seem like it's really that hard. On normal mode, I beat the 
 game in about 10 hours. I'm expecting to have the hard mode beat in the same time. Can't see playing 
 it again for some time, so it will soon e shelved. Too bad, becasue it would have had me for longer 
 too. Wait until this game gets cheaper, or go buy it now if you just want to burn a f ew hours. 
 You won't regret owning it, but it seems more like a $40 title, not a $50-55 release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StupidFox
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 31, 2005 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I will make this review as descriptive as possible without spoiling the ending for those still 
 considering it. Basically, the physics, sound, weapon system, and slow-motion are all amazing. 
 The particle effects are absolutely astounding. The AI was beautiful. I have seen them disobey 
 orders to rush me and have been very surprised to find them taking the long way around to flank 
 me (I was shot in the back a few times) . If you shoot them in the leg, they limp. They really know 
 how to use grenades, too. "Flush him out!" That alone gives the game a "Great" rating.
  
  The graphics were on par with what you would expect from a current game and the slow motion was 
 cool for a while. The only problem is that you can use slow motion to give you a wild advantage 
 in every fight and you lose touch with the fast-paced action you'd expect in most shooters. This 
 makes the game much more about surprising the enemy with ambush tactics than anything else. I'd 
 call it's style "ambush FPS."
  
  You better be coordinated if you want to be good at this game. You'll need to use the lean, slow-mo, 
 crouch, med-kit, grenade, and zoom buttons a lot in battle.
  
  The backstory was great, and the tension is perfect for a horror game. Unfortunately, I got the 
 sense at the end of the game that they were just trying to wrap things up quickly. If you like 
 stories with engaging themes, cool twists, and well-developed characters... this isn't it. Sure, 
 a homicidal ghost girl and psychic commander are cool, but that's pretty much all there is to them. 
 They leave most of the story to your imagination. Even the "big twist" at the end is just kind 
 of... meh... I left the game without that feeling of accomplishment I got from Half-Life 2 and 
 Doom 3.
  
  Also, I would have liked to have seen more encounters with some of the enemies. Like I said, it 
 seemed like they were trying to simply wrap things up toward the end. The game peaks about two 
 levels from the end and then just kind of trails off like a guy who forgot what he was going to 
 say.
  
  Pros: Physics, effects, gameplay, sound, AI, everything technical
  Cons: Story, last few levels (definite system hog if it matters)
  
  Last words: Get it if you're 
 looking for what I called an "ambush FPS," but don't expect to be blown away by the story or anything 
 too innovative. I was a little rusty on shooters, and I found medium to be challenging, but never 
 overwhelming. You might want to play on hard if you're a serious gamer, and easy if you're new. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cthulhu34
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 31, 2005 7:22 am PT
Review:  Well when you read upcoming releases all you read is the title and then the review states it's 
 a shooter game. Pretty original huh? Not likely. Well i have to admit for single player games this 
 one keeps you on the edge of your seat, great graphics, no instability like some games and plenty 
 of diff guns to keep you occupied. Although Multi player lacks excitement, its pretty much exactly 
 like Half Life in DM and CTF. Pretty boring really. I had to look again to see if soemone put Half 
 Life in my computer. From Single player to this ummmm not so good multi player the game would of 
 been by far the best yet IF one of the options would of been COOP versus the computer. Think of 
 how great that would be experiencing the weirdness with a buddy, sharing ammo and laying waste together, couldn't 
 beat it. Single player is worth it but other then that......
  
  
  Cthulhu
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: G3ck0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 31, 2005 5:26 am PT
Review:  I have a 2.8 Ghz Computer with 1 gig of DDR Ram and a 128 mb all-in-wonder graphics card. I ran 
 F. E. A. R on average graphic settings and the game ran smoothly, the only problem I had was I couldn't 
 put on anti-aliasing because it would have lagged up my computer.
  
  But if you do have a monster machine you have to get this game. Literally it is a dream come true 
 that dust flies from every shot of your gun and the air sizzles with every pulse of your particle 
 cannon. I was very impressed not only with the particles and volumetric lighting but also the shadows 
 and the high-res textures. To me this game is so beutiful to look at , that I almost want to spend 
 3000 dollars for a new computer just so I can play this game at max settings.
  
  The gameplay was equally impressive, there is a slow-mo button so if you do run into a gunfight 
 where they have you surrounded it is easier to take them out. Also the enemies are alot smarter 
 than normal games and you do take alot of damage , (even if you are on normal) , these two reasons 
 coupled with the fact that you better have a quick reflex if you want to stay alive lets this game 
 become instantly one of my favorite FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmiSS
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 30, 2005 8:20 pm PT
Review:  It could hardly contain myself while was installing F. E. A. R.. I had played the SP demo and was 
 very pleased with the game-play. FEAR is centered around a chilling storyline that takes you through 
 all sorts of twisted corners and bloody dead ends. "Its like playing a horror film" quoted from 
 my sister as she watched me play through the first few levels. Ok so you've got a creepy horror 
 game, but what else does it have to give. Well alot... crazy gun battles is the next item on the 
 list. 
  The gun fights in FEAR take on a whole new meaning for the words strategic fighting. The A. i in 
 FEAR is just that, Intelligent. you throw a grenade and they shout, "Grenade, scatter!" Then they 
 wil regroup and flank you. The story is that you fight highly trained super soldiers. Well in the 
 battles they are "highly trained". They think ahead, work together, use grenades well, use cover 
 better than you (you'll see) . Its like they are "real", almost then you remember its just a game.
 
  Another cool aspect of FEAR is that, FEAR puts you into the shoes of the character. You play as 
 a whole person not just as a gun floating around. If you look down you see your feet, shadow, refection. 
 It is something small that adds a lot to the whole mix. Every time you get up from a fall or being 
 passed out you see your arms and the view moves with your body. It is all very well done. 
  All in all FEAR is very well done. The SP leaves you wanting more movie style battles, and horror 
 film chills. The MP is fast and... well fast. Its not really my thing. But thats cuz i like to 
 think about what im doing before i do it. So if you want a killer horror FPS game FEAR should be 
 on your list because its one of the best around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Filosophic1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 30, 2005 7:13 pm PT
Review:  I was watching cable T. V. the other day, and there's a channel that shows reviews of new games 
 for all systems. I just happened to catch it when they were reviewing F. E. A. R. From the word go, 
 I was hooked by what I saw. Amazing graphics, sound and gameplay was what I was seeing. So I had 
 to try it for myself. But first, I knew that I had to upgrade the graphics in my computer. I was 
 running a Gateway 835GM with the dual core Pent. 4 processors, with 1 gig of RAM, but still just 
 the standard video that came with my Gateway. So off to BestBuy and $300.00 and an ATI Radeon X800XL 
 later, I was set. 
  
  First let me say this as a warning.... this game is a system HOG. Even with all of the processing 
 power at my fingertips, there are still a couple of spots that hiccup slightly, but do not detract 
 from the overall gameplay.
  The lighting, the sound effects, and the overall feel of the game are excellent. The creepiness 
 factor of this game is increased dramatically by that eerie little girl who keeps popping up and 
 scaring the bejeesus out of me when you least expect it. 
  
  The graphics.... man, what can I say about the graphics? If your computer will support it, max out 
 your video settings. The dust and debris that flies during an intense firefight will leave you 
 with your mouth hanging open. Chunks of concrete, shredded boxes, and smoke will have you panicking 
 because you can't see your enemies, but you can hear them flanking you, and getting ready to turn 
 you into a blood smear. And the satisfaction of seeing the blood spray from your enemies is immense.... especially 
 when they try to sneak you.
  
  The A. I..... another top notch part of this game. Instead of just standing around waiting to be 
 mowed down, your enemies in this game will do what it takes to win.... period. They will flank, 
 use obstacles for cover, and give each other orders on how best to take you out. Learn to use the 
 SlowMo... it will keep you alive.
  
  The sound effects in F. E. A. R. are another outstanding feature of this game. And, they add to the 
 fear factor of this game quite nicely. Hearing things that aren't there, the screams, the moans 
 of pain, all make this game top notch in the sound department. And with a good speaker setup, really 
 enables you to hear when your enemies are trying to sneak up on you during a fight.
  
  There is so much more that I could say about this game, but I don't want to spoil it for anyone 
 who hasn't played it yet. At the very least, download and play the demo, and I honestly believe 
 that once you do that, you will be hooked, and going out to buy your own copy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kravyn81
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Add one part traditional FPS gameplay and one part inspiration from Japanese horror movies and 
 you get "F. E. A. R." Don't buy this game thinking you will have a revolutionary experience or it 
 will change the rotation of the Earth, but if you are a fan of FPS games and want a fun challenge 
 then "F. E. A. R." will be right up your alley.
  
  First let's focus on its strengths: it offers some great gameplay coupled with an intriguing and 
 heretofore untapped resource (strong paranormal undertones) for delivering its story. You get the 
 standard arsenal that is requisite with shooters (pistol, automatic rifle, shotgun, rocket launcher, 
 grenades, etc.) , as well as some new weapons to spice things up (a brutually pain inflicting nail 
 gun plus a plasma rifle that strips the enemy entirely of his skin leaving a blood stained skeleton) . 
 As well as the now almost ubiquitous "bullet time" ability that enables you to get by some hairy 
 situations should you find yourself outnumbered or outgunned by the enemy A. I. which turn out to 
 be highly skilled themselves. You will be facing some very competent A. I. as you race through a 
 seemingly labyrinth of generic office building hallways and warehouses. Enemy A. I. wastes no time 
 in attempting to take you out. They will implement some very sophisticated tactics which include 
 flanking, covering fire and flushing out techniques all designed to make you dead. When they get 
 into trouble they will make attempts to call for back-up as well. You can almost always gauge your 
 effectiveness against the A. I. by listening to the auditory shouts they call out. Things like "We 
 need back-up!" and sometimes paranoid pleas of "I don't know where to go!" mean that you have sufficiently 
 presented enough of a threat to them and are on the verge of wiping them out. The A. I. will also 
 call out your position (once spotted) to other members of their squad; so you definitely have to 
 be wary of what you do or any noise you make as those are dead giveaways that they will recognize 
 as "suspicious" and attempt to investigate.
  
  Moving on to the story, while the plot may not be the most original (bad guy takes some hostages 
 and a building over with his renegade soldiers and you are tasked with taking him and them out) 
 for an FPS what makes it unique is its attempts at atmosphere and ambiance. Part paranormal in 
 nature that borrows much inspiration from Japanese horror flicks, you are really not sure what 
 is going on in this building except that it definitely has the weird vibe ringing at full resonance. 
 Eerie child-like giggling, whispering voices and general  type 
 noises plague your odyssey through the game. Not to mention these surreal visions you experience 
 at certain spots in the game. And this creepy little girl keeps showing up in the most unexpected 
 places as well which, in and of itself, should be enough to keep you on the edge. While the thrills 
 presented in this game are more pyschological in nature there are a few instances when a few "cheap" 
 scare tactics will come at you, but overall the presentation succeeds at what it sets out to accomplish 
 and that is provide a tense and anxious atmosphere. 
  
  The auditory is well done and just serves to amplify the already tense atmosphere throughout. Playing 
 with a pair of headphones on and in the dark is a great way to get your heart pumping overtime. 
 All the weapons have very satisfying sound effects. It is really great to be engaged in an intense 
 firefight for thirty heart-pounding seconds with the noise of utter chaos all around you with ricochets 
 and bullets flying into crates and walls around you and then all of a sudden silence... and you 
 hear the last spent shell casings hit the floor and that hollow metallic clink they make that you 
 realize the great sound. And finally graphics. Assuming you have a beast of rig to run this game 
 with all settings at max then this is a beautiful game. Even so at medium settings this game looks 
 great.
  
  About the only thing marring this game is the stale genre it is in. With every FPS that comes out 
 it becomes increasingly harder to be that one single game that really stands out from the crowd 
 and offers a unique new twist on the most oldest mechanics of gameplay of any genre. What every 
 FPS boils down to is running around and shooting; that is the essence of the genre. Sure, running 
 through Warehouse #5 shooting generic enemy #342 may get repetitive, but all FPS suffer from repetitiveness 
 in one degree or another. So is it really fair to start knocking each FPS game that comes out just 
 because they do not offer something unique? I don't think so, and that's where the reviewer's tilt 
 comes in handy. While this is a great game it really does not bring anything new to the FPS table 
 that we have not already seen/heard/played before. What matters is how much FUN each FPS game offers 
 and I am pleased to say that "F. E. A. R." does succeed in this respect. It will not win any awards 
 in the innovation category, but then it never had to. 
  
  For a solid game experience that stays true to its roots as well as successfully implementing a 
 creepy, paranormal atmosphere that affects you on a psychological level if you allow it, and that's 
 what "F. E. A. R." attempts and succeeds at doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dolby510
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 30, 2005 3:14 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. in my opinion was pretty well done. Although the story seems a bit... far-fetched and frivolous, 
 I liked the whole eery tone the developers took when they created it. The recurring appearance 
 of "Omah", the little asian girl adds this whole sense of instability, and keeps the player on 
 edge. The graphics and sound effects were intense and captivating, from the way your bullets ravished 
 the walls, to the sounds of the gun shells littering the floor, it all works together to add to 
 the realism.
  
  One thing I didn't like too much was how your enemies were very difficult to kill. I wasted too 
 much ammo taking down my opponent, and even when I believed he was dead... he would miraculously 
 spring back up for more. Also, like everyone else here stated, it is quite a system hog. I'm running 
 on some of the latest hardware, and even I had some slow frame rates here and there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alecpettit
Rating: 3.4
Date: Oct 30, 2005 10:00 am PT
Review:  Simply stated, the bad far outweighs the good. For a game named FEAR, I have to say I am more afraid 
 of the remote possiblility of myself watching the Martha Stewart Christmas Special than I would 
 ever be of playing this game. The concept of the telepath in an FPS is original and when combined 
 with genetic manupulation has great potential which is wasted on a character that never grows. 
 And the plot never develops since the story goes nowhere and seems to end in the middle. They should 
 have named it FEAR Vol. One (as in Kill Bill) because the story is far from over when the game 
 ends. You know that Vol. Two will be out soon. (Not to mention the game is no where near as long 
 as Far Cry, Doom3, or HL2) . Finally, the gameplay is average at best and although the AI reacts 
 in ways not seen by AI in previous games, it is all too predictable given the audio clues the AI 
 spits out. The audio clues need to be removed!!!
  
  My one good point? Mapping. Finally someone is mapping in a way that mimics the real world. The 
 maps are not completely linear (Doom and HL take notes here) and although they are not complex, 
 they do provide the player with more than one way to get from point A to point B. As well, you 
 sometimes are required to retrace your steps after completing certain objectives.
  
  In the end however, more realistic maps do next to nothing to make this boring game any less boring. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyalTemp
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 30, 2005 1:02 am PT
Review:  Let's start with the good:
  FEAR is probably the best shooter ever created - it is by far better then half life (which I found 
 a little disapointing) - it has amazing graphics and sound, it is very atmospheric at times, the 
 AI is the best ever seen in a game (it's hard to take the enemies down in the more difficult levels 
 of gameplay) and its very very adictive.
  But, I have to say I was expecting more; I was expecting a rather frightening game - it isn't realy 
 scary. I have to admit it has it's moments but nothing serious and even the cowerds amongst us 
 (like me) can play the game without worrying to nightmeres later on.
  p. s.
  I believe this game would have been a lot better as a combination of shooter/role play (like deus 
 ex) which allowes you to customize your character in term of ability - in FEAR you only have one 
 ability and though it was perfectly created and tweaked it feels like the game is missing somthing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoankiemdinh
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 29, 2005 11:55 pm PT
Review:  This game was surprisingly a good game indeed. When i played this game i felt a certain tingly 
 behind y back and the way the game is written is marvelous. the stroyline tohugh does not compare 
 to Halo or Half-life at all while using a Japanese scary movie style. I was very dissapointed in 
 how there were few enemy figure such as fighting the same guys over and over and over. The game 
 kepy me wanting to know what happen but for a short while.
  This game tried to cop Half-Life 2 but does not succed. The guns are not as creative or sonuds 
 cool and HF 2 or H2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madnutty
Rating: 3.4
Date: Oct 29, 2005 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Its dark and gloomy Horror FPS. whats wrong with this game grafix arn't anything to be amazed (if 
 i could see em) at yet my vid card is having a heart attack (HIS ATI X800 Pro With artic cooler 
 overclocked) Ive got a desent comp but its crapping out (AMD 64 3400, 1 gig Corsair XMS low latency 
 ram, Running this game 800X600 and it still slows and jaggies abound this is rediculous im used 
 to 1600X1200 full res. dont buy unless they can fix their problems whith ati's cards or u got SLI. 
 whats with games makers that they can only make for one card or the other ... not both? and whats 
 with a flashlight that only says on for 30 seconds at a time ... then what shake it for 5 so it 
 will work again lol ever heard of batteries i have a flashlight what would run for months befour 
 it would need a battery charge. The devs should check out what US spec ops, SEALS, or whatever 
 are carrying these days. (i have no idea but i would check if i was making a game.) Poor experiance 
 with this game. Go by splinter cell or farcry lol (or play them again) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aeisae
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 29, 2005 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Honestly this is one of the best FPS's i have ever played. the story is cool, but the game play 
 is incredible. it doesnt compare to anything like Counter-Strike, or even Half Life but its extremely 
 fast, but not to the point where you cant keep up. slow motion makes enemies pie, and some weapons 
 are a little over powered considering the massive amounts of armor the units seem to be wearing 
 , other than that this game is Great. well worth the wait after the extended release dates, and 
 well worth its price from retailers. in total i have spent about 12 hours on this game in single 
 player and countless hours of multiplayer. its quite addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 18, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  This game is actually good. My last review bashed it but when I actually fixed a problem with my 
 computer, it ran just fine. I'm now getting 40-50fps. I'm running an AMD Athlon 64 4000+ Clawhammer 
 and a nice nForce 3 motherboard with a decent video card. This game runs just fine now. So, here's 
 my short review.
  
  ------------------------------------------
  Pros:
  Amazing looking game; terrific sounds; Cool slow-mo action enables you to create a bloody mess; 
 very intelligent A. I.; awesome multiplayer action.
  
  Cons:
  No language filter; requires a lot to run it; 
  
  Overall:
  If you got the stuff to run it, 
 go for it! It's a great game and has been on sale around $29-$39 most of the time. Pick it up and 
 if anything, wait until you can upgrade (like I did) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stopchris
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 29, 2005 3:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is overall great! the creaters have come up with some of the best enemy a. i. yet. the 
 enemy is totaly unpridictable. ill emphasize that again....... TOTALY UNPRIDICTABLE! im serious 
 the enemy is just as good as playing against a human. 
  
  now the negatives......... while the graphix are good, the game is very hard on the machine. i 
 have a pretty heafty machine and have to run this game on med to low mode. there are games that 
 look alot better and play on higher settings (doom 3) . the game also freezes periodicaly and you 
 have to reboot your whole system. the sound lacks as well. 
  
  i gave this game a 10 because it represents next generation games to the full. even with its issues, 
 this game is a blast to play. especially against the enemy a. i.! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nighthawksolo24
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 29, 2005 12:37 am PT
Review:  Ive invested over 50+ hrs playing all difficulties, and Online. Lets start by saying finally a 
 game that can deliver a date on time....
  
  GamePlay- First i wanna say is that each difficulty is well done. The Ai gets harder, smarter, and 
 more deadlier. When i first started playing this game i started at easy to get the fast run threw 
 so i could review it. I found myself plowing thru bad guys with the shotgun quite easy. So decided 
 that i was going to restart the game on extreme to see how i measure up. Soon as i began i notcied 
 a huge differance. Not everyday i peek around the corner only to see 4 men organized, while the 
 5th is throwing a nade. The Gameplay of the ai is excellent, they jump, move fast, smart, and then 
 report to eachother with almost life like emotions. After a few intense hours i would say like 
 10. You start to notice their paterns, and they become quite easy to defeat.
  
  Graphics- Well where to start, Well first i went and put the game on the lowest settings. I was 
 surprised as to how well the game was detailed still, For all those non hardcore gamers their is 
 still plenty of graphics even for the low end systems to be happy with. As for the second part 
 i put all on max detail both for cpu, and gpu in SLI configuration, The game couldnt have looked 
 better, From sparks, to paper shreddings, to expolsions. Everything just looked beautiful. Detail 
 was very nice touch on the designers end, Their where a few things like colision problems like 
 standing to close to a object and it started it make noises and move around all crazy, But other 
 than that everything seemed to work just fine..
  
  Sound- Now this i belive is where the game just shines, The sounds of expolsions, people screaming, 
 Sharp sounds of terror. The sound in this game is excellent, If you are a FPS fan than you know 
 a rocket launcher always sound the same and the shotgun always makes the same pop. In this round 
 the shotgun going off in someone just gives yah the intense feeling of that really hurt as the 
 bad guy is flying thru the air. The machine gun as you spray all wildly makes the popping rapid 
 sounds makes yah feel like you have control. 
  
  Value- The value of the game 2 times around is great, Its once you beat the game on extreme you 
 need to find another game, Repeat value is okay for a causual game every now and then. 
  
  Multiplayer- The multi is pretty good gives yah a few different types of gameplay, As far as a 
 FPS its all the same except a new slowmo mode, where one player can slow time to his advantage, 
 But for the most part its truly a glamorous run and shoot kind of game.
  
  Overall i was very please with this game, I would recommend it for the light and hardcore gamers 
 out their. Scare factor first time around was a 7 So all you light sleepers guess what??? you arent 
 going to bed at all now lol.....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Someonesys
Rating: 6.1
Date: Oct 28, 2005 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Graphic is good .. SM3 is doing its job good. But seriously this game play still got a long way 
 to go.
  
  First and the most, weapon handling! from the beginning til the end somehow I feel like I am holding 
 a toy. weapon design is somehow missing its point, by giving different amount of ammos doesnt mean 
 any difference if they shoot the same.
  
  2nd, this is another dark as hell boring maps, ok didnt we already had enough from DOOM 3???
 
  
  storyline is not tight, single player isnt fun enough. the only thing that amazed me is that ... 
 we can jump and do a fly kick !!!
  
  Paid mine for 34.99 + tax and still feel like wasting money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vrelic
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 28, 2005 6:24 pm PT
Review:  I got my first real taste of F. E. A. R when I played the single player demo over the summer. It was 
 so fresh looking! Adrenaline-pumping action (with slo-mo and scissor kicks in your arsenal too!) , 
 incredibly intelligent enemies that would leap through glass windows to flank you, amazing sound 
 effects that packed a punch, and if for some reason I wasn't feeling enough tension in those fire 
 fights against entire squads - the game was filled with little scares to creep me out and draw 
 me into the story! I knew very quickly that I would have to upgrade my comp and get this game as 
 soon as it came out. (The Radeon 9800 pro simply didn't do the game justice) .
  
  So I upgrade and wait in anticipation for this game, hoping that the hype it was generating would 
 come true. And yes, it definitly has! Is this better than Half-Life 2? Maybe not. But the uniqueness 
 it carries along with it makes it a good enough game to play through several times. We need more 
 companies creating fresh new ideas like this more often. I have no doubt in my mind that if they 
 continue the F. E. A. R series and make a few changes, it may have the potential to surpass even Half 
 Life.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game plays great. There are a lot of tense scenarios, some that border insanity.. but you will 
 shout with awe at quite a few of them. Half Life 2 had some geniuinly amazing moments as well, 
 but this one pulled off a few even better! It will grab a hold of you and won't let go. It puts 
 you in a similar position as Half Life, where your character never talks and the entire game is 
 given to you in first-person, but it goes even farther than that in F. E. A. R and it is very interesting 
 how they pulled it off. The game also takes an idea from other games, such as Halo, where you can 
 only carry a a few guns and need to plan accordingly. In F. E. A. R you can only carry three weapons 
 at a time and this system works well - keeping you on your toes.
  
  On the downside, some parts of the game can get a little repetitive, such as fighting against the 
 same types of enemies over and over. Don't get me wrong though, there are several types of enemies 
 that you will face, but for the most part you will be gunning down soldiers that have the same 
 general look.. and there are a large amount of them... an entire clone army to be exact. Slo-mo 
 also can become something of a necessity for every battle later on. You simply cannot last long 
 when you are locked in a small room against 10+ soldiers without slo-mo. It is a very cool feature, 
 but I wish I could have had more fights without it as well. These issues are kind of small though, 
 the action is so intense and the AI is so smart that these negatives may not even be realized by 
 some players.
  
  Graphics:
  Amazing character models and a great job creating futuristic office-like environments. Seeing the 
 bullet trails in slow-mo and watching mists of blood fly when the bullets riddle your enemies is 
 a sick pleasure! Large bullet holes in walls, glass shatters as your enemies dive through windows, 
 particles from shooting boxes and wood, awesome lighting/shadow/water effects. Great physics engine, 
 but no where near as spectacular as Half Life 2's.
  
  Some objects in the world when compared to the character models seem like they could have been 
 detailed better. Certain areas in the world also give off too much of a "plastic" feel and after 
 seeing Half-Life 2's environments, it will take a lot to reach a 10 graphics-wise. This game is 
 also designed for a next-gen system so I'm sure that if I had such a system and could crank everything 
 up, these issues may clear up quite a bit. But from what I've seen even after cranking it up to 
 look at it at 1 fps, something is missing from the graphics that Half Life 2 accomplished better 
 with the Source engine using far less resources.
  
  Sound:
  Very well done. The gun sound effects are loud and just right to really get your blood going. Even 
 the pistol is fun to shoot! When you use your melee attack on different objects: glass, vents, 
 doors, panels, etc. you get unique sounds for each and it makes the world feel very alive. The 
 eerie sound effects are cool and the musical score is moving. Voice acting is great, especially 
 that of Paxton Fettel.
  
  Value:
  F. E. A. R's single player missions will last at least 10 hours depending on the difficulty level 
 you play on. You can play this over several times and get different enemy battles - you never know 
 exactly what that crazy AI will do! You may also challenge yourself by playing at a higher difficulty 
 level or by using a different combination of weapons. Multiplayer is fun with some uniqueness, 
 but it's no CounterStrike. At this point, it doesn't appear that the community will make many modifications 
 for F. E. A. R like they are doing for the Source engine. Overall it doesn't have enough replayability 
 to last you a very long time, but it is still very much worth the purchase to play through the 
 game at least once.
  
  Ending Notes:
  If you are an FPS or action game fan it is definitly recommended to buy this game and experience 
 it. If you like action movies, especially those like the Matrix, you also definitly need to try 
 this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickr
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 28, 2005 4:57 pm PT
Review:  First of all i think this game is overapreciated, seconldy few sparks thrown from the weapon doesent 
 make a game, thirdly gamespot reviewed this game like little kids cheering on a toy.
  
  Let me start with the story. Well i heavent played it all yet but i'll tell you the story just 
 little from the begining as i wouldnt want to take you from the fun while playing it. You are newly 
 arrived front-men in the FEAR squad and basiclu you begin your first mission with the FEAR team. 
 Some sityation has been delevoped and it's up to the FEAR team or YOU to save the earth or at least 
 state/country (whatever you like ) from mass of clone-robot-soldiers . First mission will be some 
 introducement with the story a little bit more and you'll have the oportunity to see the little 
 girl and the major guy you are after alll of the game.
  The story isn't impresive at all but what makes it interesting (NOTE: not scary but interesting) 
 is the addition of the little girl and some horor elements.
  The horor elements are not scary, although i have to admit there were one or two moments where 
 i jumped from the chair. The addition of the little girl from the movie RING is very interesting 
 and unusyal but very interesting. The horor elements are poorly made and let me tell you Doom 3 
 is far scarier in comparisment to FEAR.
  Sounds are prety good, although voice acting is the weak point in the game. The sounding fire sounds 
 very similar from one weapon to another, while the bomb explosions sound very good.
  Graphicly this game is very good although i mind the high system requirments in order to play the 
 game in high detail. As i sed graphicly the game is very good as together with the special effects 
 add a unique feeling to the game and some personality to it. Best thing though is still the effects, 
 for example when a bomb is exploading or huge pieces falling from the wall when you fire and so 
 on...
  The AI is mauby the best there is so far. The AI enemies in the campaign are highly inteligent 
 and you'll see them hiding, falling back and regruping, making saltos, use cover, walk on ground 
 from one place to another when fired on them and so on. There is one bad thing about the AI though 
 and thats it that the reaction can sometimes be rather slow and you'll see the opponent just standing 
 and doing nothing, also you may cross by 3 meters from the enemy and they will notice you.
  The "slow-motion" option is very useful, especialy when there are 4-5 enemies firing at you. It 
 would have been better for the player to have more ammunition beacose in game like FEARmore shooting 
 means more fun and more of it's special effects, but no there is even a shortage of ammuniton at 
 least in you had chosen the harder level of difficylty. Although you can change the difficylt level 
 throught the game it's still not in the spirit of the game to have shortage of ammunition.
  Throught the game you'll find something like boosters that will enlarge your health and "slow-motion" 
 option.
  Overall this game is plenty of fun and it's a shame to miss it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vermouth
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 28, 2005 4:17 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R.
  
  F. E. A. R. Is the latest first person shooter from Monolith, the company behind such classics as 
 No One Lives Forever, AVP2 and Shogo Mobile Armor Division. In this game you play as an operative 
 in the Special forces unit First Encounter Assault and Recon, a paranormal soldiers division of 
 the United States Army. The game does a fine job mixing cutting edge graphics with intense firefights, 
 spooky scares and a intriguing story to make one of the best action games of 2005. 
  
  Right away when you fire up F. E. A. R you'll notice that the graphics are really top notch. Everything 
 in the game looks very nicely rendered. The environments are nicely drawn and look very much like 
 the office buildings and industrial parks that the game takes place in the models are nicely animated 
 and do a fine job of moving around and such. Some of the most impressive stuff involves the amount 
 of damage that gets done in a firefight. The Particle effects create a battlefield that has dust 
 and debris flying all over much the same as what you see in real life situation where lot's of 
 ammo is being exchanged. Further they did a great job using decals to make the damage to the environment 
 look fantastic. You put a hole in a concrete wall and it looks just like it should, hit a drywall 
 facade with a shotgun blast and it'll often peel off realistically. It is attention to detail that 
 is often the order of the day here, for one of the first times I've ever seen in a FPS you look 
 down and you can see your feet. This attention to detail almost makes it more disappointing when 
 you discover the game doesn't have a very impressive physics model. While there are plenty of things 
 that will react to firefights but even more that are just static objects. It's also disappointing 
 that unlike their last game, No One Lives Forever 2 the environment isn't very interactive. One 
 last positive for the graphics, the game has a really exceptional motion blur for when you kick 
 it into slow motion. All in all a wonderful visual presentation.
  
  The audio of the game just isn't quite as impressive. Although you're alone for most of the game, 
 you receive a lot of verbal cues from your commanding officer and from your enemies. The Squad 
 voices on the enemy were really cool as you could really tell what their status was by listening 
 to the guys. Now they don't scream like the little guys in Halo but they do get freaked out when 
 you beat the tar out of their squad. They do sound confident when they've got plenty of guys on 
 their side they do start to lose that confidence as they start getting their but whooped it's all 
 really good. Your commanding officer and the antagonist in the game are very well voiced and so 
 are all the voice mail messages you'll find laying around that move the story along, but more on 
 those in a moment. The soundtrack is rather forgettable and isn't edited as well as it could be. 
 It just doesn't always seem to cue the way I would have cued it and it doesn't really have a good 
 fight song. Furthermore some of the sound effects are just weird. For instance tapping stuff with 
 the edge of your body often produces very loud sounds when they should be subtle. For a game that's 
 trying to be so immersive and so frightening this is a minor immersion break and they're a bit 
 annoying. 
  
  The story and atmosphere of FEAR are two of the best points of the game but it fails to really 
 deliver the kind of scares that I got playing Doom 3 or Undying. This though is going to be hit 
 or miss, I've heard some people who found it terrifying and others who didn't find it so upsetting. 
 It's got a really interesting story about some very bad spoilers that I'm not going to ruin for 
 you. Despite the fact you're alone most of the game you managed to hear about quite a cast of characters 
 by coming across laptops and voice mails left on people's phones. 
  
  Fortunately despite the fact that the game doesn't quite manage the scares I was hoping for it's 
 got exceptional, first rate run and gun stuff. This is in the same league as Half-Life 2 or Farcry 
 so you're in for a real treat in the firefights in the game. FEAR also employs a nice Halo-esque 
 system where you can only carry 3 guns at any given time so you'll need to choose your weapons 
 very carefully between about 10 very well balanced guns. Even the lowly pistols can be put to very 
 good use if you choose to. The level design, while not exotic, is a very nicely done series of 
 offices and industrial locales that give great haunts to shoot the bad guys. The game also gives 
 you a slow motion bullet time type effect that allows you to manage some of the nastier fights 
 and you'll need it too. The AI in the game is very sharp and will do things like I've never seen 
 AI do. Get up real close to guy and they'll sometimes dive through windows to get a better vantage 
 point to fight from. Or in one instance one guy in a squad knocked over a shelf to obstruct my 
 pathand as I butchered the squad of guys I'd see one of the guys crawling underneath the shelf 
 to try to get behind me. A few of the middle levels do get a bit repetitive on the down side and 
 the challenge is very hit or miss. A few parts are very simple and a few parts are very frustrating 
 but all in all the game is reasonably well balanced. 
  
  Length wise this is more or less a 10 hour game. It does have some multiplayer but nothing terribly 
 out of the ordinary some deathmatch team deathmatch those kinds of things. While it's reasonably 
 fun it's nothing that's going to really hook you so that this is all you're playing for weeks. 
 I'd have liked to have seen a bit more length but that seems just to be the way the games industry 
 is going. That said the story is good enough and the firefights are good enough that I'll probably 
 play through this again and it's not merely going to collect dust forever. 
  
  All in all this isn't a perfect shooter but it's darn good. The firefights and creepy, potentially 
 scary story will both keep you coming back for more till the game is over. While I'd like to have 
 seen a bit more of this game it was a whole lot of fun and I recommend it wholeheartedly to anyone 
 who likes a good single player adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebjunior
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 28, 2005 4:10 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the better FPS games I have played. It is pretty damn good. It mixes together FREAKY 
 cutscenes and gameplay into a FPS action game. This puts them together flawlessly, well almost. 
 I have to say that the levels get very repetitive, the story gets pretty confusing at times (even 
 if your I. Q. is 500, this will confuse you) , also SIERRA is known for bugs in their games and I 
 can say I had some troubles with some of them. But over all this is a great game. Here is some 
 advice, if you want one of your friends to scream like a little girl and almost wet their pants, 
 well invite them over make them play F. E. A. R. And if you don't have friends then, I guess you could 
 always call your mom down to show her. Just kidding, anyways here are my ups and downs on this 
 game....
  
  +Great Graphics even if they are on LOW
  + Awesome Gameplay
  + BEST Sound design I have EVER heard in a videogame before
  + God Damn it is SCARY
  + If you 
 like FPS and HORROR games then here is your DREAM game
  
  - All I have to say is that the levels are TOO REPETITIVE
  - Also this might be a little to scary 
 for some gamers out there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamingjerk
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 28, 2005 7:52 am PT
Review:  this gsmr id good in some aspects but in others it really fails to impress i ould of thought the 
 game would of been much better considering all what the publishers said but it stil dosnt fail 
 to scare even the grown up toughest strongest men and who could of thougth a lil japanese girl 
 could scare people that much i mean im like ........ mummy! AND IM 27 but seriously this games got 
 wicked gameplay but in som aspects its not to good so get the game and see what you think but if 
 somone showed me this post i wouldnt get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilan
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2005 4:21 am PT
Review:  I got my hands on F. E. A. R. yesterday, and had beaten it by midnight. Overall, I'd say the game 
 has about ten hours of gameplay, which gets pretty action-packed after about forty-five minutes 
 and doesn't let-up until you finish the ending sequence.
  
  I will say that if you're any "good" at FPSs at all, then you should probably play through the 
 game on Hard or, maybe, even Extreme difficulty. The slow-mo in the game makes the enemies pretty 
 damn easy, and after playing through it on hard, I really wish I had up'd the difficulty level 
 to make the single-player portion a bit more intense. Even at hard difficulty (there are: easy, 
 normal, hard, and extreme available from the get-go) , the game was just way too easy. Over the 
 course of ten hours, I'd say I only died about four times. Also, once you beat the game once, it'll 
 take a good bit of will to play through it again, it's just not the kind of game that really lends 
 itself to multiple run-throughs; especially with the lengthy "introduction."
  
  As for the story, it's nothing spectacular, but what is there is presented in an incredible way. 
 I had a good deal of fun making my way through the game and picking up a number of vary DOOM 3-esque 
 audio clips that helped to set the mood of the game overall. Towards the end of the game, though, 
 you really have to pay attention. A lot happens in a fairly short time, and some thing in my run 
 through the end left me feeling a bit... Confused. Might've just been the fact that I had people 
 watching the ending sequence while I played it, thus maybe forcing me to miss a key bit of information 
 or two.
  
  Also, disappointingly for me, I just didn't find the game that scary. I only jumped once or twice 
 (compared to DOOM 3 and The Suffering, which made me damn near wet my pants a fair number of times) , 
 and the best scares in the game were ruined for me from the single-player demo. Also, if you played 
 the single-player demo, the level you played is split up throughout the course of the third or 
 fourth level, so don't go in expecting to be greatly familiar with a large stretch of gameplay. 
 This is a surprise I was happy to see.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muhannad_basic
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 27, 2005 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Well, Fear is by far the best game i've ever played, i has an outstanding graphics engine, sound, 
 and gameplay. Single player mode is just alot of fun and is not quite short, would take you about 
 10-12 hours to finish, and Multiplayer is jus amazing, not as sharp as other games but still great.
 
  
  The only complain I have about Fear is that it needs a super computer to run on maximum settings, 
 unfortuantely this game was actually released uncompleted from a graphics engine point of view, 
 leaving it with many problems that are encoutered even by high end pcs. which makes it by far the 
 most graphically demanding game i every played.
  
  The only way to play this game with all eye candy graphics is for you to spend at least 400$ on 
 a Geforce 7800 GTX or a an ATI X1800XT. 
  
  Thats why i upgraded from and ATI X850XT PE to an EVGA 7800 GTX. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRyOrange_basic
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 27, 2005 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Play this game at night, with no one in the house and lights off. If you wish to have a heart attack. 
 F. E. A. R. is a scary game. It uses the right tools that redefine the horror genre in movie recent 
 years, gone were the use of loud sound and predictable sudden jump in villain/monsters. FEAR's 
 clever use of flash imagery and creating situation where anticipations are often met by eerily 
 non-event, only to be scared when mundane task become something you hold your breath doing (I still 
 have nightmares about climbing down a ladder and saw a figure on top when i climb down) . It's a 
 game that scare you witless and having fun doing so. Play it. With friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_pbody
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 4, 2005 7:48 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a game that pushes the boundaries as we know it today. Epic gameplay, graphics and 
 situational enviroments... let's get started shall we?
  
  The overall analysis is that the storyline unfolds a little slowly and you may not quite understand 
 why exactly you're shooting everyone, other than the fact that they are shooting at you! The enviroments 
 suck you in and you become immersed rather quickly upon playing. The upside is that it combines 
 a rather spooky, scary feeling along with a first person shooter concept that works to the games 
 overall benefit and success.
  
  The storyline revolves around a paranormal concept of individuals controlling hordes of soldiers 
 through an esp/telepathy type of command... and you guessed it, one of those beta type commanders 
 has gone off the deep end. Your job is to take him out of action... simple enough, eh? The game 
 quickly envelopes you into it's own environment and you are soon playing on the edge of your seat. 
 Many times while playing I was literally frightened out of my seat! The gameplay continues along 
 a path that visually and environmentally has you questioning, "What exactly is going on here?" 
 And that's a good thing! With such a dark background happening before you it is odd that a little 
 girl starts to take on a larger and confusing role, in a very eerie way. Images, voices and shadows 
 occur before you that suddenly vanish, leaving you guessing at what it was that you actually saw 
 and the meaning of it. All the more leaving you hanging, guessing and suspenseful with the overall 
 game play.
  
  The graphics are a delight to behold and watch happen. The use of light, shadows, bad guys and 
 a suspenseful music score all occur at the right times... leaving you tense, agitated and giddy 
 all at the same time. The use of cause and effect visuals are wonderfully imposed upon you. Some 
 are like a shock wave type of effect and others are as simple as dust being created by flying bullets 
 hitting a wall, temporarily obscuring your view. Very realistic and cool to watch, and at the same 
 time making you alter your decisions because of them. Though this game can be played with a "run 
 and gun" mindset, you will miss half of the effects and tension if you proceed too fast. Current 
 graphic game play continues it's own course of maturation and F. E. A. R. is definitely one of the 
 stepping stones along that path.
  
  Now we come to the artificial intelligence aspect and F. E. A. R. does not disappoint. We are finally 
 seeing the bad guys not act like brain dead lobotomy recipients... hooray! They will flank you, 
 they will rush you with manpower, dive behind cover, peek-a-boo shoot, toss grenades... basically 
 you will have to act, and sometimes decisively. Some of my attacks were thought out strategically 
 while others were just total reaction with no thought other than, "You will die before me!" The 
 kills were what should be expected as well. If you nailed a head shot, the perp went down. If you 
 hit him in the arm or stomach then he is going to rip off a volley at you and make you unload your 
 clip or shoot better... the perp's let you know it's either you or them. The only downside was that 
 often times when I took a baddie out with a headshot they would fly back to a wall (cool!) ... but 
 their head would stick to the wall like it had a stake pushed through it. Hopefully a patch will 
 correct this anomoly.
  
  The game play as a whole was quite enjoyable. It almost played out as a movie with just the right 
 amount of tension, music score and action hitting on all cylinders. The only game play downside 
 I experienced was the repetitive clearing of rooms from bad guys. Though I will say that the clearing 
 method wasn't always the same, so you couldn't necessarily fall into a pattern... but repetitive 
 none the less. And at times I didn't feel quite immersed enough into the actual events going on... sometimes 
 it felt like, "Just another level". I think a better storyline explaination would overcome this 
 minor fault. Overall though F. E. A. R. is a game that stands on it's own and definitely should be 
 experienced for any die hard first person shooter gamer. 
  
  Thumbs up and a bonus on combining the spooky with a first person shooter.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charbo00
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 27, 2005 6:50 pm PT
Review:  I normally set my standards a bit low on new games so I dont expect to much then get disappointed. 
 With F. E. A. R, I did the same, and figured it would be just another run of the mill fps with nice 
 graphics. I have to say, I stand corrected. This game is GREAT! It has some really awesome features 
 like the Slo-Mo mode to slow down time, the AI is the best i have ever seen, at least in a fps 
 game, and the graphics are gorgeous. For the most part it also has a great story, that sorta pulls 
 you in and keeps you wondering what might happen next. The horror aspect of the game is pulled 
 off well in my opinion too, much better than a game like Doom 3, which just has stuff jump out 
 at you. The horror in this game actually gets under your skin so to say. For example, in the beginning 
 of the game the first level has alot of places where you see someone walk by and then they just 
 disappear, or things like that. If you like fps games you should definatly check out F. E. A. R, if 
 nothing else just try the demo out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor_25
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 27, 2005 5:35 pm PT
Review:  If you are anything like me you have this morbid obsession with playing, watching or listening 
 to anything that will scare the dickens out of you. That is the reason games like Resident Evil 
 and Silent Hill have always been some of my favorites games of all time. That list may need to 
 make room for a new game of epic horror proportions. F. E. A. R. take the FPS genre to an all new 
 atmospheric sense of dread that has not been captured before. All you need to do is load up the 
 game to start feeling it.
  
  Story: You are the newest member of an elite special forces unit that specializes in paranormal 
 activities. You are basically nameless so there will be no Gordon Freeman fame for your character, 
 but make no bones about it - YOU ARE A BADASS. You are sent on this mission because of your "special 
 abilities" that allow you to slow down time. Believe me, this is very important and not one of 
 those effects that just add flash. The F. E. A. R. team gets sent in to investigate some strange events 
 involving Paxton Fettel who has ESP like powers to control an army of replica soldiers. Nobody 
 is sure what his motive is and what is going on, but thats why you are here. The story only gets 
 better as the game goes on eventually includes a recurring little girl whose sole purpose is to 
 scare the crap out of you at every turn. She is creepy and while you see her a lot catching her 
 is another story altogether. She is one of the main reasons getting to the resolution of the story 
 is so important.
  
  Graphics: One word AMAZING. If you have the gaming rig to play this badboy on high settings you 
 will not be disappointed. Even on mostly medium settings this game is one of the most beautiful 
 games you will ever play. The details of the environments around you help to create the atmosphere 
 that this game excels at. While not as dark as DOOM, this game requires fairly extensive use of 
 your flashlight in parts and it is done well. Blasting replica troops is messy work and its often 
 very staisfying to take a look at your handiwork when you are done. The game is smooth and other 
 than a few tech glitches here and there I was extremely impressed.
  
  Sound: The key to any game that is designed to be scary is the audio. Especially when playing on 
 surround sound the audio effects in this game will have you turning around and looking behind you. 
 From your footsteps to knocking over lamps, running into chairs, pushing paintings on the wall, 
 each and every sound leaps out of the quiet to create a sense of dread and start your pulse pounding. 
 Thats doesnt even account for the creepy voices in your head when Paxton Fettel and that damn little 
 girl are talking to you. The music is done well, increasing the tension where needed and never 
 interferes with the games atmosphere. It makes for one heck of a creepy experience. Turn the sound 
 to 11 and get ready.
  
  Gameplay: The key to any FPS is the speed of the game. How well does the game put you into the 
 action. While some FPS pride themselves on sending wave after wave of baddies against you to create 
 difficulty based on sheer volume, F. E. A. R. does not do that. The environments you fight in are 
 designed to have you wandering through tight hallways and wondering what or who is around the corner. 
 They are multi tiered so you have to fight on your level as well above and below you. The fighting 
 is fast paced and explosive. Bits of wall, desk and replica troops fly as you greande, shotgun, 
 and machine gun your way through the obstacles in your way. Speaking of obstacles....
  
  You spend your time fighting replica soldiers who are not the mindless soldiers of many FPS out 
 there. You will come across them in 3-4 man teams and they will use whatever around them to shield 
 themselves. One of their specialty moves is to reach around corners at shoot at you while one of 
 their teammates tosses a grenade your way. This is where the slow mo feature comes in to play. 
 There are many parts of the game where you are surrounded from above and below and you need some 
 extra time to get in a few extra well placed head shots to even the odds. Believe me, its fun. 
 The game features three types of replica troops to blow away. The standard replica troops are a 
 dime a dozen and you will get good at blowing them away. The next most common and slightly more 
 frustrating are the heavy armors who take a lot more firepower to bring down. These guys usually 
 carry the projectile cannon, rocket launcher or plasma rifle to pack some extra punch. Use of your 
 grenades here is crucial. The fact that the monolith team has been nice to let us use grenades 
 without having to switch to them is awesome. Never understood why you had to put away your weapon 
 just to toss a grenade. Its not hard. Anyways, I digress. The third replica is an ultra armed and 
 armored mech type that packs some serious punch. Hopefully you picked up those conveniently placed 
 rocket launchers and plasma rifles to take down this bad boy. He doesnt screw around and taking 
 him down will require some firepower and skill. Now some will complain about only having three 
 types of replica troops. Wait didnt I say REPLICA troops??? Shouldnt a clone army be the same???? 
 Has anyone out there seen Star Wars??? While you only face the three basic replica troops, their 
 tactics can vary depending on the weaponry they are using. Sometimes they will rush you and attack 
 from close range, other times they will try to snipe from a distance. You will have to be good 
 at varying your attack and defensive schemes. It is not easy and as the game gets along you will 
 find yourself cursing those replica troops.
  
  Conclusion: This game is rated A+++++. I cant find any real flaws with the game. It does a perfect 
 job of combining horror/suspense with a well done FPS. It does a great job of immersing you in 
 a creepy story with lots of action and an intriguing story. What else can a gamer ask for??????? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jneal121
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 27, 2005 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I never heard of F. E. A. R. until my brother showed me the demo on his computer. So I tried the demo 
 and absolutely fell in love with the game.
  
  Now I own it and its awesome. The graphics are even better and the story is awesome. Great game.
 
  
  The only downfall of the game is probably in the sound area. My sound card had a few "extra" noises 
 that weren't always part of the game and were hardly noticable at most points. 
  
  Gameplay was really well except for some parts in the beginning. Play, something odd, play, odd, 
 play odd, etc. Until later on all "random" begins to happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrick112
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 27, 2005 3:21 pm PT
Review:  At the beginning I downloaded the demo version, because I wanted to see if it was true, that Gamespot 
 said it was so "superbest" ...
  And after played the Demo, for only 5-10 min, I knew, that this was the best FPS game I have ever 
 played.. One of the things I really was impressed of, was that you actually have a BODY in this 
 game.. You can look down, and see your feets, and when climping on ladders, you can see your whole 
 body, arms and legs, your really fell that your looks out the eyes, of your main character. I really 
 got impressed, where you see the little girl, with fire behind her, and you try running away from 
 her, and the explosion comes, and you are flying right through the window. You can see the whole 
 body (out of the eyes off course) .. But you can look down yourself, and see how your legs arms 
 and the whole body are following, IT LOOKS AWSOME!..
  .. Another thing I really like about this game, is that the clones, also called: "Super soldiers," 
 are pretty smart too.. They can grab things, and barricaed themself behind it, and if you try cover 
 yourself under something, they can jump over it, and if you barricade yourself, they allways find 
 a way, to get to you.. They can even run away from you, while they put their arm behind themself, 
 and shoot, while running away.. This game got another AWESOME thing that you do not see in much 
 other games. When the enemy shoots at you, three to five shots are enough to take you off.. And 
 if their close enough, they can get you on one to two shots (on Low dificult) .. And when you are 
 in the middle of a fire, and trying to take down the enemies, you are really gonna fell that you 
 got the weapons in your hands, and actaully fells the blowback effeckt.. It's VERY awesome, when 
 you are covering behind a wall, and leaning half your body out of the walls, and fireing all your 
 ammo at will, and see the dust, and things break all around yourself.. While hearing the enemy 
 yelling after you.. and see how they move in the dust, and shooting against you aswell.. Then pull 
 yourself back, reload and maybe use your very great reflexes, and use your "Slowmo", and then run 
 out, fireing at the enemies and take down as many as you can, then holster your weapon, and take 
 them with a cool kick or punch in their head, are maybe a slide kick, or flying kick.. Or maybe 
 knock them down, and take them off with your gun .. That's up to you.. And you are getting some 
 awesome times doing this ....
  The Main tittle: F. E. A. R, says itself, FEAR.. And that's what's in this game too.. It's not just 
 another action game, where you run around and shoot everything that moves.. oh no.. While run-/ 
 or walk around, you get scared as hell on your way.. You can get some pictures, flashbacks.. and 
 see something that really isn't there.. The light above you can turn off, or maybe flick, the same 
 about your helt bar, ammo bar.... the floor or walls can get pulled down, or maybe the doors close 
 in front of you.. You can hear voices, or noice behind you, and when you turn around.. There's 
 nothing in sight then you look forward again, and WOOOOO.. there's something, or even maybe not.. 
 Thid game got EVERYTHING.. and it's really cool.. The Graphic is in top.. It's indeed better than 
 the very good game: Half-Life 2, or Doom3..
  This game takes both of them (that's my opinion, off course some would not agree with me, but fair 
 enough) ...
  
  The multiplayer though, is a bit, booring in the end.. You start up, and do cool things, and in 
 even: DM, TMD, CPF, DMSLOWMO... depends on what you take.. It's AWESOME the first time you do it, 
 but after playing that, for a bit.. You get a little bit bored.. 
  But the Single player version, is indeed AWESOME.. you get some nice addrenalin boosts, and get 
 scared as hell on your way aswell.. 
  This game is indeed the best FPS game, I ever installed on my computer..
  Everyone should try 
 play this game ..
  
  I have chose to give the gameplay a 9, because of:
  after completing the singleplayer, you maybe get the feeling of doing it one more time, and that's 
 it.. Then the Multiplayer is a bit, boring in the end .. This game is indeed one that would last 
 LONG TIME.. But not forever.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doom_nightmare
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 27, 2005 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Is the best shooter that you can buy for now. If you want enjoy buy this game, if you want the 
 latest graphics, play others how doom 3, half life 2 or quake 4. This game is best in gameplay 
 that all launched to the date. The enemies are very smarts, they run to cover up, they through 
 grenades, jump, etc but awll very complex, no only checkpoints by default.
  
  The level would be more complex, but the game would need a superpc to run it. The IA burn all the 
 processor of my cpu.
  The story line is equal that "the ring" or other terror films japaneses. XD
  
  Sorry for the 
 bad english.
  
  PD: The game translation to spanish is good. Thanks to translate it ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tcharp
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 27, 2005 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I found this game to be an interesting new approach in an old genre. The map (s) are not just one 
 long tunnel. There are twists and turns and OPTIONS as to how to approach many of the obsticles. 
 In some places the game is predictable and in others it is not.
  
  The story is a great one, with some surprizes at the end. There were a few places and obsticles 
 that seemed insurmountable, but a new approach was required. 
  
  There were some places in this game I just wanted to save to play again and again as they were 
 so imersive and fun.
  
  If you are a FPS fan, you will love this one. It's great.
  
  -TC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonegavel
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 27, 2005 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game after reading all the hype. 
  
  I wasted $50.
  
  The AI is heralded as the next coming, and while I won't deny that it is very likely the best AI 
 I've seen in a game, it seems wasted.
  
  Looks like the spent all the development time on the AI and weapons and forgot to create interesting 
 levels in which to use these things.
  
  Multiplayer is just ridiculous. It reminds of the original DM from Half Life. Sometimes you die 
 10 times in a row after only taking 2 steps from spawning. You die so much it isn't worth the time 
 or effort especially when there are so many other games to play online.
  
  I really don't understand all the praise this game is getting. Maybe the AI is only this good because 
 the levels are all the same?
  
  PROS:
  * yes, the AI in the game is incredible
  * the weapons are really fun to use and they sound great
  * the shadows are done really well
 
  
  CONS:
  * most unispired levels I have seen in a long time.
  * the only horror I experienced was the realization I had wasted $50
  * the same enemies over 
 and over and over and over
  
  If you have Half Life 2 (or something similar) , don't waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mynamesdenvrmax
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 27, 2005 10:48 am PT
Review:  The first time I saw a preview for F. E. A. R. , I was both excited, and saddened. At the time, late 
 last year, I still had my old Dell with only a 1.6ghz, 384 mb ram, 40gb HDD and a GeForce FX5200. 
 I knew it wouldnt run, and if it did, it would look horrible. I'm sure glad it was delayed a few 
 times, since I had time to get a new PC that could play it nicely. 
  
  The Gameplay:
  Great! The battles are intense, as the AI is extremely smart, they'll flank, use objects to take 
 cover, shout orders to each other. It feels as if you're really in this game, wondering "Which 
 side are they coming from?" listening to their orders being barked out, hoping your surround sound 
 system isnt failing to tell you where exactly they are. The SlowMo option is helpful and quite 
 entertaining. You can alter time, slow down the world around you, as you stay the same speed. Allowing 
 you to mow down severl enemies without taking barely any damage... it also looks really cool too.
 
  
  The Graphics:
  One of the most attractive parts of the game. Better be sure you've got a nice GPU and CPU, the 
 high detailed surroundings, lighting effects, physics engine, particles of debris everywhere will 
 really tax your systems resources. The light reflecting off of a painted brick wall looks as real 
 as it can be, the large amount of blood shows realistically what it would look like if a massive 
 amount of deaths and carnage just hit the scene. Throwing a grenade causes a great ripple effect 
 through the level, that look very nice with slowmo activated. 
  
  The Sound:
  Another good part to this game. Nothing extremely special, but it keeps up with the rest of the 
 games high quality. The guns sound good, the screams, voices, and creepy music all sounds great 
 and leaves you checking over your shoulder in your computer room...
  
  If you're into arcade style shooters with tactical touches, this is for you. The story contains 
 about 11 main "levels" with a few missions in each. The entire game is from a FPS view, everything 
 you see, if through your character's eyes, even the creepy "dream" style sequences. I'm extremely 
 pleased with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delvet
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 27, 2005 10:27 am PT
Review:  I just got done playing F. E. A. R. and I feel that the game is over rated. First I found it fairly 
 easy to play, with very little puzzles to solve. It is though probably the 2nd best first shooter 
 out today. It lacks a lot to beat the best shooter on the market today, Half Life 2, much harder, 
 better story, more action and just more game play. I would give F. E. A. R a 8 out of a ten, with 
 Half Life 2 a 9.5 out of ten. Come on game makers you have to do a lot more to beat the best Half 
 Life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagickB3ats
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 27, 2005 9:24 am PT
Review:  As sequels to many outstanding first person shooters seem to suddenly crowd the gaming world, few 
 fish in the sea actually stand out on its own. Even less fish are noticeable when their titles 
 don't have a single-digit number in front of them. Although this may true, the few that do seem 
 to possess unique qualities are impressive first person shooters, and make no mistake, F. E. A. R. 
 is unarguably one of those games. From excellent visuals and believable sound, to fluid gameplay 
 and an insanely good finish, this is the game that every gamer should play and enjoy.
  
  To summarize your role in the game, you are a member of a covert tactical unit named First Encounter 
 Assault Recon, a detachment to Special Forces specialized in sending highly trained soldiers into 
 very compromised missions to alleviate certain situations. Although it functions very similar to 
 a Special Forces unit, the twist is that F. E. A. R. soldiers have to deal with extraordinary paranormal 
 threats. You have just been assigned to the unit, and you are experiencing one heck of a day. As 
 your day starts, a government-funded project goes wrong when a psychic commander of clone soldiers 
 has gone, well to put it blandly, crazy. This psychotic, and problematic man named Paxton Fettel 
 causes a humongous mess, leaving cannibalistically murdered victims on hot zones to deploying an 
 incredible amount of soldiers into urban areas. Most of the game, you are fighting the soldiers 
 he deploys, along with surpassing the paranormal threats your squad has to face. Among this entire 
 ruckus, which progresses fairly fast through the game, the plot tends to change a few times, and 
 ends the game with a big bang in the end, which was probably the most exciting moment of the game.
 
  
  Not to say that the game isnt exciting through the beginning and middle. In fact, its quite hard 
 not to like the game when Monolith has given you impressive AI to fight. Using their new artificial 
 intelligence technology, bots actually scan their sector and make unscripted actions based on their 
 findings, such as diving through windows, crawling under spaces, using anything as cover, and even 
 sometimes [making] their own cover by toppling sofas, tables or cabinets. Although this might seem 
 very humanly and difficult, the AI is actually very fun to take down, which works well the impressive 
 battles F. E. A. R. has to offer. All of this AI-goodness is accompanied by the highlight of the game: 
 slow motion. Throughout any part of the game, you can slow down the scene to get a more precise 
 shot at commandos and take them out more aggressively than you already can. Slow motion adds a 
 good movie effect to the game, especially when you want to see your enemies fall slowly to the 
 ground.
  
  Speaking about impressive battles, now is an appropriate time to point out that F. E. A. R. does a 
 very good job of portraying an action-movie type of feel to the game. The very well designed 
 graphics engine enables incredible visuals, insane particle effects and decals, and very detailed 
 models, which you will literally tear to pieces throughout the game. Only arguable points toward 
 the graphical aspect of F. E. A. R. are the facts that some of these areas seem too repetitive and 
 the game taxes the PCs that dont exceed the recommendations. But it shouldnt get in the way. 
 After all, who needs resolutions higher than 1024x768 when you can just apply anti-aliasing :) .
 
  
  Going back to the discussion of impressive battles, the audio aspect of the game has to be one 
 of the highlights of F. E. A. R. The sound is simply put: outstanding. All of the weapons sound fairly 
 powerful, shotgun the most, and all of the sounds are crisp and clean. F. E. A. R. portrays a suspenseful 
 mood to the games paranormal theme with its very well composed soundtrack; although these arent 
 the songs youre going to be humming all the way back home, they definitely do a good job in-game.
 
  
  The multiplayer is another outstanding and addictive part of F. E. A. R. With the 6-7 weapons you 
 will be utilizing in about 3-4 gameplay modes and 10-12 maps, its hard to let go of the game when 
 you are just about to kick some serious slow-motion ass. Which comes to the main reason why the 
 multiplayer is so good: slo-mo multiplayer. When throughout the battle someone has held the slo-mo 
 activator for a certain amount of time without dying, they can activate slo-mo, which works incredibly 
 good with the game. Its also used sparingly and isnt used every 5 seconds, so every time slow-motion 
 has been activated on a multiplayer map, you will seriously start to cherish the moment.
  
  To wrap up a very big present, this is definitely one of those games that everyone should experience. 
 Replayable, addictive, and over-the-top, this is one game that you wont forget for a while and 
 undoubtedly, one you will be playing for a while. And what better way to start the morning with 
 hot coffee than to have a grenade in slow motion tossed in your cubicle :) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazza569
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 27, 2005 7:53 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a refreshing new title for the FPS genre, its fun gameplay combined with amazing graphics 
 and stunning speacial effects makes this game a classic. The fight scenes within this game are going 
 to be the best fights you have ever witnessed. Sparks fly, walls crumble, and blood splatters as you 
 shoot your way through many fights. The fights are quite simply brutal, shoot an enemy with a shotgun 
 and its most likely they will blow in half, or their heads blow off, or arms, or legs..... this just 
 adds to the games realism and fun. The Paranormal story plot is also brilliant and original for 
 a game, and suits perfectly the type of game this is, with the player expierencing small things such 
 as seeing the girl in the red dress, and other ghostly appartitions that slowing ,and clevery build 
 tension. The weapons are also varied and fun, including a penetratior gun, which sticks enemies to 
 the wall, think of it as a nail gun. The A. I is also outstanding ,they will work together, and flank 
 you whenever there is a chance, thye will also laean around corners, guarding themselves more.
  
  Because of the demanding graphics and effects your gonna need a REALLY high-spec machine for 
 this game in order to appreciate the great shadows and lighting ,as well as the CPU heavy A. I and 
 special effects, but as always ,lowering the graphics will allow those with a mid range pc to play. I 
 would recommend a good GPU for this game, your gonna need it !. I would highly recommend this game 
 to anyone with a good enough system to play it smoothly as it is stylish, fun and highly polished. With 
 the additon of Multiplayer this is definetly a contender for game of the year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark123321
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 27, 2005 5:04 am PT
Review:  VU Games and Monolith have teamed up to produce a fantastic frantic first person shooter. It's 
 taken them a while to finally finish it, but that wait has paid off, and they have been left with 
 one of the best FPS's of all time. Combining the mix of 'John Woo' style slow-mo kung-fu moves, 
 with amazingly detailed futuristic weapons. It has to be the First Person Shooter of the year!
 
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  
  F. E. A. R has one of the best - if not - the best storylines ever seen in an FPS. To sum it up, an 
 ex-military 'psychic' commander (Paxton Fettle) has escaped and is commanding a batalian of soldiers 
 through his psykic abilities to kill everyone in sight. The storyline goes right into detail, and 
 you are litterally placed in the middle of it. You - the player - are F. E. A. Rs point man, and you've 
 only just started. There is also a scary little girl, that has psychic abilities also, she is named 
 Alma, and she appears in most levels to give you a scare and possibily help you through the levels. 
 Although the storyline is great, the levels do get repetitive sometimes, and you find yourself 
 killing the same soldiers for a couple of levels after another.
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  
  F. E. A. R sums up the compatibilities of the future of gaming. It has the best graphics known to 
 date and it will blow you away with realism. Everything in the game has been perfectly modeled, 
 and even with the settings at rock bottom, the graphics still compare to other FPS Shooters. The 
 good thing about the game is that you could have a computer thats years old, and it could still 
 run it at a playable rate. Since the game is a horror, you shouldn't play it on your own, because 
 the realism is so real, you are likely to jump out your seat!
  
  Sound - 9/10
  
  The sound in F. E. A. R is also another mini-masterpiece. The music is turned on in-game just at the 
 precise second so to scare you silly! With the music and gameplay, it feels like you are in a movie, 
 and your the main character. The sounds of the soldiers on thier radios, have been perfectly made 
 as well, and sometimes they give you little hints to where they are. For example, if you are in 
 a gun-match, and you hear a soldier shouting "We need reinforcements" it means that you have basically 
 wiped thier whole team out. Features like these are severally missed in most FPS but F. E. A. R has 
 conquered it. The only down side to the sound, in my opinion, is of the gun sounds. They are too 
 unlike real guns, and its a little bit of a let down.
  
  Value - 10/10
  
  While playing F. E. A. R it took me around 3 - 4 days to complete it, having around a couple of hours 
 every day. So it takes around 10 hours to complete for the average gamer. But it's not over then! 
 There are four different difficulties to test, a multiplayer unlike any other and the game is all 
 ready to go with the modding community, so expect the game to be blown wide open pretty shortly!
 
  
  Overall - 9.6/10 Superb
  
  Overall, the game has lived up to expectation. Combined with all the features on the ticklist of 
 a film, slow-mo action, amazing gun fights, and one of the best multiplayer sides ever. This game 
 is a must for any gamer, even if you don't like horrors!
  
  Thanks for reading,
  
  Marky 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aristonrr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  I think of Monolith as the greatest FPS maker... sorry id, you're in a good second place. Sadly, 
 their innovative and fun forays didn't sell as well as they should have. So it's nice to see them 
 going for a scenario that will finally garner them the sales they deserve.
  
  The good: FEAR is heavily scripted, and it's designed to scare you. I can't speak for everyone, 
 but sometimes after playing the game, I had to pry my fingers off of the mouse with my other hand. 
 It gets under your skin. Then there is the highly touted AI, which exceeded my high expectations. 
 The graphics are, on high settings, very good, the highlight being the particle engine. Through 
 the use of bullet time, every shootout looks amazing with all kinds of debris flying everywhere. 
 I especially liked the slowly settling dust clouds, which are extremely convincing. Weapons are 
 all well done, and well suited to the different tactics needed to defeat the smart enemies. I found 
 the shooting so satisfying that I'm currently on my third venture through the game. That's saying 
 something.
  
  The bad: Too short, not enough variety in enemies or environments. Having gotten sick of crawling 
 through air ducts a long, long time ago, the many ones used in FEAR actually made me laugh. The 
 game goes for a real look and feel that works, but leaves you wanting more, especially after seeing 
 what the engine is capable of in the final levels... Alma's prison cell was a jaw-dropper, and 
 no mistake (play it, you'll see what I mean) . The ugly: Performance is abysmal. Monolith's engines 
 have never been marvels of economy, but this is just a bit too much. Comparing the technologies 
 used with Doom, Crytech or Source engines, not to mention Splinter Cell's latest outing, all of 
 which run very smoothly on my system, the new Lithtech engine falls short. It hogs resources like 
 hell, and doesn't by any means achieve a new standard in graphics technology - in some cases, it 
 doesn't even look as good as the aforementioned engines. So, Monolith, please hire some new engine 
 programmers next time. There is no excuse for sloppy programming (and I'm sure that the AI takes 
 up a lot of CPU time, but still....)
  
  The bottom line: Buy it. Turn the lights off, turn up the sound, and go. But look behind you once 
 in a while, someone might be lurking... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liorde
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 27, 2005 1:39 am PT
Review:  I have been looking a long time for a game that would be alike "System Shock 2" which in my opinion 
 was the scariest
  game I have ever played. The game was also very immersive in a way that you actually *lived* your 
 environment. The cold feeling
  of solitude and vulnerability made you fell that are actually trying to survive the place instead 
 of simply clearing level after level.
  They did a superb, unequalled job on that game. Well, enough said about that. 
  
  I am now 
 playing F. E. A. R and I am on the 6th level. I am having great fun and the game has a polished feel 
 to it.
  Unlike many games that were recently released that were simply bad, this is definitely not one 
 of them. 
  Throughout that game it has it's occasional scares and nasty surprises but to be honest, it is 
 not what I had expected, at least
  not by all the hype that surrounded the game before it's release. When you have a high expectation 
 and you get a not so-high
  result, the disappointment is rather big. When you do not expect and get something great, then 
 you are overwhelmed and this is
  exactly what happened when I played System Shock 2. 
  
  I cannot understand why in the past few years the little-girl motive is hitting us again & again. 
 First on "The Ring" then "The Ring 2"
  then "Dark Water" now F. E. A. R why not be original for a change?
  
  The graphics of this game 
 are outstanding even when playing it through the "eyes" of my old & trusty 9700PRO. Seriously the 
 games
  today look superb, I ask myself "what else can they improve"?? Seems like each new game I play 
 has better & better graphics!!
  
  The modeling and physics of the game are very good, and the difficulty is just right. Sound is 
 great although there many 
  problems reported on the web related to sound issues. I myself had problem with the speech in the 
 game as I could not
  hear anyone talk. I later found a fix for this. The game has it's issues with many sound cards 
 especially Audigy. Not something
  I would expect from a game released these days.
  
  Overall, the game is fun kind of like a HL2, System Shock2 hybrid if you wish. But honestly F. E. A. R 
 as "FEAR" is not what it's all about.
  It is not a scary game and if you are looking for fear in games then this will not do the job. 
 
  
  It is simply a *very good* shooter.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoganms
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 26, 2005 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Thankfully, F. E. A. R is one of the games I purchased this year that I didn't regret. The story line 
 is great. I found myself playing the game longer than I wanted to, just to see what happens next. 
 The game has a nice balance of intense firefights, and sneaking around. As far as the graphics 
 and sound go, no one can argue that it is not one of the years top 5. Gameplay feels solid and 
 smooth. Really, if you have played Half-life 2, or Doom 3, you will feel rite at home.
  Now, I'm not trying to take anything away from F. E. A. R. It is a good game, but I just feel like 
 something is missing. I can't put my finger on it though. It could be the lack of weapons, or the 
 capability of them that doesn't feel right? Maybe its the "melee" that feels very generic? Sitting 
 here thinking about it, I'm still not sure.
  Multiplayer... Well... Maybe I haven't played it enough to let it grow on me. It just doesn't seem 
 to bring anything new. Yes, there is the "slo-mo", but is that really enough? I'm not so convinced. 
 When I play the FEAR multiplayer, it makes me want to just play Half-Life 2's multiplayer. Then 
 again, the game did just come out. I have faith that with a few patches, and new multiplayer modes/maps, 
 it'll be as good as it could be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barchetta85
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 7:41 pm PT
Review:  this is THE best game ive ever played aside from HL2. the graphics and AI in this game are at the 
 same level. that level being rediculous. i would highly recommend this game to anyone interested 
 in fps for pc. the only thing i dont really like about this game is the lack of music. i know its 
 supposed to be kinda scary but a little music sometime wouldnt kill someone. because of the lack 
 of music, in my opinion it makes the game drag on a little bit. but other than that, i really really 
 love this game. although i just started playing the game. the enemies seem to be spread out kind 
 of far apart, also making the game seem to drag a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslyderink
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 20, 2006 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong - I really really like this game. It's got a very professional and well-orchestrated 
 feel to it, and you really feel like you belong in there attempting to discover the true identity 
 of the little fire girl while dealing with a multitude of possessed soldiers along the way. I just 
 don't think it breaks any new ground or lives up to the hype it attracted.
  
  Why? Well it's pretty damn boring to look at for starters, level-design is very dark, corridor-based, 
 and honestly it all looks very much the same. There's no big difference between level 1 and level 
 8 in your environment. So right there I was a bit disappointed. Also, yes the graphics are very 
 good, BUT they are nothing in my honest opinion to those of Far Cry or The Chronicles of Riddick. 
 And those 2 games run at great frame rates on average PCs. FEAR will stutter and carry on like 
 a crippled old grandma if you turn too much eye candy on, and it did not take much for that to 
 happen even in my overclocked X800 / P4 3.2Ghz / 1GB Ram system. Don't try to run it past 1024 
 x 768 unless you have some serious hardware is all I can say. I've marked graphics a 7 not simply 
 due to the effects, but just much due to the boring level design.
  
  Lastly I was a bit disappointed in the plot and "scary" aspect of the game. I am a horror fan, 
 love The Ring, all the Freddy movies, etc, etc - and FEAR just did not scare the pants off me like 
 I hoped it would. I did get the odd chill up my spine every few hours, but nothing that I would 
 rate as outright spooky. For those who aren't into scary movies though, this probably does a great 
 job of spooking horror-noobs.
  
  The best part without doubt of the game is the amazing way that you can control complex gunfights. 
 Slow-mo (bullet time) and a super-responsive weapon system is implemented to perfection, and can 
 be used to counter the wonderful AI of the NPCs in ways that I have not seen in any shooter I've 
 played. You MUST play this game on Difficult to get the truly "human-like" AI though. Any less 
 and they aren't much of a challenge with slow-mo. On difficult I honestly felt like I was in a 
 multiplayer game, they are that good - running, jumping, strafing, flanking, hiding, ganging up, 
 talking to each other, even doing roll-dives over boxes and walls. Simply unreal gameplay.
  
  One last good thing is the particle effects. Everyone raves about them and rightly so. Smoke, 
 gunfire, bullet-time, debris, grenade explosions, etc - all done very well.
  
  I found the game took me 2 weeks to complete, playing about an hour a night (I play shooters while 
 waiting for my wife to get off my World of Warcraft account) . It was enjoyable, but I'm not playing 
 it again. Not much replay value when you know the ending - unless you like MP it won't hold much 
 long-term value for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ned101
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 26, 2005 3:55 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is the best Action/Horror I have ever played. The opponents are very smart and Ive noticed 
 they use real military tactics such as advancing on your position when your hiding behind something 
 or throw grenades to flush you out, instead of camping their position and wait for you to come 
 out. They judged the health of the bots very well, because they dont die so easily so you have 
 to stay behind cover or a nearby corner to retreat, which encourages shoot-outs. I can tell they 
 really carefully designed the guns for different situations such as the VK-12 combat shotgun (close 
 range) , AT-4 pistol (head shots) , G2A2 Assault Rifle - RPL Sub-Machinegun (Heavy Assault Situation) , 
 I think they tried not to favor a gun to much, although the Particle Gun or Rocket Launcher may 
 seem favored but its not because you dont find ammo for them very often.
  
  I love the Lean feature and also the bots ability to lift their gun above cover while ducking and 
 fire at you. Ive noticed some down sides to the game as well such as: The little girl and Fettel 
 appearing to much in the game  Not enough missions that consist of squad members. Overall the 
 game was a really good action and the best horror game Ive ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonoid42
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2005 3:25 pm PT
Review:  My initial reaction to this game when I read the preview on GS was doubt; doubt that this game 
 would actually live up to the pretty substantial hype it was receiving. Thankfully, however, it 
 did live up to that quite lofty hype. F. E. A. R. plays like Half-Life, looks like Doom, and reads 
 like an FPS X-Files episode. Excellent.
  
  ---Graphics:
  
  Let's start with the biggest requirement for the game: GPU. I run with an x800 pro, which is able 
 to handle my chosen resolution of 1152x648 on my HDTV without much issue. In the later, open levels 
 of the game, there is a substantial slowdown, but adjusting the light sources and shadows seemed 
 to be a sufficient counteractive measure. 
  
  If you are running anything below a 256MB video card, you stand absolutely no chance of running 
 this game at any kind of decent resolution (which, to me, 1152x648 [16:9] and higher, or 1024x768 
 [4:3] and higher) without massive slowdowns and/or greatly decreased quality. However, if you are 
 used to gaming under such conditions, this game will likely be one of the best looking you've ever 
 played. 
  
  It was my experience that reflections were excellent, the textures on the walls were absolutely 
 outstanding, and even the details of the lighting on those textures blew me away. If you are in 
 a hallway with what looks like a standard brick wall with two different colors of paint (I vividly 
 recall a blue and white paint design being the one that I noticed this on) , take a look at how 
 a light source will reflect differently on each kind of paint. Amazing detail. Graphically speaking, 
 this is possibly the best display I have ever seen: scored easy, easy 10.
  
  The eye candy isn't the only thing in the game that's amazing, the gameplay and, more specifically, 
 the AI are just outstanding.
  
  ---Gameplay:
  
  Ever grown tired of enemies who're too stupid to run for cover when you're blasting the piss out 
 of them? Yeah, that doesn't happen in this game. If you are going in to a 1-on-21 gun fire, you 
 can expect that all 21 of the opposition will be using smart (er at least) technique than your (above-) average 
 AI opponents. They flank, use suppressive fire, wisely use grenades, and, most importantly, will 
 instantaneous take cover when they (should) feel they are being overwhelmed. Another game that 
 is great with AI is Half-Life, and F. E. A. R., quite frankly, beats it. 
  
  Some of the key bindings in the game are a little bit off (x for flashlight? wtf** m8s?) , but are 
 still easy enough to rebind and go about your day. It can be a little hard at time to do some things 
 that seem quite simple, but, due to key bindings and finger limits, are quite hard to do. Take, 
 for instance, taking cover behind a large pillar in a somewhat open area, trying to move to the 
 left and right sides of this pillar whilst also trying to lean to the left or right -- depending 
 on which side of said pillar you are on, and aiming so as to actually hit your target. Sounds as 
 hard as it can be, even though it really should be some insanely simple. It can be a pain at times 
 to attempt and maneuver around with the 'a, q, and shift' and 'd, e, and shift'. This gets to be 
 even more of a pain if you want to try and throw a grenade from behind cover: good friggin' luck. 
 You have to hold 'g', and then maneuver yourself using either 'a' or 'd' to a place where, from 
 your left arm, you can throw that grenade somewhere -- yeah, it's a pain. None the less, the game 
 still plays awesome and receives a solid 10.
  
  ---Sound:
  
  F. E. A. R. has decent enough sound to not annoy a person, but nothing that's going to blow you away. 
 5.1 surround support is all I really ask for outside of sound that isn't just annoying as hell, 
 and F. E. A. R. covers both of these grounds. 8'd.
  
  --- (Replay) Value:
  
  The single-player alone is reason enough to purchase F. E. A. R.. It is truly one of the best single-player 
 adventures I've been on, though it may have been short and a little bit less extravagant that it 
 should have been. There was such a massive build-up, and to what? Nothing much, and certainly not 
 something that I'm sure a lot of other people didn't see coming in one fashion or another. Although 
 it is far from predictable, it isn't an entirely untouched upon idea that people will sit back 
 and say, "Jesus, that was amazingly cool!" after they finish the single-player. The single-player, 
 unfortunately, has almost no replay value... unless you're the type that likes to play through 
 a game again doing exactly the same things you did the time before with absolutely no change in 
 the story or patterns.
  
  I have neither the internet means, nor the desire really to play F. E. A. R. online, so I honestly 
 cannot comment on its online replay value. For this reason, I gave it the benefit of the doubt 
 ant, assuming it's anywhere near as good as the single-player was, gave it an 8. 
  
  ---Tilt:
  
  Quite frankly, (damn, now I own Stephen A. Smith money.) F. E. A. R. is easily the 
 best game to come along since Half-Life, and may very well just be considered this year's HL2. 
 Were it not for Valve's desire to make HL2 playable on lower-end machines (as of a year ago, no 
 less) , can you not see a game like HL2 looking like F. E. A. R. does, graphically? If HL2 looked like 
 F. E. A. R., it would be a far superior game; as it is, they are close to equal, with HL2 still being 
 the better game. If you have the means and the motive to be able to play F. E. A. R. on a good (enough) 
 system, I fully suggest you do so. As a whole, I'd say this is the best (new) game on the market.... 
 of course, Call of Duty 2 came out yesterday, and I have yet to touch that yet. Either way, worst 
 F. E. A. R. can do is 2nd place on the market right now. (c:
  
  Overall: 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shreddi
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 26, 2005 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Unless they have released another patch the game locks up some systems. Im running an AMD 4500+ 
 dual Core with 2 megs of OCZ ram, Dual 7800 GTX video cards in SLI mode with a couple of 10k rpm 
 raptor HD's raid 0. Everything is perfect on this system and it runs every game out there maximum 
 settings. FEAR locks it up on exit and their tech guys say dont run anything in the backround. 
 I never run anything in the backround so they are lost for a solution last I looked. Lots of others 
 with same problems so check the forum board and make sure your comfortable with possible problems. 
 Some systmes run it fine. I shelfed my copy till a patch comes out but will be playin it as soon 
 as it does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keledron
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 26, 2005 10:54 am PT
Review:  First off, I was not one of the fans who followed F. E. A. R. from inception to completion, and I 
 honestly hadn't even heard of the game until last week when a friend of mine was raving about the 
 single player demo.
  
  Being someone of good gaming taste I took his word for it and picked it up. My first reactions 
 were a bit mixed, as I needed to run the 'performance optimization' option before the game would 
 run acceptably. Be warned, this game is a resource hog to the fullest extent. The test system used 
 was a P4 2.6 ghz, 1.5 gigs of ram, and a Geforce 6800GT with 256 ram. Needless to say it still 
 had a very hard time running at those settings. Just to give you an idea though, once it was tweaked 
 it ran flawlessly, and it wasn't like the graphics had taken a serious hit either. Everything still 
 looked crisp, and the physics engine was still amazing.
  
  F. E. A. R also came with a surprisingly stable multiplayer component. This has your general modes: 
 Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, CTF etc. However one unexpected treat is the 'bullet time' option. 
 F. E. A. R is the first game to really utilize this well in a multiplayer environment. Basically each 
 of the game modes also has a bullet time mode. Throughout each level, there is a syringe that only 
 one player can grab. When they do, a meter will slowly fill up, going from red to white. While 
 its doing this, this person becomes immediately visible to every player on the server by being 
 highlited with a red target-like icon and they emit an eerie glow. It takes a good 40 seconds for 
 the meter to charge to the point where they can control bullet-time, so staying alive while it 
 charges is quite the challenge in itself. 
  
  Once that is complete, and that person activates bullet-time, it will stay active until the meter 
 runs out (so it can not be turned on and off) . Once it is active, every player slows down significantly, 
 you can see your bullets trail through the air, etc etc. But the person who activated it wil move 
 faster than the rest of the players (though not unreasonably, just enough to give them an edge) . 
 Again, this is all pulled off very, very well.
  
  Down to brass tacks:
  
  Graphics: Absolutely stunning graphics engine. The single player mode really takes advantage of 
 it by making this one of the most thrilling and frightening FPS's to ever grace a PC. While many 
 enemies look the same after a short while, the game justifies this through the storyline, you're 
 fighting replicants (see Clones) . The environments are some of the most destructive and interactive 
 in any game. Weapons (though futuristic) are still believable. All in all the graphics are perfect 
 for this game and its method of presentation.
  
  Sound: Remember the previous statement about F. E. A. R being an all out creepy-fest? The sound does 
 not disappoint, and in fact goes out of its way to immerse you, then scare the living pants off 
 of you when you're not expecting it. Get a good set of headphones, shut off any surrounding lights, 
 and hold on to your seat. The voice acting is surprisingly good as well, to the point where it 
 never detracts or removes you from the game. Very well done.
  
  Gameplay: F. E. A. R is just all out fun, as a game should be. The single player story is great, although 
 the enemies do get a bit repetitive after awhile, the A. I is really good at keeping you on your 
 toes at all times. There is never really a second in F. E. A. R where you're calming down or taking 
 a breath. The multiplayer portion is a great deal of fun and will offer some good replayability. 
 The bullet time mode carried over from the single player aspect really showed that not only could 
 this be done, but it could be done very well and not leave players feeling cheated. 
  
  Value and Replay: F. E. A. R. is one of the most unique shooters to ever come to a PC. The implementation 
 of bullet-time into a multiplayer environment is a first, and if anything F. E. A. R is worth a look 
 just on that. The storyline is a good 10 hour ordeal, and, while feeling repetitive at times, the 
 game still makes everything fun. Basically, if you are an FPS fan, you would be really foolish 
 to pass something like F. E. A. R. up. It's new, it's refreshing, and just what the FPS genre needed 
 to give it some newer direction.
  
  That's my take, take it or leave it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rosh37
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 26, 2005 10:52 am PT
Review:  I very recently completed the single-player aspect of F. E. A. R. The graphics, sound, and "scary-factor" 
 were amazing. There is not much to be said bad about those parts of the game. However, the game 
 was fairly short, as I beat it in a few days (with a very limited amount of time at hand) , which 
 probably translates into roughly 10-16 hours more or less, I'm not exactly sure. 
  The missions are very straightfoward and simple, but there is just too much repetitiveness. The 
 enemies are constant throughout the game, and the AI is stellar, but you are fighting the same 
 type of enemies pretty much the entire time. The option of weapons is also fairly limited. I would 
 have loved to be able to play through the entire game using only dual pistols, but the ammunition 
 needed for that sort of mindset is not possible. There is a bit of a challenge in rationing ammo 
 and medpacks at some points, as well as what type of gun to have depending on the situation.
  One problem I found with the slow-mo effect was that, though it was visually stunning, it made 
 killing the "smart AI" way too easy. I could pop around a corner and kill two of my enemies before 
 they had any idea of what was happening. When my slow-mo bar was getting low I could just run back 
 around the corner, avoid a possible grenade toss and wait for the bar to recharge. It just seemed 
 a tad too easy.
  The storyline was definitely anti-climactic. There could have been a lot deeper plot, in my opinion, 
 but they just didn't go there. The completion of one mission objective just led me on to another 
 one, until the game was finally over: I never became too interested in the plot, and the end sort 
 of left me wanting a better explanation.
  The multiplayer was also a little frantic. I am a using an nVidia 7800GTX and have been forced 
 to tone down my normally high settings to avoid the graphical lag. Having any sort of lag, by the 
 way, severely effects the ability to play on an equal field with others. Taking away the ability 
 to use slow-mo as often is quite a bummer as well. I would think they could let you have a tiny 
 slow-mo bar at least, but it's only a rare occasion that one happens upon it, and it usually doesn't 
 help the situation. Since it is so easy to die, it seems like there is not a whole lot of skill 
 involved, although I may just not have enough practice.
  Altogether I would say F. E. A. R. does very well setting the environment and putting the player in 
 the atmosphere, but its too much like a horror movie: once you see it through, there is really 
 no point to seeing it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cqdemal
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  Hmm, let's see. You play a faceless mute with minimal backstory. Who's a member of some elite secret 
 military unit. With 'reflexes' so good it feels like time is slowing down.
  
  So far so... tired?
  
  You have a railgun. You have a nailgun. You can wield two pistols. You 
 go through countless dark corridors and warehouses and, of course, encounter hundreds of crates. 
 Well, maybe not that many crates, but still quite a lot.
  
  You also see ghosts. Now that's a little bit more interesting.
  
  If you think the above description 
 sounds like Doom 3 with slo-mo, you're not that far off the mark in terms of (very high-level) 
 concept. However, the actual execution is far superior than that of id's engine-seller. F. E. A. R. 
 is one of those games which draw in non-gamers and raise hardware sales. It's so good that now 
 even girls are asking to see the game in action, although it'd be some time before they'd actually 
 ask to play.
  
  With a premise chest-deep in cliches, it's quite intriguing how the slight modification of one 
 aspect of the game almost makes the game feel completely original: the scares. F. E. A. R., for the 
 most part, refuses to use cheap tricks (closet monsters, for example) to spook the player. Instead, 
 we get Asian horror.
  
  Correct me if I'm wrong, but I don't think anyone has tried to go for subtle (relatively speaking) 
 scares like these. Every time a monster pops out of the shadows in Doom 3, I yawn and blast it 
 in the face with a shotgun. Every time I notice something off in F. E. A. R., I look around in terror, 
 expecting the worst. Every corner is a thrill to turn. Every room is exciting just to enter. The 
 atmosphere in F. E. A. R. is just perfect.
  
  Let's say no more of the undead. You're better off seeing them yourselves.
  
  The visuals need 
 no description. See the screenshots and the videos. Try the demo. This game is a visual powerhouse. 
 Gunfights have never, ever looked this good before in the history of video games. The sound is 
 almost as good, too. Unobstrusive yet effective music is used in many portions of the game in order 
 to build up the atmosphere or just pump enough adrenaline into your veins to run out of cover towards 
 those clone soldiers. The sound effects is also brilliant, and the voice acting is only hampered 
 by some bad writing.
  
  Now that the presentation is out of the way, I'll tackle the most brilliant aspect of the game: 
 the AI. F. E. A. R.'s enemies may look beyond generic, but they are extremely intelligent. They work 
 almost flawlessly as a team. They lay down suppressing fire, try to flank you, flush you out with 
 grenades (the occasional self-fragging aside) , communicate with each other, leap over obstacles, 
 utilize cover or even CREATE cover with various objects. They can also make mistakes (lose you 
 in the shadows of a huge room with a lot of cover) and attempt to remedy the situation in a remarkably 
 human-like manner (form organized search parties in constant communication) . They may still have 
 trouble with defensive players, but that's probably due to your superior hit points (upgradable 
 through health boosters strewn about the game) , armor, and slo-mo (also upgradable) . And the guns.
 
  
  The guns. Oh, the guns. They feel absolutely perfect. Some of them maybe a little too inaccurate, 
 but when the stray bullets hit the walls and the air becomes filled with dust and debris, you'll 
 know why they're like that. Also, the first time you see an enemy reduced to a bloody skeleton 
 is priceless.
  
  So, you see, F. E. A. R. gets every important thing right. It's not the absolute best FPS by any means, 
 as its storytelling technique (laptops and voicemails, mainly) can be a bit dull, and the plot 
 itself is rather of the love-it-or-hate-it kind. Personally, I think the story is quite unoriginal 
 and the twist, while not quite predictable, not THAT shocking. The ending, while clearly derived 
 from Japanese horror classics, is good enough to provide a sense of closure and, of course, cause 
 much salivation due to hints at a sequel.
  
  I'm running out of superlatives here, so let's stop here and bring this review to a conclusion. 
 F. E. A. R. is one-of-a-kind, even though it is made of parts of other games. F. E. A. R. doesn't innovate, 
 but it pushes almost everything far beyond the boundaries set by past titles. F. E. A. R. is up there 
 with the best first-person shooters ever created. F. E. A. R. is...
  
  Oh well. It's in stores everywhere. Go buy it now.
  
  And as a footnote, the multiplayer is 
 quite enjoyable. No little girl in a red dress though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eapplen
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 26, 2005 9:42 am PT
Review:  The game is pretty much all it's cracked up to be - the graphics are truly phenomenal (I still 
 can't get over the dust clouds that form after you or an enemy has been shooting plaster off a 
 wall for a while) , the enemy AI is amazing (reacting to all of your actions, and communicating 
 to their teammates) , and the sound is top-notch. My only complaint would be that the single-player 
 game seemed cut a bit short. I've yet to play the multiplayer, so maybe that would make me feel 
 better about it, but I definitely didn't want the game to end when it did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXreaction
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2005 8:33 am PT
Review:  One of the best games I have ever played! ... for all you noobs who say the game sucks... get a better 
 computer and quit your complaining, because this game has some of the best graphics, and game-play 
 ever!
  
  The AI are extremely intelligent, they jump over walls, try to flank you, throw things in your 
 way so you can't get to them, and much more!
  
  The one main thing that some people might not like, is that the game is not extremely scary the 
 whole time... but it has some parts that are much scarier than any other game made!
  
  One thing I didn't personally like, was how long the spikes from the HR gun stayed... it would have 
 been cooler if they could have stayed where they are longer. And even better if it had physics 
 properties once they are rammed into the wall... like if you shot it where a picture was after you 
 made it swing high, it would hit the spike, and not go through it...
  
  But everything else is great, and it has been a long time before a game that is as good, and original 
 as this has come out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misinformed2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 26, 2005 7:30 am PT
Review:  
  Theres nothing quite like F. E. A. R. F. E. A. R draws its inspiration from previous FPS experiences, 
 but theres nothing quite like it.
  
  Do you know that feeling? That rare feeling when youre playing a game and youre enjoying it so 
 much you cant believe youve found a game that you can actually do what youre doing? After its 
 over you pause the game and think to yourself HOLY ****
  
  Theres nothing quite like running up to a Kevlar clad clone soldier wielding a machinegun capable 
 of severely ruining your new T-shirt in a very dark, very sleek office environment. Only to slowdown 
 time as your just a few feet away from him, you hear the sound of his voice through his protective 
 headgear as he swings around, "SH... I.... T" you slowly crouch and look up at him as he takes final 
 aim at your forehead.
  
  Only to pull the trigger of your shotgun and watch the effect as several large clumps of speeding 
 super hot metal leave the barrel of your shotgun and lodge themselves in his head. He arches back 
 with pain, the machinegun goes off in his hand wildly spraying bullets into a nearby wall and then 
 onto the ceiling. Debris from the wall and ceiling respectively bursts out of the wall as the plaster 
 is ripped off. The soldiers head releases itself from the constraints of the torso under the force 
 of the shotgun pellets and goes airborne, helmet and all. Still in slow motion it bounces across 
 an office table behind the now decapitated soldier. As the head hits the table your slow motion 
 wears off, it rolls for a second then hits a bottle on the table finally both head and bottle crash 
 to the ground at the same time. 
  
  Silence.
  
  The offices overhead lighting flickers through the plaster from the wall which has been turned 
 into a very fine mist, lingering in the air. The bloody corpse of an unknown soldier lies in front 
 of you, slumped away from you on the office floor. You take it all in, and save the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maziarm
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 26, 2005 4:23 am PT
Review:  When you get down to it, the gun is the heart and soul of a first-person shooter. Even the genre's 
 name alludes to this fact. Yet while shooters have been around for more than a decade, very few 
 of them have actually captured the visceral experience of firing a gun. It's an intense and violent 
 act, not to mention loud. Enter F. E. A. R., the highly anticipated action game from Vivendi Universal 
 Games and developer Monolith. F. E. A. R. is a shooter that captures the sensation of being in wild 
 and desperate firefights like no other game before it, and it's an incredible, kinetic, almost 
 exhausting experience from start to finish. More than that, though, is the fact that it's also 
 one of the most atmospheric and creepy games ever made, as well as one of the most intense shooters 
 that you'll play this year. 
  
  I advise this game for everybody because for perfect Graphics and gameplay. You play in roll of 
 one of members of FEAR 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radx800pro
Rating: 6.9
Date: Oct 26, 2005 3:15 am PT
Review:  If you played the Demo then you basically played all FEAR has to offer! I was very excited to play 
 FEAR and have slowly been let down with it. The level designs are extremely basic and repetative 
 to a fault! This game has had way to much hype! It's very short as well.
  
  The only way I found to have a little enjoyment was to play it on Extreme Difficulty and not use 
 the SlowMo. What really bothers me about FEAR is there were a few really well done situations that 
 were exhilirating to play through and then the game goes into a long stage of repetition again. 
 Also, I don't know where they came up with FEAR as the title when the game very rarley scares or 
 disturbes you. Yea there's flickering lights and some ghosts walking around in the distance but 
 that falls way to short on FEAR.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick0060
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 26, 2005 1:56 am PT
Review:  For any of you thinking about buying F. E. A. R., as the reviews and hype say, it is well worth it. 
 It is probably the best game i have played in the last 5 years and I would love to play it much 
 more. However there seem to be major technical hitches with the game, such as freezes and random 
 crashes which no one can seem to solve. There is a whole forum fileld with reports of the game 
 crashing at certain points within levels for no apparent reason. I have experienced this on many 
 occasions and also with multiplayer, i find it very hard to play multiplayer as whenever i try 
 to refresh the server list my computer will crash after a couple of seconds. I believe it would 
 be very much appreciated if Sierra or VUgames could provide everyone with an explanation and a 
 solution to these problems.
  
  Apart from the stress of trying to deal with random crashes and lock-ups, when you do play the 
 game is unbelievable and really is a scary and disturbing as they make. For what i have played 
 it was well worth the money and is a definate recommendation to anybody considering buying it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodylotion
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 26, 2005 1:37 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a game every gamer should have, even if you don't like 3D Shooters, I'll explain why:
 
  
  
  In my opinion one of the most important things in 3D shooters is the story of the character you 
 play. 
  
  F. E. A. R. has a great story but also very vague if i can call it that... i bet most people won't 
 understand the story untill they've finished the game two times or more. If i would tell you the 
 whole story i would run the game so i'm not gonna spoil the fun for the people that haven't played 
 the game yet, i'm only telling you that you live in the story of the game and when you''ve (almost) 
 finished the game, things get more clear. If you play the game a second time you probably understand 
 the whole thing a bit better.
  
  The only thing you'll have to know: 
  You're a member of an Elite-Team called: F. E. A. R. (First Encounter Assault Recon) . A guy named 
 Paxton Fettel has escaped and is possessed by an evil spirit. Fettel is the leader of a battalion 
 human cloons who immediately do what he tells them to. Offcourse a lot of **** is going on and 
 you're the man (or woman?) to fix it. 
  
  First thing you'll notice in the game are the stunning graphics in F. E. A. R. . Great artwork and 
 Texturing but also the light effects etc. . I won't have to tell you , you need a high-end computer 
 to play the game and to enjoy everything of it. 
  
  The most important part of a game: Gameplay. Well i can tell you that F. E. A. R. has a fantastic 
 gameplay , one i did not see too many lately.
  
  The best thing in F. E. A. R. probably is the Artificial Intelligence (A. I.) . Enemy troops crawl, 
 jump, dodge and lean behind corners. This is nothing really new but the way it's done is amazing. 
 What is new is the fact that troops really work together to finish you off; Enemy troops communicate 
 together which you obviously can hear so you know what they'll plan to do or how many of their 
 squad are still alive. Also i won't wait for them to come to you because they probably throw a 
 grenade and you best know what's good for you.
  
  Basically the enemies do everything you expect them to do if you were in the same situation, i 
 can explain tons of other things but i don't think you're really waiting for all of that.
  
  Besides the A. I. the shooting part is also very good. There are no guns that are really special 
 just the normal kind and some new ones. 
  The gore in the game is also nicely done, nothing really special but because the game is rendered 
 so well it comes out very nice. 
  
  One other thing for the gameplay part is that you feel like you control the character you play, 
 since you never see his face you never know how you really look so it could be you! ;) 
  
  Sound couldn't really have been better. The ambient sound and the creepy ghost sounds are really 
 amazing.
  
  Well what i can tell you about the value of the game. Well the game is not very short for a shooter 
 and you will play it for 10-15 hours i think. After that you probably will play it another time 
 on a higher level. However i must admit that even on the hardest level in the game the game could 
 be easily beaten by an average/good player. 
  
  F. E. A. R. is a great game and i really enjoyed playing it. Everything is just so good that other 
 3D shooters are not that special anymore. Only bad thing is that the difficulty could 've been 
 harder. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pms81350
Rating: 3.4
Date: May 21, 2006 4:12 am PT
Review:  O. K., so we FPS fans are a little hard-up for a good shooter. Do we want one where the opponents 
 are blended in nicely with the dark background? How about one where you kill the flow of the game 
 to look for some valve, keycard or some other poor attempt to add depth to a very average game? Or 
 how about one that the weapons sound for all the world like the weapons from "Delta Force-Land 
 Warrior"? There is abolutely nothing, apart from the decent AI, that sets this shooter apart from 
 the rest. This game could just as easily be any one of the popular shooters out there. Same old tired 
 concepts, scrounge for ammo, get lost and try to find your way, weapons that "almost" work. Game devlopers 
 have been avoiding the issues that will make future games very realistic and challenging. Factors 
 such as wounded enemies, cowardice,
  bravery, relistic damage (not the one way realistic damage where the only real damage is done to 
 the player) , the challenge is to the developers, demand realism in your games. Personally I am tired 
 of picking up a weapon that some fool has just been firing at me for the last 15 minutes and it 
 only has 25-30 rounds in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fedgery
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 25, 2005 11:29 pm PT
Review:  I was a little disappointed with the length of the F. E. A. R. as I started playing at around 8:00PM, 
 and went non stop... to get the end of the game at just after midnight... While it was incredibly 
 short, the other aspects of it, such as the graphics and that eerie tension, sure do raise the 
 bar higher than it wouldve been otherwise. One other let down would have been that most of the 
 'scary sequences' were rather predictable, but luckily every now and then something VERY unpredictable 
 would happen... ( like Alma running like a monkey on the floor :P) .
  
  All in all, I still enjoyed the 5 or so hours I spent playing it, and will probably have another 
 go at it sometime... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmj
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 27, 2005 9:06 am PT
Review:  First the graphics ! Just Bland, if your used to running @1600x1200 you expect Alot ! If you have 
 a high-end system BE READY TO BE DIS APPOINTED It looks no where near as good as HALF LIFE 2 ! 
 And the graphics are no where near games that I, m used to Esp. with all the HYPE that has blown 
 this GAME larger then it is! 
  
  2nd SCARY? I guess if your 10 years old! Only thing scary is that this game is considered scary! 
 So many other games that are For real scary!
  
  3rd the AI, there are worse AI in other games ! But they just do stupid things jump over walls 
 right in front of you right into your sites ,BLAM he dead still they have know right to wear a 
 military uniform with stupid moves !
  
  I will keep this short because I know some HAVE HIGH REGARDS FOR THIS GAME ! THE ENDING?????
 
  How the Hell can a chopper pick u up when a nuculear blast that is destroying a city pick u up 
 as your Being blasted through a wall! Is it me or is that just the most ridiculious ENDING of all 
 time!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CPlusPlusGeek
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 25, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is the most fun single player experience I've ever had. To start out with the thing just 
 gets under your skin and pokes just when you least expect it. Alma crab walking toward you in the 
 dark is something thats hard to describe but makes your skin crawl.
  
  The graphics are the best I have seen (playing on a 7800 GTX) . The particle effects are incredible, 
 the sparks fly and add breathtaking realism. The gore is intense and fun to see. The textures are 
 highly detailed and the bump mapping looks great. The soft shadows are not done very well, but 
 as most games dont even have these this does not take much away from the game.
  
  The gameplay is superb. I have never enjoyed any single player moment more than when I went into 
 slow-mo and blasted a guy away with the shotgun. It is the most fun element ever put in a game 
 and 50% of the reason I bought F. E. A. R. It looks so realistic and watching the beautiful physics 
 in slow-mo is not a soon forgetable experience. The only qualm I have with the gameplay is the 
 ghouls at the end of the game, not realistoc at all, I like fighting humans, not fake spirits but 
 whatever.
  
  The sound is fine, not something I pay much attention to but it really creeps you out.
  
  Value 
 is not a strong point, although the game has a ton of replay value due to the fun factor it is 
 not a very long game, taking me 7 hours max to beat on moderate difficulty. The MP is not especially 
 trilling either though it is fun to play MP just to look at the gfx.
  
  Overall the game is certainly worth the money for the intense experience and I give it a 93%. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reguile
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 26, 2005 4:16 pm PT
Review:  This game got boring after the 15th guy I killed. The demo was real nice though, I loved it, but 
 I don't know why this game is boring to me. All you do is go around and shoot people with a few 
 selections of guns. The enemies are boring to kill. I shot them in the head with the penetrator 
 5 times and they still live. 5 frickin 12 inch nails right in the head and they still havent gone 
 down. I mean directly in the face. Nail was halfway in. And they still shoot at me. Some people 
 say this game was scary, I call them bed wetters. Game was pretty boring. Slow motion was the only 
 cool feature though. You turn slow motion on and it sounds like you're high off of freon, while 
 listening to the people.
  Multiplayer also reaked. Go around w/ a G2A2 Assault Rifle and you kill people with 5 bullets. 
 Go around with fists and you kill them with 1 punch, even if you punch them in the leg, they die. 
 I might understand that if you did that flying kick, but not a single punch. Im over here w/ a 
 gun blasting the guy, he comes up and hits me in the leg and IM DEAD.
  All I can say about this game, is WOW.. and not in a good way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverwolf1331
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 25, 2005 5:11 pm PT
Review:  This I one of the best FPS games i have ever played. It is up there with doom3 and half life 2. 
 This game combines the aspect with freaking you out with the aspect of a great FPS with amazing 
 enemy AI. In games like call of duty the Ai doesnt seem very smart but in this game they are very 
 hard to kill. One thing that lacks about this game is that there is not a lot of weapons there 
 is like 8 guns and grenades and that's about it. I also like the incoperation of not using your 
 flashlight alot or the enemy will see you. 
  
  Overall There doesnt seem to be alot of negatives in this game. Everything is incoperated just 
 right and makes you think twice when entering a room with guns blazing. This is a game that makes 
 you really think strategically when making every move 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mohamadouf
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 25, 2005 4:45 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. so should I say First Encounter Assault Shooter.
  
  this game is awsome for a simple horror first person shooter, It combines all success elements 
 inside it.
  
  Gameplay, Graphics, Phsycis, AI and sounds. It's like as if Monolith made this game so they could 
 win the GOTY awards.
  
  You aren't a soldier. You are a weapon. A paramilitary force infiltrates a multi-billion dollar 
 aerospace compound taking hostages, but issuing no demands. The government responds by sending 
 in its best special rations teams, only to have them obliterated. Live footage of the assacre is 
 cut short by an unexpected wave of destruction that leaves military leaders stunned and in disbelief.
 
  
  About the game itself, Its pretty much scary as they really play with you mind, you will always 
 watching out for corners being afraid that you might meet that little girl they got in the game 
 which was presented once in The Ring Movie few years ago.
  
  About the AI and the Enemys, they are smarter than ever seen in a computer game. When you attack 
 them they fall back and when you run hidding they try to attack you by setting the proper attack 
 formation.
  
  Two new cool features they put in the game, The SlowMo and The Melee Attack. they SlowMo is close 
 to what we saw in some games like Max Payne and the Melee is brand new fighting style introduced 
 by Monolith studios, You can perform a Bicycle Kick or a Slideing Kick or you can always hit you 
 enemy with your machine gun.
  
  use gernade and Land mines to frag your enemies ....... this game Rock and so scary even more than 
 DOOM ever was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpeedRunnerx
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 25, 2005 3:32 pm PT
Review:  I'm kind of on the fence on this one... yes the game is alittle spooky but never seems to actually 
 be scary. Fighting enemy squads seems to get repetitive... What I don't like about this game is 
 that it feels like Half Life 2, Max Payne, and Doom 3 combined. What I also don't like is the blandness 
 feel of the levels.
  
  What I do like about the game is the multiplayer. Nothing is more than those melee attacks... probably 
 the best melee system I've seen. Nothing beats kicking your opponent in the head, punching him 
 the face, and so on. The multiplayer feels and is solid. No complaints. Single player is lacking. 
 It would have been a better game if you had a squad to fight along side you through it, but you 
 play SP solo with no help. And this doesn't seem like it feels right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimReaper626
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 25, 2005 3:20 pm PT
Review:  The game was completely awsome and i loved it. All the wait was definitely worth it. The gameplay 
 was very good and it puts you right into it, your nearly there. Well to me, the game is one of 
 my favorites and i would recomend it to anybody, well, mostly anybody. Also, there was a good plot 
 and it was pretty creepy, but Alma is just a typical horror movie character, but she is still freaky 
 looking. Well, I think that Monolith did a really good job on the game and I hope there is going 
 to be a second one, telling by the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drakos
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 25, 2005 2:37 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the title "F. E. A. R.", I expected a game that was scary as hell. I was not disappointed. 
 The game environment is dark and frightning. Characters pop out at you when you least expect it 
 and you often find yourself jumping out of your seat. The only noticible drawback of the game is 
 that you need one mother of a computer in order to run it properly. I initially had an Athlon XP 
 3000+ with 1.5GB of PC2700 ram, and a Nvidia 256 MB Geforce 5950 Ultra. The game ran choppy and 
 I could only run the game at 1024 X 768 with video settings on medium and low. Like the anxious 
 gamer I was, I purchased a whole new computer setup. I bought a new ASUS motherboard, 2GB dual 
 channel PC3200 DDR400 memory, an Athlon X2 4200 Dual CPU and a Geforce 256MB 7800GTX video card. 
 I now run the game at 1280 X 1024 with nearly all settings at high (except soft shadows) , and it 
 runs super smooth. This game is extremely challenging, even at the easiest difficulty level, thanks 
 to the fantastic ai which react to your actions and surrounding environment. If you shoot, the 
 npc ducks or hides for cover. The controls are your standard fps setup and very responsive. The 
 only action lacking is that there is no accelerated running action like in BF2. This would have 
 made the multiplayer mode a little more enjoyable. The graphics are top notch with awesome texture 
 and lighting effects. And really show what your video card can do. The enhanced reflex mode is 
 super cool and reminds me of the Matrix. It essentially allows the action to slow down so you can 
 react better when the action gets a little heated. The story is quite interesting and makes you 
 want to advance just to find out what the heck is going on. The sound is excellent with a great 
 daunting music score. The key is to crank the sound up and wait to be scared out of your seat. 
 The sound effects certainly add to the intensity. The overall experience is like being in the Matrix 
 and the Grudge with a gun in your hand. This is by far the best FPS shooter I have played this 
 year and perhaps is on par with Far Cry and Half Life 2 as my all time favorite FPS games. I highly 
 would recommend it. Just make sure your computer can handle it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cshaws
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 25, 2005 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Its a good first shooter, but quite honestly it is not up there with Far Cry, Half Life 1&2, Splinter 
 Cell Series or Max Paine. My biggest compaints are the lack of diverse scenery which after a while 
 they all look the same and it gets Boring, no outdoor stuff, no interaction with the environment-opening 
 and closing drawers, cabinets etc, exploring and all the enemy look the same.
  
  The physics of the game is good, but I will take the slow mo of Max PAine anytime. And its not 
 particularly that difficult once you figure out how to kill the enemy 
  
  Not sure what all the hype is about. AS I said, its good not Great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morness
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 25, 2005 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Generally speaking, the best parts of the game was the AI, graphics, and atmospheric presentation. 
 The worst part was the repetitive level design, and lack of variety of targets.
  
  Technology:
  The Lithtech techology looks as good and in some ways better than Halflife2, but 
 the game requires significantly more performance to run at an acceptable framerate. For example, 
 I could run Halflife 2 at 1920x1200 on an Athlon 3700+ with 2GB RAM and GeForce6800 Ultra at greater 
 than 30FPS. I could not run FEAR at a resolution greater than 1025x768 with the same setup without 
 significant frame rate problems. It also does not support widescreen resolutions.
  
  Gameplay:
  I was impressed with the AI. I love how they work together, yelling over the radio 
 about the situation, and even defying orders when you've pegged a few too many. I also loved the 
 "you have fast reaction" mechanics where you could temporarily slow down time to massacre the enemy. 
 There are really only a half a dozen unique enemies in the game. You've got a variety of infantry 
 units, a heavy infantry unit in power armor, and a super heavy infantry unit in a small mech. There 
 are also ninja like stealth infantry that are quite cool and can scare the crap out of you. And 
 ceiling turrets and UAVs finish the cast of characters... and psychic ghouls which don't really 
 count.
  
  Level design was quite weak and repetitve. The environments never changed significantly and after 
 a while, everything starts to look the same, even to the point where you get confused as to where 
 you are. There is no map feature and the maps are extremely linear. There is an illusion of freedom, 
 because they constantly give you a segment of a level with two different paths, but ultimately 
 start at the same segment start and end at the same segment end. This causes a player to circle 
 the whole area in search of powerups, and then frequently getting disoriented as to where to advance. 
 Sometimes I would miss a lever or a ventilation airduct entrance and go searching around for awhile 
 trying to find it. 
  
  Audio:
  Sounds were quite good, but the voice mail and briefings were too quiet -- I have a 5.1 Klipsch 
 Promedia system, but even after cranking the voice and dropping the SFX and music levels, the voicemail 
 was still very weak and missed a lot of information.
  
  Story:
  The story was weak for the mostpart. You get little bits and pieces from voicemails thoughout the 
 game, hacking into laptops (which is a trivially uninteresting interaction) , conversations, briefings, 
 and psychic encounters. It leaves a cliffhanger at the end which opens them up for a sequel.
  
  Multiplayer:
  No comment, didn't try.
  
  Conclusion:
  It is a worthy game worth a single 
 time through. I don't see any replay value in this title. I was starting to get bored by the end 
 of the game, and the challenge actually seemed to get easier as you got access to the most powerful 
 weapons. There are no "boss" fights in this game.
  
  Developer Recommendations:
  For your sequel, please improve the following:
  1. Level design -- make levels a lot more interesting 
 and less confusing and repetitive.
  2. Environments -- please provide several different environments to experience, rather than the 
 generic hi-tech facility for 80% of the game.
  3. Enemys -- please add more diversity to the enemies. Genuine boss fights would be very cool.
 
  4. Story and briefing. Please make story related interactions a little more interesting and especially 
 the sounds on voice mails. 
  5. Include a map and a journal system. Perhaps you could actually have more than one generic mission 
 at a time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmacalpine
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 25, 2005 11:43 am PT
Review:  FEAR is basically a fun shooter which borrows heavily from previous FPS's, most notably Max Payne. 
 
  
  The intense and visceral firefights, along with constant overtones of 'someone watching you' makes 
 it truly addictive and at times sh*t-yourself scary.
  
  While the story is interesting, at times I was left wondering just what was going on... even though 
 the answering machine messages and laptop downloads keep the story developing, I found it hard 
 at times to fully grasp how each story thread fits into each other. Basically I think it could 
 have been told better. Also, some of the early-mid levels seem overly repetitive... dark corrider, 
 scary ghost girl, couple of soldiers you've killed loads of times before, rinse, repeat.
  
  It's a decent, solid and fun shooter which keeps you firmly on the edge of your seat, but for me 
 the level of immersion suffers due to too much of the same thing and a story which is a chore to 
 keep up with.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhlkoho
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2005 11:19 am PT
Review:  I wouldn't say this is the best shooter of 2005 but it sure is near the top. I can name plenty 
 of games that are going to revolutionize PC gaming and that were far better. But this is still 
 a fantastic game with a pretty good story. It's not a scary game, but it definitely plays mind 
 games with you. 
  The graphics in FEAR are not the best compared to Half-Life 2, Quake, and Doom 3 but the particle 
 effects and fog effects are amazing! You will definitely need a high end video card and a fast 
 CPU to play this game how it should be played. I am using a 6800 GT OC and a 3.4 ghz P4 and it 
 runs smooth. 
  Sound quality is great but only if you have surround sound speakers. All in all this was a good 
 game but by far not the best of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biohazard1987pg
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 25, 2005 10:33 am PT
Review:  That a great game, very very great, but.....
  IT'S TOO SHORT ! ! ! ! ! 
  The gameplay is fantastic, the sound is amazing, the graphics is fantastic, the IA is the best 
 i've ever seen in a first person shooter game...... but, when you just starting to enjoy, the game 
 end without any sings.....
  i reply: the game is great, but when you have learned how to play, you have already finish.
  
 I've finished it in about 10 hour of game at "medium" difficulty....
  maybe at "hard" it takes much more times but it has disappointed to me....
  great game but longevity: 
 3
  
  che sola
  
  Biohazard191 
  
  biohazard191@hotmail. it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone03
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2005 10:19 am PT
Review:  This game is just great! that's all you need to know: p
  
  No but it a game that leaves every other shooter that tried to be different from the others way 
 behind, F. E. A. R. is unique...
  
  Why?
  Well first of there is just the cover of the game: it's maybe something not that important but 
 i thing it's the most beautiful ever made.
  
  Then too the game..
  The gameplay is not very complicated or involves a lot of physics like in hl2 but it's just fun 
 too play. You have sparks flying of everthing, interaction with the environment (elektric cabinets, 
 exploding barrels,...) and not to forget the A. I.! 
  
  The A. I. in F. E. A. R. is like you never seen before, you can play the game 20 times and even more 
 and it's always gonna be different. Mostly of the time their are 2 ways to come in an area where 
 there are soldiers, when you go one way you need to check the other way because the soldiers will 
 go around to flank you, they speak too each other when they see you or see a flashlight. You're 
 not fighting many separate soldiers, you're fighting againt a team of trained soldiers.
  
  The weapons in F. E. A. R. are the standard pistols, machine gun, shotgun and you have some exotic 
 weapons like rocket launcher, plasma rifle. 
  They are all nicely designed and are a fun to shoot with because you really feel like you're holding 
 a real gun.
  
  You got that super-gameplay and that mixed with a great story. You constantly feel haunted by a 
 little girl and a guy and they will show up when you least aspect it and then dissapear again. 
 By that the game makes sure that you're concentrated the whole time, that is also by the music. 
 
  The music is wonderful, it really adds too the feeling of tension en horror.
  
  You will understand the story by listening too voice mails, check the data on laptops (alienware 
 laptops btw) and listen too the things that fettel says too you telephatecally. 
  
  All this is beautifully presented with the greatest graphics you have ever seen. The mixture of 
 light and darkness is F. E. A. R. is beautiful and is not trouble like it was in doom3 (my opinion) . 
 
  
  The only thing that I have too say about F. E. A. R. that is a pretty demanding game for your computer, 
 but that actually have nothing to do with the game...
  
  If you want to call yourself a gamer but the game!
  If you cant run it, buy a new computer and 
 then buy the game, it's really worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perquak
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 25, 2005 10:07 am PT
Review:  After playing Half Life 2, I thought that I'd have to wait a really long time to find a game that 
 would come close it's stature. I didn't have to wait as long as I expected. Monolith Productions, 
 the guys who brought us No One Lives Forever, has given us another another superb classic. I truly 
 love this game! It's fast. It's scary. The graphics are superb, and the sound fits the overall 
 theme of the game. It has plently of ammo, armour and health packs on each level, so you need not 
 be afraid to experiment with the ways you plan to kill the bad guys, and there are plenty of bad 
 guys. It has a slo mo toggle that's great when you encounter more scoundrels than you can handle. 
 It also has many areas that you can have a great time admiring and exploring between battles.
 
  
  The bad news is that it requires a lot of horsepower to play maxed out. In fact, the readme file 
 warns that there is no video card on the market today that will allow you to run the game smoothly 
 at resos above 1024x728. My rig is an Athlon 64 FX 55 with 2 Nvidia 6800 Ultras in SLI mode. The 
 games auto config option for my rig comes real close to my tweaks. It has a superb video test that 
 allows you to check out the effect of all of your tweaks by displaying min, ave and max frame rates. 
 I just played around until my tweaks allowed me to play the game at the highest reso without dropping 
 the frame rate below 50 fps.
  
  Just go out and buy it. You're gonna love it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bolognat13
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 25, 2005 9:49 am PT
Review:  Wow! PC Gamers have been waiting for a game like this for a long time. Finally it is here. 
  
  The look and feel of this game is incredible. You'll find yourself with goosebumps as you lose 
 yourself in the game. The game isn't all scare, it's got great FPS style play as well. The different 
 difficulties provide any level of gamer with a great experience. A mysterious story line keeps 
 you coming back for more.
  
  There are only two downsides that I can see. First, you'll need a decent computer. Mine is not 
 top of the line, but I have never ever had problems playing games with it. There were a couple 
 times at the end where my video card couldn't handle the pressure and it took away from the game 
 quite a bit, but this isn't a huge issue. Second, it's a bit shorter than I'd like. The story is 
 interesting and the gameplay is great, but I would have liked to have seen more. If it went on 
 much longer than it had I'm sure it would have gotten dull and repetative, so I really shouldn't 
 be complaining. After all that's what the multiplayer is there for.
  
  Simply a must for shoot em up fans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ward_keith
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 25, 2005 9:38 am PT
Review:  Other than the auto start not working. I think this game is incredible. My Favorite game for years 
 has been Half Life. I'm not going to say that F. E. A. R is going to replace Half Life as my favorite 
 game but it is possible by the time I finish the game. If you play the game like it is suppose 
 to be played, the volume turn up a couple notches above normal to hear the whispers and winds, 
 and all the lights turn off or really dim. This game will suck you in and before you know it a 
 few hours will have gone by and you will be hunched over inches from the screen. 
  
  If you know Half Life you will notice some similarities between the way the soldiers attack and 
 if you listen to them they have the same sentences about attacking/defending and when/how they 
 will move around to attack/defend. It is not exact but very similar.
  
  Overall the game play and story will pull you, then you add in the amazing graphics and the different 
 levels of sound that they use. (which is why I say turn your volume up a couple notches more than 
 you would normally. That's when you notice the difference.) You can not help but to play for hours 
 that you swear were only minutes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 99bottles
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2005 9:17 am PT
Review:  Scary Scary and fun as hell. it was actually the 1st fps that caught my eyes as being worthy enough 
 for play. the story is awsome the graphics and details were great. i got through most of it and 
 so far have nothing bad 2 say about it.
  
  though i dont like the part of having a little girl as a psycho killing every 1 or i think thats 
 what it is its wierd 
  
  i saw the trailer thing with the doc trying to get a word from the kid and couldnt then went crazy 
 well that was funny and a little on the freaky side.
  
  currently im takin ap psychology and well those things that happen in the game is helping me get 
 through class 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ish_gibbor
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 25, 2005 7:19 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. I love the realism how so much stuff is destructive computers blowing up, 
 monitors, electricity shorting out, holes in walls. the best part is the smoke and dust that flys 
 off everything. If you get in a crazy gun battle, there is so much dust you can barely see for 
 a little bit. 
  
  The AI is outstanding, guys come jumping in through a window they search for you. You can tell 
 what the AI is thinking by wha they say, which is NEW and very cool. 
  
  The slow motion is not over dune, and it totally comes in handy in an intense fire fight. 
  
 
  Sound, graphics just awsome
  
  I think the game might have been made by guys that do not like chicks, all the magazines where 
 of dudes, no chicks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fibre_Optix
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2005 10:44 pm PT
Review:  It's 1:00 am in the morning and I just finished playing an incredible game, FEAR. I'm left stunned. 
 I've played HL2, DOOM, FAR CRY, XIII, RTCW and a slew of other games but FEAR has to be #1 on my 
 list with FAR CRY and HL2. If your reading this then you have probably read the other reviews, 
 so I'm not going to bore you will the awsome graphics and A. I. lines. 
  
  BUT! what I will say is Monolith has out done themselves and this game should be appreciated not 
 just for great effects and graphics but characters and story. So with that said here is some advice 
 on how to truly enjoy this game. Before I do, I'm assuming you have a machine that can handel this 
 game on atleast a high setting. Okay.....
  
  #1. Don't skip the intro.. it's an awsome title sequence. 
  
  #2. Play at night in the dark 
 with headphones (or Surround sound if you can) . If you play during the day with lots of people 
 around, your just ripping your self off. 
  
  #3 Don't overplay it in one sitting when you feel tired.... STOP. This is my advice for every game. 
 If you try to beat the game in one siiting you'll miss interesting things. 
  
  #4 Like in DOOM 3 with the PDAs in FEAR you have lap tops and voice mail you can listen to. The 
 difference between DOOM and FEAR in this area is that the messages won't unlock cabinets for guns 
 and goodies but rather give you insight to the story. The story in this game is pretty cool, infact 
 it's great not just cool.
  
  #5 After the game don't skip the end credits..... at the end they wrap up the story with an element 
 from the begining. I thought it was neat.
  
  #6 If you followed the story DON't SPOIL IT FOR OTHERS.... rather encourage them to play it. (This 
 rule applies to any game)
  
  #7 Play it on hard.
  
  So that's about it. 
  
  Go and enjoy this game. It's a real keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PirateMonkey
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 24, 2005 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Firstly. Oh no you say here we go. The Monkey's on the ramble. Not this time my friends. My comments 
 will be as brief as possible so i can keep boredom to the minimum....... The bottom line is this 
 game is truly AWESOME. I mean jaw dropping. Concept, graphics, story, abilities and weaponary all 
 should satisfy the most hungry FPS Gorehounds. But here's the bad things and there are many.......... The 
 game itself would jump out the box and laugh right at you if you even attempted to run it on a 
 machine that has the minimum requirements that Sierra try and kid you on that'll run it. This game 
 was created for technology not yet available unless you have loads of spare cash to go buy a Delorean 
 and hit 88 miles an hour. I run (not to brag) the highest spec commercial machine i know of with 
 a Radeon x850 which is amazing on everything before F. E. A. R. The first thing i noticed is it has 
 no 1280 x 1024 option (tho w/screen 960 is available) ... Why not you ask Doom 3, Quake 4 all have 
 why not this then. Quite simply this is the future of gaming right now. A scam. Harsh indeed, but 
 maybe not quite. Having spoken to fellow Masterblasters, Doomites and Quakers, i've come to the 
 conclusion FEAR is a test. For things to come. And i personally can't wait. The gaming industry 
 just jumped a level. A year from now FEAR will be running at 1600 x 1200 as it should and the eye 
 candy is eye-popping. It deserves to be appreciated for what it is..... Stunning. As for a quick 
 note on the game itself its great with some excellent twists and visuals and bullet time as in 
 Doom's Artifact. But to finish unless u have serious and i mean serious hardware...... Give FEAR 
 a miss. It needs to be watched as well as played. The guys at Monolith (remember the demos anyone) 
 are running industrial processors and gfx cards so its bound to look good and play fast. But try 
 and run it with 9600's or below and your P. C. might just explode. All in all if you got the hardware 
 this game is huge. Miss it at your  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostwheelx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 24, 2005 8:52 pm PT
Review:  As many others have pointed out this game definately has its flaws - its gameplay is a little repetitive, 
 and fairly easy once one learns to abuse the bullet-time feature. Also the storyline isn't too 
 hard to piece together before thigns are actually revealed & parts are borrowed from other works, 
 but one thing this game definately has going for it is style. This game is creepy, no doubt about 
 it. And for any gripes about the plotline, one has to admit it's presented well. I really liked 
 the use of hallucinations & such. Sound is superb, especially if you have a good sound system. 
 Play this one in the dark folks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Renegadesnake
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 24, 2005 8:14 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is easily stands among such FPS heavy-hitters as Half-Life 2 and Doom 3. The sound is atmospheric 
 and detailed. The gameplay is addictive. The weapons are satisying. The graphics are DROP DEAD, 
 AMAZING, AWESOME GORGEOUS. 
  
  The storyline starts off kind of slow... and you'll roll your eyes a couple of times, but as the 
 plot moves along, it becomes much more interesting and engrossing. 
  
  Every sound in this game is beautiful. From a shell casing falling on a hardwood floor, to a scissor 
 kick connectiong with an enemy's head. Absolutely top notch.
  
  The gameplay is tight, and it always leaves you wanting more. The slow motion aspect adds a nice 
 amount of strategy to the game. Whenever things get intense, hit the slow-mo buttong and raise 
 hell. The level layouts are really well designed, and everything seems to be paced really well.
 
  
  With the right video card, this game will knock you down on your ass with it's sheer beauty. Nothing 
 has prepared you for the level of detail you're going to see in this game. Up to now, this is the 
 best looking game ever made.
  
  If you have a PC capable of running this game, then buy it. Play it. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightmare33
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 24, 2005 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Lets start with how the game runs. On my machine, which is medium to high-end, I took everything 
 up to the max, No go. However, with some slight lowering of some graphics and performance setting, 
 I had a game that ran and looked great. The one setting that seemed to have the greatest effect 
 was "soft shadows". Turning this off had a major effect on the frame rate.
  
  Now lets get into gameplay. I found the combat about the best example of close combat of any FPS 
 I've played to date. The weapons have strengths and weakness. The situation really dictates effectiveness. 
 The sound adds much to combat. Hide in the dark and listen to footsetps and conversation and use 
 this information to decide your next move. I maxed my surround speakers, a real treat. The enemy 
 AI seemed to plan there attacks based on my position. Go back into the same situation the AI comes 
 up with different solution.
  
  The special effects and fear factor are extraordinary. Remember how impressed you were with the 
 suspense generatedin System Shock II; it's here in spades. Max Payne type slomo, yes its there. 
 Horror visions that pop up now and again add to suspense.
  
  The story and characters draw you in and hold your attention. I guess what I want to say is - It 
 has everything that the really good ones have in one game and done better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedSoxRebel
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 24, 2005 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Every one whi wants to join the cool table better buy this game. Yea I said it this is a awesome 
 game and Scarey. You thought fighting zombies and killing demons was cool well you'll love this 
 game. I was so scared during this game I had to leave my room and get a Coke and of course it was 
 lightning out and I though I saw the Girl standing in the Rain. The AI in this game is very smart. 
 they'll use there surrondings for cover they will also knock bookcases over to slow you down.
 
  
  The only problem with this game is after playing it over the weekend I went to school and had blury 
 vision as if I were in slowmo it was really strange
  
  I have to recomend this SciFi FPS to any one without a heart condition and doesnt mind alot of 
 Lanuage, blood, and flying bodies in slomo its so a sweet game that has many great moments that 
 belong in a movie with some oprea in the back round.
  
  I have one thing to say, If you dont like scarey games go with CoD 2 or Quake 4 cause this thing 
 is no Ravenholm in HL2
  
  -Red Sox Rebel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kanaur
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 24, 2005 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This Game F. E. A. R., is a for one a awsome game. it has a great story which features many paranormal 
 incidents within. you can get spooked and scared alot of times but lets talk about the game. The 
 game overall is very fun, the graphics are pretty much top notch. very detailed and very frightening. 
 
  
  The story is first starts you off seeing a short movie of a man named Paxton Fettle who appears 
 to get possed in some way and has physic abilitys and can controll a army through his mind. he 
 attacks this company and throughout the story you will find our the true reasons behind this mysterious 
 plot. You the player are expeirencing all this action in full detail. Throughout the game you will 
 find many intresting parts that will realy get you to think... as for the story of this game i 
 give it a 10.
  
  The graphics of fear are top notch to what i consider. the detail of the game is almost the best 
 you can get. the lighting of the game is remarkable including all the things in the area present... 
 the shadows are just amazing, everything including the shells shot out of the guns have shadows 
 plus the lighting of the envirement is just plain amazing. F. E. A. R. is a game in such great detail 
 it put other games to shame, For instance grenades and normal explosives when they blow up you 
 can see most of it and you can observe all the little bits of debree fly around as it also has 
 a huge impact of the A. I you fight. Speaking of debree, when you shoot a gun it makes impacts on 
 the evirement around and puts holes in walls... caueses smoke everywhere... this game goes more 
 of an action curve than a realistic... its kind of both. 
  
  As for the gameplay of F. E. A. R. you yourself can do quite a number of things... for instance the 
 matrix like slomotion you can perform, you also can do many like kung fou moves and such witch 
 realy make the game very fun. The A. I of the game is, or almost revolutionary... the A. I you fight 
 in F. E. A. R. is very suphisticated in what it does. the A. I performs and acts like a sqaud and it 
 works together to try to defeat you the player. The A. I. is pretty impressive with the way the 
 solgiers climb on stuff and slide under.... crash through windows... find spots to hide.. all sorts 
 of stuff. its like a sqaud action game only your the one fighting the sqaud instead of commanding 
 it. it adds a whole new perspective on gaming the way F. E. A. R has performed. F. E. A. R. is one of 
 the best game ive played yet.
  
  The sound quality of F. E. A. R. is one thing that you should forget. i was very impressed by the 
 sounds which were put into the game. Alot of times it added suspence... its knowing when and where 
 to put it i guess. the music is very good aswell. the game as many paranormal incidents that sound 
 is most important and for that i have been very pleased.
  
  The game all over is just plain great... i think its worth the money to get. the multplayer it 
 has... is very good to, it has all the features from single player, including the slomotion which 
 you can use against your opponents. the gameplay... the sound... the graphics... all of these things 
 combined make a great game, and as i said before it puts most other games to shame. Also as i said, 
 it is one of the best games ive played yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackPandemic
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 24, 2005 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Well, let's start with the title, F. E. A. R. Although cliche as all get out, I find it very creative 
 how the actual translation (First Encounter Assault Recon) mixes with the sense of acutal fear 
 produced in-game.
  
  The gameplay is what I'm always looking for in a FPS. Frantic action scenes with bullets flying 
 and enemies dropping with the occasional, suspensfully silent moments. The addition of "ghost elements" 
 adds to the tension and just plain creepiness of the game. The appearences by Alma (the little 
 girl) are always perfectly timed and accomponied by a key factor in this game.
  
  That key factor is sound and music. This for me was the big pull. In all games, epic music makes 
 you feel heroic, but no epics here. During fights the music is quick and adds to the adrenanline 
 of the moment. But while cruising through rooms without lights or just dead bodies, there is silence. 
 Except for the occasional blaring of a sound effect (that I can't begin to describe) yet scares 
 the begezus out of you.
  
  The graphics are just surperb, with excellent textures and models. The main graphical enhancement 
 in F. E. A. R. is the addition of particles everywhere. Every bullet and grendade leaves holes in 
 walls and dust flying everywhere. After long battles, you can sit and watch the dust kicked up 
 settle as the bodies come to rest. The whole atmosphere of debris adds to the hectic nature of 
 the fighting and is a welcome addition to the FPS genre.
  
  Overall F. E. A. R. produces a great story, great graphics, and great sound (also great multiplayer) 
 all in one convienent package. A definante must-own for any FPS lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason_Morris
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 24, 2005 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Well, this is a turn up; a game that actually comes somewhere near the hype bestowed upon it. F. E. A. R. 
 is good. Very good. ALMOST good enough to knock Half Life 2 off the FPS throne. Almost.
  
  Some of the niggles that places this behind HL2 are quite surprising; the endless, and endlessly 
 similar, corridors and office backgrounds are rather dull (when you do occasionally make it outside, 
 say bye-bye to your frame-rate!) , the physics engine isn't as great as it's competitors (HL2, Doom 
 3, even Painkiller) , the environment is surprisingly un-interactive (apart from being able to shoot 
 big holes in it) , and finally the plot is pure B-movie cheese, the much touted horror element seems 
 a little divorced from the core of the game.
  
  When it comes to firefights, however, this shines shinier than a shiny thing shining in the sun, 
 after the polish of it's life. The A. I. makes this the most exhilarating single player game out 
 there. They communicate, they cover, they flank, they're sneaky so and sos. This really shows just 
 how lazy game developers have been on this front, my personal belief is that multi-player development 
 has been used as a smokescreen to cover the lack of development in A. I. on single player games 
 (which, let's face it, you can't show off prettily on a box cover) . Added to the A. I. is the feeling 
 of power you get from the guns, the bits of flying debris and smoke, making for a new standard 
 in FPS action. This is like what Doom 3 should have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soundmonster
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 24, 2005 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Oh yea!, There is hope for developing good AI in single player games after all. Finally some serious 
 work has been done improving the charachters artifical intelligence to make a much more enjoyable 
 game experience. Now that the bar has been raised, hopefully it will never go back. Great Job. 
 Great graphics too, especially if you run SAA and HDL. Another fantastic part about the graphics 
 is the huge amount of debris, particles, and smoke during a fight. This really adds to the action 
 (and the confusion) . Sounds are wonderful, with lots of space when appropriate and action music 
 at the right time. Loads of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Van_Faulk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 24, 2005 10:04 am PT
Review:  WOW!!!!
  That will be your reaction in this single player, pant shredding, eye melting horror. This is a story 
 of an operation called F. E. A. R. aka First Encounter Assault Recon. This incredible stuff will haunt 
 you for the rest of your PC playing days as you are an elite soldier trained to witstand shocking 
 and paranormal events that take place in this eye searing first person shooter. You will encounter 
 the most strangeous things that you will see in this story of supernatoural terror brought to life. you 
 are assigned on a mission to confront a force that have a murderous mind and that mind also contains 
 paranormal activities that you will be battling against. You must find out the meaning of FEAR while 
 battling agains unpredictable A. I and have a rolling rampage shoot out with these elite soldiers 
 turned against you! Graphics are absoulutley incredible to give it an intense action movie style 
 of fighting. Unimaginable multiplayer combat with up to 16 players and kick ass weapons. You will 
 come across dark secrets and spooky events when you are alone and the fights are over. You will 
 be scared, annoyed and quick to react when these frightening noises and unreal graphics spring to 
 life when you encounter these ghoulish figures that haunt these levels and freak you out. Watch 
 out for dark corners dark rooms, ventilation shafts and little tunnels that encourage these ghosts 
 to give you the fright of your life. Sierra release an exhilarating new fps of the year and gives 
 us the shockers coming up to halloween.
  
  Great game. Excellent. best i've played since call of duty. Keep up the good work guys good job 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eviltwitcher
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2005 8:17 am PT
Review:  6600gt w/256 mb
  3.2Ghz AMD X-264
  a-bit fatality motherboard
  audigy z2 sound card 
  AND i put all the settings on high except i take a few of the settings to medium but not low. never 
 low. 
  
  But all in all, i loved the game one of the few FPS games i got into that werent based on some 
 kind of war theme. But this game should be played by all fans of any type of FPS it will change 
 the way you look at things forever. At least it did for me, all i am wondering is when will the 
 multiplayer have slo-mo that anybody can use at anytime and not affect the other players connected 
 to the server? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpfouere
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 24, 2005 7:15 am PT
Review:  I think that it is a very good game, its graphic not this classified within the excellence, but 
 it has a very good one finished. Tipica history is something, but it stands out in the form to 
 develop it within the game. The sound is really good, although I use phones this gives a special 
 touch him, that causes fear during the game, but even if you play it at night and alone. The curve 
 of learning of the game you obtain it in 30 minutes, is very similar to all the games of this type 
 (FPS) . It plays it a resolusion of 1024x768 with a video card ATI 9600XT and is enough good, to 
 grief that me parecio that at some moments takes place any type of LAG, but greater problems did 
 not exist to play it of efficient form. Good my recommendation is that they play and they draw 
 it his own conclusions, and this others to say that good diapers are bought that that they tinkled 
 of fear, jajajaja. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KSHMA
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 24, 2005 7:35 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for F. E. A. R. since November of last year. Nearly every day I would go on my 
 computer and check for updates on F. E. A. R. Now that it is finally out, I am amazed. F. E. A. R. is 
 incredible. The graphics are excellent, the AI is breathtaking, and the scares are actually scary. 
 F. E. A. R. had me on the edge of my seat with my heart pounding out of my chest. My hand was sweating 
 and my brain was spinning. The gameplay is so incredible and the AI is so good you feel like you 
 have truly triumphed after every firefight. The combat is fast-paced, chaotic, and so violent it 
 gives you a truly visceral feeling. There are sparks, chunks of the walls, limbs, and plenty of 
 bullets flying around you. The "heightened-reflexes" make the combat even more amazing and even 
 more fun. F. E. A. R. is an incredible game that only a retard would miss. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dizzyk13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 23, 2005 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Fear is one of those games that definately makes you stop and think "wow that was cool" battles 
 can be short and intense or drawn out and strategic which is what makes the game. graphically this 
 is an above average game however i think that the game engine could use a bit of refinement. running 
 it on a fx-55 and 6800 ultra im surprised that it can bog down at moments even with the details 
 on medium, while quake 4 (a graphically superior game by far) runs with max details and high res. 
 with no slowdown whatsoever. however FEAR definately has the physics edge over Quake 4 and has 
 a deeper gameplay scheme. Although by rights i find quake 4 to be more enjoyable purely based on 
 the amount of fun it is to run around and blast cyborgs. but hey, you should buy em both, and get 
 serious sam 2 while your at it, its only 30 bucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genpic
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 23, 2005 10:21 pm PT
Review:  This review is for single player only.
  
  I am not sure what the last game to creep me out was, but I dont think it made the hair on the 
 back of my neck stand up quite as much as this one does. That little girl gives me the chills every 
 time she shows up. Even Doom didnt have the chill factor that F. E. A. R has been able to develop. 
 The action is good, even if it is a bit linear. Its hard to get lost. I like the variety and action 
 of the weapons. The climb on the automatic weapons is a nice touch. Though the game play is fairly 
 typical FPS, the action is good and the transitions hold together well. When it first started I 
 thought my squad mates would be working with me, but it looks like they are just around for the 
 cut scenes. I wish the developers had taken a little more time with the documentation. They give 
 you no information about the enemy. I like to know whom I am going up against when I play. Though 
 they dont offend my sensibilities in the least, I see very little need for the use of the 4-letter 
 words in the game. They add nothing to the game and I suspect will be a factor in the purchase 
 of this game by some parents. 
  
  Overall it lives up to most of the hype and is a game worth buying and playing. (Several times)
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deaddolldonor
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 23, 2005 9:16 pm PT
Review:  And I thought nobody would knock halflife 2 off the mountain, hl2 looked awesome but FEAR makes 
 hl2 look like a cartoon. The AI in FEAR is quite a releive from other FPS, were enemies would do 
 predictable things or nothing at all. This AI will keep you on your toes, multiplyer is great fun 
 too, real fast paced, but by far the best reason to get this game is because the AI will give you 
 a challenge your not use to, I could go on and on but why waste your time when you should already 
 be running out the door to but this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylestater
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 23, 2005 8:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is fantastic. Great graphics, great gameplay. It will certainly catch your eye with it's 
 amazing visuals and story. But the only way to enjoy this game is of course having a top notch 
 PC. 
  I own an Alienware with ATI X850xt graphics technology installed. And I still have to run the game 
 on lower settings. But aside from the graphics, sound, and gameplay; this game is very short and 
 most First-person-shooter veterans out there including me, this game can be completed in about 
 a day. So yeah, it's short. 
  
  But long story short.... this game is most definitly worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deschain
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 23, 2005 8:45 pm PT
Review:  There will be a number of occassions in F. E. A. R. where you will say, "That's just like 'The Ring'" 
 or, "That reminds me of Half-Life." But that's not a bad thing with F. E. A. R. as the elements are 
 put together well enough to deliver one of the finest gaming experiences of the year. 
  
  Up front, F. E. A. R. is tasking on the computer. My AMD64 3800+ machine with a Gig of RAM and an 
 nVidia 6800GT ran the game with most effects enabled (and the graphics are worth it) but I did 
 have occassional slow downs. Generally a reboot solved the problem, but if you have an older computer, 
 you're going to have to lower some settings.
  
  Aside from that, I found little to complain about. The limitation to three weapons is really not 
 that constraining. And the variety of enemies and weapons isn't huge, but the game never got repetitive 
 for me. 
  
  While the story may be derivative of some of the other games and movies, it is presented in a interesting 
 style. The character's bullet time (Max Payne and Matrix derived) allows you to deal with enemies 
 in otherwise difficult situations. This is especially helpful since the enemy AI is generally very 
 good. On more than one occassion the enemy attempted to flank me via another path through the building. 
 Still not like playing a human opponent, but fairly intellegent. 
  
  And the game has some legimately creepy moments. The game really lives up to everything I heard 
 about it. A definite purchase for any FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youthsmooth
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 23, 2005 7:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. It is defiantly going to shed new light into a world that in my opinion has 
 been down, and that is the gaming world. F. E. A. R. is not only a good shooter but has an amazing 
 story and highly intelligent AI. Anyone who has played this game for up to 10 minutes must be hooked. 
 Its so scary that i can't play it with the lights off at some parts! If you don't believe me just 
 go pick up your copy and you'll see what i mean. Don't feel like picking up a copy? Thats ok check 
 out the demo first. The demo is great and I assure you after you play it the next time you go to 
 the store F. E. A. R. will be in your cart. Although if your not familiar with shooters and dont like 
 a larger level of dificulty than most other shooters out there then this might not be the game 
 for. It takes some amount of stratagy and without careful planning you might find yourself taking 
 a dirtnap rather quick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HTWingnut
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 23, 2005 7:47 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is a little bit like your younger brother. He's easy to beat up on but you really love him. 
 FEAR may follow the footsteps of some of the greatest shooters to be released to date (Half-Life 
 2, Doom 3, Deus Ex, Riddick) but it takes a combination of all three and offers up one great single 
 player experience. It can be easy to say "been there, done that" but it still keeps the gamer engrossed 
 in the experience.
  
  The plot is interesting and the levels are quite varied. However there seems to be a limited number 
 of bad guys, but these bad guys have been programmed with some of the best Artificial Intelligence 
 I've seen to date. Enemies will follow you thorugh the corridors in a relentless pursuit to destroy 
 you, and call for backup as needed. They will also limp along should you shoot them in their leg 
 along with yelling out some select expletives.
  
  More importantly there aren't just human opponents. The gameplay is intermixed with some demented 
 psychosis affecing the player, plunging him into some strange delusions that introduce some abstract 
 gameplay. It can add a real spooky atmosphere throughout the course of the game.
  
  Graphics in games these days don't tend to awe an audience like they did shortly after 3D acceleration 
 was introduced, but the graphics are seamless and well designed in F. E. A. R. The environment animations 
 are very smooth. The levels are open, but scripted to guide the gamer in the right direction.
 
  
  There is a large number of guns to tote around and demolish the enemy with, however the player 
 is limited to three gun types at any given time. While it has been done before, the "Slo-Mo" time 
 a la Max Payne, plays an important part in the game's plot. Your player also has the ability to 
 perform a jump or slide kick should you require some close encounter battles.
  
  While I haven't played with the multiplayer much it seems to offer your run-of-the-mill deathmatch 
 and CTF game types.
  
  Overall, F. E. A. R. delivers in all respects and keeps the player entertained. This will probably 
 be one of the biggest sleeper hits of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckyman24
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2005 7:17 pm PT
Review:  This game from the moment i saw its first previews, and pics, i knew it was gonna be a hit, and 
 it is, I think that this game will be remembered as one of the scariest games made in the year 
 2005! This game has been soo well created, that it should diserve a 10.0 rating!!!!!! From the 
 first clip of Fettel killing others to the very end, give u total suspense and vulnerablity to 
 the creepyness, as u go on u find many different characters, and also a large category of enemies, 
 u meet. Also an entense amount of unbelievable gunfights with unimaginable thoughts and AI from 
 the enemies. But this game with make u stand on ur tippytoes to the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chinbobbabobot
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 23, 2005 6:43 pm PT
Review:  This game, in a word, is absolutely amazing. I'm here to tell you why.
  
  It's been said already that this is the first game to channel the essence of a John Woo movie to 
 its experience. I've never seen a John Woo film but I know why he's considered to be famous- so 
 I can agree with what they say.
  
  The game is extremely short, but that's not a problem. I beat it today, in fact. But you can go 
 back and play it again and again because even though it might not be scary after a while, the firefights 
 are intense. 
  Of course, the enemies are kind of the same each time. In fact, most of them are just different 
 skins of the same guy. But it's still very, very awesome. PLAY IT, DAMMIT. Fights against Power 
 Armor foes are spectacular.
  
  Graphics? I can't run them on full speed. In fact, from what I've heard from engadget. com (I think?) 
 it sounds like even a 7800GTX can't take this whole game. But that's because soft shadows suck. 
 I'm not turning those on.
  So, it's a system hog. But that doesn't mean it still doesn't look awesome. But then I have a 6800GT 
 so whatever. Can't speak for anybody who can't afford that kind of stuff- sorry if I sound elitest.
 
  
  The sound is amazing too. That's all I need to say. You have to hear it for yourself.
  
  Now let me talk about the scares. They can really freak you out at times. Other times it's 
 not so scary but still intriguing. Eventually, that's what's going to make the SP less replayable- 
 not because the scares get old- nobody plays just for the scares- but because it's chock full of 
 scripted events. So whatever. They're very good, they just don't scare you much after you've died 
 five times.
  
  I haven't played the multiplayer yet, but I will.....
  
  Buy this game. NOW!
  No, seriously. It's short but it's a great investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tartagliam
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 23, 2005 5:39 pm PT
Review:  I write reviews on ValveForums. com, so I decided to post here aswell! Enjoy!
  
  ---------------------
  
  The first of my reviews this weekend will be for the game F. E. A. R. 
 Let me say first that I expected to be blown away by this game, and to tell you the trith, I kinda 
 was. But before I get to my critique, here are my ratings:
  
  Gameplay (out of 10) :: 8
  Story (out of 10) :: 6
  Graphics (out of 5) :: 4
  Multiplayer (out of 5) :: 5
  
  The story 
 was OK, but it was definently lacking. But I want to make sure that people know that I won't be 
 saying any specific parts of the game, as I do not want to ruin the experience for anyone. Let's 
 just say that the story was kind of a letdown. The whole things leads up to a huge conclusion that 
 never really happens. And as for the ending, I have to say that it was OK aswell. At first I hated 
 it, but after I played through it twice (the game is roughly 9 hours long) I got to liking it. 
 (You will see why once you play it.)
  
  As for graphics, the Monolith engine is better than ever. After I played NOLF2, I believed that 
 they could make an awesome game through great engines. Only thing that brought it down? For some 
 reason it lagged a lot for me. I have a 3.5 processor, 1 gig ram and a 6800 GEForce HT card. I 
 had it running on 800x600 and it skipped sometimes. (I just lowered it to see whether it was the 
 resolution, but when I increased it to 12800x1024, it skipped the same amount.)
  
  And lastly, gameplay and multiplayer. The gameplay (the massive amount of shooting, intensity of 
 scariness and level design) is brilliant. The gun fights were some of the best I've had yet this 
 year with a first person. The same goes for multiplayer, where the team deathmatch has an awesome 
 twist on the "reflex" (slomo) trigger. As a team, you have to build it up and coordinate when to 
 use it for your advantage. The only thing that brought it down here? The scariness. The first and 
 last levels scared the crap out of me, but the rest seemed to just be plain predictable. (This 
 is coming from a guy who is petrified of scary movies and even got nightmares from Muppets: Treasure 
 Island.)
  
  Overall, it is worth the money. The game was hyped up a lot, and even though it may have been a 
 little too much, it is still a great game. May not be GoTY quality but it is still great fun.
 
  
  Overall: A solid B+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damnation_09
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 23, 2005 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Basicaly if you like Fps, your gonna like F. E. A. R. It doesn't necessarily have anything new that 
 I can think of besides its story line. But what makes it great, is they took nearly everything 
 good from a wide variety of FPS's and put it in one game. A nail gun, an insane shotgun, prox mines, 
 nice melee combat (including a scissor kick and drop kick) plus rag doll physics, and explodable 
 and destructable bodies (meaning you can blow off legs heads etc...) You put all this together 
 and you've got one wicked game. Add in a nice little story line that keeps you guessing and some 
 insanely smart A. I. (except of course on lower difficulties, sense you gotta get half decent at 
 the game first) and you've got a near perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unholy_Raven
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 23, 2005 3:57 pm PT
Review:  I just bought this game yesterday (10/22) and I can't stop playing it. Admittedly, it does put 
 ones rig to the test so you better be sure of what you're working with before purchasing this game. 
 
  
  Now on to the game itself, the graphical detail is insane as is the particle detail with the holes 
 in the walls and what not. I'm playing it with the settings between low and medium and everything 
 still looks good, but now I'm going to upgrade my PC so I can see what it's like on high and maximum. 
 The whole game has a realistic feel to it and almost seems like you are the soldier which make 
 this game even better. 
  
  The A. I. is one of the best I've ever had the privilege to experience. The movement of everyone 
 makes it seem as though they really have a brain and don't seem so robotic. 
  
  Now lets talk about the mysterious little girl and other characters that pop-up out of nowhere. 
 I'll admit it gave me the creeps at first, turning around and there she or he is. Unfortunately 
 it becomes a bit redundant and somewhat expected, but it's still a nice touch if doing nothing 
 else then keeping you on guard.
  
  The weaponry packs quite a punch. Even the dual handguns will knock the enemy on their asses. My 
 favorites are the Rakow G2A2 and the Armacham 10 MM HV Penetrator. There is a full arsenal for 
 different situations, but you are only aloud to carry three at a time so you have to pick and choose 
 for the current environment your are in or if you just want to blow sh*t up.
  
  All in all, this game is one of the best I have every played and I would highly recommend it to 
 anyone. If youre a beginner or an expert this game is for you due to the four choices of difficulties. 
 I give this game a 9.3, because of some of some of the redundancy and expectedness of the game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsychoJJ
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 23, 2005 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Played the demo a while back for this game and I knew it would be good.
  
  Think of one of the scariest horror movies you have ever seenok got it? Now put the fear you felt 
 watching that movie grab a gun and jump into this game head and mind first. The overall mood alone 
 of this game was enough to scare my wife right out of the room. A combination of lighting sights 
 and sounds fills the air with an over all sense that anything could happen at any time. The only 
 problem with this is at the times you tell yourself I know something is coming but when and where 
 nothing happens and next thing you know BAM!! Its there.
  
  Tension is built to an unprecedented scale using music subtle sounds and a heart beat. Walking 
 down some hallways makes you feel like you just want to hurry up and get the dying part out of 
 the way quick. The only other game to ever make me jump this much was the original Resident Evil.
 
  
  Enemy A. I. Is great in this game. The enemy will formulate their own tactics to try and take you 
 down using such techniques as suppressive fire, flanking maneuvers as well as tossing a few grenades 
 your way to try and flush you out into their line of fire. Only problem with the A. I. That is great 
 for us as the user is they talk to much. The enemy will constantly give themselves away by not 
 only shouting their tactics such as lay down a suppressing fire but also to let you know when 
 you almost have that particular squad of troops beat down with mutters of we need backup or my 
 personal favorite get in there! Hell no!
  
  One of the only real problem I had with the game was its plot line. To me there wasnt enough character 
 development. There seems to be a lot that could be done here as far as story but it just didnt 
 seem like it tapped into it enough for my liking. I will admit though that with all of the plot 
 holes and unanswered questions it does leave me feverishly wanting more and I can only hope a sequel 
 is shortly on its way.
  
  The other problems I had with the game is its lengthy load times and that fact that its just a 
 computer whore. It seemed like every time I got into a big fire fight with a large group of enemies 
 in a lush environment it slowed down to almost a screeching halt. 
  
  All in all this was a super game with great graphics killer sound and enough fire power to make 
 me a happy camper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazybear79
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2005 2:15 pm PT
Review:  When the game first starts out your expecting your typical FPS. Then you start playing it and you 
 find that it brings something new to the table. The gore is impressive. When you kill someone you 
 can really tell by the blood splattered everywhere. There's nothing like unloading on your enemy 
 and blowing a limb off in the process. The weapons are about average for most games but have been 
 tweaked to cause alot more carnage. Then there is the eerie part to the game. I'm not easily scared 
 by much of anything, especially a game. There were a few parts that had me jumpy and dashing through 
 dark sections. If your a fan of gore and the paranormal this is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kadirkara
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 23, 2005 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Nice Graphics Along with a good plot equals this sweeet Game! i would highly recommenD this game 
 to everyone who can take Scary Movies, make no mistake this game is one scary mother***** If Your 
 Into Scary Movies at nite this game is for you! SLoWMO options make everything seem like it is 
 in the Matix with a little more to it. If you have a good sound system its well worth the 49.99 
 for the game. FEAR is a Winner In All Aspects!
  
  Nice Graphics Along with a good plot equals this sweeet Game! i would highly recommenD this game 
 to everyone who can take Scary Movies, make no mistake this game is one scary mother***** If Your 
 Into Scary Movies at nite this game is for you! SLoWMO options make everything seem like it is 
 in the Matix with a little more to it. If you have a good sound system its well worth the 49.99 
 for the game. FEAR is a Winner In All Aspects! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaryRX8
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 23, 2005 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I believe I have a match for the pure enjoyment of HL2. I have been hearing complaints about the 
 system hog issues, but I am lucky enough to have a very high end system, so no complaints from 
 me there. Ok, at 46 yrs old I should be able to afford a high end system!
  
  The graphics, sounds, voice acting and lighting are what I feel, the best to date of any game I 
 have played. I pretty much play FPS, RPG's and the rare good action games. After recently finishing 
 DS2 and playing through HL2 a second time, I was looking for a challenging, yet excellent overall 
 gaming experience. FEAR has me hooked. I am a Police Officer who loves gaming. I was on a SWAT 
 team for 9yrs as a Sniper and I swear you can almost smell the same smells when firing the games 
 weapons as the sounds and reactions of the rounds being fired are so accurate. (just a flashback?)
 
  
  The negative points of the game are so few it would just be nit picking. I don't think there is 
 a game that has earned a 10 rating out there yet (that leaves no room for improvement or evolution) 
 but this game is very close.
  
  GaryRX8
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnose
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 16, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  Oh Kay. im going to get right to the point, F. E. A. R is an amazing game from so many levels, it 
 is in your face action and horror from start to finish, and once it starts it is hard to stop playing.
 
  
  After playing the f. e. a. r demo i was convinced that this would be the best game ever, and it is 
 not far off i must say. The action sequences in the game are just plain stunning. The action is 
 so intense that thinking about not playing the game is boring, lol.
  
  The graphics in the game are very nice, not the best i have ever seen but very good indeed. I think 
 that the graphics are really shown off when you engage in a huge fire fight with about six enemies 
 and the walls around you litterally explode in a cloud of dust and blood.
  
  The game is also much more scary than i thought it would be. It is not so much as 'jump out of 
 your seat' horror than it is 'heart stoppingly terrifying'
  It really does scare the life out of me at some points, espacially when the little girl in red 
 runs on all fours towards you *heart stops*
  
  The weapons in the game are a real treat. The most fun to play with in my opinion is the nail gun, 
 which actually nails people to almost any surface; it is often hilarious nailing someone to a wall 
 by their feet.
  However, my favorite weapon is the shotgun; it is just so very awesome, you can literally shoot 
 people in half, LOL.
  
  So far F. E. A. R has lived up to its expectations, and i sure hope they make a sequal in the not 
 to distant future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_ferret123
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2005 11:27 am PT
Review:  the greatest game in a long time. this one has everyhting you can imagine, a whole load of melee 
 attacks (my fav) like the sissor kik, the slideing kik, and the roundhouse kik, and a whole **** 
 load of combos in between. the firefights are some of the most intense you will ever be in, guys 
 flying everywhere, blood splattering all over the walls, guys doing cdrazy melle combos, its all 
 there. the story is extremely scary and some of the stuff had me jumping in places. definently 
 the must-buy game of the year. and no, matrix fans, theres no running on walls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: INSIDEMAN65
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 23, 2005 11:11 am PT
Review:  This game has the same ol stuff as other first person games but has a good plot with some new twists. 
 good grafics... one of the things i liked was that you can only carry 3 wepons.. ya gotta think 
 before you drop thoes two .45s.. (my faverets) .. this game does seem to scare you at times kinda 
 like a movie when somthing unexpected pops up.. and like when you turnaround and theres a brat 
 standing there.... so this game is is like working your way thru the same ol first person shoot-um-up 
 game to see the oucome of the unusuall plot... so it made the game enjoyable.... hope you all like 
 it... Keep on gameing... later... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkirius
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 23, 2005 10:48 am PT
Review:  My first adventure with Monolith was none but Aliens versus Predator 2 (well, I played first one 
 too, but I suppose the AvP 1 was made by Reflection) . What I derived from that one? The immense 
 ambience, geat sounds and revolutionary graphics. Though it was linear - but reason was quite simple, 
 every horror-game is linear. In addition, it was fully rehabilitated by multiplayer mode, which 
 is dead at the moment, but brought some serious innovations. Then there was a 180 degrees turn-over 
 and we had N. O. L. F. with the most sexiest playable character ever designed, Kate Archer that is, 
 and after some time its sequel. Both were really cool, mixing the outrageous climate with a sense 
 of humour and top-level action.
  
  Monolith silenced up (Contract Jack? Nah, let's better forget this one) for quite a long time. 
 Anyway, the project they were working on seemed nothing special with the first releases. However, 
 with more and more media and texts I've got my hands in standby, just to get this game. Graphics 
 were so cool that I just thought 'They cannot be in-game renders!'. First the demos, now the retail. 
 Enjoy!
  
  I played it through and through, in the night of course, to have the right climate in the room. 
 I advice headphones too, as speakers may waste the sound. FEAR is, in short, a mix of FPS and horror. 
 Depending on the moment, there is more of one than of another, but we permanently explore areas 
 with eyes wide open and reflexes on the very edge. It is so immense, that when a single rat runs 
 in front of us one can jump up in his chair. This is how it should be made, really.
  
  Plot is quite easy. You're a member of First Encounter Assault Recon, unique squad being involved 
 only if others fail. Sounds simple, but with the game progressing, we will learn that the main 
 character is not a common soldier - there is something in his history that made him extraordinary 
 one. What? Well, play the game. 
  
  As I mentioned before, it's a really well-mixed game, consisting of thrilling moments and real 
 hardcore action. Both are created perfectly. The mysterious girl, Alma, often appearing in the 
 foreground of blazing flames and slow motion - it's stunning. Soldiers disappearing, or ghosts 
 and voices... there are many possibilities to ask for mum and dad. On the other hand we've got action. 
 Enemies are very intelligent, using the terrain as defense, rolling, strafing, aiming well. Bullets 
 are leaving marks on walls, when hitting metal - sparks are blasting. When there's some heavy fight, 
 ash is covering the rooms... this is how the war should look. Really.
  
  All this happens due to graphics engine, which is one of the best at the moment. Can create both 
 closed and opened areas, have all the newset functions and is well otimized - if your computer 
 remember dinosaurs, you will probably be able to play. With poor settings, but you will! Same goes 
 with sounds and music, holding the ambience from the beginning till the very end.
  
  Multiplayer mode was cool in the demo, and now, with more maps, it's a real "ownage". The immense 
 fight was taken to that mode, with all pump and effect. That is the top. Multiplayer is developing, 
 we can notice its birth in various leagues.
  
  Any errors? Well, it's linear, sometimes not due to its horror origins. Could be a bit longer and 
 sometimes we feel the lack of various areas (mainly buildings) . Some village? Or jungle? 
  
  To sum it up - game is really good and shows, that Monolith is always there. Game is immense 
 both in single- and multiplayer modes... really worth buying, one of the best games recently released. 
 And get this Doom III outta here! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NatureMusic
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 23, 2005 8:19 am PT
Review:  Of course Monolith knows the way making a good game. This time, F. E. A. R. they demonstrated highly 
 impressive A. I. with cool animations. 
  
  The A. I. in F. E. A. R. is quiet amazing. It seems like they are real. Enemy can flank your position, 
 predict your movement, make a barrier to hide themselves from gunfire. Before F. E. A. R. comes out, 
 I had thoght Halo has the best A. I. But nowadays, F. E. A. R. is the best.
  
  The combat in F. E. A. R. also as good as its A. I. It shows a fairly good weapon animations, great 
 sound. But most important thing is its revolutionary particle system. This makes me shock.
  
  Well... story is good too. But it has simple plot. Moreoever, game's enviroment looks simple 
 and has no major differences among entire level.
  
  In conclusion, F. E. A. R. is a worthy game. If you like horror, action stuff, you must buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RFNeo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2005 6:29 am PT
Review:  The best points about F. E. A. R. are its great graphics, amazing sound effects, soundtrack and an 
 outstanding artificial intelligence.
  
  The graphics are beautiful but not the best you can find on a game. Games like Quake 4 do a better 
 job on that department. The only complaint I do have about the F. E. A. R. engine, is the absurd implementation 
 of soft shadows that drop your frame rate dramatically and add nothing to the image quality. You 
 easily go from 168 frames per second on maximum detail without soft shadows, to 50 frames per second 
 with them on. 
  
  The level design in this game is mediocre at best, since there are no details and almost all levels 
 look the same. You get a constant feeling of deja-vu, while going thru the different levels of 
 the game. All enemies youll encounter in this game are basically the same leaving you with an 
 empty feeling as with the level design.
  
  The A. I. is excellent. This is where this game excels the most. You will find your enemies flanking 
 you, cornering you and throwing grenades at you and attacking while you reload your weapon.
  
  The sound effects and soundtrack are also amazing. They really take you into the game and contribute 
 99% to the atmosphere of it.
  
  The storyline is also mediocre at best and its also another complaint I do have about F. E. A. R.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrchu
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 23, 2005 6:15 am PT
Review:  I love a game that provides the kind of mechanics that make you love the 'feel' of the game. The 
 response from weapons, the way you traverse a level and how it feels ot navigate the game world. 
 This game will suck you into its world and you'll be utterly thrilled at the presentation, and 
 plain fun to be had. From being able to jump up and do flying kicks (which has been implemented 
 so well it looks just as good as it possible could from FP perspective) ... Ken and Ryu watch out, 
 FPS is turning martial lethal! Anyway, get the game, if you have performance issues, READ THE SUPPORT 
 FORUM... and have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreadlord_923
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 23, 2005 4:41 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is probably the second most anticipated shooter for me this year (right behind Resident 
 Evil 4) and in saying so I was hoping this game would be a revolution to the FPS genre. It didn't 
 quite achieve that level but, in its own likings, it was an amazing game. The graphics and sound 
 are amazing and the overall gameplay was stunning and really creepy. I'm a huge fan of horror games 
 and this one's a must have. 
  
  F. E. A. R. or the First Encounter Assault Recon team's newest member is assigned to deal with a situation 
 regarding a military commander named Paxton Fettel who has gone insane, taken some kind of clone 
 army and has been linked to them telepathically. It's up to you and you're squad to eliminate the 
 problem and find out what they were searching for. 
  
  This is a great game. Period. It may not have lived up to the hype in some aspects (the plot didn't 
 tie in as well as it could have) but when all things are said and done this game is fantastic. 
 If you like horror shooters, this is a must have for you. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_calzone
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 23, 2005 2:49 am PT
Review:  Graphics: quite good, but very resources-demandig: I think a system that can handle full detail 
 game does not exist yet. Even at an average detail level, the frame rate can undergo hevy drops.
 
  Not everything in the game is top notch: e. g. the levels and the buildings are just a step over 
 basic. I think this is intentional in order to keep the complexity of the scene at a manageable 
 level while the battle gets wild and more processing power is required.
  Character models are a bit repetitives and effects are not always "right": e. g. sometimes there's 
 too much dense dust, or the heat-distortion in the air after a granade explosion appears unnatural.
 
  Gore, amputations and blood are fine, but not state of the art. With regard to this aspect (excluding 
 physics) , SOF2 GHOUL 2 engine remains unchallenged and undisputed hitherto (and it dates back 2002) .
 
  
  Physics: and by that I mean mostly dynamics. Anyway, WTF? You can't even move/pick-up/throw object... 
 that could have added some more spice to the action. Plus some objects are undistructable, not 
 even movable.
  
  Sound: quite horrible, I mean the sounds per se are unrealistic and muffled, expecially the gun 
 shots. On the other side some sound "processings", like temporary partial deafness after a granade 
 explosion or such, are appreciated.
  
  Music: it always annoys me in such games, so I always shut it off. Anyway, nothing exceptional.
 
  
  Gameplay: this is quite good. The gunfights and melees can be very fast paced and frantic. But 
 you can also take your time setting traps with delayed or proximity detonations, mess around with 
 extinguishers, and flammable cans to plan the attack or prevent enemy moves. Bullet-time is only 
 an extra, I never use this.
  
  Story: the story plot is just ridiculous and boring pretending to be well thought and interesting. 
 I couldn't care less, I just wanted to play. Maybe that could work in a graphic adventure, but 
 in a 1st person shooter, I only search good action. Cut scenes are annoying, they only succeed 
 to inopportunely break the action. The "sotrytelling devices" are irritating, you can't even stop 
 them if you shoot'em. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sragzorz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 23, 2005 1:07 am PT
Review:  Most good games generally either have a really compelling story or very fun gameplay. This is one 
 of the first I have played to mix the two without one or the other feeling gimmicky. The attention 
 to detail really stands out. Shoot a guy in the foot and he will start limping. Shoot a box and 
 bits of paper float around the room.
  
  There have been some very obvious "borrowing" from other sources. The shooting and "shootable" 
 environment come straight from the Matrix's infamous lobby scene. The evil little girl is straight 
 out of The Ring (exactly) . But the designers admit to these sources and because they actually add 
 to the experience, you can't claim their are just trying to play on the success of the other sources.
 
  
  The gun battles in the game feel scripted in how well they play out but they are obviously dynamic. 
 You almost get the sense that you are playing against real opponents. It is very exciting for the 
 AI to actually call out what you are doing.
  
  My only complaints are that a few of the levels run on a bit too long without adding unique elements. 
 Also the ending left a few questions left unanswered (not including the cliff-hanger) . But the 
 ending sequences of the game are one of the most rewarding (and awesome) endings to a game I have 
 ever played.
  
  Definitely worth your time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shelbs
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 22, 2005 9:53 pm PT
Review:  The game is great. It looks good, is fun as hell and will literally scare the **** out of you. 
 I nearly pee'd myself at some part's of the game. If you can run it on your computer, you should 
 get it. It is definently worth the money. I run on a GeForce 5600 256MB and the game looks and 
 runs great. It is so worth the buy. I love the multiplayer, it has awesome slomo gametypes and 
 tonz of action to have fun with. It owns and you should buy it right now because it is fun as hell 
 and well worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: one-ring
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2005 9:38 pm PT
Review:  So my dad got this game and I had played the demo so let me play this to check out how good the 
 actual game is. I played it for hours straight (my back and neck didn't like me very much for that) , 
 and I must say it is definetly NOT a rental. The gameplay is somewhat repetitive as far as battles 
 are concerned but the action is always great. Although when you're not battling and just running 
 around, it's highly repetitive. You run through buildings in the quietest setting I've ever heard, 
 some light flickering, checking voicemail on people's phones, uploading files from laptops, Alma 
 popping out of nowhere, and the occasional visionary type thing. Albeit the name, this game isn't 
 all that scary but it does make you jump every once in a while. Even though this game does have 
 some scary moments the environment isn't dark like Doom 3. There were only a few times where it 
 was dark and you actually needed to use your flashlight. The graphics are definetly awesome and 
 this game really likes to eat video cards but my 512 MB video card laughs at this game. All in 
 all I think this is a great game that will interest almost any skilled gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 11, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  One of the biggest problems with horror games these days is that they are rarely actually horrifying. 
 The biggest scares you get from 'scary' games are usually just jumps as a result of some sort of 
 surprise. F. E. A. R. sets out to do what survival horror games are actually supposed to do - scare 
 you. And it does that, quite well in fact. Unfortunately, by the end of the game, you'll probably 
 find that the scares are the only thing keeping you going since the rest of the game is actually 
 pretty repetitive.
  
  First Encounter Assault and Recon tells the story of a military unit assigned to take out paranormal 
 targets (not surprisingly, the unit is called F. E. A. R.) . You play as a nameless and faceless new 
 recruit to this unit who has some very strange abilities such as incredible reflexes. The game 
 begins with a mad psychic who takes control of an army telepathically and takes over a multimillion 
 dollar corporation's headquarters. Your team is assigned to take this psycho out.
  
  However, this is quite difficult because he has control of an army. Not to mention the fact that 
 there is a mysterious girl running around the facility who seems to be able to completely annihilate 
 people without so much as raising a finger.
  
  As you progress through the facility, you start to learn about what exactly has happened here and 
 why this little girl is causing so much trouble. You also learn how you came to acquire these strange 
 powers. The single player storyline is really good and is pretty much the only thing that kept 
 me attached to this game after a while.
  
  The gameplay itself is not as impressive as the story. It should be noted that for a while the 
 gameplay is great because of the unique features and great graphics. One of the unique features 
 stems from the characters heightened reflexes. You can activate the reflexes and essentially slow 
 down time for a short period of... er... time. Because of the astounding graphics and audio, the 
 result is a experience reminiscent of Matrix bullet-time.
  
  Another great thing about the gameplay is partially due to the impressive graphics. Firefights 
 can sometimes lead to pure chaos. Everything about the game is so exaggerated that at times it 
 really feels like an action movie. When you shoot a wall, there aren't just a few sparks; chunks 
 of the wall will fly out and clouds of smoke will fly into the air... and there are plenty of sparks. 
 In some areas of the game, you can get so much debris flying that it's almost hard to see. This 
 really increases the intensity of the combat and makes bullet-time look really cool.
  
  F. E. A. R. also has very impressive A. I. Enemies in this game can do things that I have never seen 
 done in a game before. They will communicate with one another, take cover, and even try to surpress 
 and flank you. The enemies are so smart that you really feel like you've accomplished something 
 everytime a firefight ends.
  
  Then, of course, there are the scares. F. E. A. R. is very frightening. The little girl, named Alma, 
 is sort of psychic and will flash disturbing images through your mind. Your character will also 
 experience frequent shocking hallucinations. In addition, you're very isolated throughout much 
 of the game and you often feel very tense. Mix all of this together and you get a very nerve-racking 
 game that will actually scare you.
  
  Unfortunately, only one of these gameplay elements stays fresh and that's the scares. F. E. A. R. 
 is a very linear game that takes place mostly in bland industrial areas that all look pretty much 
 the same. The lack of interesting environments is pretty disappointing given the graphical capabilities 
 of this game. Even worse is the fact that you're going to be fighting mostly the same enemies over 
 and over again throughout the enite game and although they're smart, it gets fairly easy and repetitive.
 
  
  Most disappointing is the fact that the bullet-time gets old. At first it is remarkable and tons 
 of fun, but it eventually becomes just another tool that you use to take down enemies and little 
 else. This sucks since bullet-time was one of the most hyped things about this game.
  
  Despite all of this, F. E. A. R. has a fantastic storyline and scares that don't get old. The final 
 sequence starts with a terrifying image and evolves into the most intense and difficult segment 
 of the entire game (which makes sense since it's the end) . The final cinematic is sure to drop 
 some jaws.
  
  F. E. A. R. is a good first-person shooter. Unfortunately, it's not much more than that. It has tons 
 of great aspects to it, but they all lose their appeal until you feel like your only still playing 
 just to find out who you and Alma are. Maybe I'm the only one who feels this way, but I wish F. E. A. R. 
 could've found a way to keep the great things about it fresh, so that the second to last level 
 could be just as interesting as the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_knight150
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 22, 2005 9:07 pm PT
Review:  I'll just start off by saying I loved this game. I loved it so much, I played it all the time. 
 But a review isn't for me to rave about how much I don't have a life. I guess I should start on 
 the positives (alot of them)
  This game is full of great gameplay elements that other games try to mimic. The AI is excellent, 
 where in some instances after a fire fight, would stagger for cover or call for reinforcements. 
 They work in groups, flanking you and give away your position. They also bark commands to each 
 other, and again with the plea for reinforcements, they can tell you that there aren't too many 
 left. There are the conventional weapoins, but that's where the cool stuff happens. Dual pistols, 
 penetrator, and pulse rifle are a number of awesome weapons which you have at your disposal. You 
 can only carry three weapons, but this is cool because it forces you to add some stragety into 
 your inventory. You also grenades and other explosives. The levels, although sometimes seeming 
 linear, are nicely presented with a lot of detail and depth. You'll know you've been through a 
 room, just by looking at the amount of destruction. Decals from bullets and grenades will also 
 mark up the walls which is a nice touch. Ah, the story, i loved it. It does infact have mystery 
 elements mixed in, pertaining to your past and exactly what Paxton (the guy your chasing) wants. 
 I won't reveal too much, but it circles around a little girl who's been following you around since 
 the beginning of the mission and the identity of everyone in the game. All this mixed up together, 
 and it's one hell of a game.
  Just to be fair, I'll throw some general observations. The game does have some steep hardware required 
 for playing it, so make sure you have atleast the system requirements. Another thing I noticed 
 was in some areas, the shadows, when crept up against, would cling to my weapon and black out the 
 bottom portion of my screen. It only happened once, and to fix it all I did was save and reload. 
 Those are the only real annoyances I encountered, so do yourself a favor and buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Hollowell-
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 22, 2005 7:50 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is by far the best Action Adventure FPS I have played. If you've ever wanted to be in 
 the shoes of a character in a scary movie this is for you. The little girl who appears out of no 
 where, and walks across hallways is as scary and odd as the girl in "Amityville Horror." The theatrical 
 timing is great in every scary sequence. The game a continually flowing storyline, and integrates 
 it very well into the game play. There is nothing worse than a game like Metal Gear Solid where 
 every other minute there is a cut scene that takes you away from the game. In F. E. A. R. the storyline 
 is conveyed to the player through voice mails people leave other employees in the Armacham building 
 (one of the buildings you go through) , and through your F. E. A. R. leader hacking laptops you find. 
 It makes the game run smoothly and whats great is for you all gamers who have ADHD you don't have 
 to listen to the phone messages if you don't want to. Something similar to Doom 3. 
  
  The weaponry in this game is great. It ranges from dual pistols, to smg's, assault rifles, rail 
 guns, and a fission gun that cooks the skin of enemy's and all that is left is their skeleton. 
 Not to mention the amazing explosive devices you can use. From your regular frag grenade to proximity 
 mines, to remote detonation grenades. This brings me to praise the enemy A. I. in the game. Not 
 only does F. E. A. R.'s A. I. put the "intelligence" into artificial intelligence, it takes it to another 
 level. They A. I. try to flank, give covering fire, and even talk back and forth to each other. 
 Which is very cool when you're in a fire fight with a squad of cloned soldiers and one of them 
 yells a profanity about a mother and something else. It adds a sense of realism to the game where 
 realism is sometimes left behind. 
  
  Nothing is more fun than to ambush a squad of your enemy just by yourself. I can remember one time 
 where there is a bottle neck in the office where I lead a squad of my enemy to their doom. Since 
 they react and follow you if you shoot at them, just like in real life. I laid down a proximity 
 mine right at the mouth of the bottle neck. Waited a few seconds, and hear the click of the mine 
 shooting in the air. The next thing I hear is about 5 soldiers screaming before they die. I walk 
 around the corner to see my annihilation, and what do I see? Yes you guessed it (or maybe not if 
 you didn't realize how gruesome) I see 5 bodies laying there, with blood splattered everywhere, 
 and one body blown in half. Yes blown in half. Its very fun to go hunting with the shotgun. Head 
 getting blown off, bodies getting blown in half, and the amazing point blank shot. Oh my, just 
 a mist of blood, and nothing but meat chunks laying on the ground.
  
  The graphics and sound in this game are great. The only downside to this game that I see is graphical 
 resource drain this game has. I have a decent computer, its no super computer by any standards, 
 but it was at it's prime probably a year ago. And it runs it fine, with no lag or anything at medium 
 settings. I push that baby to highest settings and for the love of God I think I may have gotten 
 3-4 frames per second. I assume the engine just has some tweaking to be done on it. But that will 
 come in a later patch. But in Monolith's defense, when has Monolith put out a game that hasn't 
 been a drain on resources.
  
  This game is a must buy, to be compared to its competitors. I had as much fun playing this game 
 as HL2, and Doom. It steps up the game in the A. I. department over the two games, and the game 
 play is superior to Doom. It has a much better storyline than both, and is overall better. I give 
 this game a 9.5. Everything is perfect except for the graphical issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larryoo77
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 22, 2005 7:14 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R's a good and enjoyable game, it deserve the high scores but the negative in this game are 
 the system requiremnts 
  If you are dissatisfied with the level of detail that your system can
  handle, then you may wish 
 to consider upgrading. F. E. A. R.'s
  performance is most affected by your video card, followed closely by the
  CPU speed and the amount 
 of installed memory in your machine. A high end.
  video card and CPU will usually result in considerable frame rate
  mprovements, while installing 
 more RAM will result in shorter load times
  and less hitching during game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -l-Vicious-l-
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2005 12:53 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw F. E. A. R. before it was released, the first thing that came to my mind was that 
 this game will probably just me all graphics, no play........ Oh man was i so wrong. Not only does 
 this game have probably the best graphics in a current FPS (right next to Quake 4) , but the story 
 is something that i have been waiting for in awhile, with a curve at the end that is just plain 
 bizzare. 
  
  Usually in the FPS genre you'll see Sci Fi, Tactical or War driven plots, which isnt bad at all 
 to be honest. These things date back to the prehistoric age for FPS games (Castle Wolfenstein, 
 Doom) , but F. E. A. R. takes another approuch with having Horror being the main aspect about the game, 
 and actually making it good. Anyway im going to keep this review real short. 
  
  First thing is that this game introduces physics like ive never seen before in any FPS game. Gun 
 physics are just amazing. Never been in a real gun fight and want to know what it feels like? This 
 is probably the closest you'll get to something like that. Another thing for those that don't know 
 is that this games empliment bullet time methods for having you slow mo in the middle of a gun 
 fight (something like max payne's bullet time) , which actually isnt a bad thing considering all 
 the crazyness you got to go through just to get by. Another reason the slow motion effect is cool 
 is the guns effects on basicly everything in the game. Shoot the gun at the wall and you get particles 
 and debre coming out of it. Seeing all this happen in slow motion during an extremly intense fight 
 is definitly something to watch.
  
  Now the bad things about the game is in general having alot of things limited. One thing you'll 
 notice is that the whole damn game takes place in indoor warehouses or offices. It just tends to 
 get annoying and old quickly. Another thing is the fights with the bots. Everything is expected 
 like in the previous fights, same scene, same situation, same result. The SP seemed short for me, 
 got done with it in 7 and a half hours. Not something you'll enjoy to much when you basicly spend 
 50 bucks on it. The weapons get dull and boring after awhile, and the rocket launcher sucked for 
 me, thing is basicly usless and ugly. Last thing i can think of in this moment is the game being 
 quite boring around 3/4ths of it, it gets very repetitive.
  
  Over all excluding those minor drawbacks, this game is definitly a game that you should check out 
 if you like FPS games. With a plot that is just on top of its game, this is something we'll be 
 hearing alot from in the near future... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vacuuum
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 22, 2005 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This game was highly anticipated because of it's graphics and gameplay. However, it is too intense 
 on hardware that it could not run smoothly on my Computer that has:
  
  AMD Athlon 64 Processor
  1.81 Hz 1024 RAM
  ATI FireGL V3100 (128 Video Memory)
  
  It pretty 
 much crawls at 1024x768 resolution, lags on 800x600.
  The game is horror based, and when "surpring" things happen, the computer needs about a second 
 to load whatever it needs to show. This takes a away a lot from the gameplay. The game ran smoothly 
 on 640x480 settings with all the options dumbed down. 
  So if you have a high performance computer, this will be a great game, but if your system is weaker 
 than what I have, then you'll probably be disappointed. Sierra has been known for groundbreaking 
 games such as Half-Life 1&2, Chronicles of Riddick: Escape From Butcher Bay, and the S. W. A. T. series. 
 This could've been more enjoyable if it performed like Half-Life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nucleus_ma
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 22, 2005 12:04 pm PT
Review:  FEAR has geat game play that make spend all your time 2 finish it and game story is perfect and 
 you never find out what happen in next step graphics are great but not perfect there is some problem 
 in tuxtures and effects are incridibles specialy in combats that make u exciting and sounds works 
 good and music is not boring but u need very powerfull system 2 play it smootly and some effect 
 like soft shadow is so heavy that makes game some tims locked up for 10 sec but if we can runaway 
 from system problem we can say it was very good game that can be the best action game in 2005 so 
 enjoy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xp_celik
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 22, 2005 11:13 am PT
Review:  One more thing about this game play it in dark wiht the lights turned off heheheheeh and try to 
 close the door of your room because somebody might get in and scare the **** out off you so don't 
 try this if you're not very 
  self conffident that you cannot easylie be scared. 
  One more thing I almost forgot if you don't have the rgiht computer graphic 
  don't even think 
 about buying or even getting a demo version because it sucks the hell out off your computer graphics 
 and proccess.
  I don't know with what to fill this thing about that comes every time I try oo submit so I'm writting 
 the bad sides of this review . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RolandGS
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 22, 2005 10:14 am PT
Review:  Graphically unimpressive. HL2 looks great on my pc hardware (3.0 Gig, Rad 9800 - 128) This game, 
 not so much. Environments are stale and repeatitive. Story is wonderful and interesting with great 
 atmosphere and sound to back it up. Gameplay is solid but again suffers from repeatition. I. E. 
 Clone army = killing the same guy many many many times... Enemy AI is the best I have ever seen.
 
  
  RolandGS
  
  UPDATE! FIX THE GOOFY HOLES IN THE ENVIRONMENT! You get shot by the AI through solid walls in this 
 game if they a far enough away it seems. Plus the blast radius of a granade propagates thru solid 
 walls and floors - not cardboard walls but solid structures! Not being able to move objects via 
 the physics engine is a real let down (barrels, other exposixe items) Things like this make certain 
 parts of the game extremely frustrating and unrealistic. Yes the game looks good (not great) , 
 yes the AI is outstanding (best ever) but there are elements of other great FPS that are just plainly 
 missing here. I do not understand how this game got such a lofty score from the SPOT. The AI is 
 not everything. Simply put this game is not a complete package. I updated my score as I am deeper 
 in the game now. I gave the Gameplay a hard hit as there are plainly some bugs in here that need 
 to be fixed and other gameplay elements that don't exist. I up'd the sound to a 10 as the atmosphere 
 plainly rocks and the jumps and frights put Doom3 to shame. I dropped the value way down as I think 
 this could have been a much better game if the developers worked on it more and added more gameplay 
 elements that used more environmental action as well as the physics engine. In the end I am have 
 fun and enjoying the game but could have been so so SO much better!
  
  RGS
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flipisgod
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 22, 2005 9:30 am PT
Review:  Really solid game - perhaps one of the best FPS to date. 
  Graphics as noted are truly amazing, if your system can handle them. When hiding behind a wall 
 in a firefight the debris puts up dust that takes awhile to settle. Making it hard to see your 
 opponents at times, but adding greatly to the realism of the game. There are any number of effects 
 like that in this game. But it does beat up your system.
  
  Can't say enough about the AI. They really do flank you and take cover well. I had one opponent 
 (that was nearly finished) run away, actually firing over his head wildly at me as he fled. Enemy 
 lowcrawling and diving through windows is also the norm. Truly fantastic.
  
  The ghostly characters (that randomly appear) really do startle you well - in completely unexpected 
 locations. I have repeatedly fired at them thinking they were real - which often brings the live 
 enemies down on you. Good stuff.
  
  Nothing earthshattering about the weapons and gameplay. All pretty standard stuff. Since this is 
 a FPS at heart, this in not a bad thing. 
  
  The only weakness with the game is the levels which lack wide variety. After playing about half 
 way through the game, I have seen alot of the same thing. But the shock value, AI, and graphics 
 makes this one I would suggest buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kurtizz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 5, 2005 7:46 am PT
Review:  What i really like about F. E. A. R is that it isn't just a FPS.
  When you are firing with your pistol or gun it looks great.
  When you shoot the walls they get 
 damaged.
  If you fire and hit your opponents it looks very realistic.
  For example: shoot in the knee and they will limp, shoot in the head and they could lose their 
 head. It depends on which weapon you use.
  
  This is my second review. The first one was when I played the demo.
  This one is when I played 
 the whole game and I finished the game in 2 weeks.
  
  Now the negative points.
  the graphics are nice but if you want good graphics, you are going to have a fast and strong computer. 
 My computer could run the game with no problems on the medium settings.
  
  It comes to my conclusion that this game is THE best game I've ever played.
  The story is terrific. The 
 story is about a girl with supernatural powers.
  Later in the game you will discover many things about the girl and you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buyakia
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 22, 2005 1:13 am PT
Review:  this game is great i played the demo's (not the real game yet) but i plan on getting the real game 
 the graphics are great and the singleplayer is Very ScArY.
  
  the only thing i can dock marks for on this is the slow mo. some people already are saying about 
 me, "this guy must be retarded or something, but i like it at the same time. i think the slow mo 
 is sweet but it makes the game very fake and very easy to beat. i will get this game though (in 
 a while) because i am waiting till battlefield 2: special forces but i will of course suggest you 
 to buy this game as soon as u can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warcraftfan1566
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 22, 2005 12:58 am PT
Review:  FEAR surpasses Doom, Far-cry, Quake, and any other shooter out there to date. It has truly cutting 
 edge graphics and a style of game-play that although repetitive at times, never gets boring. From 
 the blood gushing, cuss words, awesome AI, and limbs flying every which way, FEAR is a game that 
 will keep you hooked for many months to come. As the story unravels you become more and more into 
 it. You really DO want to find out the mystery of that freaky little girl that keeps scaring the 
 crap out of you. FEAR, although mostly an action game, at times delves into the horror genre. Unlike 
 DOOM, FEAR doesnt overuse the scary stuff to the point of it getting old and annoying. Unlike Far-Cry, 
 the AI is smart, and the graphics are much more crisp and detailed, not to mention the amazing 
 physics and destructible environment. Another important asset that makes this game so great is 
 the "Bullet Time" as some call it. This special ability to go into slow-motion gives you a whole 
 new view of the battle. See a grenade go through mid-air and detonate as it touches your enemies 
 chest. Then watch in awe as his upper body flies into tiny pieces and his legs are blown across 
 the room. See the shotgun blow off heads, or the beam gun turn a body into a skeletal heap. The 
 excitement and fun never ends with FEAR, and it is truly a game for the record books. Simply amazing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skrotum
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 22, 2005 12:45 am PT
Review:  well.. don't really know what to say. Im stunned! all the weapons feel good, the gameplay feels 
 good, slowmo feels good. It's so cool to come into a room with 5guys or more and activate slowmo 
 and kill em all and then stand there when the dust settles to se how you owned them all:) and the 
 ending sequence.. man.. i didn't even think stuff like that was possible in realtime in games, 
 that was soo cool:) and as for the multiplayer it's great too. with slowmo and teamplay and all 
 the that. the weapons feels great there too. just jump in and fire away at everything that moves:) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AFraud
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 22, 2005 12:25 am PT
Review:  I'm unimpressed with this game so far. While I've only played a few hours in, I can honestly say 
 I've given it the benefit of the doubt. If a novel or movie doesn't grab you on the first page 
 or in the first scene, do you continue reading or watching, or do you generally just descend into 
 boredom or leave the theater or stop reading in disgust? 
  
  FEAR's story, or what little story I can ascertain, is massively cheesy, and not remotely scary 
 (it seems like a bad ripoff of the ring, mixed with lame Metal Gear type nonsense about clone soldiers 
 and telepaths) . Environments and enemies are ridiculously repetitive. The graphics are bland (textures 
 in particular look like crap, even on maximum) . I hate most of the weapons. Why are the majority 
 of them stuck in a wildly inaccurate semi-auto mode? It makes them almost useless. 
  
  About the only things that set FEAR apart from the heaps of other shooters out there are the melee 
 combat (and even that's not unique, as it was a key part of what made Riddick popular) , and the 
 AI, which is above average, possibly on par with Half-Life 2. FEAR reminds me of Doom 3, and not 
 in a good way. This game is definitely not in the same league as Half-Life 2 or FarCry. I really 
 feel like I just wasted $50. Why am I telling you guys this? I'm not doing it just to whine. I'm 
 trying to save other people from wasting their money. This is an overglorified, overhyped bargain 
 bin title. Don't waste your time, or maybe wait until it drops to $20. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandallsRaiders
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 21, 2005 11:46 pm PT
Review:  U'll find that F. E. A. R. IS JUST NOT UP TO SPEED WHEN COMPARED TO A SIMILAR MORE SUPERIOR SHOOTER 
 FARCRY... This game looks like what is left over from HALF-LIFE 1... and subsequent Half-Life games... 
 Yeah ... it's got a lot of firepower and some interesting movie clips... but it lacks the graphic 
 excitement that FARCRY offers... it's an arcade-type shooter... a mazeof metal stairs and gray 
 hallways with an occasional jumping puzzle to solve...
  The enemy soldiers, gray helmeted clones, that looked and acted stiff with predictable movement 
 along with reruns of the same action segments over and over again, lack the life-like element of 
 FarCry's soldiers... BORING I'd rate it overall at a 3.5 and that is a gift for great sound effects 
 and crude language and annoying musical track... Don't believe the Hype !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spin_dogg
Rating: 6.6
Date: Oct 21, 2005 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Seeing the great reviews this game was getting, I decided to spend some of the little money I have 
 left on it. I finished it just now, and I'm very disappointed. Even running almost everything on 
 the maximum settings, I found the graphics not even close to as good as HL2 or Far Cry. The level 
 design is also pretty bad - completely linear. The levels are also quite similar to each other, 
 and the object decoration is laughably bland. This is not even close to what we had over a year 
 and a half ago from Far Cry. 
  
  I did the think the music was very good. Gunfire, etc. was servicable, but nothing special. Far 
 Cry still sounds better to me.
  
  The AI was much better than HL2 (thank goodness) but I didn't find it to be the godsend the reviews 
 made it out to be. Sometimes the bad guys go for cover, but I really didn't have too much trouble 
 with them at all - almost no surprise flankings, etc. I thought the AI in Far Cry was much stronger 
 - there might not be quite as much squad-level tactics from the AI in Far Cry, but the individual 
 baddies were much better at taking cover and surprising you. 
  
  The "scary" bits in this game were ok, but I thought the story was highly undeveloped. If they 
 were going to rip off "The Ring", they should have ripped it off a lot more. There isn't even a 
 good boss fight at the end. 
  
  Overall, I think it's quite obvious the developers ran out of time producing this game. It's short, 
 the levels aren't well decorated and are practically undifferentiable from each other, there is 
 a very limited selection of enemies, and the story is very bare-bones. This game could have been 
 a lot more, but as it is it is not nearly worth $50. There are a lot worse shooters, but compared 
 to the recent greats in the genre, HL2 and Far Cry, this game, in my opinion, does not deserve 
 the ratings it's getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrOpinionated
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 21, 2005 10:34 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is probably the best shooter of the year. This game is what Doom 3 should have been like. 
 The firefights are intense, the enemy soldiers are smart, and the horror puts Doom 3 to shame.
 
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics in FEAR are definitley more impressive than Doom 3. Light sources cast excellent shadows. 
 Objects fly through the air as the room is ripped apart with bullets and explosions. When the game 
 goes into slow motion, you can see the bullet trails as they rip through the air leaving impressive 
 trails as they impact into your enemies resulting in puffs of blood being sprayed everywhere.
 
  
  Sound
  
  The sound in this game is excellent. From voice acting to objects being thrown around by gunfire, 
 it all helps immerse yourself in the experiance.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The Artificial Intelligence in this game is impressive. They act as a squad, track your movements, 
 flank you, and will kick your butt many times. When you're not in intense firefights, you investigate 
 strange paranormal activities occuring all around you. These scares are way more effective than 
 Doom 3's closet monster tactics.
  
  Conclusion
  
  If you like a great single player FPS, get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaphan3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 21, 2005 10:04 pm PT
Review:  I just finished this game, and wow must I say this has to be one of the most enjoyable games I 
 have played in a long time.
  
  To start off lets talk about the looks of this game. IMO this game has better graphics then Half-life 
 2. Now since my computer cant handle this game on full spec I was running on medium. It still looked 
 beautiful! Shadowing is perfect. Reflections are very slick. I could just go on and on. 
  
  Now in the gameplay department. This has been the only game I have bothered to touch in the last 
 3 to 4 days. So I would say theres about 10 to 15 hours worth of game time. Multiplayer is very 
 fun as well, but it is very fast paced and takes time to get used to. Aswell as fun this game is 
 very realistic. NPC react to bullets as they would in real life. Getting shot in the chest makes 
 them fall back. A limb shot would make them limp. They react to explosions realistic ways too. 
 They get blown back then get back up. Also, the AI is this game is simply AMAZING. The NPCs try 
 to flank you, pin you down, and try almost anything to stop you. The story of this game is very 
 compelling and very scary at the same time. 
  
  Now there were a few things that somewhat disappointed me. Like in the trailers there were alot 
 of footage that was shown, but wasnt in the game.*cough* *cough* the car chase * cough* Which kinda 
 left me feeling there should be more to the game. Also, the game can be a bit linere at times but 
 its all good. Other then that this has to be one of the best games this year and possibly most 
 of next year. I am allready on the second time though the game. I really enjoyed this game. And 
 I hope you will to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2005 7:46 pm PT
Review:  
  Before you spend 50 bucks, just be aware that FEAR's level design is extraordinarily repetitive. 
 
  
  Its a shame because Monolith made the first "No One Lives Foever" game which had great, varied, 
 large inventive levels. Whoever designed the boring levels in FEAR must be a new hire at Monolith.
 
  
  Honestly I'm having more fun with Quake 4 at a higher difficulty. Quake 4 single-player is old 
 school, but lots of fun.
  
  FEAR's enemy is great but playing the full game is like playing the demo over and over 
  and 
 over and over 
  and over again. 
  
  Its official: FEAR is Over-Hyped. 
  
  Bleh. Dont say I didn't warn you.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaf31664
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 21, 2005 6:06 pm PT
Review:  I was completely skeptical of this game, but thirty minutes into it and I was a believer.... It 
 was everything I originally expected from Doom3..... The way it set the mood for each encounter 
 was straight from my favorite horror movies! The music fits every encounter to a tee and the AI 
 is superb. I've never seen a computer generated foe jump over an obstacle simply to get away from 
 my bullets.... Nice touches like the "lean" motion and the movement of the CG characters is convincing. 
 Nice graphics and shadow work, but I believe I'm going to need to beef up my video card to see 
 this puppy as it was intended. In fact, the only drawback I see so far, is that they had to release 
 a patch so soon after the official game release! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fattybombom
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 21, 2005 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Tis is no doom 3....
  
  you get scared because nothing happens when you are waiting for it..
  when you have cooled down 
 thinking ok nothing here THEN it happens..
  
  the grafics of cours is greate.. but extremely demanding..
  
  when you are shooting you are 
 just waiting for the recoil cause theese guns feel sound and look like real guns (most of them anyway)
 
  
  the story is no oscar but feel appropriate and decently written/preformed
  
  firefights are the most intene you have seen so far..
  the greate guns combined whits this super 
 intelegent A. I (if there is such a thing this game has it)
  
  have no doubts you wil never regret buying this game...
  
  so what are you sitting here reading 
 for go buy it and treat yourself with the greatest game so far this year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogiants46
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 21, 2005 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Even before it got it's rightful praise this year at E3, I've had my eye on VU Games gothic FPS 
 known as F. E. A. R. or First Encounter Assault Recon. It's hard to know where to start the game is 
 beautiful, fun, scary and very gory, and it is the first time I've ever screamed the words "Holy 
 S..." while playing a game. I mean I've played Doom 3, all the Silent Hill games, both The Suffering 
 games, and until now I've yet to experience the sheer terror that is F. E. A. R. 
  
  The game's visuals are the best I've ever seen in any PC game, ever. The amount of detail that 
 went into this game blows me away, the smoke from bullets when they hit the wall, to the sparks 
 that fly off pieces of metal when they are shot. The character models are bulky, and move in a 
 very life like way. It's difficult to describe how incredibly good this game looks, but to run 
 it you will need a very state of the art machine. I'm running on 1GB Ram, 3.4 Ghz processor, with 
 a Nvidia 6800 and I still cannot top out the game without significant slowdown, so be pre-warned, 
 you will need a very very powerful machine. But that aside, it is definely worth every penny you 
 will need to upgrade as this along with many other games like it need a powerful machine.
  
  The games sound is also very moody. When you shoot a gun, it sounds like you are shooting a 
 gun. The game's sound design is on par with Doom 3, so just expect a lot of scares and jumps along 
 the way.
  
  If you a fan of FPS's or just games in general, I think this will be a hard game to pass up at 
 any cost. As a warning, if movies like The Ring scare you, you might want to approach this game 
 in caution as it bares an uncanny resemblance. As I thought the movie to be quite ... well not 
 very scary at all, it was remarkable that the game has gotten to me like it has. Best PC, if not 
 best overall game this year. Rounds of applause for VU Games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scetchy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 24, 2005 2:54 am PT
Review:  Great game!!! Cool gameplay, graphics, superb technology! 
  Arguably the most significant gameplay feature in F. E. A. R. is the ability to slow down time, a 
 la The Matrix, and wreak havoc on your enemies and their surroundings with stylistic abandon. Going 
 into slow-mo is as easy as hitting the tab key, though the duration is governed by a meter that 
 slowly refills as you run around at normal speed. You won't keep your own speed while you slow 
 down enemies; you move as slugglishy as they do while the effect is enabled, which takes some getting 
 used to. It does give you more time to react, though, and more importantly, it lets you watch sparks, 
 shards of glass, and plenty of other debris exploding impressively around you in the midst of brutal 
 firefights. Monolith has focused on giving the battles in F. E. A. R. a hyperkinetic quality that's 
 perfectly suited to being viewed in slow motion. We can imagine all kinds of nifty applications 
 for this effect later on in the game; hopefully, the designers can too. There will presumably be 
 a story-related explanation for your ability to manipulate time in this fashion, but Monolith and 
 Vivendi are being pretty coy about the game's plot for the time being, so we'll be left to wonder 
 what exactly is going on in this creepy, atmospheric game as its release approaches. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pantehre2
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2005 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I did truly love this game. It was spectacular. It did a lot and did it pretty well. The graphics 
 were clean and looked good. The sounds and atmoshpere the game created were absolutely astounding. 
 In terms of gameplay, the game was also right on save for a few of my biggest gripes. The gun battles 
 were as gamespot says some of the best. However, the enemies were far to repetative as were the 
 battles themselves. Each individual battle played out differently but the overall setting was the 
 same. A handful of baddies with guns in a wide open space with cover to duck behind. Shuffle around, 
 use some SloMo, blast the shotty or rockets or whatever, duck behind cover, repeat. The enemies 
 were indeed intelligent.... to a point. Overall the game is excellent but the game could have done 
 without several of the repetitive elements (i. e. the battles, enemies, guns, and environments) . 
 As far as the creepy factor goes... its goes a long way in making the game what it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mithan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 21, 2005 11:44 am PT
Review:  
  Originally, I was not waiting for FEAR, though I am a FPS Freak. It just slipped under my personal 
 game radar and I was much more interested in Quake 4 and Call of Duty 2, which are coming out at 
 basically the same time. When I played the Demo for the first time, I was not overly impressed 
 either. The frame rate kind of sucked and it just seemed like some type of dark horror game that 
 didnt interest me much. However, I later got bored one night and redownloaded the demo again and 
 gave it another shot, and this time, I really enjoyed it. I think the main reason why is that I 
 took my time playing through it, so that totally changed my opinion.
  
  Graphics:
  Monolith has been making game engines for a while, but they usually seemed to be a tad behind the 
 best from id Software or Epic Games. This time around, FEAR is absolutely cutting edge and can 
 go head to head with the best out there because the graphics are simply awesome. Graphically, everything 
 is very well done. Textures are well done and crisp. Shadows and lightening are very well done 
 and the particle effects are just amazingly well done overall.
  
  When everything is totally cranked right up, this game is definitely an improvement on Half Life 
 2 and Doom 3, which up to now have probably been the ultimate in PC Game graphics. However, I doubt 
 most people will play it at that quality level unless you have the latest CPU and nVidia or ATI 
 graphics cards. Even if you play at medium type settings, the game will run extremely well on a 
 top end system from last year and the graphics will still be great.
  
  The frame rates on my own system were very good, and I was running at a auto-detected setting of 
 medium for computer. My system is a AMD 64 3400, 1 gig of ram and a 6800 GT Video Card. I was 
 very happy with it and the game looked good.
  
  Story:
  The games story is actually fairly interesting, which is important, because it helps keep you focused 
 and keeps pulling you through the game. However as much as I enjoyed the overall story, I think 
 it could have been presented better because there are just too many details left out. While I 
 did not care about being able to hack into laptops like other people have mentioned, I do feel 
 that more detail and facts could have been presented in this story.
  
  I think if Monolith had taken the time to flesh out the story a bit more, it would turned FEAR 
 into possibly another Half Life or Halo class game, where people dont just play for the game but 
 they play to see how the story is told as well.
  
  Control Feel:
  One thing I hate is that some FPSs come out and try to redefine how a FPS should be controlled. 
 Pariah is a prime example of a good game gone to hell due to the Developers being stupid with the 
 way the game is controlled. I can happily say that the control and feel of the game feels just 
 like most other FPSs out there that we enjoy and this is GOOD.
  
  Weapons:
  There are about 7 or 8 weapons in the game, varying from a Pistol (which you can dual wield) to 
 a gun that shoots a beam that instantly fries your enemies, leaving a skeleton on the ground. The 
 weapons are decent and get the job done and I had no problems with them. You can carry 3 at once, 
 which adds some strategy as well. The weapon effects are decent too and you have the now standard 
 accuracy cone as well as being able to aim down the site for a bit more accuracy.
  
  Combat:
  Each gun battle seems like a bit of a puzzle, where you match wits against the AI to 
 kick their ass while not taking any damage yourself (or as little as possible) . You also have the 
 option of using your SlowMo key, which acts like Bullet Time in Max Payne or like how time slows 
 down around Neo in the Matrix. There are no impossible encounters (at least on Moderate Difficulty) 
 and this is a good thing and I think most people will appreciate this.
  
  The combat overall is just rock solid, fun and the games biggest selling point IMO.
  
  AI and 
 Physics:
  I found the AI to be very good. Ok, no it isnt a god AI, so for those expecting it, dont, but 
 it is light years ahead of most previous games. Enemies definitely do use many different strategies 
 in their combat against you, and this keeps you on your toes. Even when your reload and do an area 
 over, you will find that sometimes they will do things you didnt expect. Physics are very well 
 done in the game and enjoyable. Nothing beats blowing a soldier in half with your Shot Gun or nailing 
 them to the wall with the Bolt Gun. There are no HL2 type puzzles here, but thats ok, it wouldnt 
 really fit into the game.
  
  Level Design:
  There is nothing extraordinary here, just very well done levels that make sense and are not stupidly 
 designed. I actually enjoyed the way the game was put together as it was logical for once. The 
 only thing about level design is that I wish there was more variety in the game, instead of just 
 office building type settings, but what was here was good.
  
  Scariness:
  The game is supposed to be a horror/action game, but other than two areas that surprised me when 
 a monster jumped up, I was not scared at all. The tension I felt playing Doom 3 didnt really exist 
 either and this is not a bad thing, since I felt that Doom 3 was way too dependent on rear attacks, 
 lighting and monsters spawning in (which I hate) . Still, I think it had just the proper amount 
 of tension and it didnt wear you down like Doom 3 did.
  
  Cons:
  There were about 3 things I didnt like in this game:
  -Story not being detailed enough.
  -Lack 
 of a real stealth ability in the game (I would of liked to sneak up more and pop guys in the head)
 
  -Not enough variety in the levels.
  
  Overall:
  I enjoyed the game a lot. It isnt as good as Half Life 2, mainly because Half Life 2 had a better 
 presented story, game play types (Car, Hovercraft, puzzles, ant-lion area, tripods near the end, 
 gravity gun usage) and just longer game play, but FEAR is definitely a must buy for First Person 
 Action fans. The game is just exceptionally well done and could make FPS of the year (Lets see 
 how COD2 is first) .
  
  Again, I want to thank Monolith for not making the game stupid either by adding stupid areas in 
 the game or having stupidly designed levels. I just really enjoyed how the game played through 
 with logical and fun level designs, good battles and nothing idiotic.
  
  So what sets this one apart or why should you get it?
  If you want a FPS that is logical, decent 
 story, has strategic combat and a very high level of overall quality, I think you should pick this 
 up. To me, the biggest overall selling point of this game is how the combat plays out. Each situation 
 is fun, unique and strategic and that is what I enjoyed the most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tkemory
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 21, 2005 10:18 am PT
Review:  My experience with F. E. A. R. has given me mixed emotions, I like so much about it but there are 
 some areas that have me torn.
  
  I love the overall concept and the story seems well thought out so far. They went for the horror 
 but not like Doom 3 where everything was so dark you couldn't see; its done with sound, visualizations 
 and suprise.
  
  My first disapointment has to be in the textures. I keep going into the settings to see if I forgot 
 to turn something all the way up and find in disapointment each time that I have everything maxed. 
 Alot of the textures used for the environment just aren't what they should be in the day and age. 
 Also the water looks very strange, almost like mercury or something but not water. The character 
 models look pretty good though, especially in the pre-rendered scenes.
  
  My second disappointment has to be in the way that each level ends, its so abrupt. There is no 
 flow to a level finishing, you go from playing to loading the next section with no real transition, 
 feels odd.
  
  Outside of those two things I am thoroughly enjoying the game it does have a very original feel 
 and addictive aspect to it. I do like the way melee was added, gives it kind of a matrix feel.
 
  
  I keep finding myself wondering had this game been a sleeper would I have enjoyed it even more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flav333
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 21, 2005 8:15 am PT
Review:  Fear is a exelent game from my point of veau. The graphics ar so cool thet meks the game more real. This 
 game uil take yu in tu a horor stori.
  The sawnd it is so cool and so brilient that meks me craise.
  The game hase taken me tu the scaryest 
 and darkne's level. Wat I like the mowst abaut this game is the slomo and the stori line. I just 
 like the slomo it meks yu fel like yu ar fighting for somting. This game is rele scary I oumoust 
 krak my pants once. The multiplaier has impresed me a lot yu stil have the slomo and that it relle 
 cool and osome. Well I enjoy playng F. E. A. R I hope yu tu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zephrr86
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 21, 2005 5:19 am PT
Review:  i heard about FEAR a lonnnnnnnng time ago, far before E3 last year... now i played the beta multiplayers 
 and the demo, and now finally i have my very own full copy... this game DEFYS explanation... the 
 amount of hours u can put into this sucker without getting bored is staggering... i just spent the 
 last 8 riddling cyberspace full of holes... if not for work today, id of kept goin ;) ... the graphics 
 are beyond stunning, they literally take u and put u in the game... and again with sound, ever explosion, 
 every piece of wall being blown off sounds as if its coming at ur head... however if they added 
 more of a movie feel and put music in game like Halo did so well, or the lucas arts games, i think 
 it would of been even better... infact this whole game would have benifited by having more movie 
 style presentation... the very beginning gives you just that, with a terrific score and great cut 
 scenes, but then it shifts and the story really mellows... now whats great about FEAR is its DIFFERENT... no 
 other shooter plays like this... the AI is unbefrigginlievable... i mean these guys know how to put 
 you in a tight spot... yes they all look the same, but look at Stormtroopers... i rest my case... the 
 scary scenes, that almost always come at the end of a given level or interval, are works of absolute 
 gamer art... they really know how to creep u out in this sucker... ive played all the "scary" games, 
 ex: RE, Silent Hill, Alone in the Dark etc... this is the one true game that deserves a SCARY award... beyond 
 the great control, graphics and sound, theres also a multiplayer here... THIS IS WHERE THE REAL 
 FUN IS!!!... i dont see how people can even consider CS the cream of the crop after playing FEAR 
 online... the reviewers didnt even praise it well... im telling you folks this is THE MOST FUN ive 
 had online since WAYYYYYYYYYY back in CS 1 5 years ago... im done ranting, if ur computer can handle 
 it... BUY IT... right now, go down to EB (where i just so happen to work) and buy a copy... NOW!!!!!!!... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megarath1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 21, 2005 3:44 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is an intense full-on experience with superior graphics providing realism for all the 
 undead "uuhhh, things". Full of gripping suspense and a bond with your trained-to-kill team its 
 shapping up to be an amazing game, right up there with QUAKE 4 (see other reviews) . With gripping 
 online multiplayer with some formidable online foes, F. E. A. R. is giving other PC games a run for 
 their money. In my opinion, with single player action that leaves you hanging on a thread and treverse 
 graphics that add a touch of realism as if you, re really there, I give F. E. A. R. a 9.2/10. (one 
 of my best rating) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerLee
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 21, 2005 12:52 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this game non-stop since I got it on Tuesday and I can tell you that I like it 
 better than Half-Life 2. This game scared me more than any of the Silent Hill games and the action 
 is like being in John Woo film but only better due to the awesome "Bullet Time" effects. Buy this 
 game, you won't regret it. Only bad thing I can say about the game is that you will need a good 
 video card in order to get the most out of the graphics and having an EAX 2.0 compatible sound 
 card is a must because the surround sound effects are amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarsLander
Rating: 4.9
Date: Oct 20, 2005 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Okay let's get this out of the way first, I'm extremely Disappointed in F. E. A. R. When I first saw 
 the lengthy movie for the game at last years E3 I thought to myself yes ! this will be a game for 
 the ages. However Monolith decided to take what looked so promising from the lengthy movie and 
 cut out everything that was cool. For starters the movie had a lot more of that creepy little girl 
 Alma killing soldiers, and doing the creepy little girl things she does so well. Also the charcter 
 interactions and conversations were more extensive in the 10 minute movie than the entire full 
 game, why did Monolith do that. Also when you went to A. T. C. in the movie there were dead employees 
 and soldiers' bodies strewn all over the place in the final game the A. T. C. headquarters was basically 
 empty. All that was so cool from the movie was removed for the final game, for what reason this 
 gamer can only speculate, but probably had something to do with the dreaded word ( Time Constraints 
 ) . And you know who caused that, VUG Vivendei universal games that's right, the publisher was probably 
 the culprit forcing Monolith to cut out all the cool stuff fron the movie to get the game out the 
 door quicker. Believe me when I say this if Monolith had made the game starting from the A. T. C. 
 headquarters like in the awesome movie and had more character interactions, and a lot more Alma, 
 this game would be game of the year contender in my mind. But no, Monolith and V. U. G. should be 
 ashamed of themselves for turning out what could have been an awesome game and instead giving us 
 this watered down, ( Frankly boring in most places ) game. Aside from that rant I can't say I was 
 impressed with the graphics either, all the Npc's looked like wax dummies, there are no reflections 
 either, and the engine is a major system hog. The sound everyone keeps saying is so good, if that's 
 true why does the assault rifle sound less powerful than than the sub-machinegun uh-huh. Also the 
 slow- mo feature in the game that allows your character to get the jump on enemies is really bad 
 in comparison to Max Payne 2's bullet-time, that was a lot more fun in that game. So all in all 
 I would have to say I'm as disappointed in F. E. A. R. as I was in Deus Ex Invisible war when it came 
 out. Oh and for future reference if any developer is reading this, never make a game with this 
 kind of repetitive shooting as well as so few different enemy types, it gets boring real fast when 
 there's no character interaction or scary moments like there should have been in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spazz24
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 20, 2005 6:23 pm PT
Review:  WIth much anticipation I finally picked up my copy of F. E. A. R. To start off, the game is a machine 
 hog and will require a pretty nice video card to run decently. Fear looks amazing and sounds amazing. 
 It offers gorgeous lighting and a creepy atmosphere. Pretty much everything can be blown up or 
 shot up and it makes the numerous firefights you'll encounter extremely fun and intense. It also 
 sounds just as amazing as it looks. Great voice acting and realistic weapon sounds make you want 
 to turn your volume up very high.
  
  The A. I. in Fear is probably the most notable aspect of the game. Enemies will find no trouble 
 in shooting you full of holes and flanking you. This makes using cover a must. The enemies also 
 take advantage of the physics and will knock objects over to use for their own protection. The 
 intense firefights really do come down to outwitting the enemy.
  
  There is a pretty good multiplayer aspect of Fear. The modes include the standard deathmatch, team 
 deathmatch, capture the flag, and elimination modes. The slow-motion modes are especialy fun to 
 play.
  
  With all that said, the game does have a few flaws. The gameplay begins to feel very recycled while 
 you play. You basically kill the same three enemies over and over while pulling a switch here or 
 there. The environments also begin to feel repetitious. Run-down buildings and catwalks are the 
 main attractions you visit.
  
  Overall, F. E. A. R. is an amazing game and should not be missed by any FPS fans. It does take a pretty 
 good PC to run though. The game looks and sounds amazing and will keep you thoroughly entertained.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: racing5112
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 20, 2005 6:03 pm PT
Review:  SP keeps you on the edge of your seat the entire time! Making you wonder if you should frag then 
 go around the corner or just run out guns blazing. MP on the other hand is just pityful... there 
 is no lag ever but other than that theres nothing good. Its just endless insanity for example i 
 went into a server of DM with 8 people and my score was 25 kills and 20 deaths.... that is way 
 too fast paced. even UT2004 is slower than that. Besides the fact that i think that MP is too fast 
 paced the weapons get boring too quickly and same with the maps. CoD is somehow more stimulating 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damstr
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 20, 2005 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Well let me start off saying that to really enjoy all the effects FEAR has to offer, you better 
 have a pretty highend system. I have an FX-55, XFX 7800GTX overclocked @ 545/1.35, 1gb Corsair 
 XMS, and a Sound Blaster Audigy 2 ZS. with these specs i can run the game at 1280x960, 2x TSAA, 
 16x AF everything on maximum and softshadows off. and i can play at a very smooth framerate of 
 66FPS, and it never goes below 45FPS, i could turn up the graphics more but it already looks amazing 
 so i don't worry about it. 
  
  Alright onto the game... FEAR is unlike any First Person Shooter i've ever played, and is downright 
 scary when you play the game with the lights off, and the sound turned up. when i played this game 
 i made sure i didn't play it until it was night out and im glad i did. FEAR doesn't rely on the 
 stupid way of scarying people, by having things jump out at you like Doom 3 does, FEAR gets into 
 your head, and really can creep you out at times. 
  
  The single player is very good, and takes about 8.5 - 12 hours to beat depending on if you explore 
 everything. My first time through the whole game, i beat it in 8.5 hours on moderate difficulty 
 and i barely explored anything. Im playing the whole game through again on extreme difficulty and 
 i can tell that im deffinately moving though the game faster and can probably beat the game in 
 about 6-7 hours. 
  
  The Story is good, but a little hard to follow at times, it took me a while to understand everything 
 after beating it. While playing the game you get little hints and clues as to whats going on, and 
 you go into this state that lets you explore Alma's world, which you can move through more the 
 closer you get to the end. 
  
  The A. I. in this game is the best i've ever seen! I mean there are times when i just didn't expect 
 the A. I. to do certain things they did. Also since im on my second time playing this game i can 
 tell you that the A. I. do things differently depending on the currently situtation. Like for example 
 the first time i played through this certain part of the game the A. I. didn't setup up mines, but 
 being the second time i've played through they've definately setup mines, and this isn't because 
 im playing on extreme difficulty either.
  I must say that for most of the game you are playing the same people just in different places, 
 but i guess thats how its suppose to be since you are fighting against an army of clones. 
  
  The sound of FEAR also adds to the creepiness, they don't have actual sound tracks, but music 
 and sounds that are connected to your current situation, and status. Also all the background sounds 
 are amazing, such as the bullet casings, falling on the floor, and the sounds of guns, exposions, 
 kicking people, and much much more. 
  
  The gameplay of FEAR is a little hard to get used to at fist, and i reccomend that you change the 
 controls to your liking before going into a combat scenario. Using the slow mo feature is something 
 that i used waaay to much my first time through, and after a while, killing people can become to 
 easy. I hold myself back from using the slow mo unless there are lots of guys, otherwise i don't 
 use it at all, and i can say that after doing this made fighting the enemies more fun. 
  
  I haven't had the chance to play the multiplayer yet because the single player is just sooo good. 
 i plan to soon though, but i can tell you that from my experience playing the multiplayer demo 
 with all my friends at school has been a blast and we do it almist every night. We are getting 
 tired of playing on the same level so im just waiting for my friends to get the full game. 
  
  There are two versions you can get FEAR in and they are the regular edition which has the game 
 on 5 cd's, and the Directors Edition which is well worth it, because with the Directors Edition 
 you get the whole game on 1 DVD. Plus there are many Bonus Features on the DVD such as; the making 
 of FEAR, Director's Commentary, FEAR Prequel ( which is an actual 6 minute movie that is about 
 Alma) , and theres also the P. A. N. I. C. S. episode 1. 
  
  All in all i enjoyed this game a lot, and looking forward to playing FEAR 2 if there will be one 
 which i hope there is, because Monolith did a great job with this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlacKnight077
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 20, 2005 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Ever had one of those titles you'd look at for months waiting to come out? All the hype would build, 
 the promises would be laid, and the anxiety to get it grows? Then you get the game install it and 
 start playing it, and guess what?
  
  It was all that they promised... and much more.
  
  F. E. A. R. reminded me of how well Half-Life immersed you into it's amazing graphical environments, 
 and I was immersed throughout this entire well made game.
  
  The pacing is just right, scary moments that last for a while, and just when you can't take all 
 the tension and shock, they make you sigh a breath of relief when you hear the radio crackle of 
 the replica forces.
  
  There's also an element of comedy in this game also which I enjoyed alot.
  
  The terrifying 
 moments in the game are littered throughout, they're extremely tensing, you'll find yourself tensing 
 the mouse, leaning in closer to the monitor, and forgetting all else around you except for F. E. A. R. 
 Occasionally I got goosebumps, hairs standing on end, and once in the beginning I actually screamed 
 "Holy S***" Nothing else in my life has ever made me do that.
  
  I've always wanted an action game that was bad a**, this game proves to me that it is. Part of 
 me loved gibbing way back in the Half-Life days, it was satisfying. What F. E. A. R. incorperates 
 is a realistic environment coupled with exploding soldiers in a cloud of blood, limbs and heads 
 flying off and an overall feeling of "F*** Yeah! This game rocks!"
  
  This game is also very long so you'll have your moneys worth of gaming ahead, plus if you want 
 it also has multiplayer, although I find that not as satisfying as the single player. This is the 
 type of game you'll get your friends to play just to scare them, and they will be...
  
  Level design in this game is utterly amazing! I barely was stuck in this finely crafted masterpiece, 
 although there is at least two ways to go through a level, it always managed you to avoid backtracking 
 via the alternate path so it's non-stop action.
  
  If I could mention one pet peeve in this game it would be:
  **Minor SPOILER**
  The flying robots 
 that shoot lasers at you, not fun to play against, not interesting, not very scary... just very 
 annoying... I hated these guys.
  **Minor SPOILER**
  
  Didn't notice any bugs in the game, slo-motion capabilities made this game even more so fun to 
 play, I don't know how I could have beaten this without using it as much as I did. 
  
  Graphics are amazing as you'll see from screenshots, I found that when you went into slo-motion 
 lighting was even better to behold. Sound is also great, very crisp, and very satisfying.
  
  This is the game that you need to play to look back upon in the future and compare future games 
 to. You must play this game, or force yourself to play this game if you're scared.
  
  This game gets a 9.9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrMatta
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 20, 2005 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Now i'm not gonna spoil anything, but i MUST say you haven't experienced the game's strongest point 
 until the last 5 minutes. Those are SO extremely well done; i was totally flabbergasted. FEAR really 
 is something special.
  
  I love FPS games with heart and soul; have my best memories of them too.
  (except Ocarina of 
 Time and FFVII, but that's a different story)
  I loved Far Cry for it's jungle, loved Half-Life for it's story, 
  loved Serious Sam II because 
 it was FUN, and i love FEAR for it's tension.
  And what a tension it is, dang.
  
  Everything in fear has some sort of excitement to it.
  From the eerie music, to the violent shoot-outs, 
 everything has detail.
  The game's best aspect is the tension through-out the WHOLE game.
  Every corner can be exciting, because you NEVER know what's gonna
  happen. With all the eerie 
 ghost-effects, the game makes you kinda
  paranoid. And the fun thing is, the longer you play, the more you're 
  getting freaked out.
 
  
  The game isn't such a "System Hog" actually..
  I checked it out on my 2nd comp and it ran fine at high.
  P4 1,5ghz
  768 mb ram
  Geforce 
 FX5500
  So it's actually not THAT bad.
  
  The sounds and visuals are unmatched, even in HL2 they don't get
  this tension-build story. 
 
  My only complaint is that there is not much variation through-out the game.
  The game actually consists out of three main buildings (and some streets) . Sure it's fun, but sometimes 
 you think it'll get a bit repetitive.
  
  All in all i think Monolith has done a GREAT job with this game.
  I think a 9.1 fits the game 
 well, it certainly deserves it.
  If you like freaky stuff, get it now!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikey3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 20, 2005 2:41 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is addictive, scary, and near perfect. The part I noticed right off, was this isnt Doom 
 or Quake. Thats what I was expecting. Its not what I got. Altho those titles have earned a gold 
 medal with many in 1st person shooters, FEAR is different, in a very good way. Without telling 
 the whole story, lets just say that within the 1st hour there were 2 or 3 times where I wanted 
 to jump up from the keyboard and go running and screaming down the hallway ! I had goosebumps on 
 occasion , as some of the things that happen around you are quite creepy and unexpected. 
  
  Now- this is an excellent shooter, once you get past the creepy part. I can tell you that the 
 dynamics of the weapons and objects that get hit and destroyed by these weapons, are the best in 
 the industry right now. Ive never experienced such a level of reality in a game before in this 
 respect. And the AI-... Lets just say that they will flank you, gang up on you, come looking for 
 you, and kick your tail if you are not prepared. 
  
  Im running an Athlon Fx53/939 cpu-Mobo with a gig of ram, into an ATI-800 pro, so I have no lag 
 to speak of. But I can tell that the game is pushing my system with everything maxed out in the 
 game. Best advice, dont plan on maxinig out the graphics with a medium powered system. 
  
  I have not tried MP yet, as I have not comments on that. Im just having a ball with single player, 
 and will be disapointed when I finish it. If your hesitant as I was in getting this game, dont 
 be. This aint your daddys quake... Get it- you will be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loadeek
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 20, 2005 2:36 pm PT
Review:  I've played all of the most prominent FPS's and this is the only one where i feel as if the AI 
 can actually put together a strategy to use against me. When i first played it i thought that it 
 was just lucky, but again and again they used different things to use for cover depending on where 
 i was in the room and whether i was throwing grenades or shooting. The AI in this game is amazing! 
 There are some normal hand guns and machine guns and there are some pretty sweet new guns like 
 the penetrator firing what look like railroad spikes into the enemy, and when they are close to 
 a wall the spikes may even hold them against the wall when they die. The grapics are amazing and 
 even in my mid-level machine the game works smoothly.
  
  To bad the AI will be nothing compared to the AI in UT2K7 when it comes out!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PatrickVW
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2005 2:20 pm PT
Review:  This game has stunned my senses... 
  
  I got this game running on a GeForce5700 VE an Athlon XP2600+ and 1 Gig of mem in it... And truly 
 never had any problems... 
  Okay, performance wise was something else, however, some stutters, while testing the limits of 
 the Engine on my vid card...
  
  Due to incredible audio and very well done sequences you will play you'll be spooked as hell... 
 
  
  The gameplay feels natural... 
  Actually, in all my other games, Far Cry and Doom 3 I'm suddenly missing the Slomo Button, and 
 the way you'll select your grenades etc...
  
  Graphics, as I already stated, are stunning even without all them highly advanced stuff on... Although 
 you'll miss the real creepy darkness in corners, and so on...
  
  The horror in this game can really go in to your head, to a point, even a squeeking door in your 
 house can get your hart-rate rising...
  
  In a few words...
  
  A must, it'll be in my collection where it'll stay...
  This is by far the best release this year, 
 and it'll stay just that even though Quake 4 is has come out... But I'll doubt that really will 
 have such immersive cinematic action as F. E. A. R. has... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikehet0915
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 20, 2005 12:20 pm PT
Review:  I just finished playing F. E. A. R, and I must say it is a great game. It looks and sounds amazing 
 and is extremely fun to play.
  Gameplay - This is as fun as an FPS can get. The gunfights are insane and the enemy is extremely 
 smart. I thought the shotgun was a little too powerful because you can go through the whole game 
 using it. It does get a little dark at times and the music in the background is not the kind that 
 you want playing while you are in a dark vent : ( (which is a good thing, this is F. E. A. R) . The 
 atmosphere is creepy and it plays a very important role during the whole game.
  Graphics - I would give the graphics a 10 if the game did not spend so much time in a certain office 
 complex. It gets a little boring and the place is not too fun to look at. The last hour or so of 
 the game gets a 10 in the graphical area.
  Sound - This is the part of the game that will make you pee your pants. You can feel the music 
 creeping up on you. This is when you get ready for the typical "BOO", but sometimes nothing happens, 
 which makes you feel comfortable..... until... :) .. The guns sound incredible. They are all very 
 loud and sound very clear. The voice acting is pretty good, there weren't any badly acted parts 
 that I can think of.
  Value - The multi-player is very entertaining and I may end up playing the single player two more 
 times on a harder difficulty. It is worth the 50 bucks because it is one of the best games you 
 will play all year.
  Tilt - If the office complex level was about 30 - 60minutes shorter, I would give a 10. It just 
 seems to drag on a little bit, but picks up like no tomorrow after that part. If you want to get 
 scared and have an awesome time shooting some bad guys, then this is the game that you have been 
 waiting for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakeam
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2005 11:15 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. or First Encounter Assault Recon, an FPS ( first Person Shooter ) game that mixes Action/Horror 
 in one game, this game gives you the chill while playing, i got the game today, got the update 
 and ran it, the problem is that my PC isnt that powerfull enough to get good Frame per second on 
 1280x960x32 resolution, but it gives me a decent 15fps which is acceptable for me, what makes F. E. A. R. 
 game special is that, you can never find a HORROR/ACTION based FPS game, it has this RING like 
 girl walking around and spooking you, i have yet to know the full story, i managed to get on for 
 like 4 levels before i got really spooked and decided to stop for the day and have some fresh BattleField2 
 matches to ease my mind from all thatPicture coming into screen while u least expecteffects, 
 you see, you are running around in a calm manner, heart beats normally everything seems fine, then 
 suddinly, a scene, this scene happens almost quickly and gives you weird pictures or stuff that 
 makes your hair stand still, so, if you are one of those people who have WEAK hearts, dont do it,,, 
 its not worth you having a stroke because of a game :) , we care about you!
  
  Bottom lineSO FARthis game is Awesome! effects are really nice, weapons are great yet you 
 ran out of ammo fairly quickly, but still its nice, the slow motion set is good, the physics are 
 well made, and when you start a gun fight with a squade, you will FEEL its a real gun fight, dust 
 everywhere, pieces of stone and shell all over the ground, a game well made, the AI is smart! , 
 they flanked me like 2 times so far, but you get used to it, you will know they are coming from 
 this place :D, but still, nothing can out smart the human brain ;) , anyway, i decided to get this 
 game before 1 day of the release of QUAKE4 in the UK, and thank god i decided to get it, good game 
 Monolith! Sierra! Good work! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ragnarocker777
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 20, 2005 10:59 am PT
Review:  Not just another new good looking FPS game but it is combined with a survival horror and definitely 
 good graphics with alot of action packed gun fights! And guess what.... for the gamers who like 
 matrix and max payne slow motion gun battles, this game also gives you the "bullet time" gun fight 
 you always loved! The story, the graphics, and the action will give you alot more than just fun. 
 You will also enjoy turning of all the lights in your room while you play the scary single-player 
 story! This is the best FPS game i played this year.... and i think for another year it will still 
 be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jabrien421
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2005 9:55 am PT
Review:  I love F. E. A. R. as a first person shooter, but it severely lacks in fluidity. However, for what 
 it lacks in fluidity, it makes up for in dialogue, game play, graphics, and fun. F. E. A. R. is like 
 a first person shooter and a horror film all wrapped into one. It's a very immersive game, one 
 where you find yourself getting deeper and deeper into the story. When you die, unlike most games, 
 you don't have that sense of wanting to throw your hands up and surrender for the day. The story 
 is so intriguing that it almost forces you to go on and unsurface the plot. 
  
  F. E. A. R. has one amazing engine. The only flaws I see in the game are the saving points and random 
 parts in the game that stall out for a split second and then regain motion. That aspect of the 
 game takes away from the creepy feeling you get while playing it. If there were some way to remove 
 the choppy parts entirely, this game would be something else. 
  
  The graphics and gameplay are amazing, as I said before, but what is even better is that it has 
 a very cool multiplayer mode. I jumped into a multiplayer game the other day just to see how good 
 it is and I was very pleased with it. I played in a "Slo Mo CTF" game. I couldn't fathom how they 
 could pull off the slo mo technique with a bunch of live players unless they picked random slo 
 motion intervals where everyone was affected, but that isn't what they did. They made it so the 
 flag holder, who is attempting to run the enemy flag to his side, capable of activating the slo 
 mo option like you would in the game, except everyone is affected instead of just the player. This 
 can be as much of an advantage as it can be a draw back. I used the slo mo while carrying a flag 
 and downed 2 players, but another player with a fully automatic gun found me and shot the heck 
 out of me. I think I would have done better without it, but it was still cool nonetheless.
  
  If you are looking for a great FPS single player with good multiplayer capabilities, then this 
 is the game for you. The same goes for gamers who dig the FPS' with a horror type of theme to it. 
 This game had me jumping almost every 5 minutes. You get into the story of the game within the 
 first 5 minutes of gameplay. Kudos to Sierra for making another blockbuster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xakeris_jega
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 20, 2005 9:45 am PT
Review:  This an amazing game with good graphic and good sounds! But gameplay may have been better...... 
 I love this game! But only thing for this is my computer may have been better for this game! If 
 you wish to play this game you must have an good perfomance computer! :) If you will start play 
 this game you will not can't to play it.... This outstanding shooter with new level of intensity! The 
 challenge in describing F. E. A. R. is trying to avoid any spoilers, because this is definitely a 
 gameF. E. A. R. works because it elevates first-person shooter combat to cinematic levels. And while 
 we've certainly seen games with movie-quality combat before, you've never seen anything quite like 
 this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orionreplay
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 20, 2005 9:41 am PT
Review:  When I played the demo, I knew Fear couldn't go wrong and it appears others agree. With a splash 
 of the Sixth Sense ("I see dead people") and awesome graphics, this game has literally given me 
 the creepy crawlies as I play it. While Doom 3 made me jump due to the darkness, Fear is on a whole 
 new level of the creeps. With Doom 3 I eventually got used to playing in the dark and pretty soon 
 it got old. But with Fear, wow. Seeing the faces of the dead and that spooky "The Ring" girl running 
 around, Fear most definitely has not gotten old yet.
  
  Stop reading this and just go buy it. You most definitely will not be making a mistake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badjad
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 20, 2005 9:33 am PT
Review:  The fast action gun-fights and the horror subtype makes this the best FPS game I have played in 
 a long while. The sound is amazing, and the graphical enhancements are amazing. While the slo-mo 
 feature is a great escape for those hard-to-pull-off gun-fights, it breaks some of the fast-paced 
 action that makes these games so great. The AI breaks the Artificial Incompetence string that always 
 follows FPS games. However, the lack of variety of the levels may leave some players wanting to 
 run outside and cry. Plus, the constant barrage of similar soldier may change your stance on the 
 whole cloning controversy, but all together an excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 20, 2005 9:25 am PT
Review:  I think it's safe to say that if you're reading this review, you've also read gamespot's review, 
 and probably several others, and are just trying to get some extra opinions before you fork out 
 your hard earned dough for what most reviewers seem to think is the best first person shooter to 
 come along since the original doom.
  
  Well, I'll admit that the graphics in F. E. A. R. are downright gorgeous. It's as if they took the 
 best parts of the Source and Doom 3 engines and just mixed them up into one happy pie. The game 
 renders more real time physics data in one level then any other game i've played had in the entire 
 game, which is a nice touch to try and suck you into the game. Your can empty a clip from your 
 assault rifle into a room, and watch as the light over head ends up swinging from side to side, 
 casting shadows all over the rest of the room, while a locker door swings back and forth, casting 
 its shadows all across the room, and your own shadow gets cast around as well. Needless to say, 
 that's really dang cool. Character models and textures are generally top notch, again taking some 
 of the best features from Doom 3 and Source and mixing them up for a feast for the eyes. My only 
 quibble with the graphics is that the textures for most walls, some floors, and occasional random 
 objects seem to be far below the standard for detail, and often sink the level from looking gorgeous 
 to just bland.
  
  The gameplay is a mix of two completely different sub-genres of the FPS. Survival horror and tactical 
 combat come together in what i consider about as harmonious a meeting as a peanutbutter and turkey 
 tuna sandwhich - Yeah, there's somebody out there who likes it, but i just cant seem to see whats 
 so good about it. The enemy AI is smart. VERY smart. But it's hard to give more points to a game 
 because of that given how much better AI in general has become. And the horror elements that try 
 to creep into the game just seem misplaced and random, and dont serve much purpose but to temporarily 
 throw you from your tactical combat enduced high. And then there's the story. Or is there? You 
 can play this game for a seriously long time without ever figuring out what the heck your doing. 
 And when you don't know what your doing, at least I usually also lack motivation, and eventually 
 get bored much quicker then i would otherwise.
  
  Now, I'll admit that by no means is F. E. A. R. a BAD game, I just dont think it deserves some of 
 the scores i've seen it get. It's a fun game, and if you like FPSes, id say its worth your money. 
 But if your not a huge fan of FPSers, maybe you should consider waiting till the price drops, because 
 there's really nothing special about this game to make it stand out in a crowd, other then the 
 pretty graphics.
  
  And one last quibble, F. E. A. R. runs with occasional lag on medium settings on an AMD 3200+ with 
 2GB Corsair Dual Channel DDR400, and Dual 6800s in SLi. If you don't have one beast of a rig, you 
 might not even get one of the best points of the game, the pretty graphics. I would note though, 
 that the occasional lag i dealt with was probably caused by my processor, because of how much physics 
 data F. E. A. R. is computing every second. If you have a Pentium D or AMD3800+ or better, i dont 
 think you'll have any problems - although you may still need to tweak down a setting or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Contelis
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 26, 2005 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Just a warning: I'm a realism freak, so I may grade hard for shooters.
  
  I was incredibly excited to get this game. I played both demos a lot, and I was very ready for 
 it's release. The problem is, FEAR wasn't ready for it's release. While it's still a decent shooter, 
 I feel it needed several more months of work. 
  
  Gameplay:
  At first, I thought it was a bit slow, but still very fun. For the first hour, I was having a ton 
 of fun. Most of the guns work well, physics are pretty nice ( (wish I could move barrels and stuff 
 though) ) . It doesn't take long to pick up the controls. It's a pretty intuitive control scheme. 
 I only switched my melee, flashlight, and zoom buttons. I find having melee as middle mouse, flashlight 
 as shift, and zoom as right click is much better. The melee is done very well. You can do pistol 
 whip, punches, sliding kick, roundhouse, and bicycle kick, and they are all easily pulled off. 
 There's definitely a lot of fun to be had with the mines and sticky bombs. It's fun to toss a sticky 
 bomb on a guy ( (they usually don't care for some reason) ) and wait for others to get close to him 
 and use the remote to light 'em all up! I really can't say anything too bad about the gameplay, 
 but there is something about it that just doesn't feel perfect though. I wish it were a little 
 more responsive. It is a bit too easy, but I haven't played it on the hardest setting yet. I usually 
 start on second hardest, and it's easier than other games on a similar setting. There is one thing 
 that really annoys me though. I feel like my bounding box is like 50ft square. I can walk near 
 a bucket, ream of paper, etc and it gets all knocked around and stuff. that's good and all, but 
 should it really get knocked around when it's like 5ft from me? No. No it shouldn't. I'm not that 
 fat.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are very nice. Most everything is very nice to look at, and it has some of the best 
 lighting effects I've seen in a game. If you have the PC for it, you have to see this game with 
 full shadows on. This game has some of the best "extras" effects to date. The problem is that the 
 overall graphics aren't as great. Half-Life 2 has a more impressive overall feel and realism to 
 its graphics engine, while being able to run much better on a much less impressive machine. FEAR 
 has a lot going on, but they needed more time to streamline the engine to allow those with less 
 fortunate PC's play it. The player models don't look as good as I'd like. Again, comparing to HL2. 
 The Source engine has probably the best character models around. Most of the guns look very nice. 
 Here's where the lighting shines also. It's good to see how they rendered lighting onto the guns. 
 Take the AK and get directly under a light, and spin around. The light moves from side to side 
 on top of the fore guard VERY nicely. If you have to turn down the settings for a slower PC, you'll 
 get a blobby ugly look. Where with HL2 or Quake 4, a lower setting seems to look much cleaner and 
 detailed. Tested on a slower PC, I could run Q4 at 1280x1024 with everything up running in the 
 mid 20's FPS. On that same PC, FEAR was running 1024x768 with most settings on medium and several 
 things like AA, soft shadows, etc turned off. In this case i was pulling low 20's and often down 
 to 18 FPS. FEAR looks good, but being such a system hog is big drawback in the graphics department.
 
  
  AI / Baddies:
  
  The AI is decently impressive, but I wasn't wowed by it like others. They sometimes seem smart, 
 but I feel that it's more scripted than smart AI. If there is an available route, they will flank 
 you. If you think you killed all three of those baddies but only killed two, the last guy will 
 hide until you walk up and he'll jump at you. If they have grenades they will throw them... like 
 a girl. Half the time they bounce back and hurt themselves. They don't seek cover often, or rather 
 some do and some don't. There may be a nice hiding place for him to duck behind, but they think 
 "hey, if other guys are behind cover and shooting around a corner, why don't I stand out in the 
 middle of the hall way. I hate conforming!" 
  
  What I don't like about them is they never catch you off guard. Shouldn't they be trying to set 
 up traps or fortify their position in expectation of you'? Every time you are about to come up 
 on the next room of baddies, you can magically pick up on their radio as they talk about an intruder 
 in the area: you. This is where the rinse and repeat comes in. Kill everyone in the room, walk 
 down the next not-so-creepy hallway, hear them on the radio again, kill them, walk down the next 
 not-so-creepy hallway, hear them on the radio again..... Every now and then you get to go through 
 "shortcuts" in the ventilation, etc.
  
  I find it annoying that you can always hear them. And it's not a muffled yell through their helmet, 
 it's them yelling through a walkie talkie-type sound. Like someone stuck a mic on the inside of 
 their helmet and put speakers on the outside. Wouldn't one of the points of a full-faced helmet 
 be so that the enemy can't hear you talking into your radio? They always tell you what their doing. 
 Some of it is very cool though. I guess the developers wanted to show off. "He's sighting you!" 
 "Find cover boys! Where am I supposed to go?!" "Did I get him?" Very cool, but realistically speaking, 
 I shouldn't hear them except for muffles when I'm really close. You can always count on them to 
 run into a trap. Try it. Jump into the middle of a huge group to grab their attention, run away 
 dropping mines as you go. Most of them will be happy to run right after you and step on the mines 
 that they saw you drop 5 seconds ago. I guess they have short memories.
  
  This game brought back the spawn points of the past. Remember when you'd clear out a dead-end room, 
 and move on? Then somehow there was a bad guy in that room again? Well, guess what? Those days 
 aren't over. I'm not sure if you have to kill a certain number or just get near the spawn point, 
 in certain points throughout the game, if you look away from a corner, three guys will spawn out 
 of it! Oh joy! Those three guys just materialized out of the corner! They could have at least had 
 them crash through a window, or come down from the ceiling. Oh well, it just kinda breaks the realism 
 for me.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is pretty good, but I was looking for something more immersive. The weird wahhhhhh 60's 
 sci-fi noises get annoying, not creepy. Every time I come up on an answering machine, or when some 
 people talk to me, I have to go into the options and turn off the effects, so that the sci-fi sound 
 doesn't drown them out. On a 3.1 or 2.1 system, it might be graded differently, but using 5.1, 
 I was a little disappointed. This game is supposed to be ultra immersive, but I thought the surround 
 was seriously lacking. It wasn't low quality sound, it just doesn't stand out like HL2, BF2, or 
 even Vietcong does (in terms of immersion) . All the guns sound good, but not great.
  
  Value:
  
  It's a pretty decent value. I find myself liking the multiplayer better, and I'm 
 a big single player campaign type of guy. There's a lot of fun to be had here, but from like hour 
 2 to hour 4, I got really bored of doing the same old thing. It was nice to kill some ATC guys 
 for a while instead of the same 2 character models over and over and over and over and over. You 
 get the idea. The rooms just blend in together. It's almost like that feeling of going in circles:
 
  1. Make your way through an entire floor
  2. Go up to the next floor via elevator shafts, hole in roof, and sometimes the elevator
  3. 
 Repeat first 2 steps for the next 8 hours
  
  The creepiness is very cliched, unfortunately, and as such, isn't very creepy at all. Those annoying 
 "duhhhh" and "wah wah" sounds when that super scary fan turns on usually makes you smirk or even 
 get out a chuckle not a shriek. It's got a pretty novel plot I suppose. Well, if you haven't seen 
 the huge lot of movies that have done this plot before, hehe. Either way, it's still a good and 
 interesting plot. I never found myself creeped out or scared though. The only time I actually got 
 a little startled was when I was way up in the elevator shaft on a tiny ledge and an elevator came 
 screaming down beside me. I was already on my toes because I'm uhhh..."uncomfortable" with heights. 
 
  
  Overall I enjoyed this game, but I was pretty disappointed. I would recommend finding a friend 
 with this game and play it about 2 hours before buying it. It's a great game that I wish I waited 
 to buy. If I had played a good amount of it before hand, I would have waited for the $30 mark. 
 I gave it a tilt rating of 9 because of how I feel the game is, not because of how I like it. Based 
 on how much I liked this game and was satisfied with playing it, I would give it about a 7.5. Supposedly, 
 I have about 2 more hours to go. If I can muster up the patience and finish it, I'll amend this 
 review. Until then, see you in the multiplayer!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gravrelm
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 20, 2005 9:15 am PT
Review:  The paranormal events at times sent chills through my body .. I think getting into the future with 
 all this new technology is all about imersion.. a concept on which i think alot of larger companies 
 are missing... Some people still think the present generation is addicted to Fps.. but not so much 
 anymore.. I think it is about getting more in the game.. and with the stunning sound and grafix that 
 todays computers can generate it can be made to mimic reality . I am an avid Battlefield player 
 and have been playing since 1942 beta... long long time ago.. now as both games are different.. they 
 are in the same genre... with all the abilites to communicate on the pc.. such as voip they need 
 to start making game where team play is a major element.. hence immersion.. which makes the game 
 more fun.. and more realitic... Say if your in a team with 4 other players ... you need to communicate 
 to win or complete the lvl.. that where the games should be going i think 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewwgurt
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 20, 2005 3:25 am PT
Review:  The first game to give me chills before scaring the hell out of me. This game has the best graphics 
 i've ever seen. The lighting adds generously to set the tone, and help harness the players attention 
 to the various objectives at hand. I was on my toes at every turn, sweating it out , actually watching 
 the games A. I. try to outsmart me!! I think this is a great addition to classic first-person shooters, 
 while brilliantly taking f. p. shooters in a new direction in graphics gratification. The particle 
 dusting during shootouts is wonderful and like nothing i've ever seen. This is overall, in my opinion, 
 well worth the time, and money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apennismightier
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 20, 2005 1:01 am PT
Review:  While this has been a highly anticipated game, the graphics and gameplay are just not up to par 
 and seem more outdated and choppy than would be expected with such high end releases like Half 
 Life 2, Doom 3, and the upcoming Quake 4 craze. I really don't understand why the game got a 9.1 
 on the site overall. I am able to play the game with all the graphics maxed out on high with full 
 effects and the game runs smoothly as can be expected. Bottom line, the engine for this game stinks, 
 and the original Unreal Tournament engine would have made for a smoother and more entertaining 
 gameplay. The most annoying part of the game is probably the fact that regardless of how much power 
 you have in your PC and even after the patch is applied, there is a slight half second delay in 
 the firing of your gun. Most hardcore FPS gamers will find this frustrating and not worth putting 
 up with, regardless of how much hype this game has gotten.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tempest91
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 19, 2005 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up expecting another FPS that was good, but I never expected F. E. A. R. to be 
 such an exciting game. I don't know of any other game that has mixed the horror/action genre with 
 a first person shooter and done it so smoothly. The weapon selection is superb and is categorized 
 by armor penetration, range, accuracy etc giving the player a challenge as to what to take into 
 each room. I personally can't say I've had anything as cool as the high powered nail gun sticking 
 guys to the wall by their head or extremities, or in one case by his mid-section. This is the first 
 FPS since Halo to command such a brilliant story, absolutely flawless gameplay and interface and 
 pack it all into an intense environment rich with brilliant music and quality cinematics. The voices 
 are very fitting and the story could easily make an exciting movie. 
  The most impressive thing about F. E. A. R. is its A. I. You will notice immediately that enemies will 
 flank your location, roll out from under doors. The enemies are smart, they don't miss very often 
 and the players only saving grace is to use the slow motion as strategically as possible. This 
 is a must have for anyone who enjoys FPS's or horror/adventure games such as the Resident Evil 
 or Silent Hill series. This game does not disappoint. Not in any aspect. It just keeps raising 
 the bar.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmtaylor75
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2005 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I just played 10 minutes of the game and was blown away by how they make 
  the player feel as if they are in the game. Visuals are spectacular and movie like, and for those 
 who say don't believe the hype I say believe it. This is one of 
  the best FPS around. These type of games are the kind that you do not want to finish. I have not 
 played the multiplayer yet ,but I am looking forward to it. If you thought Half life 2 was something 
 think again. As I played the demo i could see that it was kind of creepy too! This is what Doom 
 3 should have been like.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_x_ray
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 19, 2005 9:13 pm PT
Review:  fear is really one of the best i ever played... everything in this game is excellent... simply it 
 is not only a GAME ....! i myself enjoy playing it... and i suggest everyone to play it ... really 
 it worths playing... the graphic is amazing and the gameplay is excellent too... u will never be 
 tired of playing that kinda game... the sound is ultra great .... u feel everything in game and 
 it helps u to enjoy the game much more... i just donno what i should say about the game coz everything 
 is great and dont need any explanation... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kazuma334
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 19, 2005 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This is a awesome game. It has some of the scariest elements for a video game that I have ever 
 seen and shows off impressive graphics and great controls. It's fun and plus it has a decent multi-player 
 option. The story is very well driven, though it borrows the creepy little girl (Alma, as she is 
 known in this game) from movies such as the ring and the grudge. Well, just mainly the ring. Another 
 problem with this game is that it requires quite a powerful system to run on, and it can sometimes 
 get frustrating. However, all those things aside this is a non-stop kick-ass game. Enemies are 
 quite intelligent and will try real-life tactics such as flanking and ambushing, and killing your 
 enemies leaves behind a nice trace of blood splatters. This game also includes what everyone wants 
 in a FPS, lots and lots of guns that actually do something. The guns in this game are all different 
 in their own way, and are useful or not as useful depending on your situation. It also adds some 
 new stuff such as the reflex mode which resembles the bullet time from the Matrix. I enjoyed this 
 game from the beginning to the end and this is one game that should definitely not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whadzen
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2005 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Graphics rock. Storyline is very good. Enviroments can get repetitive, but who cares, the AI is 
 so good, it'll blow your head off. No literally, if you are not watching what you are doing, they 
 will blow your head off!! Awsome firefights, intense, scary. Buy it!! Please stop comparing it 
 to HL2!! HL2 is king, but FEAR really comes close and the AI is much better than HL2.
  
  Run the demo before buying. It is hard on your system. for your reference, I run it on medium settings, 
 runs very smoothly on a P4 3.0Ghz, 1Gig RAM, NVIDIA 6600GT 128mb AGP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer3999
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 19, 2005 7:40 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a very nice game. Spooky in some parts and action driven in others. The game has some 
 strong graphics with great sound, however you need a strong system to take every thing at max. 
 The gameplay is awsome very easy to get into it. You feel like your actually shooting a guy down. 
 You can also do your little matrix slow reflex move. Which makes it so everything is slow and you 
 can see soundwaves. Not much you can really say negatively about it. A great game to get if you 
 want to stress your system or put everything on low and enjoy the play till your heart's content. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnake231
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 19, 2005 7:27 pm PT
Review:  okay , first of all , i bought FEAR because of the waves of advertisement keep coming to my email 
 since i registered with IGN , GAMESPOT , FILEPLANET , GAMESHELL ...
  
  I didnt think i would bought it because if it have the same move like CS , Quake ... i would say 
 :nah , just different weapon ?But i was impressed because when i saw saw the trailer , it 
 show me the we can lean in the game , that reminds me the game that i used to play 23/24 days @_@ 
SOLDIER OF FORUNTE. 
  
  Why do i like leaning moves ? because i like to press more key when i frag someone's head ( not 
 just W. A. S. D. keys ) . It give me a new experience for FPS game , especially , MULTIPLAY . 
  
  Single play of FEAR also nice , as a player who finished DOOM 3 , QUAKE 3 , UNREAL 1 + 2 ... 
 u may understand why i like this style of horor play.
  
  Multiplay ? Oh yah , try it out and you will understand why i stopped playing CSS since the demo 
 of FEAR came out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmaster
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2005 7:18 pm PT
Review:  If u still wanna noe the sytem requirements gameer dudes Just simply click on tech info its not 
 tha hard. This game the first time u play it will scare the living crap out of u honestly. i play 
 games all the time and this game will surprise u . things that u think are gonna happen well happen 
 to u before u think, or just when ur thinkin it. like i said if ur not into thinken strategy u 
 basically just got shot in the head with the nail gun. HA HA HA HA HA. i see u online playin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 3:25 am PT
Review:  This game is certainly one of the best PC (shooter) games i've ever played. It feels right from 
 the gameplay to the sound which is creepy. the graphics is top notch. 
  
  Level design is OK but feels like i've always been on same levels before. Apart from the sound 
 the next creepy thing is the AI. This is in short a fantastic FPS horror game for the PC. 
  
  The game is rather short and the storyline is eh.. ok. this is what makes PC gaming fun. You 
 will need a powerful PC to enjoy the full beauty of the game and you have to try out the demo to 
 see whether ur PC can survive the horror.
  
  Gameplay is fun and very addictive especially if you hit slomo. Slomo has actually made the game 
 easier to play because I put it on extremely difficult and I have the smooth ride to the end. The 
 AI is mind blowing. Becare using the flash light because you just might be spotted. Those guys 
 knock chairs down just to cover themselves up.
  
  The graphics is superb period. FEAR is a system hog and needs a high end system to play. FEAR is 
 actually going to put fear on your system. I had to change my 6600GT to 7800GT because of this 
 game and it was worth every penny. I believe that if you can play this game at MAX levels throughout 
 thenI think your system can handle upcoming games. (My Opinion only)
  
  Sound is extremely good especially if you have an X-Fi sound card. The score is creepy and I get 
 freaked out sometimes. It is just too creepy for words
  
  Value wise, I would say again that the game is too short and once you are done, fire up multiplayer 
 which is a whole lot fun
  
  FEAR is certainly a game to be afraid of. Be VERY VERY AFRAID. I WAS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Traitor_13
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 19, 2005 5:07 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best first person shooter ever. HL2 and Halo2 are bothe over rated I love halo2 
 also, but fear is still the best single player expierience ever. The only ONE problem I had with 
 the game is that the enviroment and setting was practically all the same thing. This game was under 
 rated the lowest score it should have received was a 9.5. One reader gave this game a 6.5!
  He probably has'nt even played it. Before I go off track I just want to say this game has the best 
 graffics to date, but an expensive machine is required to play the game. Over all this game is 
 a definit 9.7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnuzzo
Rating: 6.9
Date: Oct 19, 2005 4:57 pm PT
Review:  This game looks and feels great. The game is a hardware hog so you will need to set those levels 
 down. The auto-detect is a bit too optimistic. The realism of the battles is very high. You are 
 blindly by the dust kicked up during battle and you actually carry an amout of weapons that would 
 be within reason in the "real world". The lack of a compass made this environment seem more realistic. 
 The big negative for me is the lack of an open map. Far Cry has been my favorite game for a year 
 and I can't find a replacement. I was hoping that FEAR would be it, but I don't think so. I don't 
 know why no one else can do what Crytec did, but with FEAR and everything else there are great 
 limitations to your maneuverability. Also, my personal pet peeve, the AI spawn from thin air (and 
 I don't mean the kind that should) . You can look over an area, but until you get to the spawning 
 point the AI just are not there. The genius of Far Cry was that you could play each map many different 
 ways. FEAR was too linear, but still provided a good experience due to the excellent realistic 
 AI response and the battle graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad_rush
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 19, 2005 4:44 pm PT
Review:  this is a very emersive game love the fast paced action not scary though 
  that girl needs to get an atitude change and a hair cut but if you need a new 
  fps with great 
 physics exelent graphics emersive gameplay get it
  if you want a scary fps run around in a basement with the light off and some friends its scary 
 when you bump into the wall or someone you dont know
  
  also it takes a nasa super computer to run my comp is 3.2ghz 512ramm
  128 9600 radeon and it 
 was ok graphics but hl2 ran better and crisper
  
  still an 8.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiniGuns
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 19, 2005 4:18 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a horror game that will scare you out of your mind. the game is good because its has 
 the best graphics yet to date and there are alot of weapons to use in the game like the good old 
 pistol and the assult rifle. there are also weapons like the cannon its not powerful but it looks 
 cool. the game has tight controls and the weapons sound like the real deal. the A. I. in this game 
 is the best the A. I. is like how real soldiers act like in real life. there are also downsides to 
 this game like you face the same foes over and over and it feels like you are walking in the same 
 place over. this is the game if you want to be scared out of your mind. if you have the money to 
 get this game then go get the game but thats if you like to be scared. F. E. A. R also has great multiplayer. 
 multiplayer can hold up to 16 players. the game is hard you will die alot inthis game this alot 
 of scenes that will scare you. this game is like doom, serious sam but scarier and resident evil. 
 the finally word is if you like to be scaried go get this game and if you don't like to be scaried 
 then this game like be a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpilot
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 19, 2005 3:24 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that gets it all right. Graphics, sound, AI, etc. are all incredible. Yes, some 
 of the levels are a bit repetitive, but no game is perfect. I'm sure they'll address that in FEAR 
 2 which we know we'll all be playing in a couple of years. Hardware demands are high, but if you 
 have at least a 2.4 GHz, and about a Radeon 9800 Pro with a gig of RAM, you're good to go. If you 
 don't like shooters, this won't change your mind. But this is a game best played in the dark with 
 the speakers (5.1 of course) turned up. I guarantee you WILL jump out of your seat a time or two. 
 Get this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prophed
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 19, 2005 2:23 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is definitely an awesome game but not really as good as I hoped it would be.
  
  Okay so for me the 'good' would have to be: 
  
  Graphics (I thought the graphics were pretty 
 good)
  
  Story (The story side of games is what seems to be missing in alot of games nowdays)
  
  Eerie 
 (This game does get a little eerie which is quite fun)
  
  Now the 'bad':
  
  Repetitiveness (you see alot of the same old textures)
  
  Creepy (not as scary as I hoped, 
 but, still quite eerie)
  
  System Hog (this has been in alot of other reviews so I gues I don't need to explain)
  
  All 
 in all I thought FEAR is a great game, definitely worth the money and time spent playing, and FEAR 
 is probably somewhere at the top of my list of favorite games. I would recomend to anyone who like 
 FPS and horror games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuron_V
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 2, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  
  The first thing that needs to be said is that this game MUST be played on your own in the dark 
 to get the full effect. As has been said many many times before your surroundings to get rather 
 repetitive as the game wheres on but the game itself is anything but repetitive. 
  This is a scary game, but its smart in the way it does it, there is only a few cheap scares that 
 were so common in doom3 , instead the tension is constant and subtle. Instead of monsters leaping 
 out in your face there are dark figures running out of sight and movement in the shadows. The game 
 has periods of tension inter-weaved with combat thus making the combat so much more powerful. Combat 
 feels just right, every single one of the weapons is balanced, when you get a new weapon it won't 
 replace the old ones, you could probably go though the whole game just using the hand gun ( I haven't 
 tried it mind, i don't think my nerves could take it) which is something i haven't seen since Unreal2. 
 
  The only real complaint is that when the game was over it felt like a hadn't really played a game, 
 it was like i had just seen a great movie, Don't get me wrong i loved this game, it just doesn't 
 follow the familiar game patterns. There are no real breaks in the game for story telling, i think 
 there is only one or maybe two third person cut scenes in the entire game, the rest are all first 
 person where you remain in control.
  One thing that must be said is that you have a proper body, Your not just a floating camera. Although 
 you may just think "wow.... if you look down you can see your feet" but it runs a lot deeper than 
 that, every animation and movement is realistic. Getting on and off a ladder will never be the 
 same again.
  
  The Multiplayer is your standard DM, TDM and CTF affair, Except with a few twists. If you join 
 a Slow-mo version of each game type there is a item that grants the holder to activate the slow-mo 
 once a bar has been filled up, as well as getting more slow down than anyone else the user also 
 gets points for holding on to it, on the other hand the item can be seen on your HUD by every player 
 so it won't be hard to find you... Unless you use yourself as bait for a trap that is..
  
  The actual game engine itself is superb in almost all respects. Although not having the largest 
 amount of polygons per model the engine makes extremely good use of Lighting, particles and texture 
 maps. I only have two real gripes about the engine, the physics is great in all aspects etc that 
 it seems to suffer quite badly from what i like to call "physics fidget", things that have no force 
 acting on them often still move, i often found things like phone cords quite violently juddering 
 around for no reason what so ever. My other gripe is that no matter what system you have there 
 are often little jumps and frame drops when streaming a new section of the map, even on a dual 
 core, 7800, raided raptor rig.
  
  **UPDATE**
  
  Its been a good few months since i did this review. Since then i have only played a the game a 
 handfull of times. Its like a film that one only want to see once, yeah it was fun at the time 
 but there is no point goingv though it again.
  
  I've played Locomotion more than i have played this
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AsmodeanKane
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 19, 2005 11:01 am PT
Review:  I bought this game the day it came out and have been playing it quite a bit ever since, but have 
 decided to break to write this review. Everything you have heard about it, the good graphics, the 
 smart A. I., the creepiness, all of it true. I am impressed with the A. I. especially, a number of 
 times I have died because I did not expect my enemies would do what they did and at times I found 
 them raining death upon me from a completely unexpected angle. If you love FPS's you have to get 
 this game, although I reccomend that you use one of the two difficulty settings above normal because 
 I found normal too easy and restarted on a higher dificulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acidburn2121
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 19, 2005 7:25 am PT
Review:  I have been watching this game from E3 to the release date. Played all the demos. But when I got 
 the real game I could not stop playing it. The graphics in the game are some of the best I have 
 ever seen up to date. It is like your playing a movie. The npc's have some of the best AI. When 
 you fight a battle you can reload that battle and it will be total different then what you just 
 had. The part that makes this game complete is the sounds. They have the perfect sounds to go with 
 everything. If you are walking into a darkroom with no lights then your guy will start the breating 
 hard. I would say this is a game you should go buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tnbexplosive
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 19, 2005 7:09 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - 10
  
  The thing that stands out most about F. E. A. R from other FPS games is the excellent AI. These are 
 the most advanced I have seen, they will shout orders to each other, flank you, lean around corners 
 and throw grenades with really good precision as well as push over or crawl under obstacles to 
 get to you. If you shoot them in the legs you will see them limp off to get cover, and occasionally 
 fire their gun over the shoulder at you.
  
  This is the reason why the combat in F. E. A. R is so exciting, after a hectic battle bodies will 
 be laid around the room, blood covering the walls (and even enemies if you used the nail gun) . 
 The feature I enjoy the most in F. E. A. R though is the slo-motion button that regenerates after 
 each time you use it. When it is used it gives you an advantage because of your fast reflexes allowing 
 you to land some well placed shots and take out a bunch of enemies before they can land a shot 
 on you. One of the most important things in an fps game is the weapons, yet recent games like HL2 
 and Doom 3 have rather dull and unrealistic weapons, but FEAR gets it just right. The impressive 
 arsenal of weapons range from the standard shotgun and assault rifle to the nail gun and an energy 
 beam that turns soldiers to skeletons. 
  The player also has a variety of different melee actions to use in close combat such as a spinning 
 wheel kick or just hitting them with the butt of your weapon. Using these is risky but looks incredibly 
 cool.
  
  The common paranormal visions you see throughout the game are quite creepy and very well done, 
 and make it more tense before going into the next battle. I think the combination of the gunfights 
 and nightmare visions combine well to make the gameplay excellent.
  
  Graphics - 9
  
  To put it simply the graphics are amazing. The shadows and lighting even put Doom III to shame, 
 and with all sorts of gore it looks very realistic and creates a very intense atmosphere. The effects 
 in the game are outstanding, especially in slow-motion when you can see bits of debris, windows 
 smashing, smoke filling the air and the huge shockwave blast of the grenades are particularly impressive.
 
  
  The only reason i haven't given a 10 is because some textures are used too much, and you often 
 see the same furniture everywhere.
  
  Sound - 10
  
  The sound in F. E. A. R is excellent as it features a range of music throughout the game to make it 
 more intense, and the whispering sounds and voices make it really creepy. The sound of guns shooting 
 and windows smashing is spot on, and the battle chatter of the enemies is excellent to see, especially 
 when they swear at the top of their voice when shot, and telling each other to shut up when given 
 orders.
  
  Value - 9
  
  F. E. A. R offers really great value, and is a superb game throughout. It offers excellent cinematic 
 battles and creepy paranormal visions that work really well with the game. The only negative thing 
 I can say about F. E. A. R is that it offers little variety in the environments. The industrial areas 
 and offices are good but a lot of textures and furniture are used repeatedly, if there was some 
 more varied open environments the game would be perfect.
  
  Lifespan - 8
  
  The game takes around 10 hours to complete, but with the excellent AI there is definitely replayability 
 value combined with a fast paced fun multiplayer after you have finished.
  
  Positives
  
  + Excellent Visuals & Sound
  + Superb cinematic gunfights
  + Advanced AI with unpredictable 
 moves
  + Creepy paranormal visions
  
  Negatives
  
  - Unvaried Levels & Textures
  - Loose Plot
  
  Overall Score: 92 %
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aberraito
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 19, 2005 4:34 am PT
Review:  Enemies are more than simple dummies. An enemy will make a fair fight. Graphics are brilliant and 
 the gameplay is great. The theme of the game is somehow old. System requirements are no so high 
 in comparison with others games. The slow motion thing is very usefull sometimes. The price is 
 a little high from my point of view, there are good releases out there and some people could decide 
 to buy other "well know" stuff.
  
  In any case, this game is more than worthy, the game will play with minimum requierements, however 
 it is my recommendation to play it (if have the necesary stuff) at full details. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: destrucarum666
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 19, 2005 3:48 am PT
Review:  It's truelly the best game i've ever played!! i like this more than Half Life 2 (!) this should 
 have been D00M, cause its the most creapiest game i've ever played! and the graphics and sound 
 FX are awesome,
  only the linear gameplay should have been better ;-)
  as i played allmost all FPS, i must admit that HL2 and FAR CRY got the best gameplay i've ever 
 played, but what monolith does with F. E. A. R is in overall score much better!
  i didn't played the MP yet, but i think it could have been better (i played demo MP)
  as i said, 
 F. E. A. R is the best gaming experience i've ever had...
  this one should be at least #3 on the top 10 of this years games,
  so monolith, keep up the good 
 work :D
  
  so, people!!
  BUY THIS GAME!! xD
  
  PEACE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexanderStyhr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 19, 2005 3:37 am PT
Review:  Some people will say: We have seen it all before, it's just a new shooter!
  And yes, some of it have we seen before but there is also a lot of stuff we haven't seen before.
 
  It's a shooter, you run around hallways and shoots everything you see. That's what we have seen!
 
  What we haven't seen before in a first-person shooter before: Bullet-time, the physics is amazing, 
 a combination of Japanese horror!
  Specially the little girl gives the game something that any other game can't give us!
  My personal 
 meaning is that F. E. A. R is a pretty good shooter because you really can get into this game and 
 sometimes so much that you will catch yourself in a yell of victory when you have defeated an army 
 of soldiers!
  It really feels like you are firing a gun when you do it and when somebody shoots at you, you get 
 kind of scared!
  The soldiers are intelligent and they will do everything to kill you.
  But i think that the little girl is one of the games best ideas.
  Never have i been so scared 
 after i played a computer game and specially when you have seen movies like "The Grudge" or "The 
 ring".
  It's really creepy!
  
  The good things:
  Good graphics, good sound, creepy atmosphere, amazing physics, intelligent soldiers! Good concept 
 and idea, good combination of shooter and horror, easy to play because it has the same controls 
 as every other shooting games, nice choice of weapons.
  
  The bad things: 
  You are pretty paranoide when you turn of your computer, you are afraid of little girls, you can't 
 sleep at night, you get nightmares.
  
  Sorry if there is any spell failures!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonorme666
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 19, 2005 2:29 am PT
Review:  Overall an amazing game, the graphics are stunning and it runs flawlesly even on a non uptodate 
 machine.
  
  The story is alittle hard to follow, where you will mostly be trying to figure it out with voice 
 mail messages and laptop info.
  
  This is not so much a game for the story as it is for a solid, realistic and stunning combat system. 
 Amazing effects and amazing enemy A. I.
  
  Although the game did have a few flaws, them being that there isnt much variety in environmental 
 settings. Overall about 3 types of areas, and the game isnt at all as scary as you would think, 
 infact it gets pretty pridictable and you dont even feel a threat.
  
  Another problem being the lack of variety with enemies. While they look different most of them 
 act the same, they are just wearing different outfits.
  The only difference you will have in enemies are the ones you will only encounter about 20 times 
 in the game between them, it would have been nice to of had more of them as they were some of the 
 best ideas for enemies in many recent games.
  
  But overall the game is fantastic, certainly one that you will be playing through again and again 
 just for the action packed shootouts.
  To see how the enemies react to different approaches, to see if you can blow a guy in half and 
 then nail his torso to a nearby wall, to see if you can take down a whole squad with melee attacks. 
 The game has lots of replay value, and its shame that you have to go through all the story again 
 to experience it all.
  
  If you loved the original Half-Life, this should be right up your alley. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tormel
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 19, 2005 12:32 am PT
Review:  I was swept up in the hype of Fear like everyone else and bought it the day it came out. It now 
 sits mostly finished on my computer 2 days later and i don't care that much. The game was although 
 visualy stunning, creepy throughout, great sound and well freaky A. I. the plot just didnt engage 
 me. If felt like an awesome ride but i was just shooting stuff and running on without really getting 
 pulled into the story. For me a game has to really draw me into the story for me to wait to continue 
 playing it. Upon seeing the demo i thought it would be better than Half-Life 2 at least in my opinion 
 but it fell a little bit short. Overall i'm still happy i bought the game although next time i 
 might wait until the hype has died down before i buy something similar so i'm not as let down by 
 the final product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Banks_GB
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 18, 2005 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Simply-Put Pros: Awesome atmosphere, solid multiplayer, pure fun.
  Simply-Put Cons: A little basic and repetitive. Feels a little under-done. 
  
  Good part: The 
 game really does feel like a movie. Often times you'll find yourself in a large room with another 
 guy somewhere there. You keep peeking around the corner trying to find him, and for a moment there 
 you're entire body is wound-up with a tense feeling. That is the real beauty of the game. The gun-fights 
 really feel like an action movie and the slow-mo and kung-fu moves really make you feel like you're 
 in a Matrixesque movie. The game seems to be exactly what a Max Payne first person game would be. 
 The plot is fun, and the concept is ambitous.
  
  Bad Parts: Most of the problems are apperant with-in the first few minutes of playing this game. 
 The game darts a lot between story, action, and load screens. The game stops doing that as you 
 get farther into it but you still always get the feeling that you're about to be torn away for 
 another random scene with the little girl. Let me start by saying that you will hate the girl by 
 the end of this game. She just keeps coming in and out, getting in your way (blowing you out of 
 buildings) 
  Anywhoo there are a couple other major problems that really take away from the beauty of this game. 
 It only feels like half a game. The game keeps repeating itself and having the same situations 
 over again. You will slowly start to get bored playing the game. Within a few days the game should 
 go back on the shelf. Which leads me into the third and final major flaw with this game. The multiplayer 
 seems like it should be great. Every time I break down the parts individualy it feels like all 
 parts of the multiplayer are good. It has good modes, good balance, etc. But somewhere it all doesn't 
 add up because after playing just a little bit you'll probably find yourself back to playing Counter 
 Strike or Halo.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Randolphsevern
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 18, 2005 9:42 pm PT
Review:  What I look for most in a shooter is non-linear game playing. When Far Cry came out, I thought 
 it set a new standard. No more running around 'hallways' on a predestined path every other player 
 of the game must follow. But apparantly Far Cry didn't set a new standard, because this fall's 
 most anticpated shooter is just as 'linear hallway maze' driven as the first Castle Wolfenstein 
 3D! Why this game is getting good reviews is truly beyond me. After playing it, I reloaded my old 
 Far Cry disk into the computer and absolutely couldn't believe I was playing a game that was a 
 couple years OLDER than FEAR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgavery
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 18, 2005 9:17 pm PT
Review:  bye bye crowbar. FEAR puts halo, halo2, halflife, doom and far cry to absolute shame. the game 
 is impossible to stop playing (which i have painstakingly done to slap this post up) . you will play 
 this game for 8 hours straight unless there is a family emergency or an appointment. i'm telling 
 you that this game is like a nonstop, hardcore, john woo, hard boiled f-ing free for all. the enemy 
 AI is so cool that you dont even have to go online for your first night with this game. they will 
 chase you and they will attack you and they will stalk you. the firefights in this game are the 
 best i have ever seen besides far cry. it feels like YOU are chow yun fat blasting away for hours 
 and hours on end. 2 more points: The First: if you look at your ashtray and you consistently see 
 cigarettes that are leaning against the edge and have burned out by themselves, you know you are 
 playing a good video game. The Second: has a game ever given you goosebumps, chills down your spine? 
 yes, doom3 has truly done that, and so will the movie. but this game takes it to a whole new level. 
 partly because you dont know what the hell's going on, and partly because when the s**t hits the 
 fan, you will be firing wildly, and then all of a sudden, BOOM! you get scared out of your mind. 
 everytime i see that girl, i fire at her in panic. you will realize that this is the best first 
 person shooter ever made when you play it. have a great night and i will have a bad moring. hungover 
 beyond belief and wishing i could get back home to continue the furious firefights that dominate 
 any video game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirkmy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 18, 2005 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I have always really like first person shooters but never really liked horror movies or things 
 like that (never really tried them all that much) but man this game is just great i love how them 
 combine the horror sequences with the actual gameplay. It fits in just great. The AI of the computer 
 enemy is really advanced they are really fun to play against. They also did a great job with the 
 blood; normally in a really bloody game you kill a guy and you see blood spraying everywhere and 
 it just looks incrediably unrealistic, this game did a great job with the realism of it and its 
 really fun to play online even though you die a ton more then you kill. All in all if you like 
 first person shooters, dont hate horror movies, and are not playing AOE3 right now then this is 
 the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melora
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 18, 2005 7:41 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of the best single players to have come around since Doom 3. This game provides 
 an genuinely creepy atmosphere that is unlike anything that has ever been done. If you love Horror 
 survival games, this game is for you.
  As for the multiplayer portion of the game, the learning curve is way too high and if you don't 
 have time to play everyday, you will only continue to be constantly killed either by one shot kills, 
 or unarmed attack. Its just not fun.
  
  Get the game for the virtual and visual feast that the single player is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squamito
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 26, 2005 9:07 am PT
Review:  After having played through the entire game on various difficulties I have decided to lower my 
 rating for this game for the reasons.
  
  First, the game has no replay value in SP. Once you finish the game there is no reason to go back 
 through unless maybe you missed something and don't understand the plot, which is a possibility 
 with the plot gaps. Other than that though going back through the game will leave you bored and 
 not really wanting to finish. Half of the game environments look the same, that is each "new" level 
 turns out looking very similar to the last one.
  
  The second thing that irritates me are the enemies. There are only a few types of enemies in this 
 game. Most of the time you fight the same clone soldiers over and over. Sometimes you fight the 
 ATC people and some other robots but most clone soldiers. Also while going through most of the 
 time you will carry the same weapons around leaving new weapons to sit. I went through and never 
 picked up the rocket launcher because most of the game takes place in areas where using a rocket 
 launcher would be stupid.
  
  This is still a fun game to play the first time through, and of course the muli player is fun. 
 I can't offer a suggestion on buying it or not as it will depend on what you want to get out of 
 your money. If you are looking for single player replay value, this game has none. If you want 
 some good online action this would be a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil_dracula
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2005 5:41 pm PT
Review:  If you're a first person shooter fan this is certainly a must-have addition to your collection. 
 FEAR is one of those rare games that truly breaks out and presents itself well. It's a polished 
 and satisfying shooter that offers exceptional control, special effects and gameplay while serving 
 up a decent story line. 
  
  The single most impressive aspect of FEAR is the audio. It's nearly flawless and serves to make 
 the entire game feel creepy and ominous. Weapon sounds are also rendered flawlessly as are the 
 all-important footsteps and incidental music. The score is pulled straight from the J-horror genre 
 and pays homage to the entire class.
  
  The Enemy AI is what you'd expect from a Q4 2005 game - the enemies are as smart as any game to 
 date. They run, re-group and flank nicely.
  
  Graphics are impressive and the framerate is decent - assuming that you've got a high-end system. 
 I'm guessing that the excellent framerate comes from the resolution settings being locked down 
 to a maximum of 1024x768 - still everything looks good. I'm not so sure that it really looks all 
 that much better than Half-Life 2, and the environments are much more recycled than on HL2. 
  
  At one point in the game you are airlifted from one factory setting - filled with gray corridors, 
 pipe crawls, and offices that all look the same to the rooftop of another building across town. 
 The new building must have had the same interior decorator because the same gray walls, steam pipes 
 machinery and offices are there to greet you as soon as you're done with the rooftop. And the enemies 
 in this building are all exactly the same.
  
  After a while the deja-vu environments get a bit tiresome and I found myself wanting to explore 
 a different type of environment. HL2 broke the action up with the airboat, the cliff drive and 
 more but FEAR keeps you locked into the same musty corridors, factorys and metal walkways for most 
 of the game. The levels are designed well and you'll encounter pleanty of fire fights, but the 
 textures and the overall art directon feels redundant.
  
  When getting the game, the extra $5 for the director's cut seems worth it - if for no other reason 
 than you get one install disc - I can't for the life of me figure out why a game that requires 
 hundreds of dollars worth of video hardware and cutting edge processing power DOESN'T come standard 
 on a DVD. Is there really a system out there fitted with a GeForce 7800, 2 GB of RAM, the fastest 
 processor available... and an CD-ROM only??! I highly doubt you could even find such a machine, 
 much less opt to build one like that.
  
  PROS: Awesome creepy sounds, great graphics, good enemy AI
  
  CONS: Redundant settings get 
 boring, Repetitive Battles after a while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whiteknight19
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2005 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Well ive only just brought the game today as i live in the United Kindom and Wow the games is Great 
 in everyway the gameplay is brilliant Enemie's from all the place to bomb Exploding like the matrix 
 right in your Face.
  
  Sound is awsome goes great with this kinda Game
  
  Graphics Matrix WoW i know i played Max Pain but this is better then Max Pain i recommend for anyone 
 to buy an ati card or a GForce 6600 and upwards there just like a real person prepared to the other 
 games i have to give this game 
  
  Graphics 10/10
  Sound 10/10 
  Gameplay 10/10
  Tilt 10/10
  Value 10/10
  
  but if people are not an fps sort recommend a try before you buy 
 i will quarentee you this is the best fps game that i have ever come across i hope the will do 
 an expansion pack! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ice_man_1985
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 18, 2005 8:57 am PT
Review:  you want a game that lead you under the bed , and an exellent story , best AI enemy , then this 
 is what your lookin for.
  
  gameplay :
  
  the best gameplay you will experience in you whole gaming industry WHY?
  it has the best lookin 
 enemy , best AI enemy , the fire fights will make you feel that you are in a real battle and some 
 times you get yourself in a real mess if you will not take cover .
  
  Graphics :
  
  the graphics are amaizingly well that , you will be scared in your own shadow.
  
  sound :
 
  
  the sound system is making the gameplay well enough to get scared , and it's just right for a perfect 
 scary game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: taopix
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 18, 2005 5:17 am PT
Review:  i've played the game for about 6 hours now, and i can say i'm loving every moment of it. the visuals 
 are just amazing ! every firefight is soo chaotic, with crazy sparks, particles and smokes, that 
 it makes you tired but you'll want to keep playing because it's just soo fun !! the A. I is absolutely 
 without doubt better that HL2. the "wait in the corner and shoot 'em in the face" trick won't work 
 here. set the difficulty to extreme and you'll get the most enjoyable FPS of 2005. even though 
 i got a p4 2.8ghz radeon 9800 pro 1gb ram, this game still runs smooth (average fps 34) and it's 
 still very pretty to look at, especially when you're using slowmo in a firefight.
  what i don't like about the game is the repeatative enviroment (office and industrial all the way) 
 and some what silly story. but really who cares, if you want a good story go see movies. and later 
 after a couple hours of playing, it doesn't feel scary anymore when i encountered the "ghosts" 
 because i kinda get used to it. 
  bottom line, if you like over the top action FPS, get this game !! turn off the lights and turn 
 up the volume, it's going to be awesome !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ar_zia
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 18, 2005 4:56 am PT
Review:  After Doom 3 i though i will have to wait for Quake 4 to rattle me ... like hell....
  but monolith came to save the day by making F. E. A. R... ID has nothing to F. E. A. R as according to 
 me Doom 3 rocked and Quake 4 will rock all..
  
  F. E. A. R. is like being in wild and desperate firefights like no other game before it, and it's 
 an incredible, Hair raising and Heart stopping , mind exhausting experience from start to finish. 
 
  
  It is one very creepy game, due to the atmosphere and eerie greatest Sound effect ever made with 
 the screams, whispers people walking etc , and the most intense shooter together with Half Life 
 2 , Doom 3 and Far Cry. The levels were not to great with the sense that i have been HERE... many 
 things were ripped from Doom 3. The story was also not good enough with many loose ends... go for 
 HL2 for story.. hehe...
  
  I like to carry all the guns in a game and experiment killing enemies with the different kinds 
 of guns the game give me but here F. E. A. R. limits is only three weapons at a time and i hate sacrificing 
 guns with all the marvelous guns it offers . I liked the part of having a different button fot 
 he grenades .. i dont have to waste time going through the inventory... a great game all together
 
  
  i recommend it to every horror fans and shooter with brains.... PEACE..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dtuck
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 18, 2005 4:35 am PT
Review:  First off let's get one thing clear, I enjoy F. E. A. R. It's one of the best games I've played this 
 year and one of the best FPS for a while. However I don't believe it warrants the amazingly high 
 praise that others have given it.
  
  The first thing I noticed was how much of a system hog the game is, I bought a Nvidia GeForce 7800 
 GTX Extreme Edition, precisely to play games like this on full. However F. E. A. R runs too slow. 
 I had to spend about an hour before playing tweaking the settings and then restarting the game 
 because what ran fine in the test demo didn't always translate as good gameplay.
  
  Once I was happy with the settings I'm pleased to say it was worth the hassle. The graphics look 
 superb, and the lighting effects are really cool. I have marked the graphics down slightly though 
 as while the graphics look great, I think the engine used to produce them is too inefficient.
 
  
  The game plays like most other FPS's, wander round and kill things. This is branded as a 'thinking 
 mans' FPS but all that means is taking it slightly slower rather than trigger a mad rush of enemies. 
 Something some people do in FPSs anyway.
  
  The start of the story line works well with a mix of action and supernatural sequences. There's 
 even long parts where you're just wandering round empty offices, building up the atmosphere.
  
  One of the first criticisms to fire at F. E. A. R though is that the levels all look the same 
 and there's very little variety. And with that, the range of enemies is disappointing. For me, 
 once I've completed this game, I'll probably not play it again as there's other multi players out 
 there I enjoy more. This has led to me just giving the game 7 for value.
  
  Overall F. E. A. R is a good FPS which doesn't really bring anything new to the genre. It's good fun 
 that, for me anyway, will last for one play only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theend2020
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 18, 2005 1:33 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is A. m. a. z. i. n. g, looks brilliant, plays lyk a dream, has sooooo much gore i makes kill 
 bill look lyk a cartoon, the little girl freaks me out. the game ive been expecting for so long 
 now, it blows every other game out of the water, only one complaint, its too addictive, but hey, 
 it'll just keep me going till the sequel is released, anyone who thinks the environments get repetative 
 needs to go get their head check, SOOOOOOOO damn cool, it feels lyk ur staring in a film, the guns 
 feel meaty, you feel so damn cool when you throw a mine at sum1s feet and it explodes in a show 
 of limbs and mosonry SIMPLY THE B. E. S. T, 'nuf sed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schwinni
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 18, 2005 1:30 am PT
Review:  I have to say, i waited ages for this game to arrive. Its there and i am impresed yes. Tnx god its 
 beter than the demo, cause i couldnt play it : ( Its great. I like the felling of being scared what 
 comes next when playing hehe. AI is superb i would say, cause i played lots of games. Its just one 
 thing that bothers me.... its the graphics.... i dont know what kind of graphics card man would need 
 to play on 1024x786 with high effects. I got a GF Fx5700 256Mb Nvidia, and i must say that this 
 card just sucks at this game... But guys, try it, its fun.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shellback84
Rating: 5.1
Date: Oct 17, 2005 11:28 pm PT
Review:  I got this game wanting to be scared. What I got was this silly premise that there is a bunch of 
 trained professional government agents that are part of a paranormal division? They have this expensive 
 monitoring and electronic equipment that I know we would love to see our tax dollars spent on to 
 catch ghost. Common, are there not any of you out there that thinks this is the least bit silly? 
 I am not against being silly (ask my wife) but when a game is taking itself seriously then that 
 is completely different. We as buyers were lead to think that this game is about being scared and 
 the games programmers and writers opening up maybe some new worlds in gaming before the demo release. 
 I was thinking cool but not another shooter game please!!! I am sick and tired of games that pretended 
 to be something else when in reality all they are is about shooting guns. I know shooting guns 
 is big money but what happened to creative thinking? I bought Doom3 because I knew I would be shooting 
 guns and none of us were fooled as to the content of the story line, yet it did not get a score 
 like this game? Now why is that? My guess is, is it is about the level of expectation. We have 
 over the top expectations from what games Id writes and FEAR is not written by Id. Id may have 
 backed themselves into a corner. Anyway, I am not going to sit here and write a thesis on this 
 game, as for one thing it is not worth that kind of time and for another I think I have said what 
 I need to say about this game. I just hope big money has not bought out all the game companies 
 creative thinking like it has Hollywoods.
  
  Pros: Outstanding, beautiful graphics. Great use of colors and atmosphere. Great eerie sound.
 
  
  Cons: Like we all learned in the last two Matrix movies, great graphics and CGIs means absolutely 
 nothing if the story does nothing or worse, is silly. In this case, in my opinion, the story line 
 in FEAR is silly. You will need a brand new computer with a top video card and lots of system RAM 
 to make this game pretty. If you cannot get a decent score in 3Dmark 2003 or better yet, 3Dmark 
 2005, then do not buy this game.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: singingfishy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 17, 2005 10:50 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I have ever played!!!! 
  
  I know there are neighsayers and people who will disagree with this review, but "to each his own". 
 
  
  To start off, this game is a system hog, but it is worth then $700 upgrade to see these amazing 
 aesthetics. Fire burning up the wood, dents in the barrels, Havok 2.0 engine. It is amazing to 
 see the wood chips go flying up in the air, dust going from place to place, lights bouncing off 
 the wall!
  
  I reccomend a Audigy 2 ZS or X-Fi to play, things will sneek up behind you and BAM! You will hear 
 water gushing between your feet, hear shots peircing Kevlar vests, and hear moans of dying men!
 
  
  Gameplay wise, although it is not as tight as a game like HL2, it reinvents. Slowing down time, 
 fist to fist action, and very cool gun effects. It is easy to get so involved that you will scream 
 when the screen changes to a scary view! I HAVE NEVER BEEN SCARED OF A GAME BEFORE UNTIL THIS! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neel_ror
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 17, 2005 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Simlpy amazing! I am speechless, F. E. A. R has for sure created a benchmark and has moved our world 
 of gaming a step further towards the reality horision. Unlike doom3 this game surely lived up to 
 its hype. I hope this engine is not wasted and is put to better use by other game devlopers. The 
 most amazing thing about this game is it really makes you fear this game, but! it urges you to 
 play more and more! again unlike doom3, id should learn a lot from this! Not only does it emphaise 
 on storyline it gives ura chance to play a squad-based game in the creepiest of areas making you 
 less scared of the dark! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsnx
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2005 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Who i cant describe how dang good this game is the makers of this games 
  they must be complete genius my complments to the makers and there game, you have a perfect game 
 im buying tommarow will make a perfect
  birthday present or christmas your personal choise the makers defiently
  beat half life series 
 and halo series this game defiently desirves to
  get a 10.0 and a game of the gear award and with the control of biening
  able to turn of blood 
 in the game im shure 13-16 year old will be able to get
  
  thank you for listiening 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellraiser3899
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 17, 2005 7:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is all about scarin the sh** out of you and does it really well whether strange noises 
 that make you turn around or dead bodies coming out of nowhere the slo mo is awsome and its crazy 
 to see somebody getting his head blow off slowly. It has a really crazy story that fits in with 
 the matrix meets the ring montage with some crazy guy taking control of a clone army and he's crazy 
 for one he eats people... no joke. The best A. I ever these guys are smart they take cover jump over 
 windows and work as a team to kill you whether your facing one or ten its never easy and never 
 dull. If there's anything bad I already beat it around 10 to 12 hours but it'll be the best thing 
 you could do with a half day. Multiplayer is insanely fun and I just got on it now but its not 
 hard to jump into. Crazy kills, crazy story, crazy multiplayer. Buy it or your CRAZY.
  How many times did i use crazy? anyway its a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yao_ming42390
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2005 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Wow.................. This game is frickin awesome. It's so good, that I would buy it again if it 
 were to come out on the Xbox360, which, by the way, should definitely be considered. This would 
 definitely keep me occupied on Live before Halo 3 comes out. Even after, the release of Halo 3, 
 I will still play this. Everything about this game is perfect; the graphics are amazing, the gameplay 
 kicks ass, the sound creates a freaky atmosphere, and the AI is insane. They have worked their 
 butts off to create a game that will most likely win many Game of the Year titles. I hope there's 
 gonna be many more F. E. A. R. games to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_Fate_
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 17, 2005 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay : The gameplay is simply superb, well at least the singleplayer is. It makes you guess 
 whats around each corner, what kind of new enemies youll face and disgust the viewer with some 
 bloody scenery. This is not a game for the weak hearted as you simply see some of the most disturbing 
 and at the same time realistic atmosphere in any game. The game forces you to practically watch 
 yourself in every corner only to be suprised with enemies that uses a tatical approach to take 
 you out. You use guns from shotguns to laser weapons and each gun has a situational meaning to 
 it. This means that no matter what kind of gun you have, its only best to use it in a certain type 
 of scenario. Such as enemies trying to flank you in close quarters are best dealt with by simply 
 blasting them with a shotgun. Oh and the artifical intellegence is simply superb, the enemy soldiers 
 are simply trying to flank you here and there and sometimes they hide behind cover or just rush 
 at you with all of their soldiers beside them. Fortunatly, you have a "slo-mo" type meter which 
 slows down time to tackle on these foes as its probably the only chance you got in beating the 
 game. Your melee attacks are also insanely powerful like the jump kick which instantly kills the 
 enemy. The game also has a very "cinematic" feel to it as if you were playing a character in a 
 movie but with that said there are some faults that makes the game a step away from perfection. 
 Although your enemies are smart they come at you in small numbers (No more than 18 perhaps) and 
 there isnt really enough variety to the enemies. Another thing is that the developers pratically 
 forces you to watch the scenery from a certain view instead of having your own free will. Another 
 problem with F. E. A. R is the multiplayer, while it plays just like the singleplayer theres just 
 some aspects of the singleplayer that really just doesnt work for the multiplayer like the instant 
 kill melee. Its fast and brutal but you wont get the same satisfaction of killing extremely good 
 artifical intellegence. 
  
  Graphics : The graphics are definatly the most hyped part but in my opinion it did NOT live up 
 to its expectations. The physics is definatly over-exaggerated since it seems like a shot from 
 a pistol will send the soldier miles away. When you shoot a wall youll notice that the concrete 
 seems to look a little like clay (Even with most advance video card) . The enemies, while they look 
 superb seemed a little jaggy like they could use a bit more polygons. That doesnt mean there isnt 
 anything postive, if for the most part there are some cool looking physics in the game and the 
 atmosphere definatly immerses you into the F. E. A. R world. With all this said if you want to see 
 the graphics to its fullest, you will need an better than standard video card to see the true beauty 
 of F. E. A. R.
  
  Sound : The sound is superb, it doesnt really have a superb soundtrack and all but the sound-effects 
 is great. The voice acting is standard and when you fire a weapon, it really makes you think that 
 your firing a real gun. The atmospheric tone can definatly send most players scared.
  
  Value : 10 hours or less in normal difficulty is perhaps the most you will get out of F. E. A. R. 
 The multiplayer can add some value but like I said in the Gameplay section, it really isnt good. 
 The storymode is basically where the whole fun is at but too bad F. E. A. R is a little in the short 
 side. Even after your done wtih singleplayer you can play in higher difficulties if you wish but 
 although the singleplayer game is a blast your still not going to look foward for another run since 
 the player will most likely know all of all the suprises in the game (which really was the best 
 aspect of F. E. A. R) . The singleplayer does have some great moments in it but you can easily access 
 that by just loading up to the nearest point you saved. 
  
  Overall : Fear is a great game, is it superb? Not really. F. E. A. R has its problems like the boring 
 multiplayer, the short singleplayer and the overhyped graphics but aside from all those problems 
 F. E. A. R is a game that you must simply experience. Its a game thats inspired by a mix of Japanese 
 horror film (Ringu) and the action movie Matrix. Its a wierd mix but its a combination that will 
 give players an immserive experience. 
  
  Pros-
  -Superb action
  -Incredible "realistic" sounds.
  -Deep and almost life like atmosphere.
  -An incredible singleplayer 
 experience.
  -Standard voice acting
  -A pretty good storyline.
  
  Cons-
  -Exaggerated physics
  -Weak multiplayer
  -Singleplayer while incredible wasnt really that long.
 
  
  Sidenotes = I really think that F. E. A. R is an great game but at the same time I was disappointed 
 with it as well. There was definatly some ideas that was implemented into the game but the other 
 ideas like the slow-mo powerup for the multiplayer seemed like it was just a pathetic excuse for 
 a joke. In my opinion the developers thought they should waste all their development in the singleplayer 
 portion of the game and just come out with a weak multiplayer. If you compare the games singleplayer 
 and multiplayer than the singleplayer would obviously be a winner. Doom 3 was another hyped game 
 long before but it definatly did NOT live up to the hype, thats because the developers did not 
 get the game's balance right. The problem wasnt the singleplayer, it was the multiplayer which 
 was incredibly boring. Since Doom 3's multiplayer played exactly like the singleplayer it fealt 
 that some part of the singleplayer portion of the game didnt fit with the multiplayer. I feel that 
 Monolith did the same exact thing id software has done which was a mistake on Monolith's part. 
 Overall, I did love the game but it just didnt feel that it lived up to my expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTPAHHIK
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 17, 2005 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Brilliant game with exceptional design and realism - the best first person action to date. While 
 gameplay setting can be repetitive sometimes, its more than compensated by very realistic physics 
 and astonishing graphic models. I suggest to grab it off the shelf before it goes on backorder. 
 FEAR is much better than Half-Life 2 and quite likely to become classic in few years. I only wish 
 there would be more games like that. 
  
  I play it on Athlon 2200, with 1GB RAM and Radeon XT 9800. While video card handles good faster 
 CPU is recommended. 
  
  Can't wait to see Quake 4 .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linnx88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2005 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Let me begin by saying that this game has absolutely the best firefights I've ever experinced in 
 the past 10 years of gaming. Half-life 2 and a few others come a close second.
  
  The enemy AI is also spectacular. The enemies on harder difficulty behave just like human opponents 
 in a net deathmatch. They will run away, dodge, ambush you, flank and yell out tactics when you 
 flank or charge them. They actually feel like intelligent beings.
  
  The particle effect system is absolutely spectacular and the weapon models are gorgeous. All these 
 physics do take a toll on your CPU so plan on playing with only the best on the market. I have 
 a fairly beefy Athalon 3500+, 2 GB 3400 dual-channel RAM, Geforce 6800 Ultra 256mb and 2 (raid 
 0 setup) WD Raptor hard drives and I had to turn down some of the details and still the game had 
 slight hick-ups in certain levels. So that should give you an estimate of what to expect as far 
 as computer requirments go.
  
  The sound is excellent on a surround sound system with you being able to distinctly hear every 
 shell drop to the floor and ever creepy scream and whisper in the game.
  
  The game has a great creepiness factor (i was more creeped out by Doom 3 however and System Shock 
 2 doesn't even belong in the comparison) . 
  
  The absolute weakest part of the game is the level design. To summarize the game levels I just 
 have to say 3 words; office building, old basement, doom-like lab. That's about as much variety 
 as you're gonna get. It would be ok but the office levels are simply horribly recycled. Everything 
 looks the same with a slight twist here and there. The game is also fairly short.
  
  If it wasn't for the mind-blowing gun fights, this would be a very bland and average FPS since 
 there is also no innovation in the game whatsoever. If you're looking for a more concise story, 
 I would go with Half Life 2.
  
  Unfortunately sometimes while playing the game, I wanted to summarize it as "A wild, particle filled 
 romp through an office building."
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gojiita_40
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2005 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Sweet fps. It is like a highly kickass version of doom 3. Very unique horror effects. And come 
 on, there is a little girl that rips people appart with her mind!
  Im a huge sucker for the particle effect. The sound really makes you feel like your being mentally 
 raped by ghosts. I loved the effect of running along and seeing a shadow go across the wall in 
 front of you. To turn around and see the tail end of somthing run around the corner. I find myself 
 often saying: "Do I really want to find out what made that sound?" "Should I really go around that 
 corner?" "OMGOMGWTF was that!?" Truly superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monkelf
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 17, 2005 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Ok, Ive been a hardcore gamer for about 10 years now... you name it Ive played it. All games are 
 now days are pieces put out to the public to test the general liking of what gamers play in todays 
 society. With F. E. A. R. being released, it has unlocked societies deepest anger and lust for power 
 and realisim. This game not only challenges your skill for first person shooters, but also challenges 
 if you are really in the game or not. I've played this F. E. A. R. game for quite some time now, and 
 all i can say is good luck with you dreams, controlling them I mean, because this game will make 
 you cry to your mother when your playing it at 3am and a shadow of a little girl pops up and scares 
 the crap out of you!! My hat is off to Sierra for putting together a great game that everyone can 
 enjoy, whether it be the player or the friend in the back watching. This game will put you on the 
 edge of the edge, and make you want more. By the time you beat the game, you will be rushing to 
 play it once more. Again, Sierra and all the hard working people behind you that put this Materpiece 
 together, I thank you for the effort that was expressly spent on this game. You guys are in for 
 a whole new different dimension of games, and Sierra is the pac leader to show you the way. Thanx 
 guys. 
  
  Monk Elf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KamikazeK
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2005 10:03 am PT
Review:  You've got a great game on your hands here! Fantastic firefights with debris flying left right 
 and centre with very cunning AI... Nice "bullet time" inclusions which helps quite a lot when you're 
 surrounded. Not to mention chilling... I loved the Original Japanese "Ring" and this game had me 
 looking behind me (and through doors slightly opened doors...*shiver*) . The only problem is that 
 you need a Brand new beefed up machine to run it with all guns blazin'. Graphically, it's awesome. 
 Everything is drawn beautifully with nice bit of gore thrown in. If you think your machine (and 
 your nerves) can handle it, grab it now! Happy Gunnin'! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Night_Frost
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 17, 2005 9:50 am PT
Review:  I'll have to admit, when I first heard of FEAR, I thought it was gonna flop, but when I saw more 
 and more videos on the game, I was drawn in, hell, I was even waiting for a demo to come out, when 
 the Demo came out, I was scared s***less, also getting one heck of a adrenaline rush, the AI in 
 the game is so real, it'll make you believe the designers are playing the bad guys, the mood is 
 dark, unsettling.
  
  The Story is unique for the series, it's like Doom, you play as a no-name soldier who's has his 
 first day on the team known as FEAR or First Encounter Assault Recon, you investigate a mysterious 
 Paramilitary force that has taken over a multi-billion dollar aerospace complex, you also track 
 Paxton Fettle, a commander who's psychically linked to a battalion of Super Elite Clone Soldiers, 
 but there's also other matters such as a creepy girl who walks on the roofs and cuts members of 
 the Elite Delta Force unit into pieces, some voices are familiar, especially David Scully, or Sgt. 
 Johnson from Halo.
  
  The Sound in the game is settling, the music feels just like an action flick, the weapons sound 
 real and really deliver when you get into massive firefights, the voices acting is well done, making 
 it sound like a real military operation falling into place, the Clone Soldiers make the battles 
 feel life-like with commands such as 'Search the other floor' or 'He's trying to flank!', but as 
 always, being soldiers, they usually taunght, like 'Die Mother****er'.
  
  The Gameplay is what makes FEAR a winner, simple firefighters involving three guys can feel like 
 you're fighting against ten guys, they're just chaotic, and with the new physics engine, it really 
 makes the game feel alive, if you're used to consoles, it'll take some time to get familiar with 
 keyboard and the game is a little on the short side, spanning 10 hours, but if you take the game 
 on a different route, it'll take a little longer, to say the least, FEAR is a winner and let's 
 hope that Monolith carries on the series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djlawlor
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 17, 2005 9:10 am PT
Review:  The only way to describe this game is AWESOME, once you start it is impossible to put down!
  
  The graphics are superb the AI is very tricky played the demo but it doesn't prepare you for 
 the real thing, the tension continually builds and you find yourself trying to physically look 
 around that corner!
  
  The "visits" from the main protagonists can certainly catch you on the hop all I can say is More 
 of the same please.
  
  One word of caution this game will test your own and your machines capabilities to the max... well 
 not caution really a reason to enjoy!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinamika
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2005 8:32 am PT
Review:  Everything you want in a shooter. The graphics= to DOOM3, FPS story= to HL2, and the Fun factor 
 of Max Payne. Excellent character development and incredible sound. The absolute best part of the 
 game would have to be the AI. Even though Im only at the mid point, I would have to say these 
 are the smartest foes yet in a video game. Many times you will walk away from a firefight low on 
 heal, empty, and jumping over the wreckage left behind. For those how live by a Frys Electronics 
 (thanks to a buddy for the early release) the game will be on the shelf tomorrow morning for $36.99. 
 Even at a full price this game is well worth it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: knightofflame
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 17, 2005 8:13 am PT
Review:  What i can say is , it's creepy , it's exciting , and it's scary ( sometimes ) .
  The single player and multiplayer was awesome ! 
  If you miss the feeling of what doom 3 gives 
 you ,
  try F. E. A. R.
  
  They really did a good job in the game , especially the AI and the sound effects . When the 1st 
 time i played the single player demo , it shock me for around 4 to 5 times , and i was stunned 
 for split seconds after each timeThe Thingappears . And now i started to love the gameplay 
 of it . I like the way AIcommunicatebetween each other although there is some strong langugue 
 .
  
  I'm loving it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hospital2345
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 17, 2005 6:29 am PT
Review:  Only one word: PERFECT!
  
  The Graphic is the best I ever seen, Doom 3 is nothing, the real graphic is 
 
  Incredible AI and a solid Gameplay................ What do you want more from a FPS ?
  The value isn't longer but I say that I play many many times.
  Excellent game, Monolith the Best!
 
  
  GMC italian review:
  
  "Il migliore Fps di Quest'anno se non in assoluto, AI fantastica, Grafica eccellente, un po corto 
 ma lo rigiocherete molte volte, infatti ogni volta che lo giocherete l'approcio sar sempre diverso 
 e non vi annoierete mai per nessun motivo al mondo. Grazie Monolith!"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kleszczuch
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 17, 2005 4:28 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. me!!
  
  Oh man, what can I say  this game is finger-lickin good! Though it has some minor ( and completely 
 forgivable ) flaws, such as almost entirely linear story and quite high hardware demands, it really 
 kicks you in the head and leave you wanting more. The big plus for the game is that it avoids nicely 
 the dull repeatibility of scary moments, which was a big drawback for DOOM3 and made the game 
 boring and predictable. And FEAR is all about  well fear, it grips you by the balls from the start 
 and the tension keeps rising as you dwell deeper into the game. Firefights are freakin fast and 
 frantic, and thanks God and monolith for the slow-mo, because the AI of your computer opponents 
 is devilishly cunning, and more than a few times you will find yourself heavily outnumbered, with 
 enemies trying to get behind you and looking for cover. The graphics are astonishing and, a little 
 advice, if you have a machine that will be able to support all the fireworks, try looking for your 
 jaw under the table. And the last but certainly not least, the Sound ( with the capital S ) , damn 
 this game surely builds the atmosphere with it and the FX are simply great, bullets whizzing, grenades 
 exploding and people screaming and whisperingby the way, try shooting the telephone . The only 
 thing left to say is PLAY, PLAY, PLAY ( and better not drink too much before, cause you might have 
 a bladder problem ) . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: radialheadfx
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Everything you want in a shooter. The graphics= to DOOM3, FPS story= to HL2, and the Fun factor 
 of Max Payne. Excellent character development and incredible sound. The absolute best part of the 
 game would have to be the AI. Even though Im only at the mid point, I would have to say these 
 are the smartest foes yet in a video game. Many times you will walk away from a firefight low on 
 heal, empty, and jumping over the wreckage left behind. For those who live by a Frys Electronics 
 (thanks to a buddy for the early release) the game will be on the shelf tomorrow morning for $36.99. 
 Even at a full price this game is well worth it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
