-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: F.E.A.R. Perseus Mandate
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/fearperseusmandate/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Some cool and scary moments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Rehash of first two FEAR games.
 Graphics engine looks downright primitive now.
 Annoying difficulty.
 Not much new.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 14, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.3, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 1,102 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: TimeGate Studios
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Nov 6, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This stand-alone F. E. A. R. expansion feels completely dated and unnecessary. 

  Let's see. Gloomy, industrial environments? Check. Armies of clone replica soldiers? Check. Plenty 
 of "bullet time," slow-motion gunplay? Check. On paper, F. E. A. R. Perseus Mandate has everything 
 that made its 2005 predecessor an atmospheric and fun shooter. However, the stand-alone Perseus 
 Mandate is the second expansion for F. E. A. R., and it represents a bigger drop in quality and gameplay 
 than its predecessor.  

           It's disturbing to think just how badly the F. E. A. R. engine has aged over two years.  
     

  In the first two F. E. A. R games, you played as the same character, a mysterious "point man" who 
 is part of a First Encounter Assault Recon team sent into a developing situation regarding an army 
 of cloned soldiers, a military commander gone mad, and a lot of scary paranormal phenomenon. In 
 Perseus Mandate, you play as a brand new character, though it's hard to tell the difference because 
 you're simply the point man of a  second  F. E. A. R. team sent into a developing situation involving 
 an army of cloned soldiers and scary paranormal phenomenon. You even have the same superfast reflexes 
 that allow you to move so fast that it makes it seem that everything else has slowed down. It's 
 an effect that's like Neo dodging bullets in  The Matrix . The only real key changeup is that there's 
 now an army of mercenaries that you have to fight.  

  Perseus Mandate's story parallels the events in the first two F. E. A. R. games. Basically, while 
 all the chaos is erupting with the first team, a second team is sent in to recover some material 
 that sheds light on Paxton Fettle and Alma, two of the central characters in the overarching story. 
 However, mercenaries suddenly appear, trying to get the material first. Then, it's another chase 
 through a seemingly endless industrial environment, battling hordes of clones, mercenaries, and 
 corporate security guards along the way. And it wouldn't be a F. E. A. R. game if every now and then 
 you didn't encounter some kind of weird, spooky moments, like seeing a ghostly visage in the corner 
 of your eye.  

  To its credit, developer TimeGate has managed to design some of the best scary moments of the series 
 to date, as well as some really cool sequences that would be very nice to see in a Japanese horror 
 movie. Unfortunately, most of this good stuff is located in the latter half of the game, which 
 means you have to slog your way through the really drab-looking and uninspired first half. It's 
 so lackluster that it represents the nadir of the entire franchise.  

  The first half begins on an entirely off note, trying to render huge, open environments. However, 
 the F. E. A. R. graphics engine has not aged gracefully at all. This is shocking considering that 
 it's only a couple of years old, but it simply can't handle the task. The environments are so blocky 
 and bland that they look like they'd fit in with a shooter from a decade ago. The gameplay is also 
 frustrating because it seems the developers tried to amp up the difficulty level not by making 
 the impressive artificial intelligence smarter, but by giving it crazily overpowered weapons. You'll 
 be at full health and full armor, walk into a room then a second or two later, get killed. It's 
 such a twitch game now that you pretty much have to use slow motion all the time to survive. Many 
 of the cool AI behaviors and battles from the original F. E. A. R. are also gone.  

           Perseus Mandate offers a lot more of the same, and there isn't a lot of new stuff here. 

  There are some new toys to play with, such as deployable weapon turrets and a great new assault 
 rifle with an IR sight, though they're relatively minor additions. The environments are also bigger 
 and more vertical, though that's not necessarily a great thing because the engine can barely keep 
 up with them.  

  It's also difficult to play this expansion without feeling that you're doing the exact same things 
 that you've done countless times before, provided you played the first F. E. A. R. games. The series 
 is in desperate need of some new ideas and a new graphics engine. There's nothing here to really 
 draw action fans in, especially considering the number and quality of the latest first-person shooters. 
 Perseus Mandate does feature a multiplayer suite that includes everything from the previous F. E. A. R. 
 games. Of course, you don't need to even buy Perseus Mandate to play F. E. A. R. online because Sierra 
 has made the series' multiplayer suite available for free in the form of F. E. A. R. Combat.  

  F. E. A. R. Perseus Mandate feels like a completely unnecessary trip to the well for Sierra, especially 
 considering that series creator Monolith is already working on a proper sequel in the form of Project 
 Origin. Only the most die-hard F. E. A. R. fans need apply; they'll likely appreciate the little story 
 details that trickle out. If you've already played F. E. A. R., there's nothing really new here, and 
 if you haven't played F. E. A. R., then check that game out instead.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (73 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 11:53 pm PT
Review:  
  released after FEAR (originally FEAR) have successfully gain many FPS maniac. but the standalone 
 expansion very very disappointed, i'm not find game play, or fitur development, on behalf graphic 
 also
  
  
  same at the first released FEAR, u are a special Recon unit who will destroy and collect all information 
 about the first squad who has delayed first. u not alone, but will fight with 2 special unit gain 
 the enemy. the positive about the game u will find a few new weapon that can't u imagine first.
 
  
  
  very bad, annoying, not special. u will not find graphics increased in this standalone expansion. 
 computer specification to play not far between this standalone and the first FEAR
  
  actually, if u very disappointed about the same game play, fitur, and also graphic. u will not 
 boring to play the game, because also give us Uniquely First Person Shooter which smart enemy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Private-Ryan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 9:52 pm PT
Review:  The original fear was kick ass! Very atmospheric, disturbing and creepy, it had tons of blood and 
 wicked weapons to experiment with on your enemies. A true classic and blood soaked masterpiece. 
 Extraction point was good, not as fun as the first game but still had its moments of glory. Perseus 
 mandate, just let the franchise down and failed at being a worthy stand alone game. It is still 
 worth playing and isn't awful from start to finish. But for the most part it is just atrocious!
 
  
  The good:
  
  It adds 3 new weapons in the game for you to toy around with and experiment. The first new weapon 
 is a advanced rifle with a nightvision scope, the second is a grenade launcher and the third is 
 a lightning arc gun. It also includes all the other weapons from fear and extraction point making 
 a beefy and wicked arsenal.
  
  It also adds 4 new enemies into the game for your personal enjoyment of blowing the newcomers in 
 half. The new enemies are, a different type of atc soldier, a new type of alma ghost, nightcrawler 
 soldiers and nightcrawler elites. The nightcrawlers are probably the hardest enemy in the game 
 you'll face, they have extremely powerful weapons and move hell fast, you'll probably end up wasting 
 all your ammo trying to kill only one of these guys. On the hardest difficulty the nightcrawlers 
 are a pain in the ass and almost impossible to kill, and if you think that sounds bad then wait 
 till you face the nightcrawler commander, HOLY **** is he hard! I died about 1000 times trying 
 to kill the stupid ****
  
  Perseus mandate adds way more models and insignias for multiplayer making the customization of 
 your online character even better then before.
  
  After beating the campaign on perseus mandate you unlock 3 bonus levels, they are all plot-free 
 and involve you having to battle through several waves of enemies to reach the end. They are the 
 funnest feature in perseus mandate except multiplayer of course.
  
  The bad:
  
  The graphics and gameplay are virtually identical to the original, nothing has changed at all except 
 the addition of a few new weapons, enemies and the bonus levels. Basically this game didn't have 
 to be made, I would have happily waited for fear 2 and did not need perseus mandate to hold me 
 over. So even though it has been made, I would recommend playing it. Its pretty much the same as 
 the first 2 as far as graphics and gameplay goes. It does include a few new things as I stated 
 before, but that isn't enough to get it above the score I rest it at. So check it out, but don't 
 expect much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziegd
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 2, 2009 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Maybe it's just me, but I think the many critics of this release may have been a little harsh. 
 I mean, sure, Perseus Mandate is riddled with some significant flaws, but I don't think it's as 
 bad as many "professional" reviewers made it out to be. However, because of all those poor reviews, 
 I didn't buy this expansion when it first came out. But now, with Project Origin just around the 
 corner, and with Perseus Mandate in the bargain-bin, I figured I'd pick up a copy just to get my 
 FEAR mojo going before the new release. And I'm glad I did. But before I get into why I liked it, 
 in fairness, I have to talk about the game's shortcomings. 
  
  First off, I'm a believer in the notion that the most important aspect of a good game is a good 
 story. For me, a compelling saga that keeps me engaged from start to finish is more important than 
 graphics, game play, or anything else. And to be honest, the story that drives Perseus Mandate 
 iswellpretty weak, to say the least. It's not so much that the story itself is bad; it's just 
 that we've already seen itthis game is basically a re-hash of the original FEAR. (Stop me if you've 
 heard this onean elite team goes into a super-secret facility to gather the super-secret files 
 and capture the mysterious perpetrator, all the while battling countless bad guys and paranormal 
 events.) HELLO-O-O? What ever happened to creativity? 
  
  And to make matters worse, there's no explanation for the new character, known only as "Sergeant". 
 Remember how FEAR took great pains to wrap a mysterious back-story around Pointman? How he had 
 these special abilities, and his past was unknown, and there were these cryptic references to "the 
 proto-type"? So how come there's now ANOTHER guy with the same abilities suddenly showing up for 
 the ride? No explanation, no tie-insnothing. This was very disappointing to me, as it pretty much 
 tears the guts out of the original game's mystery about Pointman's origin.
  
  The second major flaw with Perseus Mandate lies in the visual presentation. Note that this is not 
 the same thing as graphicsdie-hard photo-realism aficionados will probably find the graphics in 
 PM (which are basically the same as the 2005 original) looking a bit dated. But personally, that's 
 not a problem for me. I've never been a graphics fanatic, and I think the original FEAR still looks 
 pretty good today.
  
  But graphics are only one part of the total visual presentation, and quite frankly, this release 
 is simply not as polished as the first two games. Many sequences look somewhat unfinished, and 
 at times I couldn't escape the feeling that I was playing some kind of beta version. Many players 
 will undoubtedly recognize specific areas from the original game, as Sergeant's path occasionally 
 overlaps with Pointman's. These deja-vu moments are actually pretty cool, and the environments 
 look much more refined, so I'm guessing they were probably ripped directly out of the original 
 game. 
  
  But many of the newly created environments feel like they were rushed out the door, and the attention 
 to detail is sorely lacking. As an example, every set of lockers in the new game is identicala 
 block of five, with the first door closed, the next two open, the fourth door closed, and the last 
 door open. Even in a locker room containing several sets, this pattern is repeated every time. 
 Granted, it's been over two years since I last played FEAR, so I could be mistaken, but I'm pretty 
 sure there was more variety, or at least it didn't jump out at me the way it did here. Nit picking, 
 you say? Maybe, but this is just one example, and the noticeable lack of variation in these kinds 
 of detail results in the game having a blas, unpolished look.
  
  Now, these are two pretty egregious violations, and they should certainly drag the score down considerably. 
 So why did I give a 7 to this obviously inferior production? In the end, any score assigned is 
 ultimately a reflection of the reviewer's personal experience with the game, and I must guiltily 
 confessI liked it. Even with these significant flaws, I still had a blast playing Perseus Mandate. 
 Why? To put it simply, it's just more FEAR. When it first came out in 2005, the game successfully 
 meshed elements from a Japanese horror movie with some of the most intensely brutal combat ever 
 seen in a shooter. Coupled with the over-the-top slow-motion effects, the combination was pure 
 magicand STILL is, as far as I'm concerned. Yea, the story is lame, the production values are 
 weak, and the game is nothing more than an excuse to slog your way through another 8 hours of creepy 
 environments, bloody gore and gruesome slo-mo effects. And I loved every minute of it. 
  
  So if you're looking for something more, you're not going to find it in Perseus Mandate. If you 
 want a good story that builds on the FEAR enigma, or you require top-notch production values, or 
 you expect some kind of advancement over the original game, then quite honestly, you should pass. 
 Truth be told, there's really nothing at all remarkable about this release. 
  
  Still, having said all that, Perseus Mandate does succeed at serving up another helping of the 
 chilling atmosphere and murderous combat that was the trademark of the original FEAR.
  
  And for some of us, maybe that's enough.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: davemk7
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 6:39 pm PT
Review:  the game graphics are rather dated at this point, but none the less, the gameplay that made it 
 a favourite shines through.
  
  the intro is short and sweet and starts off on a plane ( which actually gave me motion sickness 
 due to the over dramatised camera actions ) and then you land by means of parachute.
  
  ive only just played the game for about 3/4 of an hour at this stage, but i cant continue due to 
 ill health and the fact its really late at night and i should be in bed.
  
  anyways,
  
  for previous players , i would suggest a purchase but only on the premise that your getting it 
 at a discount price/bargain bin. its not worth a purchase if youve never played f. e. a. r before, 
 but if your bored and getting the game cheap or second hand, it'll pass away a few hours for a 
 small sum.
  
  would have gotten a 7.5 rating but the graphics let it down.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: just_for_kicks
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 3, 2008 2:41 am PT
Review:  Being a F. E. A. R fan and finding the first expansion (Extraction Point) even scarier gave me high 
 hopes for the second expansion in the series, Perseus Mandate. Unfortunately I was bitterly disappointed 
 to play an expansion that wasn't scary and added unnecessary parts to the story. 
  
  This expansion follows a parallel storyline to the one in the original F. E. A. R where the ATC have 
 begun to openly battle the F. E. A. R operatives and the delta force assisting them. Commander Betters 
 drops a second F. E. A. R team in to investigate any wrong doings of ATC. You discover that there 
 is also another mercenary force deployed and they are looking for something called 'the source'.
 
  
  After an hour or two the story falls flat on its face and you wonder why you even needed a expansion 
 tell the story of a second F. E. A. R team's events parallel to the original ones. The story brings 
 not a lot new to table and is a big letdown. The scary moments weren't as frightening compared 
 to the original and first expansion. There was one new type of frightening event from Alma which 
 opened up from the floor, this failed to scare at all really since you could see the dark space 
 on the floor from about 5 meters away. The mysterious mercenary force (which were called Night 
 Crawlers) gave a small mix up to enemies that you fought but really didn't make all that much difference 
 (although they do some impressive acrobatics) .
  
  It was also a pity to see that the graphics for this game at times only seemed like they were half 
 done. This one particular scene of the F. E. A. R operatives jumping out of a plane seemed like it 
 wasn't finished and just stuck into the game anyway. Textures in some levels weren't all that nice 
 to look at and just wasn't up to the same standard as the previous games. It would of also been 
 nice to see some new environments since we have seen most of them in the previous games.
  
  This time there were 3 new weapons to play around with (Advanced Rifle with night vision scope, 
 Grenade Launcher and Lighting Arc Weapon) . The Advanced Rifle was quite fun to use and I found 
 myself preferring it to the original guns at times. The Grenade Launcher wasn't anything special 
 and the only kick I got out of that was when I shot a grenade next to a explosive barrel. The Lighting 
 Arc gun was my favorite gun, clicking the mouse button would shot a beam of electric in a arc shape 
 and strike your enemy. Seeing enemies go down in one or two shots from this gun was quite pleasing 
 and easily one of the best parts of the game.
  
  In this effort they also tried to add some extra content to the game which didn't really help me 
 enjoy the game. It had 3 "bonus missions" that were unlocked after beating the campaign. This was 
 basically 3 levels of just shooting waves of enemies and I became bored of this after about 5 minutes. 
 Mandate also had updated multilayer with the new weapons from both expansions and some new character 
 models. I felt this didn't bring anything new to the multiplayer either as most of the new weapons 
 were not balanced for multiplayer and character models don't give it anymore depth. 
  
  On the whole a very disappointing effort from a series that has gotten into the my all time favorites 
 list. An unnecessary story line and lack of effort brings the game way down. Only buy if your a 
 massive F. E. A. R fan or if its in the bargains bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alma996
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 23, 2008 3:54 am PT
Review:  Okay. Why this game is so bad? The first F. E. A. R. and the best was made by Monolith and Sierra 
 just ruined this game. I finished it in like 3-4 hours and it isn't scary. For example, you see 
 a vision which if fine but it's of a man shaking in the corner in the room. Then he runs up to 
 the mirror and your out of the vision. What I noticed right away was that I could see him rush 
 up to the door right in front of you so you see it coming. This game just isn't appealing at all. 
 Stay with the first one and maybe the second but the second one is also bad and don't waste your 
 money on this one. Tell you the truth, in my opinion the rating I give this game is generous and 
 thats the lowest it can go so you get the idea. This is also a stand alone so right there it tells 
 you that it has nothing to do with the first F. E. A. R. so whats the point? This whole game is rediculous. 
 Everything scary you can see is coming and you don't learn anything great about the project that 
 Alma was in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samerym
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  To categorize this game as "mediocre" is a hurtful slap in the face; the game isn't that bad once 
 you get past the plain beginning. But they cannot be faulted for that; most game developers tend 
 to start with a simple level and build on it, although I would go the other way around; a game 
 should look its best at the beginning and should maintain and even improve quality.
  Perseus Mandate is probably meant as a reminder of the FEAR title to prepare players for the second 
 installment, and it's actually a lot of fun. There are a couple of new enemies: a very agile soldier 
 (ninja-like) with a sharp tongue (he taunts while bouncing off walls and hurling grenades,) and 
 a transparent "something" with glittering eyes, and both enemies are pretty cool. There is also 
 a new weapon, a LASER rifle that it very effective, especially if you target the head. 
  The only problem I faced with the game is that upon completion, not only did it not open the bonus 
 levels, but it would not load my savepoints anymore. I've erased the game to make room for others, 
 but if you're a fan of the genre and/or of the FEAR franchise, go ahead and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  FEAR and FEAR Extraction Point were awesome games. But many people say that Perseus Mandate was 
 a bad waste of an expansion pack. When I played through this, I just wonder why. I mean I can see 
 were people may get a bit tired of playing through simular games, and the graphics are a bit dated, 
 but besides that, there is nothing that is really that bad about this game.
  
  You play another FEAR team, as you go in to figure out more about this secret project, that you 
 learned a bit about in the first FEAR game. But there is another group of people after it called 
 Night Crawlers, and they are the new enemies you will be fighting in this game. You will discover 
 new secrets about all the weird stuff that is going on, and more about what happened to Alma.
 
  
  The game play is similar to FEAR, and Extraction Point. You get into these intense fire fights, 
 and some really scary situations. This is so far the scariest FEAR game out. There are a few new 
 weapons, and they are really cool, and there is also new enemies.
  
  The graphics look dated, but they still look good.
  
  The sound still sounds really good, and 
 will give you the creeps.
  
  Unlike Extraction Point, Perseus Mandate has a Multi player with new maps and weapons. The multi 
 player is still fun to play.
  
  If you want to learn more about the story of FEAR as well as get a good multi player, then you 
 should give FEAR Perseus Mandate a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kisakata
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. Perseus Mandate is to uncover the mystery that surronds Armacham and the truth behind 
 the Perseus Project. Pesonally, I really like this second add-on pak besides knowing that the game 
 was blased by the critics.
  
  
  Some words about Level design
   
  
  However, being a game 
 developer (back when...) , I notice the first couple Intervals (that is what they call them but 
 you can look them as "Chapters") , were very crude. I could have created a better map! I almost 
 decided not to play the game but I am glad I kept going. Especially from the middle on, the level 
 design has improved tremendously! It is like like a top LD director giving a young 17 dude a chance 
 to put a map into this game. Anyway, just run through quickly the first Intervals and then take 
 your time with the others. 
  
  *****************
  The Intervals
  *****************
  Interval 01 - Arrival
  Interval 02 - Revelation
  Interval 03 - Apprehension
  Interval 04 
 - Devastation
  Interval 05 - Infiltration
  Interval 06 - Exploration
  Interval 07 - Extermination
  Interval 08 - Showdown
  
  ****************
  Difficulty
  
 ****************
  I never think of myself as a very good shooter. But for some reason, I was able to go through this 
 game on "High Diffuculty" and a few places on "Extreme Diffuculty". However, when it came to the 
 last Interval - Showdown I had to adjust to "easy". The very last fight when trying to get to the 
 helicopter, there were not many "Medical Kits" around and could not get my hands on some of the 
 more powerfull weaspons. So I felt the "Difficulty" for this game was not even. I susspect you 
 will will be adjusting the Difficulty level from time to time.
  
  ***********
  Scaryness
  ***********
  One thing I like about the original F. E. A. R was the insane scary atmosphere. 
 I just did not get much of that in this add-on. There were a few creepy moments but not enough. 
 It is kind of sad the developers did not work harder on that. I enjoy turning of the lights, putting 
 my headphone on, turn on the volume and play completely by myself in the middle of the night. :D
 
  Anyway, the overall scareyness was a bit of a dissappointment. 
  
  ************
  Final Say
  ************
  It is a F. E. A. R. game. :D It is not as scary as F. E. AR. and not as 
 fun as the first add-on pak - "Extraction Point". However, Extraction Point did not have much of 
 a story where Perseus Mandate finished the storyline and loss ends. If you like F. E. A. R., I suggest 
 you get the "Platinum Collection" which as all 3 games in one nice package box and only cost a 
 few dollars more. 
  
  -SENJU
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gray_Wolf-13
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 9, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Perseus Mandate was, in a word, disappointing. After how much I liked the first game and its expansion 
 I hastened to buy Perseus Mandate as soon as it became available, expecting another great expansion. 
 Reality came in the form of a sledgehammer...
  
  Perseus Mandate had its occasional moments (such as the loss of your first partner, the trip through 
 the surgery room, and some of the other illusions) but the total game came out being more FPS than 
 horror. In formula terms it was 3 parts FPS and only 1 part horror.
  
  Also, the game didn't really introduce anything new to the plot, or at least nothing new that would 
 help advance the plot any. The whole thing seemed bet on showing you things that you already knew 
 and introducing things that you didn't need to know.
  
  Final word: Buy it at your own risk. If you like FPS than you'll like this game, but if you liked 
 FEAR and Extraction Point I'd just borrow Perseus Mandate from a friend, play through it, and then 
 place it in a stack of CDs so large that you will never find it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TugaSoldatTV
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  FEAR Perseus Mandate... its simply the most scary FEAR game. Usually when im doping reviews, i like 
 to do a simple list, makes it easier and resumes the most important stuff. So, heres a list on 
 the game that ive really appreciated
  
  The GOOD things about the game:
  
  -Persus Mandade is the MOST scary FEAR game. Some scenes on it are absolutely new and will make 
 you jump. TRUST ME. I own all FEAR games and i wasn't expecting this.
  
  -New weapons are great, specially the lighting gun or whatever its called.
  
  -Levels are more 
 creepy them ever. Again, TRUST ME. 
  
  -The new creatures are awesome. Really, i dont care about the new mercenary force because there 
 a new type of Replicas for me, but the new monster on the game will scare you, i wont spoil for 
 you :)
  
  -Music is just perfect has all FEAR games.
  
  
  Now, there are some NEGATIVE points on the game:
  
  -The story is very week. The new point 
 man has powers because... he can, say the directors
  
  -Graphics arent the strong point of the game
  
  -Very hard AI. The replicas weapon got 70% 
 stronger, so a couple of hits will kill you, so grab the most medikits you can!
  
  
  Overall, despite the so negative away this game is viewed, i advice you to buy it. you wont regret 
 it. Gamespot threats the game one way, while the players threat it all the way around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuntHolly
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Ho-Hum. Could you have spent just a little extra time and money on new music? Same old-same old. 
 Otherwise, I'm enjoying it, as I enjoyed the first two. I do like the way they keep refering to 
 my character as Sarge. I guess they just don't know who I am! Where's the respect? Where's the 
 deference? I also hope this third edition has better closure than the first two. I know they are 
 supposed to be open ended, but... I find the addition of the other players just a little annoying, 
 because I'm so used to going it alone in this game. This edition seems just a bit more difficult. 
 The bad guys with the red glow in eyehole masks are wilier and harder to kill, too. Have you noticed 
 that in this third game your shadow looks like Fettle? Creepy!
  
  Final word: If you enjoy F. E. A. R. don't pass this up. FInish the whole series and job well done. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DennisChu22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  I was initially put off by this game after reading that it got some disappointing reviews here, 
 but the more I played of it, the more that I liked it even better over the previous expansion, 
 Extraction Point. 
  
  To me, this was the only sequel that the original game needed. The story is fresh and sets you 
 up with a different F. E. A. R. operative team, and in addition I loved how during the game events 
 criss-crossed between F. E. A. R. and Perseus Mandate, having events that happened in the first correlate 
 with specific things that happened in the third.
  
  The gameplay was, well, the same. The addition of another three weapons made it a little more fun, 
 but I think that the new Nightcrawler mercenary force was what really changed things up a bit. 
 The mercenaries were harder to fight and had better weapons than the Replica soldiers, thus giving 
 fresh perspective to more of the F. E. A. R. combat we all love.
  
  Perseus Mandate is certainly a great play and, in my opinion, would have suffice as the only expansion 
 pack for the original. It's funny that critics' comments on this game were exactly what I would 
 have planted onto Extraction Point. Perhaps if the two expansion releases were turned around then 
 people might be saying different things. But whatever the case, do check this game out and do not 
 be scared off by GameSpot's poor rating, as it does not do the game justice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  I think this game, should get game of the year, its way better than The first Fear and even from 
 extraction point... Scary till the very last second... absolutely brilliant..... Great game, 
  
  buy it!! From the moment you play this you are immersed in a world that is almost virtual every 
 twist and turn is scary, 
  
  this game is the best game i have seen come out in ten years or more 
  i would have paid a hundred 
 dollars for it...
  
  If you dont get this, you will be selling yourself short...
  
  by far the best game on the market today. This game has a very unique lighting design and more, 
 the graphic is less perfect than orginal F. E. A. R but the weapons and scary moment are way better 
 than the orginal
  
  like there was one time that i turned around i saw blood on the wall i walked to check what is 
 that i didnt see nothing turned around and a man with no eyes was infront of me i though to myself... 
 now... im gonna die...
  
  belive me the BEST game buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparten1012
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 2, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  **includes some spoilers of the original F. E. A. R. and extraction piont F. E. A. R. Mandate is an underappreciated 
 game it's not as good as F. E. A. R., but well worth seeing if you loved F. E. A. R. but play F. E. A. R. 
 and Extraction point first. If you didn't like earthier then you won't like this its bacisly a 
 remix of the games a chaos affect of the first game you could say. Less fear oriented as fear was 
 but more action oriented by putting you right in the chaos of the replica/act war in the streets. 
 This can lead to some disappointing things if you only enjoyed the scares in F. E. A. R.. there a 
 few new enemies and due to a new faction "night crawlers" a merc group but alma and Paxton have 
 less involvement in this game but Paxton tends to have some because "you remind me of my brother" 
 though not being "the point man" leaves the mystery of why you have slow mo powers, (in the first 
 it was explained by being alma's son) but if you don't mind some plot holes it shouldn't bother 
 you. The story ends on a more heartwarming moment then say the bitter end of extraction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  I really came to love the original FEAR. I thought the game was amazing in lots of ways. It delivered 
 plenty of that scary atmosphere that games like this just NEED to have, and yet it didn't sacrifice 
 any of the plot but kept you glued to your seat wanting to know more and more.
  
  Perseus Mandate is the second expansion pack of the franchise and it delivers plenty of that same 
 gameplay that I came to love playing the original.
  
  Im glad they managed to add new characters, weapons and story without sacrificing the essence of 
 what made the first installment such a great game. The original formula is still all there, just 
 beefed up a bit with some new features. I loved the fact that they managed to set it up that way 
 and keep everything as it was even though you play a different FEAR team.
  
  The only minor let down is that the graphics engine and design are both looking a little dated. 
 Its not a big problem since you can't expect a completly new game from an expansion but it just 
 draws away from the realism a bit. 
  
  All in all, still a great game in my opinion. Don't know why Gamespot gave the game such a low 
 score but they apparently tend to do that often.
  Check this out if you're a FEAR fan, you wont be dissapointed. If you're new to the franchise you 
 shouldn't start here but work your way through the original and then check out the expansions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cis278
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  I think this game is great. The graphics are a little dated but when I played Fear when it first 
 came out I barely had the pc power to run it with everything turned up. Now I can max everything 
 and it shows how old the game has gotten. 
  
  I give the studio credit for making the game though. There's plenty of action. It has a story line. 
 Which I kind of have a hard time trying to figure out where it fits into the scheme of things, but 
 none the less it keeps the game intriguing and doesn't make it feel like a bone head shooter.
 
  
  Also the graphics for what there worth looks like they put some time in to make it look as good 
 as an older game engine can look. I'm impressed I think you have to go into playing this game with 
 an open mind. Yes it is old but it will wet your whistle for the next Fear game.
  
  The game doesn't feel short like they just threw it together. I think they took some time to make 
 this and Fear fans should go out and buy especially when you can get it for $20 bucks or less. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Virck
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 20, 2008 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Been a while, but I played through the whole F. E. A. R. series on a laptop I got about 2 years ago 
 for $500 (1GB of RAM, 6100 GO GPU with AMD 2.1GHz Processor) Now that I'm sporting a $1200 system 
 of (4GB GDDR3 RAM, 9600 GT Superoverclocked 720MHz core clock 1714Mhz Shader clock 964Mhz memory 
 clock and a nice 2.3GHz intel processor also overclocked to 2.6GHz)
  
  After playing crysis all the way through, then going back to F. E. A. R. it feels like you're playing 
 doom 3 as the new age game, and you go back and play Aliens vs Predator.
  
  Game play wise: still fun to run up to people with a shotty and blow their brains out in slow mo, 
 jump kicks, shin splitting baseball slides, and impact detonating grenades!
  
  Graphics: As of June 20th 2008 this game lacks in graphics (of course, it came out in 2005!!)
 
  
  Story line: Really really lacked for me, don't know why the character is bothered by alma or these 
 other strange ghosties killing your buddies and the addition of these super dudes doesn't make 
 sense either, why do they need the samples of alma? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. ,First Encounter Assault Recon, was my choice as the Best FPS of 2005 & offered me memorable 
 moments which I still remember now, almost two years after I've completed it. It seemed an ordinary 
 shooter at the beggining, but those ordinary element were so greatly prepared & fit together that 
 FEAR became an amazing game. With great graphics (2005) ,creepy sound effects, voices & music, scary 
 moments & incredibly atmospheric "office-shootouts", combined with slow motion, tons of blood & 
 body parts guaranteed its succes.
  
  Maybe because Monolith, the producers, had other plans, or because they had begun working on Project 
 Origin, the sequel to FEAR, made them pass the FEAR work to TimeGate studios.& this is where the 
 flaw in the plan was. In order to deliver a succesfull expansion pack, you have to take everything 
 the original had & blend it even better, adding new ingredients as well. TimeGate followed the exact 
 path of FEAR with Extraction Point, but in a bad way, creating a sometimes shallow substance, with 
 much of the strange atmosphere & intensity of the battles missing. I thought they learned from their 
 mistakes & I hoped they would do a better job with Perseus Mandate, but I was proven wrong.
  
  In Perseus Mandate you play as a different character from another Recon squad. The events happen 
 in parallel with the ones in FEAR & Extraction Point, so that if you have a good memory, you'll remember 
 some of the key points from your path in the first two games when presented to you in Perseus Mandate. Well 
 yeah, you've got a squad, two more people I mean,& you'll advance alongside them trough a mission 
 & a half. Hey, at least it's an improvement from FEAR, where the time I had a squad was limited to 
 20 seconds. But, OK, I agree, being alone makes you easier to get scared. The accent in Perseus Mandate 
 is put on battles, with which I can't agree. The battles in open spaces are incredibly stupid done,& 
 have zero feeling. The office battles are "quite" good, but there is also some spooky old place, a 
 cellar or something in Perseus Mandate, that doesn't fit at all, but at least it's something new. You've 
 got some new weapons, but they don't react to good & you won't feel okay with them in your hands. You'll 
 se that you'll go back to the old shotgun & assault rifle combination, picking up a penetrator or 
 a particle weapons when you feel like having some fun.
  
  Remember FEAR's levels, where there was a great link between the shooting & "getting scared" moments? Here 
 there is no link, no logical order of the events. You shoot some guys, then you advance, lights turn 
 off, "INCOMING-UNKNOWN ORIGIN" message appears, but without any logic, without you deducing why it 
 appeared, as you did in the original game. But at least I've got to give TimeGate credit for the 
 scary moments alone, because some of them are geniusly done, really creepy & profond. Oh, let me not 
 forget the  Play & you'll see what I'm talking about...
  
  The multiplayer is boring if you've spent some time with FEAR Multiplayer or FEAR Combat. In 
 my opinion, no FEAR game had a bright multiplayer side to keep you there for hours, but at least 
 it tried. But don't make the mistake of expecting anything great in the multiplayer side of Perseus 
 Mandate.
  
  Now it's time for the verdict. If you haven't played FEAR & Extraction point yet, but Perseus Mandate 
 is at hand, DON'T miss it! You'll love it, you'll rate it 9.5 ,it will be an excellent experience 
 for you. If you have played the first two games& you think of replaying them, give Perseus Mandate 
 a try. At least you don't know when Alma is scriped to appear & you'll get some good spooks from 
 time to time. At least for understanding better what happened, so that you'll have a better Project 
 Origin experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  
  Good Points:
  
  More F. E. A. R.
  Confirms certain things about the story we already thought were true.
  Some scary moments.
 
  Graphics are still great, shadows are cool.
  
  Bad Points:
  
  Nothing really new.
  Some bad voice acting.
  Rehashed levels.
  Bugs and glitches.
  
  The game is set towards 
 the end of the original game and through Extraction Point. You are a member of the second F. E. A. R 
 team and your deployed to look for more clues about the secret ATC project Perseus. The game soon 
 introduces a new faction and these mercenaries are well equipped. 
  
  During the game certain things about the F. E. A. R story get confirmed. I won't but any spoilers 
 in this review but you should be able to guess them anyway.
  
  The game is suitably dark and moody with a lots of paranormal activity and the same atmosphere. 
 There are a few scary moments in F. E. A. R that make your heart skip a beat but there's nowhere near 
 as many as in the original or Extraction point, which I find disappointing.
  
  The graphics are still really good and the shadowing effects are still fantastic. I don't get the 
 GS review saying the engine is dated and looks horrible?!?!? Sorry Jason but there's nothing wrong 
 with this engine.
  
  Unfortunately there's nothing really new in the game. There's a three new weapons, the grenade 
 launcher (really good weapon) , the lightning gun (weak) and the advanced rifle used by the mercenaries 
 (very similar to the existing machine gun but has a more accurate sight) . 
  The new faction is slightly different but they act very much like the replica forces anyway. Some 
 of the mercenaries have abilities like you do so that makes them slightly harder to kill but why 
 they have these powers or why you do goes unexplained.
  The levels are also rehashes of the levels from the first two games except one level that takes 
 place in a mine.
  
  Here we are again with me complaining about voice acting. The replica forces use the same voices 
 as in the original and they're fine but the mercenaries are awful. There's no feeling there it's 
 just monotone. Your team mates aren't such better although they do get a little better towards 
 the end of the game. Betters in by far the best voice in the whole expansion pack but sadly the 
 actor was very under used.
  
  I've found the stability of the game a little poor, i've had at least three crashes to desktop. 
 The frame rate goes up and down like a yo yo, this very much seems like poor optimisation and rushing 
 the game rather than problems with the engine. I've also seen texture glitches.
  
  Overall this game doesn't add a great deal in terms of content but can be entertaining for a while. 
 If you're a F. E. A. R fan you may want to play this but don't expect it to win any awards or push 
 the story forward.
  
  Review Machine: QX6850 Extreme (3.0GHz Quad Core) , 4GB RAM, 768MB Geforce 8800GTX, SB Audigy 2 
 ZS and Windows XP SP2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_am_game99
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  REPEAT-basically what this game is about. The fear games really seem to get worse and worse as 
 they go on. THe original was great, scray, brillient, extraction was in its shadow but this game 
 falls behind.
  
  The garphics are the same, the gamplay is the same, some new enemys and wepeons manage to make 
 this game somewhat a bi different. The online play is... the same if your buying this game for its 
 olnine play just get the normal fear... i guess there the same though.
  
  The added storyline was ok, and it is FEAR, so it does have some scary if you want to call them 
 that moments in it, but hey, we all know that the first one was the best. The ending was pretty 
 crappy, you dont see OMART that much ( THat really freaky girl who goes around with her hand out 
 killing everyone in her path) , which is sad because i used to enjoy her stalking me and had a great 
 time shooting the crap out of her in extraction point with the rocket launcher.
  
  Since this game is only like $20 in most stores i guess you could buy it, but only if you really 
 dont have anything else to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raistlin1977
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Alot of the people bashing this game and giving it low reviews are using the logic that since its 
 more of the same, that its somehow less of a game than the other two. Which to me makes no sense. The 
 other argument is that the graphics have not improved and some say the graphics are ven worse now. If 
 they are any worse, its not signifigant enough to take the fun out of the game. I still think the 
 graphics look great and i guess im not noticing what the problem is. The new weapons and the new 
 merc fores add a nice change of pace and all the same scares are present in this one. If you uninstalled 
 the original F. E. A. R. for whatever reason you can play perseus mandate right out of the box without 
 reinstalling the original game as its a standalone expansion. The series still holds up just fine, and 
 dont let the feeble complaints affect purchasing this game as its more of the same great scares 
 and action as the other two which is a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: janith4113
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  I'm big fan of f. e. a. r. from the bigging but compared to previous one there's nothing much, and 
 even the AI sucks compared to previous ones, only saw sum challenge is in the fight with the big 
 blueish mech. inside the building fight and the fight when we were ambushed by few nightcrawlers 
 with slow mo abilities, thats the only thing, and theres lot less ghost like things compared to 
 previous because some people like those type of creepy stuff, so this one is so disappointing compared 
 to previous, hope they will come up with some thing better than this in project origin, as i saw 
 in project origin gameplay trailer its surprisingly better than this, but i dont know much about 
 reviewing, coz im kind a new to this and i have'nt played much games as others i've seen, im just 
 writing what i feel while playing and after playing the this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vitocorleonelol
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Perseus Mandate to me is pretty much a mixed bag and feels out of place in the series. I know that 
 it is developed by Timegate instead of Monolith (who was bought by Warner Bros.) but they could 
 have done better. Ok, time to get into details.
  
  Graphics- Definetly could have been upgraded and optimised, there is alot of washed out color and 
 ugly textures and the detail lacks in the enviroment, let alone the new models.
  
  Sound- Same as the last two games. New sounds are pretty cool, but some of the voice acting is 
 cheesy and hard to believe in a panic situation.
  
  Gameplay- If you played the first two FEAR games then there is nothing you will see different, 
 but the spooky and paranormal moments in the game gets to you more than the last two, I can assure 
 you that. Prepare to jump out of your seat a few times in utter shock of how tense these moments 
 can get.
  
  Entertainment- Like I said in the gameplay department, It's like the last two games, but with better 
 scares.
  
  Story- The story is not anything new but it is fun to learn more about Paxton and Alma.
  
  
 Replay Value- The game as a fair amount of Extra Maps you can play and the Multiplayer mode with 
 the new weapons.
  
  Overall the game is just a combination of the last two games with some new content and a better 
 Spook factor, I can recommend this to F. E. A. R. fans and F. E. A. R. casual players alike. This game 
 is not for new people to the series, it is harder and follows the same general story as the first 
 two F. E. A. R. games so you should play the other two first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THISISTHEHAX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  For all of those who are complaining that it is more of them same . . . well duh, it's an expansion 
 pack. An expansion pack expands upon the last game and adds new content, which is exactly what 
 this game does. The gamespot review on this game was also unnecessarily harsh. To give extraction 
 point a 7 and this game a 5 is just stupid. Extraction point was very boring and didn't really 
 pull me in to the game, but just five minutes into this game and already there is a lot happening. 
 The AI is not dumber in this game. Actually, they introduce new super soldiers for the mercenaries 
 that have bullet time like you do. They have some cool moves and it is very enjoyable to fight 
 them. I'd say that those guys have improved AI, not worse. Sure, the graphics are a bit dated but 
 that doesn't mean the game sucks just because of it. The environment I can understand gets a bit 
 repetitive, but at the same time, they're in the same setting as the last two games, so to expect 
 a completely different environment is a little unrealistic. I'd say that if you liked FEAR or FPS 
 in general, this is a good game to buy. If you want brand new content, then get brand new games, 
 not expansion packs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain20035
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 1:28 am PT
Review:  FEAR Perseus Mandate is an stand alone expansion for the original FEAR which continues the story 
 in another parallel direction. This time around you are an operative in a secondary FEAR team and 
 your primary goal is to infiltrate the Archman Building and investigate the happenings in there. 
 The story strats from the very beginning of the FEAR and ends with FEAR Extraction Point (The First 
 Expansion) .
  The FEAR Perseus Mandate uses the original FEAR's Engine which is now more than two years old, 
 Consequently there are no high expectations about the graphics and effects in the game. The locations 
 look pretty much the same as they did in the last FEAR games. Although in some locations you feel 
 like the graphics are degraded...
  The sound is still a strong point in FEAR Perseus Mandate. The atmosphere is great, and that's 
 because of the outstanding sound effects. Although the effects might seem to be repetitive at times.
 
  The gameplay can be summarized in one word : "unchanged"!
  There are only a few new guns and enemies added to the game and the combat is exactly the same 
 it was. You can still combat enemies using your weapons, jump kicks and slide kicks. The SlowMo 
 is also there to give you an edge against the tougher enemies or when a large group of enemies 
 attack you.
  You ask me, FEAR Perseus Mandate is the original FEAR all the way through and the only difference 
 is the story which is not enough of an inspiration to go through all the 7 Intervals in the game. 
 If you are a hardcore FEAR fan, and can't get enough of FEAR from the last FEAR games, then this 
 is your must-play game. Otherwise you will do good to stay away from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  Yes this game is old, but sometimes this isn't a bad thing. First of all you can now crank the 
 graphics through the roof and play it the way you wish you could when it first came out. Secondly 
 it's familiar, in a world where everyone is trying (and not always succeeding) to create the next 
 best innovative shooter, getting back to something you know is fun can be refreshing. Last but 
 not least, this game still does things that no other game has done for me, created a thrilling 
 shooter that scares the pants off of me. 
  
  For an expansion pack Perseus Mandate has a fair amount of material in it. There are even some 
 bonus levels you can unlock by completing the main campaign. Not a bad deal for an expansion pack 
 price. This game does not change the great formula that made FEAR great when it came out, but it 
 does add some new content that makes it stand out in its own right. I still spent plenty of time 
 jumping out of my seat. There are a couple of interesting new weapons, some new enemies, and some 
 well designed levels that made this game interesting and challenging from start to finish. 
  
  If you loved the original FEAR then I am sure that you will love this expansion pack. This 
 did not feel like a thrown together package for the company to make a few bucks, but a well made 
 shooter that tied in well with the rest of the series. Sometimes you can teach an old dog some 
 new tricks. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jupiter2151
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I was extremely impressed with the AI and I'm surpirsed that this game received only a mediocre 
 score to date. I hope they continue to make these type of First Person shooter games for the PC 
 for a long time to come. This expansion pack was much better then the other and please note that 
 if your looking for a big in depth story line then this isn't the game for you. Go play an adventure 
 game or go read a book!! The AI was very entertaining and the unlocking of the bonus missions at 
 the end kept me playing much longer. Great Game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 1, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  After the original F. E. A. R. made its mark as one of the best shooters to come out in a while, an 
 expansion, Extraction Point, followed up a year after. It was a good expansion for the most part, 
 offering up more of what made the original great and had some of the scariest sequences in the 
 entire series. And just in time for holidays is Perseus Mandate, the second expansion from TimeGate. 
 All in all, its the weakest expansion andinstallment in the series, but it's still a decent ride.
 
  
  Perseus Mandate has you taking control of another pointman in another F. E. A. R. team. The story 
 runs parallel with the events from F. E. A. R. and Extraction Point, and ignores whatever plotlines 
 were introduced from the two games. Instead, the game carves out its own story, one that is uninteresting, 
 poorly presented, and eerily familiar. The better half of Perseus has you chasing a supposedly 
 bad dude, much like how you chased after Paxton Fettel from the original. Alma, the creepy girl, 
 and Paxton are barely in the game, and their connections with the new pointman are practically 
 non-existent and makes Perseus feel unnecessary. All it does is complicate F. E. A. R.'s story. Also, 
 some of the scripted story sequences aren't presented well, thanks to mediocre animation in these 
 moments.
  
  The gunplay, on the other hand, has remained intact. This time you go against some mercenaries 
 with their own agenda, which are basically the replica soldiers from the past games except these 
 new guys have goofy voices. There are a few enemy types, and the best one being the Nightcrawlers, 
 which are much like the assassins from Half-Life 1. These guys are fast, deadly and can take around 
 an inhuman amount of rounds before they're dead. The new weapons don't make them much easier to 
 kill, but they're fun to use. The neat lightning gun is cool, but the limited ammo makes it practically 
 useless. On the other hand, the new scope-mounted sub-machine gun will become and integral part 
 of your arsenal, and is great addition. That's about it as far is anything new is concerned. The 
 AI is still ruthless, but some of their cool actions like knocking down objects for cover are noticeably 
 absent. The guns still feel fantastic, and the way the environment and enemies react to your shots 
 are still visually impressive, if not dazzling.
  
  The problem is that this has all been done before. The level design still lacks variety and if 
 you've played the previous F. E. A. R. games, you'll swear TimeGate just ripped levels from previous 
 games and pasted them onto Perseus. The scare sequences aren't very effective this time around 
 because they've been done before and lacks any relevance due to the story. You see Paxton disappear 
 into ashes in the distance, but so what? Why should you care? Unfortunately, you don't and therefore 
 much of the "scary" sequences feel arbitrary and don't leave much of an impact.
  
  A possibly bigger problem is how badly F. E. A. R's engine has aged. The game starts off outdoors, 
 and it looks downright awful. Instead of utilizing the engine's strengths, namely its lighting 
 and shadow capabilities, TimeGate tries to push the engine to do what it can't pull off. Even when 
 TimeGate comes to its senses, the game is still way behind curve, graphically. Some of the animations 
 are laughably bad, and will easily take you out of the game. The only thing that remains impressive 
 are the fireworks show of particles effects, which can be downright awe-inspiring even after all 
 these years. The aural component is still great, fortunately. Audio has been one of series greatest 
 strengths, and Perseus continues that tradition. The new music is very well done, the voice acting 
 is generally great, and the ambient sounds gel naturally with the environment. Besides the goofy 
 merc voices, Perseus doesn't disappoint in the audio front.
  
  After you finish the game, which shouldn't take very long (5-6 hours) , new bonus missions open. 
 Oddly enough, the bonus missions offer up the best firefights in the entire game. So if anything, 
 play through the single-player for those. The multi-player is the same thing that's been free for 
 the past year. It used to be that F. E. A. R. was a step ahead of most of its competition. Two years 
 later and it hasn't done anything to maintain that lead. Still, Perseus Mandate is a decent game, 
 and one that newcomers to the series should try out. The nearly stand-alone story means that you 
 won't need to know much of what has happened in the previous games, and the combat is still something 
 worth experiencing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. was an interesting game, the story wasn't very remarkable but since I enjoy supernatural 
 stories it piqued my interest. It was followed up by an expansion called Extraction Point where 
 the Point Man from the original game simply had to make his way to the Extraction Point that the 
 expansion's title suggested, featuring no real plot development. Perseus Mandate, while somewhat 
 illogical, fixes what was wrong with Extraction Point and in some ways, the original game, while 
 attempting to introduce some new ideas.
  
  Perseus Mandate's story takes place alongside F. E. A. R.'s, and Extraction Point's. Starting in the 
 middle of F. E. A. R., and ending after Extraction Point you assume the role of a sergeant on a secondary 
 F. E. A. R. team sent in by the coordinator to investigate the Perseus project. One thing that does 
 not make sense about the new silent protagonist is that he features the exact same SloMo ability 
 that the original Point man does. Huh? Wasn't that ability the result of his unique heritage? On 
 top of that it's never explained how the sergeant has it, and no one ever mentions it in the story 
 itself making the sergeant seem to be an important character in the core story, yet unimportant 
 at the same time. The goth child, Alma makes very few appearances in this release for obvious reasons, 
 but Fettel makes regular appearances near the climax of the game. Still, Perseus Mandate feels 
 very disjointed from the core story, it feels more like a side story that doesn't really matter 
 in the long run, but at least it has one unlike Extraction Point.
  
  There's very little to say about the gameplay since it remains mostly the same. If you've played 
 F. E. A. R. then you know what to expect, if you haven't and were considering getting this title because 
 it's a stand alone expansion, I recommend just playing the original F. E. A. R. first. Perseus Mandate 
 does deserve some praise, though, it stays true to the fun gunfights in the original game, and 
 the new Night Crawler mercenary enemies are just as entertaining to battle as the Replicas... that 
 may be because they seem to simply be Replica reskins.
  
  Timegate tried to do some new things in Perseus Mandate. For one thing, you're often accompanied 
 by one or two combat capable allies. This idea was briefly touched upon in Extraction Point with 
 Holiday, but you spend at least a third of Perseus Mandate with one or two allies. Another change 
 is that there are larger open areas, and often more enemies to battle at once. This can make the 
 game quite challenging since your character is not an unstoppable death machine like in most shooters, 
 even with his SloMo ability. The Replicas, and ghost enemies from F. E. A. R. and Extraction Point 
 return in Perseus Mandate to cause trouble for you, and there is a new type of floor dwelling supernatural 
 entity for you to be on the lookout for (easier said than done) . Overall, though, Perseus Mandate's 
 gameplay feels like a retread of the original game despite the additions and "improvements".
  
  Visually Perseus Mandate seems to have gone down in quality, it might be the lazy artists, 
 or it might be them compensating for more enemies at once, and larger environments. Still, the 
 degradation in quality isn't too bad, and you have to actually look for it to notice. Like Extraction 
 Point, Perseus Mandate also features far more variety in its environments... you won't be spending 
 two hours in the same type of level, but some of the environments are bland, and Timegate also 
 pulled a Bungie a couple times by copying and pasting the same area. Fortunately, this only happened 
 two times.
  
  Audio wise the game features atmospheric sound effects, and solid voice acting. The game uses a 
 combination of the original music, along with some new tracks including a piano score for mysterious, 
 and creepy moments, and some fast paced music for Night Crawler gunfights.
  
  Perseus Mandate is more of the same in many ways, but if you greatly enjoyed F. E. A. R. then that 
 shouldn't be an issue. The storyline is a little crude in several areas, but unlike Extraction 
 Point it actually has one, and overall it feels like a more satisfying expansion. Hopefully Monolith's 
 "Project Origin" will deliver a true follow up to the F. E. A. R. story, though; as both Extraction 
 Point and Perseus Mandate feel disjointed from the core plot in one way or another. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  The FEAR series has been the subject of recent controversy. After creating the excellent FEAR, 
 Monolith productions decided to break away from publisher Vivendi and work on their own full-blown 
 sequel to the game. However, Vivendi retained ownership of the FEAR name. Wanting to capitalize 
 on the series' success, Vivendi hired veteran TimeGate studios to work on two expansion packs continuing 
 the FEAR story. Extraction Point, released in 2006, was largely considered a success. It picked 
 up right where FEAR left off and managed to add a few minor additions to the series, such as improved 
 AI, an enhanced engine and a few small enemy additions. Perseus Mandate is the second expansion 
 made by TimeGate, but does it manage to retain the spirit of the FEAR franchise without dragging 
 it into monotony?
  
  Perseus Mandate's story changes up a few things and puts you in the boots of a member of yet another 
 FEAR (First Encounter Assault Recon) team. While the original team is off dealing with the initial 
 outbreak of Replica soldiers, you're inserted in order to pursue information about a project named 
 Perseus started off by Armacham, the corporation behind the entire mess. Initially, you find yourself 
 encountering small squads of Replica soldiers under the command of Paxton Fettel, however, as the 
 game goes on, you encounter a mysterious mercenary force whose goals seem identical to yours: find 
 and claim Perseus. What follows is a story filled with gradual realization as you uncover more 
 clues about what Armacham was doing. But, since Perseus Mandate's plot runs in parallel with that 
 of the original FEAR and Extraction Point, the vast majority of these "revelations" will already 
 be known and old news to veterans of the series. Perseus Mandate seems to have a much larger focus 
 on action and combat in earlier parts of the game then the previous two, and its only until the 
 five or six hour mark that you start encountering some real supernatural behavior characteristic 
 of the FEAR series. However, to Timegate's credit, it seems to be even more bizzare and startling 
 then that found in the first two games.
  
  Perseus Mandate is similar to the first game and nearly completely identical to Extraction Point 
 in terms of gunplay and gameplay mechanics. The enemy AI, especially that of Replica forces, remains 
 competent after two years, but is not as impressive since it only has to deal with small, closed 
 environments in contrast to the KPA AI found in Crysis. This means that the enemies will flank 
 you, send out scouts to locate your positions, lay down suppressing fire, and do all the things 
 that you've come to expect of them. The Nightcrawlers, the new mercenary enemies, are nearly identical 
 combat-wise to the Replicas. However, they are slightly tougher and look different when compared 
 to the Replicas. There are several types, and there is one that is so annoying and cheaply made, 
 that its bound to frustrate more than a few players. These enemies are acrobatic, jumping around 
 and dodging off walls, but it takes a simply unnatural amount of damage to take one down. You'll 
 find yourself emptying an entire shotgun's clip into one of them and will scream out in anger as 
 they clobber you in the face and force you to load the last save point.
  The slow-motion mechanic is back and retains one of FEAR's signature elements, making fights easier 
 and adding a satisfying cinematic feel to them. However, it is somewhat confusing when put in context 
 of the story, as the character you played in the original game was supposed to be unique with his 
 supernatural reflexes. Adding a character which is a carbon copy of the original protagonist simply 
 feels lazy and disappointing.
  
  It's when you get to Perseus Mandate's technical foundations that you find a majority of problems. 
 It's clear that the graphics engine, Jupiter EX, isn't aging very gracefully. The environments 
 are all bland and seem to consist of several shades of either gray or brown, character models are 
 low-res, and the animation simply doesn't cut it for a 2007 game. There are performance hiccups 
 in places there shouldn't be. The only current strengths of the engine, the particle effects and 
 vision filters, can only be considered slightly-above average by today's standards. Sound-wise, 
 Perseus Mandate remains strong, with powerful weapons sounds, atmospheric music, and eerie effects 
 which play out as you get deeper into the game.
  
  Perseus Mandate can be easily finished within seven to eight hours. However, it will seem longer 
 as you are frequently thrown into combat situations which start to feel a little monotonous. By 
 the second third of the game, I felt quite fatigued from constantly battling the same enemies in 
 nearly identical ways. The "scary" moments simply weren't anymore, as you're pretty much used to 
 them and can anticipate them after playing the first two installments of the series. After beating 
 the game, you won't feel much more incentive to play, as there are only three bonus missions and 
 some minor multiplayer add-ons to look forward to.
  
  Perseus Mandate is the last breath of the "FEAR" franchise (at least in name) , and it doesn't do 
 much to innovate or make the series stand out in the year 2007. The combat scenarios are fun, and 
 there are some interesting plot points, but mostly, its all same-old. For those looking for a quick 
 FEAR fix without anything new or special, Perseus Mandate fits the bill. However, those veterans 
 looking for a satisfying and innovative follow-up to the series will have to wait until 2008, when 
 Monolith releases the true successor: Project Origin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 25, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  The second expansion to game of the year 2005 "F. E. A. R." further builds on the storyline of the 
 game, as much as it can until the official next chapter, "Project: Origin." Personally, Perseus 
 Mandate is a good game, but not fantastic.
  
  Graphic-wise, most critics mistake the FEAR engine for aging increasingly fast, when playing Perseus 
 Mandate. But it's not the engine, in fact, it is the textures in the game. Timegate wanted more 
 players to be able to run the game at a decent rate whilst incorporating all of the new additions 
 to the game. But this was a significant loss, as FEAR no longer has its shine that it used to have.
 
  
  Gameplay-wise, the game is great in this department, but repetitive. Starting the game off is a 
 pain, because it is a re-hash like Gamespot says of the previous FEAR games, and not only that, 
 but their worst moments. But after the first two intervals are over, the game kicks up. The player 
 meets new enemies both from Alma, (paranormal enemies) and from the living side (the nightcrawler 
 mercenaries) . 3 new weapons are at the players disposal as well. But the new enemies, The Nightcrawlers, 
 are the real bang of the buck. These are some of the best enemies i've encountered in first person 
 shooter games. The basic format is simply a tougher Replica soldier with a deeper voice, but the 
 elites climb walls, perform acrobatics, and all sorts of nonsense, that's just entertaining to 
 watch. But later on, things tend to get pretty repetitive, and this causes you to not even think 
 of a re-play.
  
  Story-wise, I think F. E. A. R.'s story should end right here until Project: Origin. Extraction Point 
 seems to have put a postponement to the Point Man's story, so now we have to build on the other 
 questions that need answers until we're ready for Project: Origin, that's exactly what Perseus 
 Mandate does. Builds on every piece of story that still needs building. This specific case involving 
 the reclusive and seemingly evil senator who has some connection to the project involved with the 
 game's story. There are also more cool characters inserted in, such as your two new FEAR allies, 
 new top-dog enemies, and more conversation with good Ol' Rowdy Betters from F. E. A. R.
  
  Overall this chapter in F. E. A. R. has some decent gameplay elements, and a nice story, but the graphics, 
 animation, and repetition does tend to miss the pleasure center in your brain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brian2017
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  I think this game, should get game of the year, way better than BIOSHOCK, or HELLGATE LONDON... Scary 
 till the very last second... absolutely brilliant..... Great game, buy it!! From the moment you 
 play this you are immersed in a world that is almost virtual, every twist and turn is scary, this 
 game is the best game i have seen come out in ten years or more, i would have paid a hundred dollars 
 for it... If you dont get this, you will be selling yourself short... by far the best game on the 
 market today. This game has a very unique lighting design. asdjhafoihaef aefoihjefoijef wefpijwefijwefoijwewf 
  wegfpijsefflkjsefoijef  wefpoijergijwegijwgoijeogijwe 
 wegpiojegijegwiwjgiwejijeg wegpiojwegpijwegpijwweg wwefijwefijwe wewgpijeg wgei0hj 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aoki_squared
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  The engine FEAR is running on has aged horribly -- animations are a joke and the textures/shading 
 feels dated. All the enemy models are recycled, with a few new ones that are simply derivatives 
 of one another. The gameplay is is near exactly the same as in FEAR and environments all look the 
 same. The scares aren\'t there any more, though a few new tricks are cool. The story is possibly 
 the worst aspect. Not only are you a new FEAR operative with no returning characters, but the story 
 involves the \ Nightcrawlers\ trying to steal Alma\'s DNA... This isn\'t related at all to the 
 last few games and it\'s cheesy. Heck, when the DNA is finally obtained, it\'s in a huge neon green 
 flask -- can\'t get much more lame than that. Avoid unless you\'re a diehard FEAR fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Well at first after seeing all the negative reviews of this expansion and playing through the early 
 levels I thought maybe they were right and it wasn't very good.. But at the end I had a lot of 
 fun with this expansion.. It seems the level design on some areas on this expansion aren't very 
 good and it makes the game look even more dated than it actually is, but other areas look great.. 
 I think it may have to do with how I played this right after I had finished Crysis.. lol There are 
 a few new enemies which are a lot of fun to fight, mainly the Nightcrawlers which are enemies with 
 super speed and cloaking that can kick your ass if your not ready for them.. There are also some 
 paranormal enemies which when you walk over the area of ground they grab you and drag you under 
 unless you kill them.. Theres really only one new weapon, which is the Nightcrawler weapon with 
 a red laser scope.. The games length is actually very good for an expansion since I expected it 
 to end almost halfway through and after you beat it 3 bonus levels are unlocked that are fun to.. 
 The sound effects are of course really really good for this game, and the new music in some of 
 the areas is awesome as well.. Overall this is actually worth 30 dollars if you liked FEAR as much 
 as I did.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kamais_Ookin
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  Where to begin, will first of all at times this game looks like it was developed 10 years ago. 
 When I say the difficulty is very hard it's because it's a hassle to get into this game. Even though 
 it uses the same engine as the previous games in the series even if you crank it to max settings 
 it will only look like Extraction point on medium settings. It has a decent amount of hours for 
 an expansion and some of the "atmosphere" still lingers in Perseus Mandate. I recommend you rather 
 wait for "Project Origin" instead of purchasing Perseus Mandate but if you absolutely Can't resist 
 then by all means try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shiben
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 4, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  FEAR Perseus Mandate (exp2) is not worth playing. Not even to FEAR fans. In the previews it was 
 told that FEAR exp2 will carry important elements of the story in the FEAR universe. This is correct 
 but I will recommend FEAR fans to just go to wikipedia and read the whole plot.
  
  Exp2 has a good number of drawbacks, the first is its graphics. It's pretty odd since FEAR was 
 one of the best looking games of 2005 but after playing all the latest games, exp2 looked like 
 the old Half-Life. Not only because the engine is old, but the textures are very bland in this. 
 I haven't done a head to head comparison but I think exp2 looks worse than FEAR. The character 
 animation also looked unfinished.
  
  There are some new guns but they add nothing to the game-play at all. There is a elite-rifle and 
 it has scope mounted over it which slightly works as a night vision but its just a rifle after 
 all, doesn't add much to the game-play. Theres a lightning gun but you find it rarely & again, 
 it's nothing new. A grenade launcher is there which proves good over slow bosses but later in the 
 game, the grenade launcher doesn't help at all over the fast moving enemies. One thing is that 
 the sound of the guns are worked upon well unlike 'extraction point' in which the chain gun just 
 sounds to be churning in the same speed even if you increase your reflex.
  
  After all this, just when you would think that FEAR Perseus mandate at least inherits the awesome 
 game play of FEAR, which it does, it also inherits the worst demerit as well. The level design 
 of FEAR was boring (same corridor, same office cabins, same office buildings) and exp2 feels a 
 proud cousin retaining this drawback of FEAR. In most levels I felt, 'lets just ditch this game' 
 but I stick to it and played expecting something good to come which never happened.
  
  The last drawback of exp2 is that the whole game was able to scare me only once unlike FEAR which 
 I still consider the scariest game ever. Also the game doesn't really feature many scary moments. 
 The game is highly reluctant of showing any scary scenes. Yeah well, there are some new ghost enemies 
 included who come out of ground but they are very lame and easy to kill.
  
  Not that I was expecting any thing fantastic, but at least I was expecting an addition to my FEAR 
 experience which it seems have been worked upon hard to instead bring it down. Don't play this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serious_sam1122
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. Perseus Mandate is the second expansion pack to F. E. A. R., and it is a stand-alone game. 
 You take the roll of a new character, but he moves and has the abilities of point man from the 
 first two games. In PM, you are part of a team going in to apprehend files on Paxton Fettel and 
 Alma. Unfortunately, you are not the only one who wants the files. There is a new threat to you, 
 a group of mysterious mercenaries called the "nightcrawlers" who are out to get the same thing, 
 plus some of the clone army from the first two installments. 
  
  This game paralleles the events of the first two games. It happens about an hour or so before the 
 ending of the first F. E. A. R. For some reason, your character has the same abilities of point man. 
 You get some help this time around from your team mates and the navy seals (?) , but often you get 
 seperated from you. 
  
  There is really just more of the same in this go around. The graphics are still beautiful, but 
 the open ended levels they throw at you are very barren. The game tries to vary the levels, but 
 it makes it just an ugly mess in the process, not to mention that this game is best at being a 
 corridor shooter. The new enemies are also very tough, but instead of imploying squad tactics to 
 flank you and take cover, they just use very powerful weapons and have quick reflexes like you. 
 It makes everything seem unbalanced, especially when you get to the end of the game and are just 
 overwhelmed wtih enemies.
  
  There are also new weapons in the game, but they feel lackluster except for the grenade launcher. 
 There is a new auto rifle that has a scope that zooms in red and a lightning gun that can zap multiple 
 enemies that are close together. The grenade launcher is a great weapon, it feels powerful and 
 "thumps" whenever you shoot it. Unfortunately, the enemies like to carry these weapons as much 
 as you do. 
  
  The sound is still positive in this game, but the voice acting is lackluster. The nightcrawlers 
 just don't sound as good as the clone army does, and your teammates show little emotion. The gun 
 sounds are still great though and the music can be very creepy. 
  
  The series has been known for its very creepy environment. This game is no exception, but the tricks 
 are re-used from previous games. This makes sense since this takes place from the other two games, 
 but I never seemed like anything really creeped me out. There is a new monster that hides in the 
 ground, and you can see it because the ground is black in that spot and has some distortion effects 
 coming out of it. Alma is unfortunately not as creepy as in other games. She poses little threat 
 and doesn't really seem to have much interest in you. Paxton Fettel is back, but without much cause. 
 This game is much less creepy that Extraction Point.
  
  This game does absolutely nothing new for the series. This game is hard to recommend, especially 
 since the story line from the two expansion packs is being disregarded to make way for the new 
 game, Origins. Multiplayer is free in the form of F. E. A. R. Combat, so this game does nothing for 
 it. This game will only last you about 4-6 hours. Unfortunately, it is time for a refresher in 
 the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrenton2004
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  If you liked the other episodes in the series, then give this one a go. Sure there are places (mainly 
 during the initial levels) where the graphics look a little dated, but once you move in to the 
 2nd half of the game, you are back in that familiar F. E. A. R environment, with some very nice scary 
 moments. This was more enjoyable than the second in the series. And the bonus levels that are unlocked 
 on completion are very nice. (there is no quick save option in these bonus maps, so you're really 
 living on the edge) .
  
  For some reason the Game-spot reviewer thought the difficulty was at a level that the player was 
 required to use bullet time through-out the game, I would have to disagree. You still need to use 
 bullet time but only when its required, and in sensible situations. The difficulty was still too 
 easy in many places. The only place I felt it was just right was with the 3 bonus maps. 
  
  Pros. Nicely difficulty level. Game is of decent length. Some great 'scary' moments.
  Cons. Outdoor 
 levels look bland. Nothing really new.
  
  Graphics.
  Still quite good, some of the initial outdoor environments look quite plain, but I think this was 
 more due to the level design not including enough objects/detail than the engine itself, once you 
 progress into the later parts, and the levels are more enclosed it's the same old F. E. A. R. every 
 one knows.
  
  Audio.
  As good as ever, great atmosphere.
  
  Game-play & Interface.
  Identical to previous episodes, with the difficulty ramped up a but - at a level that is just right. 
 People suggesting that the game is too hard may have spent too much time on consoles. With the 
 mouse/keyboard interface, games can/need-to be more difficult on the PC
  
  Story line.
  Not as good as the original, but probably better than the 2nd one. The fact that you pretty much 
 know the story line already, means not much additional can be added.
  
  Overall.
  Great fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makhdoom82
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Ok i played the first two the original fear and then the expansion and it was quite good. Now this 
 time when i played this game it did not seems so interesting at all. This game tries to tell the 
 story from another angle while there is nothing new to that game. Graphics use to be amazing but 
 now they looked so boring because they have aged. It's unbelievable but it's true. If you want 
 to buy this game then make sure you are a big fan of the series otherwise it won't surprise you 
 in any way. The original fear style creepy moments are in this one as well but all in all this 
 game is nothing special. Offers you with a long storyline which just justifies it but then that's 
 not enough. FEAR is a good concept but a remake in all aspects would do it not just another old 
 technology based old story expansion would. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnimalAl
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  Gamespot has missed the entire point here. Yes, the graphics aren't as intense as Gears of War 
 or Call of Duty, but the atmosphere, the plot, the AI, they are all superb. If you enjoyed the 
 first FEAR game, you'll like this one just as much if not more. It's hard to emphasize how great 
 a game this is. The single-player game is a good long play, at least 15-20 hours. I didn't play 
 the multi-player version, so can't speak to that. But it's a great ride, and I encourage any first-person 
 shooter to check this out.
  
  Without giving away too much of the plot, the story runs parallel to the first FEAR game (you're 
 in a second team) . You get much the same equipment and skills, same slow-bullet mode, but the size 
 of the maps and the variety of encounters are very nice. Not so much spooky encounters, more firefights, 
 which is what I signed up for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdBeer69
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. and it's expansion, Extraction Point, were great in gameplay, storyline, and there overall 
 "scare factor," as I like to call it. Extraction point was short, but they intensified it a lot, 
 and left you with a big cliff-hanger and many un-answered questions at the end of the game. Perseus 
 Mandate follows a second FEAR team which goes along with their objectives during the same time 
 the original FEAR and EP take place. That alone raises many questions about where the storyline 
 is going, and what the deal is with the main character you're playing as.
  
  My main issue with this game is the storyline, which pretty much seems to go nowhere fast. I will 
 not mention any spoilers, but by the end of the game, you will have twice as many questions, and 
 not a single one of them answered.
  
  The other issue I have with this is the lack of horror in the game. Of course it has it's moments 
 of trying to scare the hell out of you, but they did not do near as good a job as they did in EP. 
 The bigger focus of the game seemed to be based more on combat, as they added a couple more weapons 
 and new enemies to test them on. The mercenary squads are always fun to fight as they will throw 
 out turrets and prox mines on occasion. Unfortunately with this, the AI has not been improved any 
 bit at all. That's not a huge deal though because it's already pretty good.
  
  There are some new enemies that you don't face very often, which is probably a good thing because 
 they are ridiculously hard to hit with any weapon, and really just get on your nerves. This isn't 
 necessarily a bad thing because it makes the game more challenging then the previous installments. 
 They also seem to throw the heavy armored guys as well as mechs at you just when you seem to have 
 no good weapons, little ammo, and not much health.
  
  On the plus side, the game pretty much matches the length of the original FEAR. The new weapons, 
 like the lightning gun, advanced rifle, and grenade launcher are definitely fun to play with. The 
 battles are always fun, and with the graphics and physics, you can never stop having fun tearing 
 each room into shreds as you mow down enemies. To add to this, they also added three bonus missions 
 you can play after you finish the game. Honestly, they seem pointless to me, but if you still haven't 
 had enough of the fighting, this is for you. They're like challenge missions, just go from point 
 A to point B on various difficulties, try to beat your old times, etc. One of them just puts you 
 in a small outdoor "plaza" and just releases wave after wave of enemies for a while.
  
  Overall, if you're looking for a game that has any relevance to the original story, just wait for 
 Project Origin, because the storyline in this is quite pointless. The combat is slightly improved 
 with new enemies and weapons, and will last for hours as it's pretty much the only thing you will 
 be doing. It's disappointing, yet still a fun game and definitely worth playing. After going though 
 this, I just hope Project Origin ties the loose ends together... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darksaw66699942
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  I started out playing the newest addition to fear and was getting annoyed. not much was talked 
 about the first two games. guns were still kind of weak in my eyes. game play took a few hours. 
 not as scary as the other ones. didn't really mess with your mind at all. the ending once again 
 was a disappointment. the story has what it takes but they need to give us more then these little 
 bits of the girl the mother and whatever his name i can't remember at the moment. and what happen 
 to the other guy from the first expansion. i hope this game will not die out like this i think 
 people are looking for answers and if it doesn't come out int he next game i dont think it will 
 last very long after that. so overall good. but dont expect anything more then from the first two 
 sadly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. Perseus Mandate is the 2nd expansion pack by TimeGate Studios and does not require the 
 original F. E. A. R. to be installed. Perseus Mandate features a story that runs parallel to the original 
 F. E. A. R. and its 1st expansion, Extraction Point. You play as a second member of F. E. A. R. where 
 you have the same slow mo reflexes, but how you got them is never explained. The story is pretty 
 much about big government conspiracies, mercenaries trying to get their hands on stuff that they're 
 not supposed to get, and battling a whole lot of Replicas. Oh yea, there's also the occasional 
 scare. The horror sequences are a bit more well done and refined from the ones in Extraction Point. 
 Some of them really did send a chill down my spine. The game is somewhat more difficult then the 
 other installments cause it throws a lot of enemies at you. There are a few new enemies such as 
 the Nightcrawlers and some of them have the same slow mo ability as you, presenting a unique challenge. 
 Other enemies include a new phantom that pops out of the ground with a melee attack. There's also 
 3 new weapons: the Advanced Rifle with infrared scope, the Lightning Arc Gun, and the Grenade Launcher. 
 Each are pretty fun to use and are a welcome addition to the F. E. A. R. arsenal. The weakest point 
 about this game is the graphics. Despite being only 2 years old, the graphics engine used is now 
 horribly dated compared to this years Unreal Engine 3's and CryEngine 2's. However the sounds is 
 still top notch and the AI is still slick as ever, using cover and trying to flank you whenever 
 possible. Overall, this expansion does feel a little "unnecessary" and it seems like TimeGate and 
 Vivendi Universal/Sierra Entertainment is just milking the F. E. A. R. name. Still, its a fun game 
 to play if you're a big fan of F. E. A. R. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zenmaster2010
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Not as new or exciting as the first game, but if you liked FEAR, you will probably enjoy Perseus 
 Mandate. Some of your foes are ridiculously hard to kill, while others are too easy. The spook 
 factor shines in spots, and overall you're getting a better than average shooter without the real 
 suspense created in the original. I am looking forward to FEAR 2, but the writers and designers 
 will need to really think outside the box to create a genuinely scary and immersive story to bring 
 back fans of the game and to win more gamers over. I will be keeping my eye out for any new info 
 about future FEAR projects and look forward to something fresh and original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Yet another blatant review from Gamespot, one of the few that has come out recently. Explain to 
 me, how is it Half-Life 2 (a much older engine) , with their second expansion, without changing 
 almost anything in the series receives rave reviews, yet F. E. A. R. gets the shaft? With ultra creepy 
 environments, still brilliant A. I. and mind-blowing combat, Perseus Mandate is still a clear sibling 
 of one the the greatest shooters made.
  True it is, that the engine is beginning to age, but with maximum settings this game looks ever 
 beautiful and eerie. The darkness of the setting is only compensated by your handy flashlight. 
 And as before, you will never forget a room you have been becauee it will be in utter ruin. The 
 offices you fight in will be familiar, but you will also duke it out in the streets, and even in 
 some spooky laboratories.
  F. E. A. R. wouldn't be itself without the patented slow-mo combat I have come to love. It's a powerful 
 move; but not too powerful as in most cases your using it to save your skin. 
  Due to the nasty divorce between Sierra and Monolith, the main story could no longer take place. 
 As a member of a second First Encounter Assault Recon team sent to tangential mission where the 
 original game took place. With two skilled teammates, you are dropped into Armacham's facility 
 in order to retrieve information on this mysterious Perseus Project. You are thrown into a battle 
 with the replicas. Meanwhile, an American senator has interest in this information as well, and 
 he wants it by any means necessary. This is where F. E. A. R.'s only true weakness is solved. This 
 senator send in an entire army of mercenaries. Next to these guys, the replicas are infantile, 
 "super soldiers" my ass. F. E. A. R.'s A. I. always made the game a good challenge, but with the addition 
 of these soldiers, I found myself relying heavily upon slow-mo and med kits to survive. Before 
 long, I found myself alone, experiencing supernatural encounters, and loving it.
  Just like Extraction Point, Perseus Mandate adds new weapons, such as a powerful rifle equipped 
 with a infrared scope, and an electric arc weapon capable of nailing several enemies at once. You 
 can use these weapons as well as the original's and Extraction Points in the ever exciting and 
 fun multiplayer. The same vesciral thrills are all there, as well as an awesome slow-mo game mode.
 
  In the end, Perseus Mandate is a lot like its predecessor (like any expansion) , and thats a good 
 thing. From the brilliant A. I. eliminating repetition, to the spooking stalkings of the girl Alma, 
 Perseus Mandate is more than a worthy expansion to one of the greatest shooters ever. And coming 
 from one who needs no reason to come back to the series, its a "no brainer".
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  i was looking forward to this game ALOT. i really liked the FEAR games, and this looked like another 
 nice addition. until i played it. in Fear, you used tactics to kill your enemies, and they were 
 interesting and smart. this time around, its like playing against a bunch of extremely smart and 
 numbered enemies. this makes for the type of gameplay of fight, die, fight, die until you kill. 
 then there are the nightcrawlers, who are just plain annoying. they move really fast, and you have 
 to go to slo-mo just to beat them. the graphics are ok, but they are really starting to show their 
 age. the story is ridiculously lame, while jumping all over the place, and i still dont understand 
 how the main guy has slo-mo powers. Lastly, i got to just the almost end of interval 3, when i 
 loaded a save game and got complete darkness. this happened once in Extraction point, but i just 
 loaded a different file. this time, they were all the same. this kind of thing is just inexcusable, 
 and plain sloppy. to sum it up: A BIG DISSAPOINTMENT. i hope project origin is better, and right 
 now im going to uninstall this game off my hard drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHeMoX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  Although it didn't quite surprise me that the Gamespot review mentioned how this engine is looking 
 dated now, it's not like the original F. E. A. R game isn't STILL a great looking game when all cranked 
 up to it's max settings.
  
  I understand that Crysis, Gears of War and so on spoiled the reviewers, but come on ... this game 
 isn't ugly or all that dated!! Besides... Crysis, just to name one, has way more frame-rate and 
 performance issues than this game has, but do we hear you guys about it? No. Talking about double 
 standards.... At least this game will run on 90% of the current gen systems and look beautiful 
 at the same time.
  
  Perseus Mandate has a whole new story and gives a slightly different perspective on what happened. 
 Didn't games like Half-life Blueshift do exactly the same? Well.. those didn't get score-raped 
 for being not innovating enough and too much of the same. 
  When I think of it, it's actually a pretty good comparison. Think of Perseus Mandate as HL: Blueshift 
 or HL: Opposing Force, it gives a good idea of what to expect in terms of changes from the original 
 game. It's different, but still a lot of the same.
  
  As was mentioned in some other reviews here, apparently a high difficulty makes this a game bad, 
 but this expansion pack, eventhough stand-alone, isn't quite meant for newcomers in my opinion. 
 Newcomers are better off playing the original F. E. A. R first. In all honesty I don't get the comments 
 about the difficulty at all anyways, because the original F. E. A. R game wasn't exactly easy either.... 
 At least it took me quite a while to play through.
  
  I'm not going to spoil anything of the story, but it's definitely interesting enough to keep you 
 going. Some might say it's not as good as the original, but it's mainly just different because 
 of the second team thing. 
  
  This latest expansion also does a great job at being scary at times, but some of it might not blow 
 you away if you've played through the first game.
  
  Somehow the review in Gamespot seemed a lot like how I would have reviewed this game f it would 
 have been the sequel to F. E. A. R, which it isn't... it's just an expansion. But even if it would 
 have been the sequel, some things are quite exaggerated in my opinion, mostly in regard to how 
 this game isn't very different from the original. The environment you play in is quite different 
 and the opponents are different and a great challenge.
  
  All in all you can't go extremely wrong with buying this game, especially if you liked the original. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightworks
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  Although this expansion apparently gets slain down terribly by the Gamespot reviewer, this game 
 still has lots to offer - let alone with its gameplay.
  
  I for one think it's better than the 'Extraction Point' expansion, it's longer and offers perhaps 
 even more environmental variety than the original game. If you're looking for a game that's got 
 good playability, a decent storyline and that will provide you with hours of fun, this is definitely 
 worth your money.
  
  If you know what F. E. A. R. is like and understand what it tries to accomplish, I'd say enjoy and 
 don't worry bout what the critics say!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  The second expansion too F. E. A. R has its good moments and his bad moments.
  
  Presentation:
  To start off with the story (yes there is one) .
  The story is really confusing 
 and feels completely like you're just killing some clones and stuff and complete mission objectives 
 which are pretty lame.
  The controls are fine.
  rating: 3
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay of the expansion is better then the original F. E. A. R because the battles are more 
 exciting and they feel less repetitive!
  The battles are easier though which sucks.
  The new weapons and enemies dont add much but they are welcome.
  One new weapon plainly sucks 
 and this is the electric arc, its weak and it doesnt feel good to shoot with it!
  The levels of this expansion are much bigger and have more detail then before.
  This is a good 
 thing but its a bad thing too, because it requires a lot more memory.
  One really bad thing is that this game doesnt scare me anymore, most of the scares are cheap and 
 the athmosphere from the first game is gone too.
  It just doesnt feel spooky anymore.
  Rating: 7
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics of the game are getting old but it doesnt mean its a 
 bad thing.
  My personal opinion is that this game still looks good.
  The only problem because of the bigger levels, the game runs slower and you will need a decent 
 computer for this to experience this game at its best.
  Rating: 8
  
  Sounds:
  The sounds have been the best thing of the F. E. A. R series.
  Especially the music is very nice.
 
  Rating: 8
  
  Value:
  This game feels short, but then again its a "standalone" expansion.
  When you complete the campaign 
 you can always download F. E. A. R combat mulitplayer and play the bonus missions.
  Rating: 6
  
  If you like the F. E. A. R. series then this expansion is a welcome addition in terms of action, 
 but if you want a spooky game better go for extraction point, the original F. E. A. R or its sequel 
 when its done :P
  
  Bye
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eutiagopato
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  Is it Hard? lol... no make it easy as all the other goddam shoters... why playing a game a child 
 can beat? a hard shooter is the way! yey i finished the game in 5 hours... never got killed all 
 the way till the end.... whats ths fun in this? a game that actually gets on your nerves, takes 
 hours to pass a zone, its way more satisfactory in the end... or i at least think this way, im 
 way happier finishing a game like this than a "normal" shooter...
  
  F. E. A. R. rocks, although they could have done something a little better than this expansion... 
 anyway loved it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctorCream
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  It would seem that having COD4 and Crysis out within the same 7 day period has somewhat spoiled 
 the critics we look to for more than just a leaderboard of advertising dollars being spent.
  
  Don't believe the negativity on this one. 
  
  For the price, it is a solid 8 hour shooter 
 that expands on all of the concepts you loved from the original Fear game.
  
  I found the first Fear game to be amazing, complete with many startles, five super jumps, and one 
 absolutely terrifying moment (the little girl above the ladder in the sewers when you turn around) . 
 
  
  The second I thought brought little to the series, with a poor ending, no real substance / immersive 
 plot line, and way too many replicants that made it feel bland.
  
  This one though - I shut off twice playing at night with headphones due to heart pains, and had 
 a least a dozen jumps and three "couldn't hit escape fast enough" moments. There are times in this 
 game where the fright sequences of unexpected events can literally cause you to go into involuntary 
 self-protection mode lol.
  
  The second half of the game was like being in a haunted house, and unlike the claims for repetition, 
 I felt the pacing of the game with mini "sub-boss" type battles added in a great flow and a very 
 cool way to spend an evening. Try getting this type of exhiliration for eight hours from a $10 
 movie ticket at your local cinema.
  
  All in all - an absolute blast, worth playing / beating whether you have played any of the others 
 in a series, and alot of fun for a great FPS that was first in it's class for pscyhological warfare 
 on the gameplayers mind.
  
  This one will not disappoint.
  
  Overal Rating: 8.9
  
  
  - DoctorCream 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whipman
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand the poor review this game is getting from gamespot. It's F. E. A. R and was everything 
 I expected. Yeah, the engine is dated as are the graphics but we're not talking Bioshock or Crysis 
 here. If you liked the original and the expansion pack you're gonna like Perseus Mandate as well. 
 The only reason for the lame reviews are because we've grown used to the game. Does that make it 
 a bad game? If you're at the store and you aint got 50 bucks for Bioshock or Crysis, pick this 
 up for 29 greenies and I guarantee it'll hold you over. It's still F. E. A. R. It is what it is. Or 
 was, depending on how you look at it,,,,,,,,,,,,,, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bandwerks
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  It would seem that having COD4 and Crysis out within the same 7 day period has somewhat spoiled 
 the critics we look to for more than just a leaderboard of advertising dollars being spent.
  
  Don't believe the negativity on this one. 
  
  For the price, it is a solid 8 hour shooter 
 that expands on all of the concepts you loved from the original Fear game.
  
  I found the first Fear game to be amazing, complete with many startles, five super jumps, and one 
 absolutely terrifying moment (the little girl above the ladder in the sewers when you turn around) . 
 
  
  The second I thought brought little to the series, with a poor ending, no real substance / immersive 
 plot line, and way too many replicants that made it feel bland.
  
  This one though - I shut off twice playing at nice with headphones due to heart pains, and had 
 a least a dozen jumps and three "couldn't hit escape fast enough" moments. There are times in this 
 game where the fright sequences of unexpected events can literally cause you to go into involuntary 
 self-protection mode lol.
  
  The second half of the game was like being in a haunted house, and unlike the claims for repetition, 
 I felt the pacing of the game with mini "sub-boss" type battles added in a great flow and a very 
 cool way to spend an evening. Try getting this type of exhiliration for eight hours from a $10 
 movie ticket at your local cinema.
  
  All in all - an absolute blast, worth playing / beating whether you have played any of the others 
 in a series, and alot of fun for a great FPS that was first in it's class for pscyhological warfare 
 on the gameplayers mind.
  
  This one will not disappoint.
  
  Overal Rating: 8.9
  
  
  - DoctorCream
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  Unlike my previous review where I gave a high mark to a game that deserves much less, now I intend 
 to give a low mark to a game that is actually worth more.
  
  Not much to say here though as my opinion corresponds to great extend with the opinions of professional 
 reviewers from Gamespot, IGN, etc. I just loved Perseus Mandate, but it is only because I love 
 F. E. A. R. However, this is no proper way to release an expansion pack - same enemies, same weapons, 
 same levels and... (OMG!!!) SAME STORY!!!! This is just not right! Being a new character from just 
 another F. E. A. R. team that gets involved in the same events that happened in the first two F. E. A. R. 
 games while traversing the same levels is simply lame.
  
  What is more, the game manages to look even worse than it did in 2005. (It looked spectacular in 
 2005, but I mean from present point of view... you get my meaning.) The part where this is most 
 obvious is the beginning of the game where the engine fails miserably to represent open environments 
 which really remind me more of the original Sin or Deus Ex.
  
  New enemies are just the same as old ones - mercs with no big difference in combat tactics than 
 the cloned soldiers or the security guards and even less difference in appearance. They also introduce 
 their own bigger and meaner version of the mechs. Nothing original again. There is only one type 
 of overpowered supermen in the ranks of the new enemies which differ in approach and are actually 
 worth mentioning.
  
  New weapons include yet another assault rifle but this time with an infrared scope (who needed 
 that) , some kind of a megapowerful chainlightning cannon which is actually fun, but its ammunition 
 throughout the campaign is so limited that the only times when you will get note of it is when 
 enemies bust your ass with it which they do with surprising efficiency provided they have that 
 particular weapon. The third and last new weapon is a grenade launcher which IMO shouldn't be bothered 
 with against the versatile and rather challenging AI of the game.
  
  Speaking of the AI and adding F. E. A. R.'s visual effects, we get the same inspiring combat sequences 
 which really pump up adrenaline. That is actually what makes this game great, however, these are 
 the same combat sequences we have played twice already.
  
  The scary sequences in the game are plentiful again, but I found those much less scary than the 
 ones from the original F. E. A. R. That's probably mostly because those sequences are directed in 
 pretty much the same way and I knew what to expect in most cases. The one moment when one can really 
 get a heart attack is ruined by being nicely pointed at in the campaign before the character has 
 a chance to step into the trap. After that you know what to expect from black holes on the floor 
 and the effect is lost. Once again, the fact that your flashlight battery depletes in about 15 
 seconds and then magically replenishes again in 7, is more of an annoyance than actually scary.
 
  
  One nice but minor addition are the three bonus missions that are unlocked after completing the 
 main campaign. The catch there is you cannot save which makes the Arena particularly challenging 
 even on the default difficulty.
  
  And that's pretty much all that needs to be said about Perseus Mandate! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmarKane3450
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to come right out and say that this was much better than Extraction Point. 
  
  There are two parts to this expansion. The first part kind of takes place in the middle or near 
 the end of the original FEAR game. There's literally a war going on as you slug it out with ATC 
 bad guys, replicants, and the new mercernary guys. The second part takes place right after the 
 explosion you see at the end of the original FEAR and it crosses over with Extraction Point as 
 well. As you all know, that's where everything goes to hell literally.
  
  The story is better than the so called story they gave us in Extraction Point. It pretty much centers 
 around the Nightcrawlers as you try to stop them from getting their hands on.. well, you know. 
 Also, the ending of Perseus Mandate was a little better than the one in Extraction Point. 
  
  
  The scary moments are there, and there were a couple that made me jump, especially since 
 I am using a surround sound system and I had the volume turned up. 
  
  
  But sadly, there are some problems still. I'm the type of guy that likes a good story. The story 
 that Perseus Mandate had was pretty intriguing but there were some things that were unexplained. 
 For one thing, who exactly are the Nightcrawlers? And once again, we're left in the dark about 
 Fettel and Alma. 
  
  Another bad thing is that the Nightcrawlers are merely reskinned replica soldiers from the original 
 game. Even the lines that they say are the same as the replica soldiers when you're fighting them. 
 You do encounter a new enemy which moves pretty fast and is pretty dangerous with a grenade launcher 
 too. But other than that, there's not really a whole lot new about them.
  
  The level design was okay but it could have been a little better. Good level design will be able 
 to immerse the player in the world more effectively. 
  
  Overall, I thought that this was a good expansion. It does not beat FEAR at all and it never will, 
 but it did alright in my book. Somebody actually said that this was better than Half-Life 2 Episode 
 two. While everyone is entitled to their opinion, I still feel the need to ask: What the hell are 
 you smoking? 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diernes
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Yes, this game is terrible. F. E. A. R should have ridden off into the sunset rather than being dragged 
 through the mud like this. It didnt deserve it, Time gate and Sierra should be ashamed.
  
  I pretty much agree with gamespots review here, for a change... but they are off base on one major 
 thing.
  
  It's not the game engines fault that this game looks bad. The blame for this can be solely placed 
 on timegates inability to program it. and the level desingners complete lack of ability.
  
  F. E. A. R may not be Crysis, I doubt any game is going to come close to that one for along time. 
 But the engine is solid, it was only two years ago GS were singing its praises. Come on guys, the 
 original F. E. A. R looks 100x better than this crap.
  
  Put two and two together.
  
  Boycott this game, and wait for the true sequel by the original development team. Project origin. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drmarkaryerson
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  I have enjoyed the previous two FEAR games. Bought Jericho and other newer games lately and have 
 been very disappointed, yes this is a continuation but, continuation of greatness !
  The game plays well in Vista where as I have had significant slow down frame rates with the original 
 FEAR. I have a Quad core processor and 4 gig of ram, dual 8800GTS cards. 
  Some of the old cheats such as god for god mode and kfa for power and ammo can be used for players 
 that need these cheats. I like the newer character you play and the Alma problem. I highly recommend 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjbowden
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review:  I thought F. E. A. R. was good. I hope others believe it too. It's worth buying and you will see. 
 I hope this review gets posted to let others know that the game is really good. It has all the 
 same elements and more. It also some great moments in the story line. In one level, you come out 
 of the tunnel and see the plane on fire and you remember, boy I wish I can go back and see what 
 happens. I got the feeling when I played. Hopefully in time others will see what I saw. I played 
 all conditions without any problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Again a review from Gamespot that I have to really question... Sure, this game is nothing new, but 
 its one of the greatest FPS of all time so how bad can it be??
  
  I wasnt expecting to start this game and see a complete reinvention of FEAR, I was simply expecting 
 an expansion of a great game and thats what I found.
  
  I am only just through level 2 but after about 4 hours of gameplay I am completely satisfied. 
 
  
  Graphics - Same deal as before, but still better than half the games out there. Smooth as silk 
 and no stuttering or crashes.
  
  Gameplay - Again, same deal = same fun. Took me about 4 minutes to get right back into the swing 
 of this game.
  
  Storyline - So far, better than the last expansion and it has some pretty good jump out of your 
 seat moments.
  
  If you are as big a fan of the series as I am, I see no reason not to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s_emi_xxxxx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  All right.. How many of you have played the original game F. E. A. R. (2005) more than 10-12 times.. 
 I HAVE :D (seriously) . and i still want to play it more n more.
  
  If you're someone like me... Then this Expansion is just right for you.
  
  Graphics : This 
 Expansion Pack looks same as FEAR.. only difference is that there are not much repetitive enviroments 
 which were the biggest problem in original game. So what do you think.. Does FEAR still look impressive 
 comparing to other games whcih are now being released with Next Gen Graphics ? Well... i think 
 YES !! 
  FEAR engine is now 2 years old... and it still looks superb. and i must say this expansion still 
 kicks ass in Visuals. they're sharp.. Very Detailed.. and the Effects are Awesome.. only the lightning 
 may look really bad now. The main problem is that I still can't run it max settings. : ( But some 
 faces of your teamates look really ugly in the game.. The Developers should've given them some 
 Shiny Helmets to wear.
  
  Sound : They're as impressive as they were in FEAR. The new Advanced rifle sounds just right.. 
 very satisfying to shoot. The enemies will use some new dialogues. & I still love to hear the Replicas 
 shouting and crying while dying. Most enemies sound as good as they act.. really feels you're fighting 
 against smart enemies. I think All of us already know that how good sound effects really are in 
 FEAR's both Singleplayer & Multiplayer... SO let's just get to teh point.
  
  Gameplay : This is what FEAR is known for. The Gameplay! Shooting has never* been so satisfying.. 
 The gunplay, The Slowmo, theEffects, The enemy A. I., the awesome Melee Attacks etc.. & some new weapons 
 & Enemies add more fun. One thing that i noticed in this XP is that there were some really difficult 
 situations which can be a little frustrating at Extreme Difficulty.. mostly because of the new 
 Enemy known as "NightCrawlers".. As the IGN review said that they are a huge pain in the ass... 
 and i found out that it's true. they've got super armor.. super speed ( like the speed hacks in 
 Multiplayer) , and they do not slow down as much as other enemies when you activate the Slowmo. 
 They will also use some dialogues likeHi, Sweetheart" which will definitely make you angry. 
 They annoyed me so much that in most levels I kept quickloading the game and kept killing them 
 again & again. It's feels just too good when they Die! ;p There are some really good scares.. that's 
 true. This game still manages to use different things to scare the crap out of you. umm... But 
 I think I expected sometihing more this time.
  
  Story ? : oh! i almost forgot to mention this point. what's the story anyways ? LOL. i think the 
 FEAR point man died in the last Expansion's Ending ? which really broke my heart. : ( so now you 
 take the role of a Sergeant who got the same abilities as Paxton Fettels's Brother.. that's FEAR 
 Point man . But the question is why did they kill him ? So now he's dead.. that's why Mr Paxton 
 Fettel will keep talking to you.. try to scare you sumtimes by appearing in front of you lol... 
 He will tell u about Alma and their 
  sad story and other things. The question is that how is his ghost communicating with the replicas 
 ? Now What he really wants ? Sometimes the replicas will get De-activated.. then they get Activated 
 again. :s 
  
  So It's 8-10 hours fun for 30$. and Multiplayer is useless.. ( I Think they should just release 
 all the new multplayer content from this XP as a free download/patch... Atleast some people will 
 start joining the servers because mostly all of them are empty : ( ) .
  This has more of FEAR gameplay.. but this time this would be pretty challenging at times... only 
 in Extreme Difficulty. that's where the real fun is. Each firefight is as good as the Original 
 game.. They're not exactly the same. some new enemies will use better A. I. and new guns. E. g. They 
 will continously use better leans and use grenades intelligently.
  It never gets repetitve for me .. I just LOVE it. 
  They're some BiG games out right now.. But 
 i still had a lot of fun playing this.. and why not ? FEAR is my Favourite FPS (Atleast till now 
 :-) . Also this Expansion Pack has a proper ending.. another reason to buy this game :p.
  So if you're a real FEAR Fan............... then you know the rest.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tremere1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  The game starts somewhere in the middle of the original F. E. A. R. game. The Replica forces have 
 began attacking the secret facility, the projects Origin and Perseus Mandate began. I don't want 
 to spoil the story for those who haven't yet played the game, but I can tell you that you will 
 be dealing with Fetel and you'll see everything from the original F. E. A. R. and those invisible 
 and strange enemies that show up in the Extraction Point.
  
  The graphics are the same as in the previous games, and the sounds are again the masterpiece of 
 this game. The sound and the music really rise up your adrenaline, especially when it is dark. 
 (I jumped 3 times from the chair, and threw my mouse away, during my first hour of playing) .
  
  To end this review, the game is really a must-have. Why miss this part of one of the best serials 
 ever? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irenicmad
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  Sometimes more of the same is good, and I feel it's the case with FEAR. While the Extraction Point 
 followed the main protagonist of the series, I felt it was way too short and inconclusive. Project 
 Origin won't be here for quite some time and Perseus Mandate fills the gap very nicely: it doesn't 
 break the main story, but it gives us more spectacular, blood fountaining firefights. 
  While many areas are repetitive and the "box behind a door so you can't open it" ways of making 
 it totally linear are getting kind of old, I still like them. Personally I can't stand shooters 
 where you have to spend 10 minutes just to figure out where you're supposed to go next, here you 
 can pace yourself because you'll never get lost - the next firefight happens when you want it to, 
 just walk into the next room, you don't have to go looking for it.
  Next comes a bit of a spoiler, but I thought the abandoned train station and the metro station 
 firefights were some of the best in the series. The graphics are looking a little bit dated and 
 the "boxes everywhere" design has been a problem of the series, but it works out pretty nicely 
 for people who don't have $2000 to upgrade their PC every year - they can still run with max settings 
 on older machines.
  
  All in all, this makes a pretty decent expansion, an alternate insight from a simple team of soldiers 
 into a story beyond their comprehension. 
  "We have another survivor in the building, a little girl, about 8 years old"
  "-What the hell 
 are you talking about?"
  "-She was just there!"
  That's when you know you're f****d. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcro55
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  My main beef has nothing to do with the game per se since I enjoyed all three FEAR games and this 
 is more of the same. I'm just spoiled from recently playing HL2 E3, Stranglehold and COD4 and all 
 these three have much more complete worlds: more junk, less sterile environments, more details 
 etc.
  
  FEAR PM is a great shooter and the graphics are excellent along with the movement, combat, target 
 accuracy and I will play it again. The paranormal parts were a bit repeatative but fit into the 
 game nicely. I liked the fact that the first part of the game is played along side the story from 
 the 2nd game and there is some overlap (the nuclear explosion) . From there though there isn't much 
 to explain your new enemies. You do learn more about the main bad guy from the first two games 
 as well as Alma. More would have been better though.
  
  Anyway, a solid shooter, a bit light on the story and light on the world details: too sterile. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miller1246
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  do not pay for too much software any longer. But had to go out and buy this , could not get it 
 off my ISO Hunt. glas I did. When I am playing the game and my wife sneaks up on me and touches 
 me I still jump. Love to get inside the game as with all FEAR series. It is worth it no doubt. 
 Have not gone to multi-player yet still trying to gey single down. worth the time and the few dollars. PC 
 gamer rates this pretty high but lows are not enough to not get this game. do not know what else 
 to say except that it is alot of fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jesse-Fett
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 11:16 pm PT
Review:  I think its probably the best out of the 3. In my opinion it kinda has a Half Life 1 kinda feel 
 to it, which I liked. and I loved the fighting in the streets of the city in the begining. Thats 
 my favorite part. F. E. A. R. is a unique game, that breaks away from the crappy alien invasions, 
 and brings creepy sci-fi horror military ghost busting action, Just try to find another game like 
 F. E. A. R.. More games need to be like FEAR, DOOM3 and the good old Classic QUAKE cause horror scifi 
 is the best :D go buy it, well worth the $30 and a hell of alot better then Half Life 2 episode 
 2.
  
  
  
  
  Graphics - 10
  Sound - 10
  Story - 10
  Spine tingling creepyness - 10
  Jumpyness - 10
  Chance of wetting pants while playing - 100% 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nanofear
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is essentially a nice "hit" of F. E. A. R ( In my opinion its very slick futuristic sci-fi 
 office warfare dab-ling in phsychosomatic military medical research with something else i can't 
 quite put my finger on) keeping the fire going until the sequel comes out. It' s a little lame 
 in the beginning but it gets better. The story maybe a different version of the original time line 
 but it's just trying to reaffirm the earlier story, so if you know it ,yer like oh yea I remember 
 that. Some new weapons, enemies and level designs keep it fresh enough to want try some new tactics. 
 I like to quick save before every action scenario and try to for example take out everyone with 
 melee only or use the least amount of ammo or take the least amount of damage ramping up the difficulty 
 level as well. All things said this game in my opinion is good enough to push this series further 
 along, I was completely satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: be_patient
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 4:34 am PT
Review:  I remember playing FEAR and being completely blown away by the visuals! In no way was i expecting 
 the expansion to match that, especially with a 2year old engine, but i did expect better. When 
 i first started playing i was extremely dissapointed with the character models of our allies and 
 their textures were under par. Even the environment textures were too low a resolution. And is 
 it just me or does the way they walk look a bit rigid?
  
  I managed to ignore these problems and play on and I'm glad i did the shootouts are still a ridiculous 
 amount of fun to play, (although the level design is repetitive) and i just love using SloMo and 
 throwing a nade at some poor guys face.
  
  This latest expansion IS good fun to play, but dont expect the visuals to impress. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Yea, sure it's scripted and linear................... were you expecting a F. E. A. R. expansion to 
 be any different? No surprises here, it's still DX 9c, with what appears to be a mildly tweaked 
 version of the F. E. A. R. engine. The good news is, what was a hardware hog two years ago, runs smooth 
 as glass on newer rigs, and at what were originally unobtainable resolutions. Same great sound, 
 atmosphere, and gameplay though. 3 new weapons (and I like all of them) plus all the oldie but 
 goodies. A couple of new enemy types and some more detail in the F. E. A. R. storyline. The game is 
 showing it's age in the tight very linear levels (great gameplay is having an increasingly hard 
 time overcoming a legacy from the golden old school shooter years) . It's time to move on and this 
 expansion is a great way to wrap up this trilogy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BallerBMW23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  If you were a fan at all of any of the F. E. A. R's before perseus get ready for a whole new ride. 
 More intense firefights, more diffictult enemys, new guns and of course some of the best scary 
 stuff over and over. Also the story get way more interesting as they explain Perseus and Origin 
 and what Paxton Fetal has to do with the story. And of course more little girl in a read dress 
 that is just really pissed off at the world. This is deff. on of my favorite titles yet this year 
 and that is hard to comepare considering all the great games that are coming out for PC as of late. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SplinterCellSC2
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  Yeah, okay so, there may not be anything ground breaking about this expansion but I say, if it 
 ain't broke, don't fix it! FEAR was a great game when it came out and is still one of my favorite 
 online shooters. So naturally, for me, any time they release an expansion or simply a map for this 
 game I am going to be drawn to it. Sure, you could go online and DL a mod and maps which may actually 
 be better than an official expansion but I suppose I am a bit of a purist with this kind of thing. 
 I ranked it high simply because I love the game and love the new content even if it is just a physics 
 and graphics tweak wrapped up in a few new levels. At least, they are sticking with the basic story 
 line.
  
  Final statement: You don't need this expansion to have fun playing FEAR, it is a great game even 
 with it's vanilla maps and game play. If you're like me and have to have the latest and complete 
 collection, you won't be disappointed. It is still a lot of fun, that's why I am not going to pick 
 it apart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reddevilofhell
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 7, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Second expansion to the one of the most popular FPS and Multiplayer game.
  
  What can i say, by the word expansion, it should expand the story, the gameplay, the weapons, and 
 the graphics to whole new level.
  
  But PERSEUS MANDATE does not does that.
  
  The same old Engine, the same old fights, and the same old gameplay, is a bit disappointing.
 
  Although there are new guns and a new strange storyline, but doesn't covers the drawbacks.
  
  It tries to cover the original games thrills and horror, but as i said it just TRIES.
  
 
  To say that this is an expansion will be completely wrong. Put it like its just FEAR, just an other 
 version.
  
  There is no upgrades, that you should be looking forward to. The same old AI.
  
  I think TIMEGATE studios just shipped this to earn some bucks, so that they can upgrade their 
 next sequel to FEAR,,,,,,, PROJECT ORIGIN.
  
  If you havent bought this game, you are not missing a huge part of the FPS gaming world.
  
 
  I am looking forward to PROJECT ORIGIN, i hope it will satisfy and fulfill what PERSEUS MANDATE 
 didn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legares
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is actually really good. Just like the old game it has fun weapons lots of crazy battles 
 and a lot of fun. The game is also pretty scary, sometimes you get shot randomly and it makes you 
 jump. However, so far i like the story of the game. My computer is pretty fast and I get amazing 
 graphics performance and overall game performance. SO far, there have been no bugs at all. I definitely 
 suggest that you should get this game. However, as you all know many people have different opinions 
 about games but to me this game is definitely a must get especially if you like good graphic shooters. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
