-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: F.E.A.R. Extraction Point
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/fearextractionpoint/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 This is still one of the creepiest games that you can play, thanks to incredible atmosphere.
 Intense, kinetic firefights where every bullet damages the environment.
 Excellent sound and lighting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The story isn't so much interested in telling a story as it is in just prolonging the experience of the original game.
 Not much replay value and no multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 26, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.6, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 2,234 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Vivendi Games
Developer: TimeGate Studios
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Oct 24, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Extraction Point offers up about five more hours of the intense F. E. A. R. gameplay, but that's pretty 
 much it. 

  Halloween is a fitting enough time to release F. E. A. R. Extraction Point, the expansion to last 
 year's creepy first-person shooter. Like its predecessor, Extraction Point puts you in the boots 
 of the "point man" of the military's First Encounter Assault Recon team. Think of it as the Pentagon's 
 equivalent to  The X-Files , only with really big guns. In F. E. A. R. you battled an army of cloned 
 supersoldiers, their crazed leader, Paxton Fettel, and Alma, a little girl straight out of Japanese 
 horror movies such as  The Ring . It all made for an intense psychological experience, even while 
 you were caught up in some of the best virtual firefights ever seen on the PC.  

          Extraction Point once again dumps you in the middle of a deserted American city, where 
 you have to battle an army of clones while dealing with the paranormal.     

  Extraction Point offers up a lot more of the same, though there's not anything particularly wrong 
 with that if the action is as good as it is here. The plot could be described as a five-hour epilogue 
 to the campaign in F. E. A. R. You begin amid the wreckage of the Black Hawk helicopter that was ferrying 
 you to safety. From that point, you must fight to get to the extraction point, where yet  another 
  helicopter will ferry you to safety. There's no grandiose story to save the world or anything 
 like that, which is a refreshing change for a shooter.  

  Getting to the chopper is going to require a lot more of the run-and-gun that you experienced in 
 F. E. A. R., as you once again have to battle the army of replicants that dogged you throughout the 
 original game. Apparently Fettel now has Alma-like powers, which means that his corporeal spirit 
 still remains, even though he clearly died during F. E. A. R. This also means that, for the most part, 
 there's not a lot of new stuff here. You're once again battling the same kinds of foes with mostly 
 the same types of weapons in lots of dark and deserted levels. Extraction Point introduces a subway 
 level and some new office interiors, but for the most part one empty corridor looks just like another. 
 There are also a few new weapons you can play with, like the bullet-spitting chaingun and deployable 
 gun sentries that you can stick on walls and floors, but for the most part you'll rely on the trusty 
 assault rifle, submachine gun, and shotgun that got you this far in the first place.  

  Thankfully, the killer gunplay and advanced artificial intelligence featured in F. E. A. R. remain 
 completely intact in Extraction Point. Firefights are a lot more memorable in this game than they 
 are in most first-person shooters because they're incredibly visceral. Bullets fly, objects are 
 knocked over, showers of sparks erupt everywhere, choking clouds of gun smoke fill the air, and 
 bodies slump everywhere. The replicants that you battle are incredibly smart and tough for computer-controlled 
 bad guys, as they're constantly maneuvering to try to get a better advantage on you. In fact, some 
 of the battles would be darn near impossible if not for your character's enhanced reflexes that 
 let you kick in bullet time for short bursts at a time. Aside from the familiar replicants, you'll 
 also encounter a few other types of foes, including the armored walking tank and the invisible 
 assassins that you met in the original game, as well as a strange, seminvisible spirit reminiscent 
 of the figure in Edvard Munsch's painting, The Scream.  

  Amazing firefights are just part of the F. E. A. R. formula, however, and Extraction Point has plenty 
 of the effective horror that was seen in the original game. Extraction Point works because it doesn't 
 try to terrify you with grotesque demons and monsters. Those have been done to death in games, 
 anyway. Instead, Extraction Point is an exceptionally creepy experience. The game continually messes 
 with your senses, and you'll see and hear things that will raise your hackles. Sound is incredibly 
 effective, as each little noise can send you spinning, ready to start blasting. Shadowy figures 
 dart in and out of the edge of your vision, and objects rattle ever so subtly to draw your attention. 
 Developer TimeGate deserves plenty of credit for maintaining the intensity of the original game, 
 even though veterans of F. E. A. R. are already used to some of the atmospheric tricks of that game. 

          You get a few new toys to play with in the expansion, though you'll mostly rely on your 
 trusty assault rifle and your ability to slow down time.     

  The overall campaign lasts only about four to six hours. That's about par for most shooter expansions, 
 and anything longer probably would have felt too long. Even with its intense action and atmosphere, 
 Extraction Point definitely feels as though it's beginning to drag on. Part of that could be the 
 sense that there are only so many replicant battles that you can fight before they all start to 
 feel the same, but the bigger issue is that the plot doesn't really go anywhere. What few questions 
 the game raises are barely answered; the act of constantly battling to get to a rendezvous point 
 is so overused that one of your teammates even cracks a joke about it; and the ending turns out 
 to be disappointingly bittersweet.  

  Unfortunately, when you're done with the single-player campaign, that's pretty much all there is 
 to Extraction Point. That's because the multiplayer component of F. E. A. R. has already been split 
 off from the single-player game, and it's been made available on the Internet for free under the 
 name F. E. A. R. Combat. You don't even need to own F. E. A. R. or Extraction Point to play it. That 
 means there's not a lot of replay value in this expansion. You won't miss much if you don't play 
 Extraction Point, but if you do like your action and horror blended together and you liked the 
 original game, you should give this one a try.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (151 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gammit10
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Edit: removed placeholder text. 
  
  After my absence from the F. E. A. R. franchise (since the original) , all I've heard about the two 
 expansion packs and prequel was the phrase "more of the same." I think these claims come fom crack-whores. 
 Crack-whores of the dirtiest kind, really. The kind with dieseases.
  
  First, "the same" (i. e. the original game) was fantastic. It was creepy, full of action, told an 
 intriguing story (despite that some have claimed it was delivered poorly) , and had the best enemy 
 AI that I have ever encountered.
  
  Second, "Extraction Point" featured wide-open outdoor environments; the exact opposite setting 
 that so many lamented in the original. This may have removed some tension by giving my character 
 more room to move, but it was a welcome change from the sometimes-cramped setting of an office 
 building.
  
  Third, this expansion opened up the story to include Alma and Fattel wiping out the entire city 
 with the help of their clone soldiers.
  
  Fourth, the ending was completely unexpected, even after experiencing the original game's ending.
 
  
  If you're a F. E. A. R. fan, this game is a no-brainer. Try to pick up the gold or platinum version, 
 which can be found for $30 or less.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha_Spirit
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2009 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Good :
  AI, graphics, a really creepy atmosphere, a great storyline, Slow-Mo...
  
  Bad:
  Opponents
  
  _____________
  
  Graphics 9 / 10
  Graphic design of F. E. A. R. is very well 
 built. It has a good graphic engine for its time. Great Slow-Mo effects and lightings effects.
  
  _____________
  
  Gameplay 9 / 10
  F. E. A. R. is fun, but also scary and creepy. Storyline 
 is great. It gets the player more into the game and making him like he is in the same situation 
 as the F. E. A. R. Point Man. A good selection of weapons. Of course I cant forget Alma and Fettel, 
 they are making this game worth playing. The only thing that is making F. E. A. R. perfect is the enemy 
 and the same places in the game. Opponents are the same and sometimes it is getting boring to kill 
 them. When you finish playing F. E. A. R. you will notice that 50% of the missions are in the offices 
 and some similar places.
  
  _____________
  
  Overall 9 / 10
  F. E. A. R. is a good FPS horror game and its worth buying.
  
  _____________
  
  F. E. A. R. vs 
 F. E. A. R. 2
  The second one is rather newer and it has a great number of new things, but it is missing the scary 
 and creepy scenes. Because of that F. E. A. R. 2 is more FPS then FPS horror game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightsniper233
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2009 1:34 am PT
Review:  was a great sequel but unfortunately was just to short i finished it on the hardest difficulty 
 in 4 hours they seemed like they finished it in a hurry the bodys are heavily glitchy were sometime 
 the sounds they make sounds like a mountain is falling as for the story it continues were it left 
 off and give the story a little more background also makes you think about Alma and the end is 
 a little disappointing (at least for me) compared to the first one. would say if your a fan of 
 fear it is a definite in the end the only thing bad is how short and how easy the game. i would 
 suggest renting it if possible or borrowing it from a friend it is a must if you want to continue 
 the story and understand it. i would play this game if i had the  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2009 5:24 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 8
  Sounds: 8
  Value: 6
  Tilt: 7
  Total score: 7.3
  
  When FEAR burst into the FPS scene, the vast population was totally amazed by its John Wos 
 combat style, slow-mo action, clever AI and naturally Alma yet the environments are a little bland 
 for some peoples taste. Of course the writing is on the wall that sequels will emerge to 
 continue the story of the Point Man and to satisfy the quench for more intense action, 
 a year later FEAR Extraction Point ruptured into the scene with more of the same stuff that people 
 like, intense combat infused with that shock factor horror.
  
  Extraction Point starts off where precisely FEAR ends therefore I wont say anything else 
 as naturally its a major spoiler to those who havent played FEAR. But of course you 
 cannot play Extraction Point without FEAR installed so Im stuck between a rock and a hard 
 place. Nevertheless, the training modules are still there if you somehow forgot how 
 to control the Point Man to his next extraction point, to another chopper. Seriously, people just 
 dont learn as I recall there were plenty of choppers nuked in the first game so why the 
 Point Man trusts this chopper to haul him to safety is beyond reasoning.
  
  But to heck with reasoning as the primary source of FEAR is to fight ample of bad guys using plenty 
 of high calibre weapons doing high calibre manoeuvres; nothing more, nothing less. With all this 
 in mind will appear more weapons for your disposal; the laser carbine and the minigun make its 
 appearance and some cool new toys like the mini turret where they act like sticky grenades but 
 instead of exploding, they produce a mini turret (pretty obvious) . Yet what is good for the goose 
 is good for the gander therefore the replicas will also have these weapons and not afraid to use 
 them.
  
  One of the downfalls to the original FEAR was its bland locations yet Extraction Point has somewhat 
 improved in this part. Theres a really excellent Church scene in the beginning of Extraction 
 Point attached with that supernatural approach however again died quickly enough. Yet again the 
 environs improved with that wonderful car park combat sequence and trotting through the hospital 
 complete with a morgue section however just like FEAR, the attention to detail is poor. Also considering 
 its a year after the release of FEAR, the graphics, even though appears amazing is starting 
 to its age as there are absolutely no improvements other than introducing more critters. This can 
 also be said for the quality of sounds as what you heard from FEAR is the same in Extraction Point. 
 
  
  Being an expansion pack and considering FEAR wasnt really a long game, Extraction Point 
 can be said is half the length of FEAR. Theres nothing really wrong about it as it still 
 produced the same intensity however if you are expecting an epic well you have come to the wrong 
 place. However considering youll spending your time blasting away enemies and listening 
 to Fettel flapping his gums, any longer will be more of a chore than being spooked. Also take note 
 there is an easter egg thats really cool to see as well
  
  FEAR, Extraction Point still maintained the flavour of what FEAR was well-known for; that is intense 
 combat infused with spooky events. One of the major flak raised from FEAR was the bland locations 
 as it felt like the same ole corridor heading towards the same ole office building. Extraction 
 Point improved somewhat with regards to these otherwise uninspired locations by the way of adding 
 a subway, a church, a hospital complete with a morgue section and a very cool parking lot. Of course 
 there are new toys to tinker and new fiends to knock out however Extraction Point hasnt 
 really made any serious changes to that successful formula of what FEAR was made from; so if you 
 are still into that slow-mo yet intense fire-fight action coupled with Alma and constantly listening 
 to Fettel trash talking, Extraction Point is your cup of tea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just_for_kicks
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R Extraction point picks up where you left off, you had just blown up the research facility 
 and Alma had survived and crashed your helicopter. You make your way through trying to get to the 
 extraction point learning along the way that Paxon Fettel, who you killed in the original is somehow 
 still alive and out to stop you with his army of elite cloned soldiers.
  
  Extraction point is just as freaky as F. E. A. R, possibly even more so. In the first one you were 
 given some sense of parts where you were safe, in Extraction Point you can't even answer a phone 
 without something screaming and windows shattering (that moment scared me alot, sound was too loud, 
 had to get a glass of water after that) . That and the fact everyone seems to be dieing around you 
 makes it a even more scary experience to be the F. E. A. R point man.
  
  There were 3 new weapons to play around with. A mini gun, a laser and a deploy able turret, which 
 all feel pretty good to use. The laser is a lot of fun to use and the turret can get you out of 
 quite tight situations. Some new enemies have also been added to keep you on your toes and pop 
 out of nowhere to scare you.
  
  The environments are quite similar to the original but that probably should be expected since you 
 didn't fly very far away from the explosion before crashing. A abandoned house and hospital made 
 it refreshing though (the freakiest part of the game happened in the hospital) . The graphics seemed 
 on par with the original which was nice.
  
  Apart from the story there isn't anything new for F. E. A. R and although it doesn't need extra to 
 make it worth it, it would of been nice to have some extras to play around with.
  
  F. E. A. R Extraction Point is a great expansion of the story but only contains about 5 more hours 
 of entertainment, don't pay too much for it in the shops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gray_Wolf-13
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Having played the first FEAR game I approached the first expansion with moderate expectations and 
 some curiosity. With any luck the expansion would be half of what the first was.
  
  I was the wrong. The expansion was DOUBLE what the first was. I've always been Horror genre first, 
 FPS second, so it was only reasonable in my eyes to give FEAR the ranking it got because it was 
 a reasonable mixture of both. But Extraction Point took the fear aspect and increased it tenfold. 
 Seeing Alma at the very beginning was shocking enough but when I heard "you killed me... I didn't 
 like that" from someone I was SUPPOSED to have killed I felt, deep down, I was in for a treat.
 
  
  Indeed the game did not disappoint. It had many more chills than thrills and introduced horror 
 in aspects I had never seen before. The hospital (one of the top 10 scary places in video game 
 history in my book) offered so many illusions that it came hard to tell what you were seeing in 
 your head and what was reality.
  
  Personally I think that the game was given a bad wrap because it had less fire fights and more 
 fear aspect but this is just my opinion.
  
  All together an improvement over the first. Keep it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sigleaf
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9.0
  Visuals: 7.0
  Sound: 7.5
  Value: 6.0
  Fun: 8.0
  
  Final Score: 7.5 (C)
  
  As a sequel, Extraction Point adds quite a lot of new gameplay mechanics 
 to an already solid game. 
  
  There are many additions in this expansion pack that enhance an already good game. New challenging 
 enemies, a few more guns, and many new fighting areas add much needed spice. The AI also seems 
 to be improved and some of the fighting sequences will show off their true intelligence. 
  
  The visuals in the game have unfortunately not changed at all. You will still have some visually 
 impressive lighting environments, but they have progressed none over the original. It's still an 
 impressive looking game, but it is something that the developers skimped out on.
  
  The sound borrows mainly from the original with a few new intense and much needed fighting clips.
 
  
  This expansion will only add roughly 6 to 8 hours more of gameplay but while short, it will keep 
 you much more entertained than the first one as its plot deepens the already intriguing story.
 
  
  Overall F. E. A. R Extraction Point is a worthy sequel improving most areas of the original. It could 
 have done a lot more but it stays safe with the original story while adding a decent amount of 
 storyline content. 
  
  F. E. A. R Extraction Point is suggest for anyone who played F. E. A. R and enjoyed it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  FEAR was an awesome game. It had a lot to offer. Now the Expansion Pack is out, it is more of FEAR, 
 not much different, but that is not bad.
  
  The Extraction Point picks up right where the last game left off. You play once again as point 
 man as you try to reach the Extraction Point. Your whole goal in this game is to get out alive, 
 but once again you are getting stopped by clone soldiers, and other weird things, just out to kill 
 you.
  
  What I said above is as much detail as I'm going to go in on the story, because I do not want to 
 spoil this game. FEAR Extraction Point keeps all the stuff that the original FEAR did well, but 
 also keeps the stuff that kept the original FEAR back. One thing is that the environments are really 
 repetitive. There are a lot of new environments, like a train station, but even that gets a bit 
 ruined by how much most rooms look alike. Sometimes you will get a bit lost, because, it is hard 
 to tell if you have already been in a certain place or what. But the new environments are cool.
 
  
  The game play is the same as the original FEAR. The scares are the same, though Extraction Point 
 can be a little bit scarier at times.
  
  The graphics are starting to show age, but they still look good.
  
  The sound is still good 
 and creepy.
  
  If you want to see what happens next in the FEAR series, then you need to check out FEAR Extraction 
 Point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DennisChu22
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Extraction Point was a must-play for me, since I bought the Platinum Edition of F. E. A. R. (which 
 basically has all three) . I found it to be mixed reactions: I was excited to continue the storyline 
 where it left off in the original F. E. A. R., but was disappointed in the lack of new gameplay features.
 
  
  Almost everything was the same, from the SloMo time to the bad guys. The only difference is that 
 three new guns were added, all of which you barely saw throughout the entire game. The visual effects 
 were similar, so the "creepiness element" was relatively even with the original. In fact, I think 
 this one might have been even less scary than the first. 
  
  But it's the story that holds the game together. As the last F. E. A. R. combat operative in the area, 
 you are being hunted by the Replica soldiers. Being constantly on the run and outnumbered leaves 
 you with a true sense of what it's like being the "last man alive." 
  
  Don't expect too much out of this expansion pack. It might give some closure to those who enjoyed 
 the first game, but I still felt things were a bit lacking at the end. Have fun with another five 
 hours of intense gameplay, but I wish the developers could have added something to make the combat 
 just a tiny bit more interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  Out of all of the F. E. A. R. games I found this one the most intense, difficult and easily the scariest. 
 
  
  The fire fight scenes in this game are not like the others. This time you have more to worry about. 
 For the first time you can use and you fight against the dreaded turret. The fight scenes include 
 more of your enemies, them being a whole lot tougher, and the big fight scenarios are longer, and 
 harder than ever before.
  
  This fantastic game I found needed more of my concentration as you can no longer simply "run" through 
 the game blasting anyone that would dare appose you. If you try that fast pace tactic you end up 
 loading your last save spot very quickly. This needs more concentration and thought out placement 
 for you to get past scene after scene. Sometimes it will take you a good 4 - 5 times to get a big 
 fight scene out of the way. 
  
  I think that with all the major fighting going on, you tend to forget the story line a little bit 
 and sometimes forget that at just about anytime something could very well pop out and scare the 
 hell out of you.
  
  The graphics, sounds and lighting are the best in this series making you appreciate this expansion 
 a whole lot more.
  
  I very much enjoyed this game and its difficulty.
  If you've played the first one, you must play this one. Be sure to keep on your guard.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tharizden
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  I had previously played the original and thought that it rocked. In fact, it was through this that 
 I have developed an interest in First-Player-Shooter style games (FPS) having previously been a 
 devout RPG & RTS game-player only.
  
  However, Extraction Point seemed too "straight forward" and quite repetitous in parts. In fact 
 - almost bordering onto the "ho-hum" style of play. This included a 2nd play through on the difficult 
 setting.
  
  Many of the areas were re-used from the original game, and accordingly lacked in the suspense department.
 
  
  There were no "nasty" surprises or shocks. And the final ending was a HUGE disappointment. 
  
 
  I'm glad I brought and played it - and would recommend it as a straight-forward FPS-style game, 
 without too much thinking required. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathScape666
Rating: 8
Date: May 17, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  FEAR: Extraction Point is almost the same game as the original FEAR. There are some slight differences, 
 but for the most part, the game play has remained almost entirely unchanged. This is a good thing 
 in some ways, but bad in others.
  
  The game starts out where the last game left out. You're in a helicopter, and then suddenly, you 
 and your two friends crash to the ground. You are then sent alone, once again, to see what's going 
 on.
  
  From there, you are involved in more firefights, weird, freaky events that don't make much sense, 
 and more slow motion shooting. This was a lot of fun the first time around, but it gets pretty 
 tiring the second time you are forced to do this. Luckily, there are less dull moments in this 
 game than the last. Alma is even scarier this time around, and Extraction Point would been a much 
 better game than its predecessor if it wasn't so darn short.
  
  The game is going to take you four or five hours to beat. After that, you are left with online 
 play, and that's pretty much it. You can, of course, play the game again on different difficulty 
 settings if you want. Outside of these options, there's nothing more to the game.
  
  The graphics and sound are just as good as the original FEAR. The voice acting is solid, but the 
 graphics do seem kind of dated compared to games nowadays. Regardless, they are at least passable.
 
  
  In the end, FEAR: Extraction Point is almost the same exact game as the original FEAR with some 
 slight modifications. If you liked the first one and want to see what happens after Alma boards 
 the plane, then by all means, pick this up. If you are tired of the FEAR game play, then stay away. 
 It's a fun game, and since it's so cheap, it's worth picking up and playing through.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: core5
Rating: 7
Date: May 4, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  What imagined F. E. A. R. Extraction Point to be when I started playing it is not what it turned out 
 to be. Initially, I was excited that I would learn some really detailed plot themes, maybe some 
 huge revelations about Alma, ATC, the government pulling the strings, etc. Unfortunately, the game 
 does not introduce anything new. Well, let me rephrase that: It introduces new ideas for the story 
 but does not expand on them. The game continues through five stages of variable length and drops 
 hints about this and that. So, automatically I expected to hear the conclusions to all these ideas 
 in the plot. Unfortunately, none of these ideas were officially resolved in the game. There's even 
 a secondary objective in the third stage that (from the best I can tell) is a "broken quest." Then 
 at the end of the game (no spoilers, don't worry... well actually there's nothing to spoil because 
 there's no plot resolution) it just ends. That's it. When I finished playing Extraction Point, 
 I was desperately hoping there would be at LEAST some sort of quick cut scene at the end of the 
 credits, like in the orgininal F. E. A. R., but I was dissappointed again. I even went online and 
 Google-searched what other people though happened in the game, and the conclusion I came back with 
 was that the plot resolutions were meant to come from the imagination of the player.
  
  Now, F. E. A. R. Extraction Point is a good FPS game. The AI is great, the sounds and graphics and 
 music are all as good if not better than in F. E. A. R.. It's a good play and the atmosphere is still 
 there from the original game. There are also three new weapons to have fun with like the laser 
 carbine that will chop guys' heads off. Of course, the scary sequences are present, and unpredictably 
 spaced throughout the game. It would have rated F. E. A. R. Extraction Point a 9 or 10 if the story 
 had been beefed up a little. I can't imagine it would have even been that hard, but that is the 
 game's most glaring failure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WizengamotX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  An expansion pack that started with incredible potential and slides miserably slow into a pool 
 of disappointment, the new-to-the-series TImeGate Studios development team present a stretched 
 F. E. A. R. Extraction Point. Though presenting some of the most atmospheric scare scripts of the 
 series thus far, the overall lackluster production will disappoint those looking for on-the-edge 
 tension and realistic attention to detail. Overused scripting, models, and textures create a clunky 
 game engine and consequently a headache of a challenge. A vital part of the F. E. A. R. Series, F. E. A. R. 
 Extraction Point should be taken with a grain of salt. If paid equal attention as the original 
 F. E. A. R. and shortened by three quarters, Extraction Point had potential to be the perfect introductory 
 level to Project Origin. If. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j007penz
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. Extraction Point continues right where the original left off. Your helicopter crashes 
 into a building on the outskirts of the city, and you must find your way out. Somehow, replica 
 soldiers have been reactivated, and you have a whole new army of clones to deal with. The combat 
 remains essentially unchanged. You have a few more weapons and enemy types, but the game feels 
 like the first one did. This time there is a little bit more variety to the maps and the game isn't 
 quite so repetitive. The environments are more destructible making grenades all the more fun. F. E. A. R. 
 remains as fun to play and addictive as ever. The new weapons are fun, and the game is different 
 enough to warrant a play if you liked the first game. If you liked F. E. A. R. you shouldn't expect 
 a whole lot of new stuff, but for $20, it's definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattc7691
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  This game is a great expansion pack to Fear, but it was way too short, I beat it in like a day, 
 and I was hoping there was more game in it, but hey, I got the Fear Files combo pack on the Xbox 
 360 so I can play through the Perseus Mandate campaign, whicn I hope is longer, but I still can't 
 wait for that Project Origin game that is coming out, which will probably be sweet, but anyway 
 back to the review. Extraction Point has some freaky moments in it no doubt about it, but it isn't 
 as scary as the first, and it could have hade way more action in it, but still, they just didn't 
 put enough game into it, and that is the only downfall of Extraction Point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pehota
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  Well, if you have played FEAR, then Extraction Point is the same copy of that, even game missions 
 plan look the same. All enemies, and weapons (some exceptions) are taken from FEAR. It's short, 
 and i paid about 25$ for it (does not worth it) One big point difference from FEAR, way tooooo 
 much of the blood, it's almost spilling from the screen. In last missions in the morgue, awwwww, 
 creater of that level has a lot of mental problems for sure.......:) Certnaly you going to have 
 fun with it, but not much of the impression and maybe waste of time ....................... hehe 
 ................. that what it is.
  
  There is nothing much else to add, for reason of poor innovation and lack of upgrade for next generation 
 of FEAR
  
  I played it with 1 G RAM, NVIDIA Ge Force 6600 card, and it went smooth, without serious glitches 
 or buggs
  
  so long fellas
  
  play it wisely 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaykee8
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Out of all of the F. E. A. R. games I found this one the most intense, difficult and easily the scariest. 
 
  
  The fire fight scenes in this game are not like the others. This time you have more to worry about. 
 For the first time you can use and you fight against the dreaded turret. The fight scenes include 
 more of your enemies, them being a whole lot tougher, and the big fight scenarios are longer, and 
 harder than ever before.
  
  This fantastic game I found needed more of my concentration as you can no longer simply "run" through 
 the game blasting anyone that would dare appose you. If you try that fast pace tactic you end up 
 loading your last save spot very quickly. This needs more concentration and thought out placement 
 for you to get past scene after scene. Sometimes it will take you a good 4 - 5 times to get a big 
 fight scene out of the way. 
  
  I think that with all the major fighting going on, you tend to forget the story line a little bit 
 and sometimes forget that at just about anytime something could very well pop out and scare the 
 hell out of you.
  
  The graphics, sounds and lighting are the best in this series making you appreciate this expansion 
 a whole lot more.
  
  I very much enjoyed this game and its difficulty.
  If you've played the first one, you must play this one. Be sure to keep on your guard....
  
 
  Shes coming for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serious_sam1122
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. Extraction Point is the first expansion pack to the hit game F. E. A. R. XP puts you back 
 in the shoes of point man, the nameless, faceless super soldier who has destroyed the facility 
 that housed Alma, a psychic girl frrom the first game. In the helicopter ride from the end of the 
 first game, you are shot down (again) and point man with Holiday and Jin-Sun must make it to the 
 extraction point.
  
  The story in this game is very limited, unlike the first F. E. A. R. The whole game revolves around 
 you making it out of the city, which has turned into a ghost town. The clone soldiers have been 
 shutdown because of Fettels death, but you soon find out he is sort of living from the dead and 
 now has crazy psychic powers like Alma. Alma also returns, in her little girl form and creepy naked 
 form. She terrorizes you, but little Alma helps you out from time to time and naked Alma is there 
 to terrorize you and scare the hell out of you. It was made known that point man is Almas son, 
 so is Fettel. She was released from her cell that she was in for many years, and it was Harlen 
 Wayde who let her out. She is nude from many years of entrapment and for some reason has a grudge 
 against point man.
  
  In XP, the game doesn't offer too much more than the first game did. There are a few new weapons, 
 including a gattling gun, a laser gun, and wall-mounting turrets. There are fewer phone messages 
 to listen to, and they mostly contain someone calling in to check on someone else. There are, fortunately, 
 a few new environments, including a subway, a church, a hospital, an insane asylum, and a morgue. 
 This game amps up the creep factor by bringing out even more jump moments that the first. For instance, 
 there is a scene where the lights flicker on and off, and each time they turn back on there are 
 a few more monsters looking at you. There are also new invisible monsters who attack you during 
 a few intervals in the game. 
  
  The graphics are also pretty much the same as the first game. Unfortunately, there was a widescreen 
 patch for the first game, but in this game, it does not support widescreen at the time of this 
 review. And for some reason, I could not set the game higher than 1152X864, which my monitor supports 
 1440X900 natively and can support 1280X1024, which is the resolution I play non-widescreen games 
 at, so it made the graphics a little rougher around the edges, but it still looked good most of 
 the time.
  
  Since F. E. A. R. Combat was released, there is really no multiplayer to think about with this game, 
 since you can play Combat without owning F. E. A. R. There is also little replay value, since the 
 gameplay is starting to show its age. 
  
  With little storyline advancement and another cliffhanger ending, this game could have been a bit 
 better. But the overhauled creepiness and constant cinimatic gunfights make this a trip worth while. 
 It will last anywhere between 4-6 hours, so the game is not overkill and make you bored. This should 
 tie you over for a while until Project Origin comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Worf101
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  What to say about this game. I bought this game bundled with the original FEAR in a quest for a 
 new FPS that would help me pass the time when I wasn't playing IL2 - 1946. Until recently I had 
 been playing and replaying COD 2 to get my FPS fix. In that I got this cheap on Amazon I gave it 
 a whirl.
  
  Installation and Setup:
  This was a breeze and well done. 
  
  Sound:
  Out standing sound in the game, quite atmospheric and moody. Music is top notch as well. When combined 
 with my buttkicker it makes for one immersive situation. 
  
  Visuals:
  Although dated now, I found the graphics to be quite good when they run right. Game slows to a 
 crawl inexplicably after some 15 or 20 minutes of game play. NOT FUN. 
  
  Gameplay:
  Fun but often repetitive. Muck like Doom3 the game just boils down to a series of "gotcha's" wherein' 
 you die horribly until you figure out how to get around that particular problem area. The puzzles 
 stink and just annoy me. I perfer straight forward action as opposed to hunting in the dark for 
 switches. 
  
  Conclusion:
  Buy it bundled with the other games. Other than that... you can ignore it cause there ain't much 
 here. 
  
  Da Worfster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9/10
  Extraction Point is the expansion pack to the fantastic first-person shooter, F. E. A. R. Picking 
 up immediately where the main game left off, you are once again thrust straight into the action. 
 Alone for the most part, under constant attack by soldiers, under constant threat from the supernatural, 
 sneaking around in the dark, shooting your way out of your worst nightmare. It's a scary game, 
 just like its parent title and, just like its parent title, features some truly brilliant scripted 
 sequences that may just leave you trembling. Overall, it's not as downright creepy as F. E. A. R. 
  substituting some of the psychological horror slant for cheap shocks, monsters and things that 
 go bump in the night  but it is more gore-filled, if that is at all possible. There's less sense 
 of a powerful, slow-burning storyline here, but there's some massive battles in this one, a few 
 more set-piece fights, and you'll probably find yourself using the slow-mo 'bullet time' mode a 
 lot. This expansion offers about four to five more hours of gameplay; in essence more of the same, 
 but when it's this good we can forgive any lack of innovation.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Essentially the same level of graphics as F. E. A. R. Highly detailed, well-designed and very atmospheric. 
 Tough-as-nails soldiers and twisted, inhuman spectres never looked so good. Creeping through the 
 shadows never looked so good. Rooms repainted in claret never looked so good. Excellent.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Ghostly, creepy and minimalist, both the music and sound effects work very well. 
 Something as simple as a burst of comm static at the right moment, or a tortured whisper, or a 
 terrified death scream, adds so much to the overall atmosphere of the game. Just like the main 
 F. E. A. R. game, I love the way Extraction Point sounds.
  
  Value: 8/10
  A touch on the short side and lacking in substantial story, but it's solid through and through. 
 Five hours of F. E. A. R. gameplay in one go is probably all my heart can handle anyway. A shame it's 
 over in one or two sittings, though.
  
  Tilt: 8/10
  Great.
  
  Pros:
  More outstanding F. E. A. R. gameplay.
  Lets us know what happens next (until the next cliffhanger) .
 
  Some awesome big battles.
  
  Cons:
  Too short, left me hungering for more after a measly five hours.
  No driving plotline and a rather 
 vague addition to the story.
  
  Conclusion:
  No ifs, no buts: if you own and enjoyed F. E. A. R., you'll want this for the extra hours of gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmarKane3450
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  This expansion kinda has a bad rap from some people. However, I think this is not a bad expansion. 
 It's actually more combat oriented than the original FEAR. There's some new enemies walking around, 
 and there's also some new guns to play with, like the chaingun. As in the original FEAR, you'll 
 get some scary moments. I didn't find them super scary, but they were actually a little freaky. 
 
  
  There are bad things, though. The story is practically non-existent. If you played the original 
 FEAR, you all know how it ended. The goal of this expansion is to get to the "extraction point." 
 Good enough, but there's not a plot to discover. You really don't even learn anything new about 
 Fettel or Alma or even yourself. The story that is there is full of major holes. I mean major holes. 
 You see things going on that don't make any sense. (POSSIBLE SPOILERS) Why does Fettel come back? 
 Why do the major characters get killed off? And what the hell is Norton Mapes doing in the game? 
 
  
  The ending was kind of a disappointment. I'm not going to spoil it but I think it could have been 
 much better and it's really not worth playing the game over again to witness. But it basically 
 told me that the expansion is pointless. 
  
  Like I said, it's not a bad expansion, but it lost the power that the first one had. The first 
 one was perfect in many, many ways. It had a good story, good action, and it managed to creep you 
 out when neccessary. 
  I really hope that the Perseus Mandate has eliminated some of the problems I saw in Extraction 
 Point. But the major turning point for this series will have to be Project Origin. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjadxt
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  Fear was released one year before this. It was great first person shooter and which was one of 
 the best shooters of that year. Soon became multi-player expanse, which add next few improvements. 
 Now I review this game (data-disc of the first F. E. A. R) .
  
  Fear extraction point begins when the first fear ends. From hunt you become prey, which must outruns 
 and hides. You have to find your comrades, whose are lost somewhere. You met with your notorius 
 revival enemies and Alma again.
  
  This expansion is very short, it takes about 6-8 to finish it and in multi-player aren&acute; t 
 many newbies.
  There are bigger exteriors and shoot-dodget from further than it used to be in the last. For the 
 first one you see how it looks in interiors, too (but you will think that you was there) , you see 
 how it looks in underground, or how looks fear church. Unfortunately there are still mistakes in 
 design levels (very similar places etc.) .
  
  Action is fast, good and more realistic that in some first person shooters. It will be here, shoot-dodgets 
 when you need quick reflexes and fingers and some when you need think about it. You observe some 
 new types of your enemies, so you must against them use other strategies, or weapons. Unfortunately 
 you find here some notorius mistakes like some graphics or AI bugs comrades of yours. It is small 
 mistakes, but zbyte&amp;#269; n&eacute;. We find three new wepons here. Graphics is solid (as same 
 as it was last time) , volumes are great, audiovisual sight is great. The good/bad
  Good:1. new story
  2. furthest shooting
  3. AI of your foes.
  4. solid audiovisual zpracov&aacute; n&iacute;
 
  Bad:1. level design
  2. a few bugs
  3. low number of refimenents or improvements.
  
  The game is great, it is a lot of fun. But on the other hand there is low number of improvements. 
 Campaign comprises some missions which incorporate lots of fun. Dominant influence on it has bullet-time 
 and AI of foes of yours. I have lots of evidences that this game is good, trust me. But if you 
 like sims or something like that, you&acute; ll avoid this game and glance at something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 4:07 am PT
Review:  Review/story:
  
  When the original F. E. A. R came out it was heralded as a master piece of gaming for it's intense 
 atmosphere and it's stunning graphical design. The expansion has the same stunning graphical design 
 and the same atmosphere.
  
  The expansion pack starts out where the original game left off, Alma attacked the chopper and of 
 course you crashed again. As always you are then cut off from your team members and have to hook 
 up with them and get to yet another extraction point. During the beginning of the game you hook 
 up with Delta Force member Holiday (demo guy from the original) and fight side by side with him 
 in a very Half Life 2 kind of way. Fighting along side someone is a welcomed change of pace for 
 the game and is fairly successful it what it tries to do.
  
  As I said before the graphics are just as stunning as the original game. One thing that seems to 
 have changed is the lighting level in the game, it seems to be much lower especially the corners 
 and corridors. This is presumably to try to keep the tension at a higher level, in which it does 
 succeed.
  
  The sound effects and background music are as good as they were in the original. There doesn't 
 seem to be a great deal of new sound effects or music. I suppose it is an expansion pack after 
 all but I would have liked to have heard some different radio chatter. Why spend the money if you 
 don't need to? and why change something that's not broken?
  
  There are a few new weapons in the game to help you dispatch some bad guys. The grenade launcher, 
 mini gun, laser rifle and a handy deployable sentry turret. Out of all of them the best one is 
 the deployable sentry turret, it really helps to add an extra bit of strategy to the game.
  
  The story in the game is the biggest let down of the whole expansion pack, there isn't enough 
 plot there and what little there is of it is full of huge holes. Why is Alma asking for help but 
 at the same time trying to kill you? Are you really prototype number 1? Why do the replicas activate 
 again?
  
  Summary:
  
  Overall I feel that this expansion pack should have had a few extra touches and probably won't 
 satisfy more traditional FPS players but F. E. A. R fans should love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slick_Mike
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  They took the multiplayer out and made it stand-alone (not complaining, but somehow it does make 
 the value of the game seem lessened) , they added a couple of guns and enemies, they did nothing 
 to improve the visuals. This felt like the same game with a worse ending.
  
  I'm a man who loves his story. I guess I can't get over bad storytelling in games. The original 
 FEAR had a great Hollywood horror ending; everything seems to finally be all right, then BAM!. 
 This one had a dreary, unresolved, unfulfilling ending.
  
  Don't get me wrong, the firefights were breathtaking. It was the same, visceral shootouts that 
 I loved about the first FEAR, but I didn't feel like the expansion was a bargain by any means.
 
  
  Bottom Line: If I never played the expansion, I wouldn't have missed much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im_back
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  FEAR was undoubtedly one of the best games of 2005 if not the best and as with every expansion 
 for a great game, FEARs expansion, Extraction Point had a lot to live up to.
  
  Extraction Point continues the story of FEARs nameless point man as he battles against the paranormal 
 threat that has spilled over into the city. After you are extracted at the end of the original 
 game, your helicopter crashes into a near by building for unknown reasons, the only other survivors 
 are your two FEAR team mates and your new objective is to reach a near by hospital for another 
 evac.
  
  Extraction Point has you battling against FEARs incredibly smart replica soldiers once again, 
 but this time the developers dont just throw a hand full of them at you at a time but a bucket 
 full! The firefights in Extraction Point are just awesome, theres no other way to describe it! 
 After the smoke has settled and the lights stop shaking from the explosions, the resulting silence 
 leaves the player truly satisfied. The concept of huge firefights followed by intervals of abandoned 
 corridors and silent offices and warehouses, leaves the player in a sense of panic wondering when 
 the next big assault will occur. Time Gate studios manage to capture the atmosphere of the original 
 FEAR and magnify it to greater heights. The creepiness of Extraction Point is bordering on insane. 
 There isnt a moment throughout extraction points five or so hours of play that you dont feel 
 scared in some way.
  
  Unfortunately, Extraction point feels more like an Interval 12: Get the hell out more than a 
 game that expands on any story. The ending of the expansion asks more questions than it answered 
 and leaves the player wondering what just happened over the past few hours. This can be viewed 
 as a negative, but when you consider FEARs amazingly dynamic run and gun gameplay, the lack of 
 any real story is only a slight setback in hindsight.
  
  If you liked FEAR, then youll love Extraction Point. If youre looking for a few hours of running 
 and gunning through a horde of smart enemies then Extraction Point is the expansion of you dreams. 
 On the other hand, if youre looking for new gameplay and a story then youre looking for it in 
 the wrong place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  The release of F. E. A. R. showed just how far advanced gaming has become. From the creepy, yet breathless 
 atmosphere to the incredible artificial intelligence, it was a game at a revolutionary scale. Now 
 this expansion comes to you to further excel your F. E. A. R. experience. As with its original game, 
 Extraction Point offers a brilliant atmosphere, intense firefights where every bullet tears the 
 environment to shreds, and of course, it is creepy as hell. This time around, you emerge out of 
 a wreckage of a black hawk helicopter carrying you to safety. From this point you must battle your 
 way to Extraction Point, where another helicopter awaits your rendezvous. This is no easy path 
 however, as you must rip your way through more over Paxton's super soldiers. And Paxton himself, 
 despite being killed in the original returns with Alma-like powers. This means your going to see 
 a lot of new stuff. Aside from the replicate fighters you obliterate throughout the game, you will 
 also see some new and even more dangerous foes, such as the the armored walking tanks. You will 
 get some fun new toys to keep these foes at bay, and they arrange from the mini-gun to a laser 
 gun. One of the greatest aspects of this the use of sound and lightning. The amazing firefights 
 are a great part of the game, but they would be bland without the effective horror atmosphere you 
 will encounter throughout the game. F. E. A. R. works because it doesn't have to use weird monsters 
 to scare you. The game will continually messes with your senses, and you'll see and hear things 
 that will keep you on your toes. Sound is incredibly effective, as each little noise can, and will 
 send you spinning, ready to start shooting.
  The only downside to this game is the shortness of the campaign. It will be over in about six hours, 
 and sadly isn't highly re-playable. The campaign may be short as is, but if your like myself and 
 your looking for any reason to get terrified all over again in the incredible F. E. A. R. universe, 
 Extraction Point is most definitely worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackBurton
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  $30, for this?! It's just not worth your gaming dollars. (luckily, I found my copy new, half-priced, 
 at an auction site)
  
  Extraction Point is basically nothing more a 4-5 hour epilogue to the original F. E. A. R., but without 
 a real story to be found. It's your usual run-and-gun survival tale, offering up more of the same 
 enemies and weapons, with a few new toys and a new foe, for those gamers that just couldn't get 
 enough of FEAR on their first go-round.
  
  Yes, Extraction Point is a lot of fun while it lasts, in more of a Painkiller sort of way... considering 
 it's lack-of-content and hefty price-tag (which IMHO is criminal) there simply must be another 
 full-length original title (or a better Exp-Pack) , out there that you'd find to be a more worthy 
 addition to your collection.
  
  I really was looking forward to playing E. P.; but as it turned out, opposite of my experience with 
 the original game, here- before I reached the final level, I was already wanting it to end.
  
  If you're standing in the store, or browsing your favorite website, trying to decide between 
 buying Extraction Point or HL2: Episode One... put down Extraction Point, grab Half-Life 2: Episode 
 One, run for the checkout and don't look back!
  
  Heed my advice on this one... There's a better bang-for-your-buck game out there that you haven't 
 yet experienced. This is a rental, previously-owned, or bargain-bin-priced title at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. Extraction Point.
  Game Review by Simon. a. k. a. The DevilDweller.
  
  Good Points: -Slow Motion -Enemy A. I -Advanced visual effects for an intense action movie experience 
 -The fear
  
  Bad Points: -A lot of questions are still left unanswered (Meaning well have to wait longer now 
 till the next F. E. A. R. comes out -To Short
  
  F. E. A. R. Extraction Point is an expansion pack that continues were the original F. E. A. R. left off. 
 This time, your mission is to make it to the extraction point alive. After the end off the original 
 F. E. A. R. you wake up after being unconscious to find that the helicopter you were on at the end 
 of the original F. E. A. R. is now a pile of rubble. Having no idea how the helicopter went down, 
 the only survivors are you, Jin Sun-Kwon and Douglas Holiday. With Jin wounded from the helicopter 
 crash, and Holiday looking after her. You must take point and clear out any Intel along the way. 
 The graphics, much like the original is fantastic. The game-play is just as good as the original. 
 The sound-effects again, just as good. The thing that I find really amazing about thing game is 
 the fear, just as I did in the original. But with Extraction Point, the fear is much more. It will 
 send a chill down you spine. For the best fear result, play this in the dark, alone. The experience 
 is just mind blowing especially with surround sound where you hear strange and weird noises coming 
 from behind you. The worst one is when Alma in the original said in a very soft voice Over Here. 
 And with the surround sound it makes you think whether you just imagined it or not. F. E. A. R. does 
 a really good job with messing with your mind.
  
  Sadly the game was a bit too short. Well it is an expansion pack so I cant really complain much. 
 Score Rating
  
  Plot  8/10
  Graphics  10/10 Game-Play  10/10
  Sound  9/10
  Lifespan  7/10
  
  Overall  8.5/10
  
  Overall F. E. A. R. Extraction Point. Is a great game 
 that F. E. A. R. fans should love. But its not as good as the original. The game is more scary and 
 disturbing than the original. Theres still a lot a questions I need answering, but I guess Ill 
 get the answers in the next F. E. A. R. I hope anyway.
  
  Simon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSULion
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 8, 2007 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Somehow Fettel rises from the dead (I guess he is undead) and so does his army of super soldiers 
 bent on killing you! Admittedly the game is fun, and short but the story line still leaves a lot 
 of gaping holes and besides killing off the 2 remaining cohorts from the first game you're left 
 at the end with another cliff hanger (I guess) and are still trying to get out of town. I can't 
 help but applaud the new enemies and many of the new weapons are really powerful. I played some 
 battles again and again to just try different combos on the enemies (the turrets ROCK) . In all, 
 a good experience but disappointing end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supernova874
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 27, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Nothing special ... is just part 2 of F. E. A. R. cause continues where the first one stops , no better 
 graphics ; nothing exciting ... 7.0 is my rating
  
  To any one who has complete the F. E. A. R. is good to play this also ...
  
  Graphics are the 
 same (with just a lifting ) atmosphere is ok like the first one but i prefer to see a different 
 scenario more complicate and genius
  
  From my point of view is worthy enough to spend your time for a game like this but in bottom-line 
 i believe that F. E. A. R. &amp; the extraction point must be in a single title cause an expansion 
 must have and an expansion to the scenario (this is something like comparing movies Rocky 1 &amp; 
 2 some s***t )
  
  Enjoy playing it , i expect your reviews too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahaa3000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 16, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  this game is a great addition to F. E. A. R . it complets the story of the first game but the ending 
 i teribel it ask's more quations then it answers , but the game is realy worth playing . it hasthe 
 same Graphics of the first game with is the best Graphics on PC and the sound is just GREAT you 
 can fell evey gun and bullet ! . and the gameplay is easy and fun with the same great slowmotion 
 ! the multiplayer is (F. E. A. R. combat ) there isn't any diffrent but its still fun .the only bad 
 thing about this game is that it's SHORT its very very very very SHORT ! .but with a replay vale 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kratose7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 14, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. Extraction Point continues right where the original left off. Your helicopter crashes 
 into a building on the outskirts of the city, and you must find your way out. Somehow, replica 
 soldiers have been reactivated, and you have a whole new army of clones to deal with. The combat 
 remains essentially unchanged. You have a few more weapons and enemy types, but the game feels 
 like the first one did. This time there is a little bit more variety to the maps and the game isnt 
 quite so repetitive. The environments are more destructible making grenades all the more fun. F. E. A. R. 
 remains as fun to play and addictive as ever. The new weapons are fun, and the game is different 
 enough to warrant a play if you liked the first game. If you liked F. E. A. R. you shouldnt expect 
 a whole lot of new stuff, but for $20, its definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 2, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R.'s winning formula had to be kept for the most parts, and the developers did respect the 
 overall construct in this sequel including little updates ( namely by adding some creepy sequences 
 in darker rooms ) , just like any standard expansion should offer. Yet we are not that overwhelmed 
 here, for a single player lasting 5-6 hours and very little replay value.
  
  The story immediately unfolds after the events of the vanilla game ( 15 year old body-Alma assaulting 
 the rescue helicopter ) . Unfortunately, the scenario isn't one of the selling points: there are 
 too many plot holes to consider it as a worthwhile script. Unlike the Half Life franchise, the 
 cliffhanger events just elude an underwhelming story cut so many times that only the darker scenery 
 can really surprise the player. For example, near the later stages of the game the two Alma ( yes, 
 the 15 year old body one still puppeteering Fettel + the 8 year old one helping the main character 
 ) seem to finally converge altogether for a hypothetical reunion, but we see nothing else thereafter. 
 Also, joining the miraculously reincarnated Fettel, here comes the big engineer Mapes also perfectly 
 recovered from his mortal wounds. Dialogues are minimal and restricted to few radio chatter.
  
  You can re-experience the same basic gameplay elements wildly amplified by the reckoned slo 
 mo effects. However, this add-on is much laggier. Some structures are bigger, seemingly taxing 
 mid range to even higher range PC rigs at a point of handicapping the gameplay itself during scenes 
 when you're not using the slo mo. You should also encounter sparsed clipping issues.
  
  The lighting &amp; shadowing theatrics darkly enhance the deep level of creepiness and urgency. 
 Many corners become even darker than before, so the player may have to use the flashlight aplenty. 
 It can also help to be all ears, when the enemy radio chatter pop in. Speaking of which, there 
 are two new nasty enemies unwavering some of the harder sequences, particularly the semi invisible 
 ones with red eyes being quite frightening until mastering the perfect timing to beat them.
  
  Action scenes remain visceral and still require the skillful use of slo mo, presenting again 
 a high end level of physics, enemy moves and particle effects. Sadly, some corridor walks inbetween 
 those main events are, again, overlasting, tedious, and devoid of any interest: the ''office layout'' 
 is overused. Do we ask for hyper realism when not needed in a modern/sci fi shooter? Do you know 
 about four distinct red ladders in an elevator shaft, only designed to reach a boost? Do you know 
 of a church's admin basement being as big as a whole corporate HQ? The same applies to numerous 
 desks and cubicles = not only is this not a good realism, but a boring one. A boring d&eacute; j&agrave; 
 vu only embellished by the physics during the action.
  
  The occasional lags aside, the graphics may lose one point for showing no upgrading at all despite 
 all the good eye candy aforementioned, months after the original title. Coloring and texturing 
 stay a bit tamed down in the grey scale. Technically, we must tend our ears even more than popping 
 our eyes to really taste the thorough coding: radio chatters AND the creepy sounds, including weapons, 
 are state of the art. The audio adds so much to the atmosphere that a nod to Doom 3 mirror before 
 long.
  
  In short, this one's recommended to fans, for it just add the same good old FPS galore seen before. 
 Though the ending leads to may hypothetical premises of untapped material, this franchise may be 
 best left dormant for a while before a complete overhaul. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monco59
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  In 2005, Monolith gave us F. E. A. R., or First Encounter Assault Recon. The silly acronym aside, 
 it was (and remains) one of the best shooters of all time, at least in my mind. In 2006, TimeGate 
 was tasked with developing an expansion pack for this legendary game. No small task by any measure 
 of things, but how successful was the developer from Sugar Land, Texas? Extraction Point picks 
 up directly where F. E. A. R. ended. As such, it also retains all the trademark elements, such as 
 slow-mo, intense shootouts, cunning AI and genuinely creepy atmosphere and scares. Once again gameplay 
 consists of you moving through various locales, fighting both Replica forces as well as supernatural 
 apparitions. Its all very familiar for anyone whos ever played F. E. A. R., and thankfully so. What 
 I mean is that, F. E. A. R. itself had the perfect blend of action and horror to make it a delightful 
 shooter, and Extraction Point sticks to what worked for Monolith. One thing that fans are glad 
 to notice though, is that the settings have a wider variety than the original F. E. A. R. Gone are 
 the days of trudging through identical corridors and office complexes (although I myself never 
 had a problem with the setting) . EP also introduces three new weapons, all of which are worthy 
 additions and fit well into the established world. Youve got a spiffy laser-beam weapon that can 
 slice your standard Replica grunt in more ways than a blender, a minigun reminiscent of 80s action 
 flicks and a deployable gun-turret, which ends up being underused. Add to this enhanced AI, some 
 minor gameplay tweaks and a darker, more hallucination-filled atmosphere and youve got a solid 
 title on your hands.
  
  F. E. A. R. was an absolutely astonishing game in regards to its visuals when it came out in 05. 
 While EP doesnt have that same punch as its older brother had when it was released, the game 
 is still a thing to behold. Unfortunately, system requirements are even higher, with no real noticeable 
 benefit. Still, anyone with the hardware to run this baby will certainly not be disappointed in 
 the visuals. Everything from lighting and textures looks great, and few games can capture the visceral 
 and desperate feel of combat that EP displays.
  
  Again, like its full counterpart, Extraction Point features a magnificent sound world, complete 
 with an excellent soundtrack, good voice acting, hard-hitting sound effects coupled with an atmospheric 
 and spooky ambience.
  
  To answer the question I posed at the very beginning of this review, TimeGate has succeeded exceedingly 
 well in their task to extend the story and world of the original F. E. A. R. Sure, the game is short 
 at about 6 hours, but what expansion pack isnt? Sure, its more of the same, but when its more 
 of the same F. E. A. R., whos complaining? Sure, story progression was left at a minimum (although 
 a number of major characters get offed) , but would you really want a ton of revelations crammed 
 into a few hours? Extraction Point honors its role as an expansion pack and doesnt try to reinvent 
 the wheel here. Which is exactly what I expect from an add-on. I dont want any half-baked ideas 
 that cant be fully realized thanks to a shorter length or smaller budget. When I buy an expansion 
 pack for a game I loved, I expect more of the same. Why else would I have bought said expansion 
 pack in the first place? And with that in mind, EP delivers. I wholeheartedly suggest it to any 
 fans of Monoliths masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 23, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Maybe it is just because I havent played F. E. A. R for a while but I think that this expansion may 
 be better than the original game. Gameplay - All of the fantastic gameplay in the original game 
 plus great new additions. The levels are fantastic and the addition of new weapons makes this game 
 a top choice for FPS fans. The creep factor in this expansion is what I would expect from a follow 
 up to where the last game left off. Follow it up with a easy to follow storyline and I'm a big 
 fan.
  
  Graphics - Although this expansion is months old, it still has better graphics than most of the 
 new games out there. Couple that with a new 8800 vid card and the game ran smooth at 1600X1200 
 with everything maxed out. The rag doll physics in this game is also up to snuff with the other 
 games out there and had me blowing up one or two already dead people just to see their body's go 
 flying.
  
  Overall - A must have for any fans of the original, and an excellent choice for any FPS fan. Well 
 worth the cost at this stage to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nothing1331
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 23, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  I loved the original game F. E. A. R. and felt the same way about the expansion. The only problem 
 was that i beat the whole entire game in under 6 hours. The original game lasted me about 10 hours 
 and i was expecting the same from this. Extraction point is probably scarier than the original 
 which is good, but i think it could have had more scares and they could have done better by not 
 using some of the same things over again. Overall this is a great game but since it cost 20$ and 
 only lasts about 6 hours do not expect to get too much out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floyd0481
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  The second installment is as good as the first losing points only in value and tilt. The game still 
 has that great game play feel and intense visual effects that made the first installment great. 
 Still very creepy and the soundtrack is excellent and keeps you on the edge of your seat. The story 
 is a bit wishy washy but who really cares. With action this great, who's listening to the story? 
 Though, the story is a bit short , well lets be honest a lot short compared to the last, I gotta 
 tell ya I really didn't mind. It was a blast!
  
  So if you played through the first and want more, though only a bit more I recommend you pick this 
 one up. You won't be disappointed for as long as it lasts.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 8, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. Extraction Point is the first extraction to the F. E. A. R. game, a highly anticipated horror 
 game that did everything great, this game how ever, brings the same stuff, only in a smaller dosis.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  (you might want to read my review about F. E. A. R. how about the gameplay works, but I'll post it 
 here in a nutshell.) AI is still great, they'll still pack a punch and hide behind everything possible 
 and will knock over tables for cover, nothing much happened to the AI.
  
  The same weapons are included, plus a few more weapons like a Laser Rifle, which'll burn thru nasty 
 clone soldiers, though the limited ammo for the gun, most work will be done with shotguns and assault 
 rifles.
  
  The game also offers again some crazy atmosphere and great disturbing scenes, nothing of the crazy 
 atmosphere got lost in this game.
  
  No multiplayer, not that bad since F. E. A. R. has it etc.
  
  Graphics:
  Great atmosphere, great 
 cutscenes, great psychics and use of you're reflexes (AKA Bullet-time) to kill enemies in a awesome 
 shotgun + head combination.
  
  Bullets still react to different substances, like metal, wood, bricks etc.
  
  Story:
  After 
 a cliffhanger ending where you're main evil girl-enemy climbs onto you're helicopter, it kind of 
 crashes and you're let alone, again versus hundreds of evil enemies.
  
  Is it a good FPS:
  If you like F. E. A. R. you should buy this game, or just horror-fps in genre 
 alone.
  
  (Sorry for lack of review, you can check about how the graphics, gameplay etc is in detail in my 
 F. E. A. R. review) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TicTac8745
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 5, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. was no doubt one of the greatest game in 2005, the game's atmosphere, gameplay and human-like 
 A. I was praised by all. So when an expansion pack was announced, it was Chirstmas once again. However, 
 as the game was released and played, you probably feel and start to question why there was such 
 a commotion over this expansion pack. Although Extraction Point packs in more to an already great 
 game, it doesn't satisfy in the end.
  
  One of the difference is that TimeGate studios was responsible for the expansion pack except of 
 Monolith - the original developers. But even with fresh people working on the game, it creates 
 a sense that Monolith would have done a much better job.
  
  The game is take place at the very end of F. E. A. R. where you escape Armacham and is flow away to 
 safe along side two of your team. But the helicopter you're in gets shot down and crashes. You 
 and your team survives, but there a problem, how to get to the extraction point. As you proceed 
 on foot to extraction - your foe Paxton Fettel re-emerges, and once again, it you against his soldiers 
 - so the plan is clear, get quickly to the extraction point. It's F. E. A. R. all over again - walk, 
 battle, walk. The game boosts new features such as new weapons, locations and enemies. The weapons 
 include a laser gun that can toast enemies and the favourite, a gattling gun that can cut the enemy 
 into ribbons. The locations are now more situated in outdoor locations like on the roads and later 
 on, in the subway - although it still retains the dark and post-apocalyptic look. The new enemies 
 include a new super soldier that is better than the previous standard soldiers and spirits similar 
 to what F. E. A. R. had by the end of the game. The graphics, sound and gameplay are still the same, 
 which is not expected for a expansion pack to change a lot. However one of the main problems is 
 the story - apparently the story is even more confusing, by the end of the game, you will be scratching 
 your head and wondering 'What the hell is going? Can someone please explain?!' and ultimately ends 
 the story abruptly and without any clues of a possible sequel (maybe there isn't going to be a 
 sequel, who knows)
  
  Overall, Extraction Point does a good job of capturing and enhancing what was good about F. E. A. R. 
 in the first place and building on it, however with little to offer (no extra multiplayer feature) 
 with single player lasting around 6 hours only, an even more confusing story and abrupt ending, 
 there isn't a lot to of reasons to play this game. Heck, playing just F. E. A. R. would be enough. 
 But if you're like me, a F. E. A. R. fan, then this you should get, despite not living up to expectations. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elosolipa
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2007 2:08 am PT
Review:  People always talk about that second episodes are not good. Ok. I admit. It&acute; s not great, 
 but it is a little more violence for waiting the new game. It can&acute; t be considered a second 
 episode. It&acute; s only a one-step between. And I think It&acute; s great that developers like 
 Monolith may do this class of things. Cause I don&acute; t want a poor game without the time needed 
 to do thing good just because they want to make money. Monolith bring us always excellent products 
 and with this things we can give them a hand. I WANT MORE GAMES LIKE THIS!!! Let's see: more and 
 bigger enemies. New massive and damaging weapons. A very mysterious and at the end open, but addictive 
 end of story or begining for the new game (as you want to see it) . I'm having abstinence syndrome 
 right now. A lot of questions resolved with this expansion and a lot more coming. We know just 
 now wich is our enemy and which is our ally. You surely be surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uchitha
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 1, 2007 4:04 am PT
Review:  The awesome F. E. A. R continues but this time no very interesting. We all have experienced the original 
 game and it was bit different, how ? FPS + Scary = Innovative. However, the extraction point is 
 not very exiting simply because this doesn't have a proper story. What I feel about this game is 
 that its just another F. E. A. R game play with some new enemies and weapons. There is not much of 
 a story, the whole thing is starting from a helicopter crash lading a building and finding their 
 way out to the extraction point. Since its an expansion pack the graphics, sound and all that remains 
 the same as well. Anyway for those who loved FEAR can try this out ,at least you'll get a chance 
 of playing more levels. I finished the whole game within 6 hours time but not the hardest or hard, 
 so the difficulty is bit less and i didn't get scared much as well. I would say try and see ... 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 13, 2007 5:25 am PT
Review:  If you played 2005's F. E. A. R then you probably know what to expect from Extraction Point: visceral 
 gun-fights, incredible AI and a creepy little ghost girl named Alma.
  
  The gameplay is similar to the first one, but this time you'll find yourself in some new environments, 
 fights some new (and old) enemies while being constantly haunted by ghosts and visions of Alma.
 
  The only major improvement is in the sound department. The in-game soundtrack is better, and the 
 Replica soldiers are more responsive to the players action: Cursing when being hit or panicking 
 when the player switches to SlowMo.
  
  The fear-factor in the game is slightly better then the original; there are more intense moments 
 and even more gory moments throughout Extraction Point and sometimes you'll find yourself wishing 
 for a squad of Replicas to appear around the corner and break the horrifying silence. the gun-fights 
 haven't changed a lot since the first game; the AI is still amazingly effective and forces you 
 the consider your actions well before jumping into battle and all the previous weapons are back. 
 t there are even two new weapons to help you put a stop to the Replica army and Paxton Fettel.
 
  
  Story-wise, the expansion does not reveal any new information about Alma or Paxton, or how on earth 
 the Point-man (the player) is connected to them, so don't expect any answers, only more questions.
 
  
  Long story short, F. E. A. R. Extraction Point is a worthy expansion for one of the greatest First 
 Person Shooters in the recent years. It starts exactly where the original game ended, so if you 
 liked F. E. A. R, youre bound to like Extraction Point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2007 3:53 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R EP is a great sequel to F. E. A. R game that you shouldn't miss it at all. It starts exactly 
 where you finish the original F. E. A. R and I think it's long enough (about 5 or 6 hours and more!) 
 not to be called an expansion pack just like Half-Life Episode One. The great gameplay, sounds 
 and graphics are still kept in this pack and even I feel better performance in it that the original 
 one. (Because I experienced chopped frames in the F. E. A. R even with 1024X768 and low sound quality 
 but in EP I feel very comfortable even with high res. and A. A. sampling and high quality sound.
 
  I shall not go further on the story and I just give you some little points and hints about the 
 gameplay (Although the gameplay is just the same as the F. E. A. R)
  
  * When you feel that you're kind of stock in a place just look up for flashing lights (Which indicate 
 the right path you've got to go through) or ladders or things like that or just simply turn on 
 your flashlight and surf around for a door or a hallway or something.
  
  *If you use cheats during the game you may want to experience the powerful ASP rifle which really 
 kicks ass and the interesting laser gun (it's new in EP) but if you don't like cheating don't count 
 on that rifle because (Like F. E. A. R) you'll have trouble finding ammo for that gun. In this case 
 the best option is your old friend G2A2 rifle. *It is very good to have yourself got used to crouching 
 while approaching an enemy squad or a flat position. Crouching reduces the number of bullets you 
 may take during a battle and helps you aim better. *There is a good feature added to game is that 
 now you can open doors with your melee attack key. This very helpful sometimes because sometimes 
 that you want grenade a room before entering you had to press two keys (First USE key to open the 
 door and then GRENADE key) but now you'll just click the right key on your mouse and then grenade 
 the **** out! Try it and enjoy!
  
  *The new deployable turret is another interesting new thing in your inventory. It's very rare in 
 the game but when you find it take the advantages of that. It's very good to distract your attacking 
 enemies (It won't be helpful against heavy enemies because they destroy it quickly) and gaining 
 some time to kill them. But be careful where to put it (For example don't use them in corners. 
 Place them in the middle of a room or a hallway) in order not to waste it as it's very rare. A 
 very good situation to use this cute weapon is against the ghosts and the ghost-like commandos (I 
 don't know their exact name) because turrets can see and shoot these hard ass enemies better than 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvs1270
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  I have not bought many expansion packs, the last was Zero Hour for Generals. This is great for 
 anyone who wants a little more of the F. E. A. R. story. The ending of the 1st game left me on the 
 edge of my chair, so I was excited about this expansion. However, it leaves a little to be desired.
 
  O. k. soldiers, strange sounds, followed by what the?? Oh sh......!! I gotta tell so &amp; so about 
 that one. I would have been upset if I had paid $30 for it, but since I got for 1/2 price it was 
 worth $15. There is no added multi player content which is a let down since the original is one 
 of the best &amp; most brutal I've played. All &amp; all it will fill a short playtime gap. The 
 sound &amp; graphics are great &amp; it does have a few moments, but wait for a deal before buying 
 it. I'm waiting (building a pc for) on Crysis &amp; Halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnoel809
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 13, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  Expansion packs must be tough to design. You want to give the player more of what they want, without 
 getting repetitive. Also, I'm sure the budget for an expansion is much less, so it's not like you're 
 going to get the same length or content as you would with a full game.
  
  FEAR Extraction Point was kind of a mixed bag for me. While I thought the overall experience was 
 okay, it was too uneven to really give me a sense of enjoyment. Plus it was pretty short, I finished 
 it in a couple of sittings.
  
  It had more of the same creepy, checking out an abandoned office building adventure, fighting against 
 soldiers. If you were a fan of that in the original game, there's more of it here.
  
  Sometimes it was almost impossible to win the fights. I'm all for making a fight challenging, but 
 sometimes there were too many bad guys and they had much better weapons (and aim) . Playing the 
 same fight 20 times is not my idea of fun. While the slo-mo feature is good, for some reason I 
 don't enjoy it like I did in Max Payne. I guess the bottom line is (as it is with all expansions) , 
 if you liked FEAR, buy the pack. If you didn't like it (or just sort of liked it) , play something 
 else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattias838
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 18, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  What can i say about Fear Extraction Point, its basiclly the same as FEAR. The story picks up from 
 were it ended in FEAR and adds about another 5-7 hours of game play. The o ly difference to FEAR 
 and Fear Extraction Point is that you get a new gun pluse a new type of gizmo.. its like a turrent 
 that can stick to anything and shots the enemy target, it maks the game a little easier with these 
 lil things helping you kill the enemy. Extraction Point isnt avery long game but then again no 
 expansion game really is. Though it does give a lot more information about the complex story of 
 FEAR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtiscurtis06
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 11, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  The game definitely starts off great with some thrills and shrills. Its not quite as good as the 
 original, but its storyline does pick up off of the original. The gunfights were good, but more 
 frustrating. This was because when you got in the radius of certain areas, people started appearing. 
 Yes this happen in the original, but this was noticeably worse and more annoying. A couple new 
 guns to the arsenal make fights a little different, but they arent that useful until later in the 
 game when you get the BMFG in doom terms. Overall this is a great FPS expansion to a great FPS. 
 FEAR 2 will be interesting, its either going to be a great game or a terrible game. Im looking 
 forward to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 9, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  It's the same game on the same levels and fighting the same NPCS as BEFORE!! I mean whats the point? 
 It's the kinda thing i'd expect outta a modder who created his own extra content which has minimal 
 story.
  
  Please just save your money until atleast you can pick it up for like $5 lol, just not worth it. 
 I thought expansions were meant to improve gameplay but.....
  
  What makes it worse is theres no additions to Multiplayer, you atleast want some new multiplayer 
 modes and maps outta a expansion but nothing........
  
  
  Seriously don't buy it, even if you liked FEAR. It's very short and very boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 9, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  The Good : Great Gameplay that still is the same as creepy as the 1st part, + the game this time 
 brings the stroy to a whole new situation, &amp; it all picks up directly from the point u've reached 
 in the 1st Part .This time the story have a new twist in it , there is two Alma Wade , (2 girls 
 , &amp; both fof them are ur Moms ,. Paxton fettel is Back &amp; Alive !!! u've killed him didn't 
 u , Alma have phsycic soldiers of it's own, idk maybe , all the F. E. A. R. team is dead . Jankawski 
 is back in the dead phsycic world &amp; talking to the F. E. A. R. Girl idk her name , any way it 
 just got alot more complicated) . The Graphics of the Game are still great as before &amp; the 
 Textures are looking to be more demanding , &amp; they aren't the same as those of the 1st F. E. A. R. 
 , the texture engine is deffinetly changed ( only th texture engine is changed &amp; not the Overall 
 Game Engine ) + it appears that there is physics in the game enviroments ( were physics are remade 
 in this engine to make every enviroment more distructable &amp; u'll deffinelty notice this when 
 u are in the near the Train in the underground The Subway ) . The Sounds are still great &amp; 
 the EAX 5.0 HD is even better with a Sorround Sound System Connected to ur PC . Great Game that 
 shouldn't be missed , even though it aint as great as it's 1st part , This game is stilla gotta 
 respect game . -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 THe Bad : This game offers nothing in the terms of the story, it rather makes it more complicated 
 &amp; nothing is explianed from the 1st part .The graphics are great but the new re-improved textures 
 can make u struggle to keep a decent performance since u have to make them medium inorder to have 
 the same peroformance as u had with F. E. A. R. when they were set on High . The Ingame Physics are 
 great but they could really slowdown ur machine . The Game on older hardware ( on GeForce series 
 6 &amp; before + thre ATi equivelant cards my notice some light releated problems with this game 
 , &amp; this will happend weather they had the latest drivers or they didn't .  
 Notes On The Game  
 - The two Alma are now seperated, one with u while the other is seeking ur death &amp; to kill 
 u . all the F. E. A. R. Team is eleminated which could make u think in what is going on with this 
 game , &amp; this is mostly becouse Monoloth didn't develop this game , &amp; it was developed 
 by TimeGate Studios , + there is F. E. A. R. 2 in the make , this could probably y this Expansion 
 brought nothing new, it only eleminated all the old charechters to decrease the Tension between 
 the new developers/publishers &amp; the old one, idk ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 2 - I bought this game with the Game For Windows Logo on the Cover , this mean that it is supported 
 by Vista , yet as u play it on Vista , it comes to have the EAX disabled , due to the Fact that 
 Vista Dont Support EAX anymore .  
 - to fix the EAX problem , contact Creative , or use Creative Alchamy Project , it really helps 
 u -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 4 - The Textiures Engine is Remade , so this why it effect's ur gameplay , so putting it on medium 
 . will make play the game at the settings u used to play to 1st F. E. A. R. game. The Texture Engine 
 is re-made . ut the Game's Graphical Engine is still the same + the add of Physics to it . -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Finally i would like to say that even though this had nothing new added to the story , yet it should 
 be got by every person who played F. E. A. R. since the new twists in the story will difine what will 
 happen in the next F. E. A. R. Game when in come out only God knows when . Any way it is a Should 
 Get Game . This is Game is Almost Like it's First , but it isn't quite the same . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TANGJUICE81
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 6, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is still as good as the first one. A little bit more scarier but not as long. Overall 
 the game play is great, there are some new villians which makes the game a bit more challenging. 
 A few new weapons that give you the edge on the enemy. The only con is the the game gets glitchy 
 at the end. I think it could be they need to do a update to get it fixed. Nice but I will go back 
 to the original from time to time. If you like the first chapter of FEAR, this will keep you on 
 your toes. Check it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sebtko
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  Well i just finished Fear Extraction Point it was good not what i expected tho
  all they did was add in a couple new guns and ended really badly
  is there going to be another 
 expansion or ???
  
  The first Fear was my favorite if find that the expansion is just a huge dissaptment. But if ur 
 a fan of the game i suggest that u buy it.
  
  There is only 6 intervals so its really short but i love this single player fps game.
  
  I'm 
 not saying Fear Extraction Point is bad im just saying i was expecting alot more hours of game 
 play and a better ending if that was the case then i would of gave a rating of 8.5/10 i hope this 
 helps
  
  Id say if u like fear go for battlefield 2142!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demagorgon
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 4:12 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R Extraction Point is almost everything you could want from a F. E. A. R sequel. It fixes most 
 of the major problems with the first game, while adding problems that the original didn't have.
 
  
  The major complaint that reviewers had with F. E. A. R was that it was too repetitive. The levels 
 all looked the same. Only a handful of different kinds of enemies to fight. Extraction Point resolves 
 that by putting in a number of new areas and enemies, and spreads them out more evenly than the 
 original game. The game is much shorter than the original which allows more varied gameplay. The 
 game's length is also the game's major flaw. At only around 6 or 7 hours long you could finish 
 the game only casually play on a weekend.
  
  F. E. A. R: Extraction Point has the same things that made the original F. E. A. R great: jawdropping 
 graphics, immersive sound, and the best Artificial Intelligence of any game to date. In fact, the 
 Graphics, sound and A. I even surpass the original.
  
  The best addition to the gameplay, is that the game is harder. There are less reflex boosters, 
 which means you can't rely on your timeslow ability as much, as well as there being more enemies. 
 For those who thought the original was too easy, they will be surprised by some of the fights the 
 game throws at you.
  
  If you enjoyed the original F. E. A. R, then you will definitely enjoy F. E. A. R Extraction Point. If 
 you don't mind buying a game that will only take a couple of nights to finish, I recommend purchasing 
 this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deus_Ex_Fan
Rating: 4.1
Date: Feb 17, 2007 2:22 am PT
Review:  This sequel is overrated, not only due to a rabid fan base (and being an F. E. A. R. fan myself says 
 something) , but it's content. The game intentionally strays from the original plot (if you can 
 call it one) , to add more spooks and warp reality.
  
  Game play: It's much like in F. E. A. R., except the introduction of 3 different weapons. The much 
 waited for particular [insert name] was sparse in the game, worse it went through ammo so quick 
 it was pointless to carry it around, knowing 33 rounds left wouldn't clear much. The other weapon 
 the mass firing [insert name] also faced the same problem. The newest weapon type was only found 
 on like 2 maps, and made for using it on the map. Each of these new weapons are more geared to 
 MP (where ammo stations are readily available) , but very poor alternatives in SP where you get 
 your ammo off of bodies. Some regular mainstay rifles are also sparse (the 10mm HV Penetrator, 
 for example) .
  
  Game and Level design: At least in F. E. A. R. Extraction Point the player isn't falling through a 
 map. But still the levels aren't designed on par with the original (found a map that a wall pillar 
 didn't exist on the other side, indicating the box/poly wasn't closed) . Another level the content 
 was mixed matched, some quality designs mixed with some prefabs looking like they were rushed or 
 purposely made low poly to reduce system load. This reduced the overall visual experience. Another 
 problem: even though F. E. A. R. Extraction Point is a sequel requiring the original F. E. A. R. game, 
 you will have to use the F. E. A. R. XP disk to play it - meaning, you'll be switching disks between 
 each game.
  
  Sound: Music wasn't as catchy or as creepy. Reuse of themed music (like Alice Wade's theme, etc.) 
 didn't help.
  
  Immersion value: F. E. A. R. Extraction Point truly strays from the F. E. A. R. into the truly bizarre. 
 For purists, this will be a disappointment, since all the questions you were seeking answers for 
 won't be answered. F. E. A. R. XP truly messes up the storyline; to the extent F. E. A. R. 2 will have 
 a tough time trying to join a two dev company production back to the original universe.
  
  Replay value: If you must have more of F. E. A. R. you'll be getting F. E. A. R. Extraction Point. After 
 you played it, and come to the ending, you wished you never did. Replay value, due to all of the 
 deaths and disappointing ending, makes popping in the disk to replay just not worth it. Also, don't 
 expect the same level of action you see in the demo, especially the confrontation with Alma.
  
  In summary: F. E. A. R. Extraction Point is geared to Multiplayer fraggers who careless about 
 content, visuals, or anything other than plowing beings to bloody body parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swedish-marine
Rating: 6.6
Date: Feb 15, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  The expansion throws you in where the original F. E. A. R ended, not a big deal about it, and it starts 
 off like a similar sequence from the regular F. E. A. R as well. Environments, characters, everything 
 has always been there and is still there, unchanged, on good and bad. First off, this expansion 
 has a variety of updated shaders and more dynamic shadows and will of some reason, even when pulling 
 the settings down a bit eat SEVERELY much more hardware performance in order to run properly. I 
 had a perfect frame-rate att regular F. E. A. R running medium settings with a 40FPS during fights 
 and average of 100FPS but in the expansion it never catches over 50FPS no matter what, even when 
 pulling the more demanding graphical tweaks down a bit. But on the good side, if you do have a 
 real fresh rig then you'll probably come to like the updated shaders and general game experience, 
 at least a bit more. Anyways - despite how demanding this game might be it's still the regular 
 F. E. A. R but with new environments, which is quite rare actually since the whole athmosphere is 
 to be set in quite isolated environments it's hard to make it really fresh again, but we've seen 
 most of it before. But that's also a bit of the whole F. E. A. R experience so it's a hard nut to 
 crack for the developers though it seems like they gave it a little too less effort. Most of the 
 time in the game I found myself doing what I've already been doing, but the game still has some 
 twists from the regular F. E. A. R that remain unsolved and catched my interest all the way through, 
 like what happend to the other F. E. A. R operative, Jankuwski, since he just vanished in the start 
 of the regular game. That, together with some new tweaks in the characters sets off the game to 
 be the main reason why to really make it worth playing through - and the horror seems to have changed 
 a little bit into a more screamy kind of visual horror more than the deeper more pharanormal horror 
 from the previous game, but there's sequences where you start to wonder what's really going on, 
 as a positive thing. And you start to wonder what's real and what's just in your characters head. 
 The game also offers a few new weapons, but they all seem to be either overpowered and boring or 
 just generally worthless and pathetic - the minigun is too heavy and will just slaughter everything, 
 you don't even need to think, it's just to shoot no matter what, makes everything turn cartoony. 
 And there's also the Laser Rifle which is simply boring as it is but SlowMo + Laser Rifle is the 
 worst combination ever. In the end the game was a fair experience, but I liked the original game 
 better, not only becuase it ran with 120% higher FPS but also since it had a deeper and untold 
 story while the expansion just continoues on the story we already know most about. But let's hope 
 F. E. A. R 2 will help to compensate this lack of content of the expansion. $19 or $29 is WAY too 
 much for a 4-hour of playing, especially since the game isn't going to have any replay value at 
 all but for some certain sequences you might want to check twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alonsh4
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  everybody say they were deeply disappointed with EP. i really don't understand that. it is an expansion 
 pack after all. it delivers the same creepy setting and intent gun fighting the first F. E. A. R game 
 delivered. it doesn't add much.... so what? what's wrong with 5 more hours of the same winning formula?!
 
  
  the game does have some minor graphical issues, nothing serious though. some players (including 
 yours truly) suffered a severe drop in the frame rate in 2 specific points in the game. it's only 
 for a small area though, and it doesn't interfere with the amazing game experience this game gives 
 you.
  
  if you liked the first F. E. A. R game, i strongly suggest you get your hands on EP and dive right 
 into the creepy story.
  
  enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain20035
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 13, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  The last year's fear was a great success and this success made for this expansion! but you don't 
 get anything from this expansion but the same game!
  to cut a long story short I should say that extraction point cannot be counted as an expansion 
 pack for FEAR!!! because expansion packs should have sth new to help you experience new things 
 through your new journey in the original game's universe. in extraction point's case i should say 
 the only think you get is much more of FEAR!!! nothing else! a few new weapons, some new textures, 
 few new enemies, etc., are not enough!!!
  but I still recommend this game since i loved the original fear and loved to give it a go in this 
 expansion pack though the creepy world of fear, however, i insist that should the next fear games 
 have the same quality i would rather to spend my money on another game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcinkonys
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 16, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  Released more than a year ago, FEAR gave players a creepy and atmospheric experience, as well as 
 top-notch graphical quality, - high resolution textures, detailed NPC models and suspenseful music 
 made this a quality game and a must-have for every FPS fan. After such a successful start, Vivendi 
 has started working on an expansion for those players who just couldnt get enough, - in October 
 2006, Extraction Point, the first expansion pack is released, featuring around five more hours 
 of singleplayer, and bringing back the highly acclaimed multiplayer.
  
  FEAR, or First Encounter Assault Recon, is a US military organization, assigned to deal with paranormal 
 threats. As introduced in the first game, a bloodthirsty guy named Paxton Fettel took charge of 
 Replica forces, a battalion of supersoldiers, which, being telepathically linked with him, were 
 a huge threat to the world. Harlan Wade, a scientist working at the ATC (Armacham Technology Corporation) , 
 used his own DNA to breed the Replica, wanting to use it for self purposes. Unfortunately, he never 
 thought the Replica could be a huge threat to the ATC itself. After ten intense chapters of fighting 
 against the enemy forces, youre about to sweep the ATC from the ground. F. E. A. R. s chopper picks 
 you up and ends the first game.
  
  Extraction Point kicks off a couple of hours after the explosion of the ATC facility, with you 
 and two of your team mates  Jim-Sun Kwon and Douglas Holiday, trying to get out of the crash-site 
 in a deserted city after your chopper landed not so well. Walking into the darkness of the city, 
 you see the Replica forces dormant - a phenomenon caused by Paxtons death. Funnily, after fearlessly 
 kicking them in the face one by one for a couple of minutes, I got spooked after a sudden twist 
 of the story, which Im not too eager to spoil, since the game is a bit on the short side, anyway. 
 On the other hand, what should you expect  Extraction Point is an expansion pack, not a whole 
 new separate game.
  
  Those who are new to the series shouldnt find the controls hard to get used to. Even if youre 
 not familiar with the settings, they are introduced in the opening chapter. Extraction Point is 
 friendly in that aspect, as you get a description on what a weapon or a gadget does the first time 
 you pick it, not to mention the tips and tricks depicted when loading a level or savegame. Its 
 always good to know, as there is quite a big variety of gadgets youll get to use throughout the 
 game, including fragmentation grenades, proximity grenades, health and reflex boosters, and more.
 
  
  One of the key aspects that made F. E. A. R stand out on top of the other games was its excellent 
 atmosphere  the nightmares Alma and Paxton sent you telepathically are in the expansion, as well, 
 and this time they work even better - often you may find yourself stuffing all your shotgun shells 
 into an opponent just to see its all a nightmare and all your precious ammos wasted. While most 
 of the nightmares require you to kill the foe, sometimes they just pop out of the corner to freak 
 you out and quickly disappear. These so-called horror sequences arent the only things that make 
 Extraction Point creepy. Sometimes you may walk along a corridor fearlessly when suddenly all the 
 lights go out, or a door closes right in front of your nose. Minor creeps like these make the cut, 
 as well, but frankly, there arent so many of them in EP as there were in F. E. A. R.
  
  Sound adds a lot to the atmosphere, and Extraction Point delivers it top-notch. F. E. A. R. s atmospheric 
 music made the game even creepier to play at night, and EP continues that trend by adding a couple 
 of new soundtracks. Theres little time you wont hear any music at all, as the ambient takes you 
 into the game a lot faster. The sounds of weapons are done very well, too, and so are the voices 
 of NPCs  if you shoot them, theyll scream in pain asking for help, or fearlessly fight back. 
 Knowing that Extraction Point is rated M, youll have to face a solid amount of swearing in-game.
 
  
  The variety of enemies has developed a little. Casual Replicas aside, youll get to comfront foes 
 that are robot-like, athletic or even barely visible. Every type has different pros and cons, so 
 youve to use appropriate weapons to deal with them, or youll soon be dry on ammo. Fortunately, 
 that happens on very rare occasions, and when it does, getting the weapons of dead NPCs restores 
 your ammo supplies really quick. If there arent any around, though, you can fight weaponlessly 
  using the right mouse button, you can kick the enemies with the butt-end of your weapon, which 
 also helps when opening doors or even breaking the locks on them. Pressing certain button combinations 
 lets you perform other moves, like a side kick or a so-called bycycle kick.
  
  Theres a big asortment of firearms to use in Extraction Point, varying from a pistol to a multirocket 
 launcher. While all the weapons from F. E. A. R. are back, including the SMG, the shotgun, the assault 
 rifle and others, EP offers two new additions  the plasma rifle and the minigun. Having a big 
 firepower they both make good add-ons to the game, although the minigun suffers pretty much from 
 big recoil, so its better-used at close range. Just like enemies, every weapon has its pros and 
 cons  the pistol is precise, but it doesnt do much damage to tougher opponents, whereas the assault 
 rifle, being less precise, does a lot more damage, especially from close range.
  
  Zooming in with your weapon and crouching are good ways of improving accuracy  so is using the 
 slow-motion ability  when enabled, it slows down time making your shots more precise. The Slow-Mo 
 is a very useful feature, especially when dealing with multiple enemies at once, which happens 
 more than often. Its also a great way of seeing the whole beauty of graphical effects, as it highlights 
 all the blood and weapon power a ton, which is one of the things that makes F. E. A. R. a realistic 
 and satisfying experience. The environments in the game may feel a little repetive after a while, 
 but its not necessarily a bad thing, as they all look basically the same after a big firefight. 
 Every single bullet you shoot leaves a trace, making the everything around you fall apart as you 
 fight the enemy, hence it feels almost like watching a movie, not playing a video game. Alas, the 
 Slow-Motion cant be used for an infinite amount of time - it needs to recharge after being used.
 
  
  To increase the length of using Slow-Mo, there are Reflex Boosters  one out a handful of gadgets 
 available. Health boosters are in-game, as well  they raise your health by 25 points. Sometimes 
 gadgets are in locations clearly visible, but mostly theyre well hidden, hence if youre on low 
 health, you will get to check every corner, and every little room. Depending on the difficulty 
 setting, though, your health restores up to 25 points, if its below. Four difficulties are available 
 to choose from - Normal to Extreme. Depending on what you choose, the strength of enemies vary, 
 making your weapons less effective.
  
  You dont have to buy Extraction Point to play its multiplayer, as its a separate game. F. E. A. R. 
 Combat is available to download for free, and, having a large playerbase, its a game well worth 
 to try out. Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, Elimination... although they all miss the slow-mo ability, 
 theres an exclusive gamemode for that  Slow-Mo Deathmatch. Having pretty much all the features 
 included in the singleplayer campaign, Combat makes a great download for every FPS fan.
  
  There are five intervals in Extraction Points singleplayer campaign, each featuring around five 
 chapters which can easily be passed in four to six hours on the moderate difficulty. It may feel 
 a bit too little for a F. E. A. R. fan, but having superb visual quality and sound, EP is well worth 
 the money, as even after youre done with the singleplayer campaign, theres this awesome multiplayer 
 mode to try out, for free! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DooM-ftw-
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 11, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  The original F. E. A. R. was totally stunning...... was so innovative so cool........
  F. E. A. R Extraction Point is made from few aditional levels to continue the strange story from the 
 original F. E. A. R. The graphics are the same (very good) , the sound is also the same (exceptional) but 
 the story is very unclear...
  The gun fights are the same stunning gun fights that made F. E. A. R. one of the most innovative FPS 
 ever made. Extraction Point is like the first F. E. A. R.
  a realy scary game ,this game sometimes plays with your mind and really scares and confuses you.
 
  The single player campaign is very short and the story is very unclear but it has the same high 
 intensity like in the original F. E. A. R. game which is a very good aspect.
  The conclusion is simple: Extraction Point is just a bunch of new levels made for the story of the 
 game continue...... The game has no innovation and it is just a copy of the original game but with 
 few new levels .This game is a good one but it doesn't bring nothing new and this is a truly big 
 negative aspect for the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meagar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  If you liked F. E. A. R, you'll like Extraction Point. It is a direct continuation in both plot and 
 game play, offering a few more hours of F. E. A. R's intense action and horror. There is so little 
 additional content, however, that it could be mistaken for a lost level, rather then an entire 
 expansion pack. We're talking at most 10 hours here, for a very thorough run-through.
  
  Go read a review of F. E. A. R, and then think of Extraction Point as F. E. A. R plus:
  - two or three 
 new guns
  - two new enemies (never introduced/explained)
  - 5 to 10 hours of game play make it difficult to justify the $30 price tag
  - minor plot advancement
 
  - an ending that raises more questions then it answers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kambosa
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 6, 2007 3:01 am PT
Review:  I really did not finish the expansion but after playing for 4 hours, I reached my conclusion about 
 this game. The original F. E. A. R. was a really great game, full of action, intense, and horror... beside 
 its awesome story. So i had to get the expansion to fill my need of completing the end and have 
 more of the F. E. A. R. action.
  
  I really wasn't disappointed as other players was ... i did had fun, and still is, but the story 
 isn't building ... but I then thought .. it is called Extraction Point so this expansion isn't 
 supposed to complete the story and it is just a bridge to F. E. A. R 2 (which is being developed) 
 where the story is to be completed.
  
  The Graphics are the same, and are still beautiful... and also the sounds.
  But what I really 
 enjoy was the action packed fights with the clones.... with the help of slow motion, it is just 
 perfect. F. E. A. R. Extraction point is a must have for all F. E. A. R fans .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 3, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  The action is intense, but the action doesn't last long. New weapons, new enemies. Nice to play 
 along with Holiday, at least have a teammate on the side, but he dies a gruesome death. Different 
 nightmare sequences, at Fettel is back. Well it sucks for F. E. A. R. that you are the only operative 
 that survives when they send people to missions. Well F. E. A. R. Extraction Point is still a good 
 game. The minigun and the laser cutter. The deployable turrets are neat. The only problem is at 
 the end for showing the outside levels. The game crashes on me. Other than that it's a great game, 
 and if you played F. E. A. R. you will like the expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 25, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  Coming to shelves on October 24th of 2006, the expansion to the last years horror first person 
 shooter that seemed to shock you at every turn, but can the expansion do enough to have another 
 go around dodging bullets from every direction while trying to figure out who you are and why this 
 crazy little girl is following you around. Giving just as much, if not more intense situations, 
 Extraction Point tries to explain some of the craziness that came from the first game, and also 
 give some answers to questions that you were probably having, but it also leaves a whole new batch 
 of questions left hanging.
  
  Trying to explain the story of either the first game or its expansion can be quite tricky, mainly 
 because the story itself is sort of sketchy. I believe the developers, somewhere, some place, have 
 the storyline all written out where it explains everything about the game, including who and what 
 you are, who the crazed blood mongering man is that follows you and tries to kill you, and the 
 entire background story of Alma, the little girl whos always one step ahead of you, whether shes 
 helping you out by killing your enemies, or taunting you by scaring the crap out of you every now 
 and then when jumping out from around corners, or pretty much coming out of nowhere. The story 
 of the expansion starts exactly where the game left off last time with a huge bomb going off in 
 the middle of the city. Youre then picked up in a helicopter and from there, hell breaks loose 
 and youll soon find yourself in a town full of drones that dont move for some reason. As you 
 make your way throughout the city, with a couple of your team members, you soon come upon your 
 crazed bloody mouthed friend who wants to do everything he can to kill you and the annoying thing 
 is, you killed him in the last game, supposedly. Youll be traveling through different areas 
 and levels such as construction sites, office buildings, hospitals, and subway systems, not to 
 mention a parking garage. So, one thing is for sure, the scenery is a dramatic plus compared to 
 the first game where all you did was run through office building after office building seeing the 
 same layout designs every level. One thing must be said though about the different level designs. 
 Even though there are different areas throughout the game, those different areas really dont stand 
 out. What I mean by that is, when the developers came up with the different levels, it didnt seem 
 like they put a lot of effort into them. Take the subway for instance. Yes, it looks like a subway 
 in every way, but there arent those extra details, those little special touches that make it 
 feel more alive. Sure, the physics in the game are great when dealing with different objects or 
 shooting into the walls, but everything seems square in nature. All the hallways look similar in 
 nature, along with all of the side rooms. If youve played this game and feel a little bored by 
 level design, then you probably know what I mean. But then the same could almost be said about 
 the different types of enemies youll be facing. Much like its predecessor, Extraction Point really 
 only showcases a few enemies over the six expanded levels youll be playing through. Of course, 
 Extraction Point has all the different soldier drones like the first, but any new enemy thats 
 introduced doesnt really stand out in any way and because of that, youll feel like youre just 
 walking around a corner to the same enemy corner after corner, hallway after hallway. It may not 
 bother many people, but if youd played quite a few other first person shooters, you just expect 
 a little more from developers nowadays.
  
  The graphics in Extraction Point look just as good, if not better than the original. You still 
 have the ability to slow time and this feature looks superb with the great graphics engine that 
 Monolith has created. All objects within the game have weight and react well with everything else 
 in the environment giving the game some of the best physics in ay game to date. The levels themselves 
 look pretty good, just a little boring in most parts. The layouts of the levels are unique enough 
 to be different from each other and Monolith has provided a little more than office buildings this 
 time around as was mentioned above. The engine performs pretty well throughout the game, but there 
 are some spots in the game where the frame rate just bogs to single digits for pretty much no reason 
 that I can ascertain.
  
  Sound within the game is just about the same as the predecessor. Youll still feel like youre 
 in a Japanese horror film whenever you turn a corner or enter a new room. The music does a good 
 job of keeping you on your toes with watching out for moving shadows or blood dripping from the 
 ceilings. The conversations and yelling that comes from your enemy troops can be quite comical 
 as you take them out one by one. The music does clue you in onto whats about to happen though, 
 so that can be kind of a buzz kill.
  
  Multiplayer within the game is much like its predecessor which can be quite fun if youre decent 
 at it. If you havent spent enough time with it, youll be spending some hours honing your skills, 
 but that comes with every first person shooter out there. The multiplayer is solid and will keep 
 you busy long after you finish this game, because let me tell you, even for an expansion, its 
 quite short. There are six intervals in Extraction Point and you can probably finish them in under 
 seven hours easily. And thats only if you take your time with scouring through the different levels, 
 because of the pace of the game and always running and gunning, youll be finishing this game pretty 
 quick, but thats where multiplayer comes into play to extend the life of the game. The game has 
 shipped pretty solid without many bugs, which is of course kind of implied being that its an expansion 
 and that most of the bugs should already be worked out, but the only problem I saw was the slowdown 
 in frame rate in certain spots.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 8
  Story/Plot: 8
  Replay Value: 8
  Stability: 8
  Multiplayer: 9
  
  Overall: 8.45 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickwillyone
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 19, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Basically, this expansion pack is just that - add another five maps and you get the idea. The end 
 of the first game provided a really good hook making you ask, ok, what's next? Extraction Point 
 picks right up on that and does a good job interweaving the plot line and references from the original 
 throughout the story. Beyond just being a continuation of the first game, EP introduces several 
 other plot twists and also includes an open-ended finale. I won't spoil it here.
  
  Just like the first installment, the game is solid and blast to play. The combat can be challenging 
 but it doesn't try to be over the top. They don't just send wave after wave of respawning bad guys 
 at you (I hate it when games do that) and the AI is really great - they work together in teams 
 and come at you in some pretty smart ways. This game introduces some new enemies and weapons which 
 adds a little extra fun - for example, toss a deployable turret out into a large group of replicants 
 to distract them and then pop out and wail on them in slo-mo with the mini-gun.
  
  One thing that really stands out to me is that they take the supernatural/horror elements of the 
 game up to a new level. Where the first game might startle you from time to time, I think this 
 one will make your hair stand up pretty often. Again, they didn't go over the top with it and it's 
 well balanced with the FPS combat of the game.
  
  Bottom line: if you love FEAR (I've probably played the single player campaign a dozen times - 
 I'm a FEAR junkie) then you'll love this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ragingthunder
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 19, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  This game picks up right where the first one ended. There is not much of a story in this game. 
 Except the part where you crash and have to try and escape. The reason why I say there is not much 
 of a story is because none of your questions about the first game are answered here. So if you 
 where hoping for answers keep dreaming. I dont want to say so too much about the game, since it 
 will ruin your chance to enjoy it. However , I will say this-cliff hanger. Thats right this game 
 ends with another cliff hanger. There I said enough. So theres not much of a story in this game 
 , but there is more then enough action to make up for it. For starters almost everything breaks 
 or blows up. So use those to your advantage through the course of the game. Why? Cause the AI has 
 not gotten any easier to kill and along with the two are three added enemies knowing your weapons 
 is a must! Through the game I used every weapon that I could fine. Even the newly added minigun 
 and laser cannon. To be honest you can do without the laser . Trust me its not all that great.
 
  
  The music is still good and ,along with the danger around every corner, still scares the hell out 
 of me. I know this doesnt look like much of a review, but with there being very little story in 
 the game and the game being short. Theres not much I could say without ruining your gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhankeydinks
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Last year, in the some what late fall I went out and sold my Xbox and everything I had that had 
 to do with my Xbox. Why? I sold it all in order to purchase two much anticipated pc games; both 
 of which I might add were well received by the gaming community. Those games were Call of Duty 
 2 and F. E. A. R. Have you not heard of F. E. A. R? Well then, let me tell you, You all deserve to die.
 
  Extraction Point is the not much anticipated expansion pack to F. E. A. R and the gaming community 
 didnt receive it as well as the original. Extraction Point of course includes the fast-paced kinetic 
 firefights from F. E. A. R along with some much needed, pant-pissing, mouth drooling, hair pulling, 
 eyes widening moments of disgust, despair, and fear. TimeGate Studios, the team responsible for 
 the expansion, knew what it could add and improve on which is giving us more of the same. TimeGate 
 seems to have proven itself in continuing the fear experience by incorporating every Japanese Horror 
 Film clich&eacute; in the book while improving just how much you will jump with the randomness 
 of when these pant-pissing moments occur. Now here is a very watered-down version of the back-story 
 to this game. You are one of two sons to a woman named Alma, her sons were taken away, she got 
 mad, and she died. One of her sons, Fettel, wants to avenge her mother and take you down with him 
 and her. In addition, its hell, which hell is war. It is assumed you know all this, because well, 
 you need the first game to be able to install this game soplay them in order. Not much story is 
 told though, in-fact, more questions are implied than answers and sometimes it is just confusing 
 and youll want to wonder why they made this game. Without any real continuation of the amazing 
 plot with twist and turns like the original what is the point? Graphics and sound are of-course 
 amazing in this just as the first and if you want the full ambient visceral feel of the game play 
 in the middle of night with all the lights off, windows and doors locked, and the volume all the 
 way up. Youll be in for a ride of your life that no Horror game has ever been able to deliver 
 before this. With the addition of I believe 2 new weapons and some new enemies it really adds to 
 the value. While the two new weapons; mini-gun and same odd rail gun are more of let downs than 
 added fun. The two or four new enemies provide some more intense drama as you try to defeat them 
 with your already assorted array of guns and grenades. Like the first game though, you will use 
 really only two of your guns and two types of grenades. Over all, F. E. A. R Extraction Point is more 
 of the same F. E. A. R that we love pissing our pants to. The kinetic action with the much more intense 
 fear you feel will add to anyones love for the game. While not adding much graphically, and offering 
 some different areas you fight in; a church and subway. Youre still running through dark corridors 
 of sewers and decrepit buildings in one of the ugliest cities ever seen. The game lacks length 
 and extension of the plot. So, if youre looking for plot, just wait for F. E. A. R 2. If you want 
 more of the same kinetic heart racing action and hair standing fear then pick it up. With around 
 three to five hours of game play and the ability to pickup the game for $20 then this isnt a bad 
 deal. Just feels like we are being fooled until the next chapter in the series hits store shelves. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 13, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  I finished it playing not so long ago and I say that this game could be done very well ,but not 
 very bright storyline. New weapons are good ,but assault rifle is the best , and maybe 2 pistols 
 . Body armors and medkits layed around everywhere and I didnt die even once , in FEAR I died a 
 lot... But FEARXP was more creepier then FEAR , FEARXP held more unawares situations.
  
  Gameplay: It didnt change ,but new gadgets made it better
  Sound: Yes its still creepie
  Graphics: 
 Its expansion , graphics didnt change.
  
  But I rate games not be criterions but how much I enjoyed it playing and i enjoyed it a lot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobaFett2040
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 11, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Okay. I played F. E. A. R and was chomping at the bit for more. So a while later Extraction Point 
 comes out. I was thrilled. So I get the game and install it. I figure it'll be like the original 
 F. E. A. R. Wow. I couldn't have been more wrong. This expansion is better than the original F. E. A. R. 
 The atmosphere is back, and on steroids. The weaponry, the NEW weaponry, is defiantly tilted in 
 your favor. I mean the minigun doesn't shoot enemies, it shreds them. You have almost 1000 rounds 
 in it and they're gone in a matter of seconds. The laser rifle, it's a solid stream of death. Glad 
 they didn't put them in multiplayer, which is excellent, as it would make it WAY unbalanced. One 
 guy would rule the server. Extraction point is more grueling than the original F. E. A. R. It is physically 
 exhausting. There's only one small problem..... it doesn't want to end. I figured out the relationship 
 between the character we play and the girl in the original F. E. A. R. Now they're trying to stretch 
 it out? Come one, just let it end. It's taking too long for our main character to catch on. Honestly, 
 if he's THAT slow, how'd he get into that outfit? I'm at the life flight elevator PRAYING for it 
 to end. But the game scares the living daylights out of me. A true horror game where shooting isn't 
 the ONLY thing to look out for. Honestly, I'd love to see a movie made about this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 11, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  2005 was a breaking year for the FPS department of video games. We saw the gleaming F. E. A. R. title 
 in that bundle of FPS games, because it stood out incredibly among the crowd. A year later, right 
 about the same time as last year, the expansion pack to the beautiful F. E. A. R. is released. F. E. A. R. 
 Extraction Point may be only 5 more hours of gameplay, but the added touches make it an overall 
 more fun experience than F. E. A. R. itself. Most expansions never give you enough of what you payed. 
 The last time you got your money's worth on an expansion was Half-life: Opposing Force. The Doom 
 3: Resurrection of Evil expansion came close, but no cigar. F. E. A. R. Extraction Point is great 
 in every aspect. The story has gotten hotter, the tension has tied into a knot, and there are new 
 goodies everywhere.
  
  Once again F. E. A. R. stuns us with its strongest suit, gameplay. Not only has it always been a blast, 
 but this time it's even better. Instead of keeping you in nasty compound and mall environments, 
 you get to have extreme gun fights in churches, streets, hospitals, and subway stations. There 
 are a few new enemies that all pack a whopping punch and have AI just as amazing as ever. New weapons 
 await your wielding as well in Extraction Point. The visuals again are blinding with beauty. As 
 I mentioned, there are new environments to go at your gun battles in, but I must mention now that 
 these environments are incredible. With every detail you could think of. Pewes and books in a church, 
 autopsies and blood in a hospital. You get what you give. The new enemies look fantastic, and the 
 old ones haven't changed. The lighting effects have gotten better in the spookier environments. 
 The original F. E. A. R. didn't provide much fear from the lighting effects that were intended to 
 actually scare the player. Now we see a huge change.
  
  The sound is unbelievable. High quality, and top notch. Great voice acting all around. Paxton Fettel's 
 voice especially.
  
  The ending to the game is magnificent and dark. You can only ponder on whether you will face war 
 or death next when F. E. A. R. 2 comes around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosValkyire
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 8, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Wow, whats to be said? This game is incredible. For those of you who thought the original F. E. A. R. 
 was pretty damn scary, you're in for something else. As in the original F. E. A. R. the game gradually 
 escalates in both action intensity and horror intensity. Some of the final moments of the game 
 make your heart beat out of your chest, whether it is from the chill running up your spin from 
 the whisper of 'Over Here...' or whether its the ReflexTime effect as you pump lead into the face 
 of an oncoming replica soldier. F. E. A. R. delivers... but not perfectly.
  
  The game follows a simple formula, that while effective, becomes tedious. Action - horror - action 
 - horror - action and so on until the end, the further you progress into the game the longer these 
 sequences are. However, its not all bad, as the game throws in some interesting twists, for instance 
 in one part of the game when you must traverse the subway, Alma appears and slays an entire squad 
 of replica soldiers and says 'You're safe now' (which you definitely aren't, where the $^&pound;% 
 was she for the rest of the game, and why is she still hostile later on?) . There are few twists 
 like this though.
  
  F. E. A. R. covered a lot of nit-picking people had with the former title. most noticeably with the 
 solo operation of the Point man. Holiday fights along side you, and he isn't useless either. NPC's 
 now must also face the wrath of the paranormal, and while Holiday's voice acting is only mildly 
 convincing at best, it adds to the terror most effectively and really brings out a sense of panic 
 when things begin to go awry. Enemy replica soldiers are killed frequently by a new type of enemy, 
 what seems to be a specter of some kind with glowing red eyes and a light-refractive body. Their 
 appearance is unexplained, and your first combat encounter with them is frustrating and very frightening 
 at the same time. New weapons have been added to F. E. A. R's single player campaign, but unfortunately, 
 you'll rarely find any ammo for them so using them is rather impractical, no matter how cool these 
 new weapons might be. Two of the three new weapons seem to have been based loosely on Unreal's 
 minigun and 'Link' gun. The laser carbine fires a steady stream of red energy which causes catastrophic 
 damage, and the minigun fires heavy rounds at an excellent speed with, for a chain gun, excellent 
 accuracy. The lack of ammo however is disappointing, as in a F. P. S having fun with the weapons 
 and being able to use them is important, and Extraction Point misses out on that.
  
  The sound from Extraction Point is mostly recycled from the base title, and despite this, it works. 
 The philosophy of 'if it ain't broke, don't fix it' comes to mind here. The music clues you into 
 whats about to happen, which only helps to make you more terrified of whats going on around you. 
 There are far more sound effects that are designed to scare you as well, when moving through an 
 environment after finishing off a firefight, noises will come from all over, and make you spin 
 and unload into shadows, only to find that you've simply stumbled into an object on the floor. 
 Visually, Extraction Point is fantastic, and the new environments you play through give the firefights 
 a grander, more intense feel. The same applies for horror moments, the space seems smaller and 
 more confined than it is, with blood sprayed everywhere. There are more things to interact with 
 as well, and although it is fairly redundant, bashing the doors open makes you feel so much more 
 into the game, and adds that tiny bit extra of realism.
  
  The main problem with Extraction Point is the plot. So many questions are raised: How did Paxton 
 come back to life, or did he? What happened to Alma, where did the entire population of Auburn 
 go (this one is extremely frustrating as the character's mention it and the first chapter is called 
 'Contamination' but nothing is really explained) ? What/who were the new enemy entities? These are 
 just a few of many questions that could be asked of this game. Regardless, its still magnificent 
 and will entertain you over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sebastian_Kim
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2007 12:51 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. Extraction Point continues to provide about another 6 hours of good solid F. E. A. R.-style 
 gameplay. However, I found the added weapons to be near useless and played most of the game through 
 with my standard combo of shotgun, assault rifle and 1 special (usually plasma rifle or HV penetrator) . 
 Plasma rounds were particularly hard to come by. (That's ok, it's a really powerful gun) The chaingun 
 was sort of fun but not as much as I had hoped, and the laser carbine was just sort of silly. Turrets 
 weren't as much fun as I had hoped, but they do make the final fight cake.
  
  The Alma story was continued but not really to the end that I thought. (or I just didn't get it, 
 that's possible too) A large portion of the creep-sequences were not as well scripted as in the 
 original. I missed the visuals on a good number of them b/c I was either not looking the right 
 way, or far more often, b/c I had hit the trigger pt. but since I wasn't charging into rooms blindly, 
 didn't get to see the visual. This was disappointing, since it was a good chunk of what made the 
 original so good. Didn't think much of the ending.
  
  Music was too loud (trying to be dramatic) when launching several 'staged' fights. Which is a pain 
 when you're trying to hear which way the bad guys are going so you can do what you got the game 
 for. You know, shoot them.
  
  Overall: If you liked F. E. A. R., like the smart AI but wanted different weapons or some different 
 buildings to play in this may be for you. Otherwise replay the original or go buy something else. 
 I just replayed the original for the third time right before this came out and I enjoyed it quite 
 a bit more than this expansion. I don't think TimeGate quite 'got' exactly the mix that made the 
 original as good as it was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VortexF-9
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying the both F. E. A. R was, and still is an excellent game. The graphics were 
 top notch, and the music left you on the edge of your seat. Extraction Point does more of the same, 
 but almost twice that. The game starts off right where F. E. A. R left off, and doesn't hold back 
 with the frequent little scares that make you jump, and catch your breath. But this game is more 
 then a fright fest. There are some really incredible (and often difficult) shootout's that you'll 
 be having with the replica soldiers, as the same great A. I from the last game is back, and better 
 then ever. But the reason this game was given a 7.5 is because.... well, it's short. Yes, it's an 
 expansion pack, but a few more hours of gameplay would've been nice. Also, over the course of the 
 game, you're doing basically the same thing. Battles with soldiers, more soldiers, scares, soldiers, 
 storyline scenario, soldiers, etc. And the fact that for some reason, you need a more powerful 
 rig to fully enjoy this game then you did with the original game (F. E. A. R ran fine on my rig, but 
 lagged and stuttered with Extraction Point, making me lower settings and making things look bland) .
 
  
  Overall, a great game that can be improved on in the sequel, which I pray to god there is one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 2:14 am PT
Review:  GameSpot is right about one  Point continues the frantic firefights 
 and creepy atmosphere of F. E. A. R.. I argue this expansion improves upon both THOUGH, and that's 
 all it really needed to do to be a worthy successor to the original. Gameplay? Outstanding! The 
 AI continues to be amongst the three best in FPSers I've seen; combine that with effective level 
 design and the well done horror atmosphere, and this game helps define the genre. The sound is 
 still excellent, and the new weapons are fun to play with and good complements to the original 
 arsenal. It is a little short, though par for an expansion, and when you consider the quality of 
 gameplay and the price of the expansion, Extraction Point is one of the best values out there, 
 and a required part of any dedicated FPS fans game library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mysanthrope
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  As a huge fan of the original FEAR, Extraction Point didn't need too many bells &amp; whistles 
 to get my attention. I loved the atmosphere, the visuals, sound, AI, guns... All very satisfying. 
 The story was decent for a video game, but I read a book or movie when I want a good story. Games 
 don't usually deliver for me in that category.
  
  Extraction Point, like most have said, is more of what you liked about the original. The developers 
 weren't very daring. They really didn't add much to the story, and they left the gameplay formula 
 alone. 2 or 3 new types of bad guys- cool. Some new locales... sweet. The 2 new guns were very 
 nice, but as someone else said, the ammo is scarce, which is a shame. It would have been a lot 
 of fun to go on a total rampage with both of those guns for a decent stretch of time. For instance... 
 one of my favorite game-moments was near the end of Half-life 2, when you have nothing except the 
 super-charged gravity gun, and you are just going absolutely berserk with it. FEAR needs moments 
 like that.
  
  This expansion was brief, which some have complained about. It took me like 6 hours on medium, 
 and that fit the bill nicely. Admittedly, I may have a shorter attention span then some, but I 
 was satisfied.
  
  Another thing that some have complained about is the system requirements. FEAR looked gorgeous 
 and played very smoothly on my puter. Here, they ramped up output, and I had a pretty tough time 
 tweaking it. This actually frustrated me until I checked online, and discovered that it wasn't 
 just me. It picked a level of settings for me, and it looked real nice, but when a little action 
 hit the screen, the game stuttered horribly. I had to sacrifice quite a bit of eye candy, to be 
 able to make this game play well. Expansions don't usually challenge your system that much more 
 than the original game. Anyway... I am a big fan of that nail gun, and I was pleased to wield it 
 once more. Well worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katwomansz
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Just more may disappoint some. As many have said if you loved FEAR you'll love this one. Just don't 
 expect any more story development.
  
  Its just linear level one after the other, but that's what FEAR was and they don't break the chain 
 nor add anything new.
  ooo Ok you get a chain gun. and what was that other gun? Boy I forget it already, so it wasn't 
 revolutionary now was it?
  
  This is more like a Half live 'episode' with 3-4 hours of play.
  So don't pay more than $20, 
 for that amount it's a deal, any more is a steal from YOU. So Sierra if you think this will satisfy 
 people for a FEAR 2, you better keep working another couple years. But then you expect so much 
 from a groundbreaking title like FEAR, that maybe I expected too much..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THGarrett
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 5, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  So in this expansion you pretty much pick up where the original game left off and you are supposed 
 to make your way to the extraction point, hence the name. You get a couple of cool new weapons 
 and gadgets including a new big minigun which is great when against many foes, a laser rifle which 
 can sever body parts, and a remote turret mine which is a great distraction for your enemies as 
 well as provides you with cover fire for flanking and what not. There are few more enemies this 
 time around as well including more heavily armed and armored replica soldiers and new mystical 
 ghosts. The locations expand beyond the typical office and warehouse settings from the last game; 
 you'll be running and gunning through churches, subways, hospitals, and parking garages. So the 
 expansion definitely adds some great new content for F. E. A. R. players.
  
  My only real complaint is that the story doesn't explain as much as you would expect. As a matter 
 of fact by the end you'll probably be asking a few more questions and will unfortunately just have 
 to wait until the next expansion or sequel.
  
  Overall though, the expansion is around 5-7 hours in length depending on the difficulty and overall 
 is worth the $30 price tag. So if you enjoyed the original game and want more of the same then 
 I can't see why you shouldn't pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tusa04
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 2:34 am PT
Review:  Played and finished it before 2 months, the game is overall a good expansion pack, it adds a spice 
 to the game and makes the gameplay nicer, but not neccesiraly better because the AI are boringly 
 the same but the shadow enemies are scary (kinda) , also the new big ass robots is nice to kill 
 (dont know its name ; ) , and the weapons are amazing to blast onto enimes espacially if there is 
 a place with lots of envirometal damage like offices, also i'd like to say that i enjoyed the cutscenes 
 they made as they were realistic and amzingly scary with the sounds. Altough, i found the story 
 pretty short but left me wondering what would happen in F. E. A. R 2, so overall i think you would 
 get this game if ur bored and got like a week at most with nothing on your hands. Still i enjoyed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deaconmon
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 2, 2007 11:40 pm PT
Review:  It didn't end, so I can't say ending 
  FEAR EP was essentially more of FEAR - which is a good thing. More than the original, you are required 
 to use the SloMo to beat the game - just not possible without it. Enemies are still smart, they 
 still flank and cover each other, though I felt like I got fewer grenades thrown at me in the ExpansionPack. 
 Overall, I enjoyed playing the game.
  
  Playing on HARD, the game was simply too short. I died maybe 3 times the entire game, but otherwise, 
 I spent most of the game at 50%+ armor and 80+ health, with 10 healthpacks in inventory. With all 
 that, maybe the game took 5 hours. Maybe. And I tend to play these things kind of slow - exploring 
 and maybe going slower than I need to.
  
  Graphics were still top rate, but I have to agree with some of the other reviewers, there were 
 times that the sound was just wrong - skipping almost. And, I have never had to turn up my speakers 
 as loud as I did just to hear the game. I had a couple slow downs, where my frame rate plummeted, 
 and one lock up. The last rooftop level was the worst - I'll bet my frame rate was 2 to 3 seconds 
 per frame. I had to stop, exit, reboot, and start the level over twice - third time was the charm.
 
  I also had problems with the proximity mines - about a quarter to a third of the time, they would 
 just float around the room after I threw them, and never land. I had originally thought this was 
 a Fettel or Alma thing, but it kept happening. Since they don't arm until after they land, this 
 was a problem. I finished the game with a pile of proximity mines floating around...
  
  There were some spooky pieces to it, but it didn't have quite the same effect as the original. 
 Overall, the level design was pretty effective, but more than once I found myself wondering if 
 I had missed something. The hospital had some nice twists to it, and the subway was pretty well 
 done. I have more mixed feelings over the earliest levels. They felt less scripted, but also more 
 generic, almost like they were re-used environments thrown together to add levels. They came out 
 okay, but felt a little forced and unfinished.
  
  The new weapons are kind of cool, but not enough advance to warrant the game. I tried and immediately 
 dismissed the laser rifle. The chaingun worked well, but was too inaccurate to be of great use 
 - I was also surprised at how long it took to kill even the simplest of enemies - I swear I could 
 kill faster with the assault rifle. I KNOW I could kill faster with the shotgun. The only real 
 success I had with the chaingun was against the slow moving armor guys with the Penetrators - I 
 could usually limit them to maybe 3 or 4 shots from the penetrator, and if I was moving much at 
 all, they'd miss more than they hit. If I could get close enough, I also used it on a couple chaingun 
 baddies - but again - gotta keep moving or his own chaingun chews me up. The turrets were the best 
 addition, and definitely came in handy on the roof at the end of the game (as well as a couple 
 other places - suffice to say that if you find turrets, you are probably going to be using them 
 soon.)
  
  The new bad guys were nice additions, and were some serious trouble. The giant robot things were 
 easy enough, SloMo, pop around the corner, launch a volley of rockets then dodge back. I met one 
 of the chaingun baddies in the subway - the MF knelt down behind a sign, and held his chaingun 
 out from behind the sign and opened up - all I could see was an arm (SloMo, grenade, grenade - 
 got him moving) . The shadow creature things with the red eyes were serious problems - the first 
 time I saw them they killed me before I even knew what was attacking me. Once I realized what I 
 was up against, it became easier - two words - SloMo, and Shotgun - but, they were still serious 
 pains almost every time they appeared.
  
  The stop, though, was just hard to take. The stop was not as bad as the one in Half-Life 2, but 
 it still kind of sucked. With the events in the plot, and the way the game just stops, it made 
 the entire game kind of pointless - just run through buildings and shoot bad things, all for no 
 real reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SRW1
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. Extraction Point was a big let down compared to F. E. A. R. The game play was very short 
 and ended without any specific ending. If differently ends leading into another expansion pack 
 by if this version is the example of the expansion packs to be offered I would not buy the next 
 one. The graphics were improved over the first version but the short game play (4.5 hours) was 
 the biggest disappointment. This is a fine example of a corporate company taking advantage of the 
 consumer by shorting the expected game play so that they can collect money for the next expansion 
 pack that should have been part of this package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Griff1390
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 27, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  This expansion pack for F. E. A. R. is just plain amazing. To put it simple, make it from your downed 
 helicopter to another helicopter while battling more Replicas, some walking battle tanks, and some 
 creepy stealth enemies, all the while blasting away with 2 new weapons. The gameplay of EP is the 
 same as the original F. E. A. R. Nothing new, but this game manages to make the gameplay in EP better 
 than that in F. E. A. R. Some of the environments are wide open, making for epic battles. The game 
 will sometimes throw upwards of 10 enemies at you, forcing you to throw yourself into slow mo and 
 use cover. The new minigun and lazer gun are welcome additions. The minigun might be the best FPS 
 gun I've ever used. Theres nothing more satisfying then holding down the trigger and watching over 
 a hundred bullets fly at a mob of enemies in just over a second. The game creates tension, and 
 the battles will get your heart going as well as your adrenaline. The game will scare the wits 
 out of you. Period. EP is even scarier than F. E. A. R., as there are constant little things that 
 jump out to scare you. This plays a large part into the gameplay, as you'll often find yourself 
 firing wildly hoping that whatever it was you just saw won't come and kill you, only to find that 
 there isn't anything there. Then once in a while something will be there.... you'll see for yourself. 
 The graphics engine is the same as the one used in F. E. A. R. However, the locations are designed 
 extremely well. The first half of the game is spent in what seems like the same old warehouses 
 from the original F. E. A. R., but the subway levels are a marvel to look at. The hospital is by far 
 the creepiest, most well designed level in the game. The looks of the hospital itself gave me the 
 creeps. The graphic effects are amazing, explosions are huge, enemies explode in a mass of blood 
 and gore, animations are smooth. The sound in EP is amazing. The same sound effects return from 
 F. E. A. R., along with some really good music. The music does a really good job of elevating the 
 tension. The sound effects of the shooting and enemies are first class. Also, the sound effects 
 the game used to scare you are really well done. It's difficult to describe them, but play this 
 game with your headphones on high and you'll find yourself wondering if something is behind you. 
 It is an expansion pack, so you won't be getting a large amount of content. This game took me a 
 day to beat, about 5 hours total. It would have been nice if there was some sort of new multiplayer 
 mode, but that wouldn't have been likely as F. E. A. R. multiplayer is already available as F. E. A. R. 
 Combat. What is in the expansion pack is very good, and at $20 it's hard to go wrong. It just would 
 have been nice to get a little something with it. This expansion pack is amazing. If you own F. E. A. R. 
 then you need to pick this up. And if you don't own F. E. A. R., then pick it up, and use it as a 
 warm up for EP. The expansion pack makes the original game worth owning. It's that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frosty939
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  This game couldn't have been made by the same people that made the first one. All the scary sequences 
 were obvious and you would find your self searching around the room just to see what was supposed 
 to be scaring you before it disappeared.
  
  There is absolutely nothing new in Extraction Point, the story isn't elaborated at all. It just 
 shows the exact same cinematic sequences over and over again. If you were getting 40 fps in the 
 first FEAR you'll be getting 20 with the settings half as high. when ever you opened a door you 
 would visibly see the frames drop 40-50% for a good 10 seconds.
  
  Now before you think the reason i lagged is because i have a bad/old computer my specs are as followed:
 
  
  AMD 4800+
  2 gigs ram cas 3338
  x1900 xtx 2x SATA2 7200's in RAID 0
  
  I sure hope that if another fear is ever made it is made by the first guys. Because i want new 
 info on the story not a repeat of what i've already played. And maybe some originality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 6.1
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Despite its shortcomings F. E. A. R. was a solid shooter. It had great battles, graphics, and sound; 
 it even had a noble attempt at a story. Well, this expansion which arrived a year later gave players 
 more of those great battles, graphics, and sound, but the storyline went out for a drive, and didn't 
 say when it was coming back. Also, the level design is still fairly bland because of the graphics. 
 Though to be fair, TimeGate at least used a wider range of environments than Monolith.
  
  Extraction Point doesn't really have a story, but it does have a setting. After your helicopter 
 went down at the end of the original game, you, and the other two survivors have to make their 
 way to the Auburn Memorial Hospital where the remnants of Delta Force have set up an extraction 
 point. That's where the expansions title came from, to point out the obvious. Oh, and everyone's 
 favorite psychic goth girl makes her return, and attempts to make you soil yourself again. Her 
 appearances are more frequent in the expansion, but this probably has to do with the fact that 
 the expansion is a lot shorter than the original game.
  
  As far as expansions are concerned, Extraction Point brings absolutely nothing new to FEAR's gameplay. 
 There are several new weapons, but they're really just variants of those found in the original 
 game, and they're not usable in multiplayer which was overlooked in EP. Sorry online gaming fans. 
 FEAR does introduce a couple of new enemy types, but you'll encounter the original ones far more 
 over the course of the expansions five hour campaign.
  
  The graphics... well the shadows look nicer, but nothing else has really changed. The new enemies 
 and weapons are fortunately just as detailed as the original ones. The sound... I think they got 
 different voice actors for the characters, but I just don't care enough to find out. The music 
 is just as bland as it was in FEAR, and the sound effects are still excellent.
  
  There's very little I can really say about Extraction Point. It's basically the same thing as F. E. A. R. 
 except without the storyline. If you loved FEARs gunfights, didn't mind the bland level design, 
 and don't care about the story; then by all means go and buy EP, you'll probably like it. Unfortunately, 
 if you hated the level design and liked FEAR for its story (or multiplayer) then there's very little 
 this expansion can offer you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgyuri
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  The Extraction point give you 5 more hours of game-play, 3 new weapons, some new enemies, and the 
 story is continues.
  The game-play is get better, because there is more horror elements are in.
  
  we get 3 new 
 weapons but less ammo the the other weapons we can find.
  we get: a chain gun, a laser gun, and mini turret....
  
  the Extraction point is a good game 
 for fans and thats all .... you can try it, but this is a simply FPS, with horroristic elements...
 
  
  BUT
  
  Extraction point brings more and better horroristic elements than the original FEAR... and this 
 makes Extraction Point a very good FPS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drkl0rd2000
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 23, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  Fear: EP gives you 5 to 6 more hours of the same thing you experience in F. E. A. R....
  
  Scary atmosphere- bingo, comes complete with all the sut-tle movements the shadows darting from 
 give, the feeling of panic as you walk around awaiting what you know must be coming.
  
  Excellent AI- check, more of the same from the awesome AI, it flanks you, dodges, searches for 
 cover, tips over tables, ambushes you.... a true experence of combat continues as this excellent 
 AI continues to set the standards high!
  
  Music- Wow, still sets the tone (no pun intended) with its shocking musical score.... think James 
 Camerons ALIENS how it made each moment feel even more tense, well music does the same
  
  Story- Ok not so great, it answers nothing.. really there is no story other than go from point A 
 to point B and kill things... so not much actual storytelling in this Expansion... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fender92
Rating: 3.2
Date: Dec 20, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  What a disappointment! It was not worth the money., I feel ripped off. Wayyyyy too short, very 
 little value. The authors certainly did not stretch their imaginations at all. In fact I found 
 it boring. Kinda like Doom was last year. I had the feeling it was issued just before christmas 
 like a vulture waits for an animal to die. This thing has no legs. I want my money back!!!! The 
 usual graphics were fine and the sound is ok but quite frankly, we the consumer have been had. 
 these guys had better smarten up unless they are planning to go out of business. From now on I 
 will read reviews by gamers before buying anything from Sierra. In fact its a good all around lesson 
 to learn. I will review any future games I purchase.
  
  PS: I want a new FarCry for PC dammit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  EP's an expansion for one of the best shooters of last year, F. E. A. R. F. E. A. R. combined visceral 
 gameplay with japanese horror that resulted in a fantastic game that had you crapping your pants. 
 EP's more of the same except for one crucial element, plot. EP more or less strings together it's 
 incredible action sequences with a weak plot that goes nowhere. However, if you just want some 
 of the same great gameplay from the original game, EP's definitely a good purchase.
  
  EP's plot is generally a 5 to 6 hour epilogue. The copter that was carrying you to safety has crashed, 
 and now it's up to you and some friends to move through the city and reach the extraction point 
 so you can be lifted off into safety (hence the subtitle) . The game doesn't answer any of the questions 
 that remained in the original game, characters are killed off without much justification, and new 
 questions arise but none of them are answered. Stuff generally happens and none if it makes any 
 sense even when put into context with the original game.
  
  Even though EP lost the intrigue and mystery that the original game had, it's gunplay is fully 
 intact. Combat's just as fun and visceral as before. Bullets tear chunks off of walls, sparks beam 
 out from metal objects, smoke and dust fill up the room after combat is over. The AI is still awesome, 
 they flank, they give covering fire, and they use soda machines by pulling them off of walls for 
 cover. In general, they try to use the environment to their advantage all the time. Besides the 
 standard array of guns from the original, a couple new ones are in the expansion. A laser carbine 
 rifle that can generally carve through anything and a minigun that tears through anything within 
 seconds. EP also has the element of horror that original game had. The static from your radio foreshadows 
 something creepy might happen and odd visual effects will keep you on your toes. Objects are subtly 
 moved or nudged, which will always draw your attention. Sound is used effectively with creepy voices 
 that'll make you think twice before turning the corner. Overall, EP still has the horror and general 
 creepiness that the original game had so prepare to crap your pants every other mintue.
  
  The single player mode is the only new addition to the expansion, no new multiplayer modes or anything. 
 Once you've finished the single player, that's pretty much it. You won't be missing much even if 
 you miss this game because the single player doesn't answer any questions and doesn't answer any 
 of the new questions that are brought up. However, if you just want 5 more hours of F. E. A. R., EP 
 will fulfill your wants. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor_25
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  When F. E. A. R. was first released a couple of years ago, the game brought chilling and exciting 
 gameplay to the PC. It was a fantastic game that offered a bunch of scary, spine tingling moments 
 all packaged in superior graphics and audio. The expansion Extraction Point continues the same 
 spine tingling moments and in some ways deals with the few complaints the first game generated. 
 However, for some reason, crashes and freeze up issues plagued this short expansion. Certainly 
 worth a play if you enjoyed F. E. A. R and intend to play F. E. A. R. 2.
  
  It certainly seems like the Devs were paying attention to the one universal complaint from the 
 fist game which was lack of variety in the enemies you fought. There was pretty much one replica 
 solder, an armored version, an armored mech, and then of course the ninja guys. EP adds a couple 
 of new replica troops. Each one carries one type of weapon and therefore different strategies work 
 better against each type. They each have a distinctive look to them as well so its easy to tell 
 them apart. There is an additional armored mech added as well that packs a big punch but is pretty 
 easy to defeat. The ninjas are back but in addition to these guys, you also fight ghost like wraiths 
 that are hard to see and fast. All in all there is a much better variety of enemies to keep you 
 busy in this game.
  
  The action is once again very intense and the slow mo feature is a must during a lot of levels, 
 especially if you play on harder levels. More weapons have been added to assist in the carnage. 
 All of the old weapons are back but added is ah huge vulcan cannon, laser rifle, and a cool new 
 deployable turret (acts like a vicinity mine) that starts to fire when enemies get close. Makes 
 for some cool levels where you can deploy these little guys and they will take out a lot of replica 
 troops as well as acting as a distraction so you can circle behind them. All of this adds to very 
 smooth gameplay. The game is well paced and while you dont get a ton of additional story, the game 
 sets up well for the F. E. A. R. 2.
  
  As for the bugs, well they just shouldnt be there. This game is basically the same game as F. E. A. R. 
 which did not have this many technical issues. Keep in mind that I updated my grafx drivers before 
 playing this game and still had reoccurring crashes and freeze ups. Particularly when loading a 
 new level or saving at a checkpoint, the game just seemed to go berserk. Unfortunately there is 
 no patch available from VU games, so you just have ot keep reloading and hope it finally loads 
 correctly. Even turning down the graphics settings did not seem to help. These problems dropped 
 this game a couple of notches for me, because it was FRUSTRATING. Almost to the point that I gave 
 up and didnt finish the game. Buyer beware on this one. Also note that VU's support site was down 
 for several days when I tried to get help for this problem, so dont expect much help from them.
 
  
  Overall, this is a solid follow up to F. E. A. R. The action picks up right where the first game ends. 
 Plenty of action and scary scenes help to make this game fun and intense. The added enemies and 
 better variety of weapons provide a little different flavor, but the level design is basically 
 a redux of the first game. The game is short, as you would expect of an expansion. Gameplay is 
 probably around 5-6 hours, but it took me longer due to the bugs. If you enjoyed the first F. E. A. R. 
 definitely pick this game up, but do not expect much of an improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danceeagle
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 7, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I'm not terrific as a PC game player but found this shooter entertaining and challenging and thus 
 took me 15 or so hours. It moves right along the same methods found in the original fear with many 
 bloody corridors, offices, air ducks, parking structures, etc., to follow. Rarely will you feel 
 lost in a maze. Some fights are difficult (impossible for me) without using the slow motion tab. 
 No great distractions to the overall goal of moving forward. Can't say it scared me much but it 
 did challenge me in several sections. Happily I didn't need to resort to any walk through or codes 
 to win . Story line is pretty simple which is to get out of the city by hooking up with a black 
 hock heliocopter. Overall, I had fun with this game and it didn't have the long load times or weird 
 attributes you will find on many EA games. You'll need the original Fear disc's to load this. If 
 you like the original Fear I think you'll like this expansion too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morei
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 7, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  The game its self is pretty much the same as the original FEAR, only this time vetrans to the original 
 game won't find EP as shocking or revolutionary. What it does do well is keeping the FEAR experience 
 alive &amp; running, the levels that you fight through are just as immersive &amp; brilliant &amp; 
 as the game progresses, you really get the feeling that its building up to somthing big!
  {Spoilers} but this is were the big let down is, the ending is short &amp; blunt &amp; leaves the 
 player sat there wondering what the!.... , leaving many un-answered questions in regards to Alma, 
 fettel, your character &amp; the situation as a whole {end spoilers} Whether this is a ploy to 
 bring out another FEAR game or to even release some kind internet video that will finally wrap 
 the series up is beyond me, but if you loved FEAR then this is one for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir-Dark-Raiden
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Trying to make some profit or maybe just continue with a nice sequel. F. E. A. R was a great game, 
 it was kinda short and the way the game ends really needs a sequel or something. The graphics, 
 story, and everything was very nice, especially the A. I, but now when i say F. E. A. R Extraction 
 Point, a game that i have waited for a year i am a little disapointed. Why? I think that is the 
 question some of you may ask. Because it was absolutly too short. After waiting a hole year for 
 a game i am feeling like i have waited for a Half Life 2 Episode. And yes, it isn't too pleasant 
 to wait for a game a hole year and then to finish it in a very short period of time. I will keep 
 likeing the F. E. A. R games, but i hope the next one to bring me and to the other gamers a game that 
 will last longer. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 29, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R Extraction point is a good looking game, with some good gunfights and some good creepy 
 scenes.
  F. E. A. R Ex. point continues the story of F. E. A. R where a nuclear plant explodes and after that you'll 
 crash with a helicopter and meet Alma and Vettel again.
  
  Gameplay:
  +The gameplay of Ex. point is great, spooky scenes, nice gunfights and one hell of a ride.
  -The 
 game does not have a great story, it just isnt right.
  -Also Ex. point does not offer any new multiplayer modes.
  
  Graphics:
  +Atmospheric visuals 
 and lightning
  +Great looking special effects
  
  Sounds:
  +Spooky music and action music
  +Excellent environment sounds
  +Good voice-acting
  +Guns 
 sound great
  +Sounds add to the atmosphere
  
  Value:
  +Another enyoyable campaign like F. E. A. R
  -Does not offer new multiplayer modes
  -Campaign 
 is finished before you know it
  
  Tilt:
  +Great presentation
  +Easy controls
  +Nice scenes
  -Lacking story
  
  If you like F. E. A. R i say try this one.
  Adios amigos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Umgar
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  Extraction Point picks up exactly where FEAR left off. The developers don't waste any time; you'll 
 soon find yourself waste deep in epic gun battles with drywall, shell casings, and glass filling 
 the air amidst a hail of lead.
  
  Extraction Point is an expansion in the truest sense of the word - new game content built onto 
 the exact same game engine as the original. The basic weapons are all still there (if you are like 
 me you will *still* find yourself using the shotgun 80% of the time throughout the whole thing) , 
 the enemies are mostly the same kinds of replicants you fought in the first game, and the creepy 
 settings and ambiance soundtrack are once again present.
  
  There are of course some new toys and new foes. You'll be adding a minigun, laser-carbine, and 
 deployable turrets to your arsenal. The replicants will be throwing a new kind of heavy armor soldier 
 at you, a minigun toting variety which is hard to deal with even with liberal use of slo-mo. And 
 Alma is of course, still up to her old tricks - you will encounter super-natural foes that have 
 crossed over and are hell bent at painting the walls with your blood.
  
  Of course since the gameplay is unchanged from FEAR, if there was anything that you didnt' like 
 about the original it will likely still be an issue for you in Extraction Point. The Slow Mo effect 
 is still, in my opinion, a little too powerful and makes the game relatively easy even on the hardest 
 difficulty setting. Aside from this my only biff with Extraction Point is the length. Most people 
 will finish the game in around 4-5 hours.
  
  To sum up, Extraction Point delivers more of what you loved about FEAR and advances the storyline. 
 The developers chose not to tinker with the FEAR formula very much, and that's a good thing. Unfortunately 
 the expansion is very brief, has little replay value, and might leave you wondering why it's not 
 priced significantly lower. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qball145
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  If you are just dying for more of the great gameplay of the original F. E. A. R. and want to extend 
 the single-player game, you might want to pick this up. Otherwise, you might want to wait for the 
 price to come down. This expansion pack features a couple new really fun firearms, a new grenade 
 type, and a couple different enemy types including a monstrous mech type and some swift little 
 nasty demon thingamabobbers. I was actually intrigued with the storyline of the original, but the 
 storyline of the new game isn't very good at all; there just isn't one! Alma's loose and wreaking 
 havoc, oh yay! And Paxton Fettel is supposed to be dead but he's not really dead. He's just kinda 
 dead I guess. Pffft! Pretty lame if you ask me. But the creep-out factor is still there, if not 
 more so in Extraction Point. Although the graphical detail is excellent, there's not much variety 
 in the environments ... this one has you fighting in the catacombs of a church, warehouses, a construction 
 yard, a subway, old buildings, parking garage, a ransacked hospital ... nothing exciting there. 
 But then again, the same was true with the original. There was also a bog down in a couple spots 
 although the original F. E. A. R. ran as smooth as silk with the same settings so I don't know what's 
 up with that. But the awesome firefights and those moments that make you jump are all still there 
 in F. E. A. R. Extraction Point. So in summary, I'd say that while certainly a fun expansion pack, 
 I don't think it was $30.00 worth of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scape45273
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 26, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  All I can say is if you have played Fear which most pc owners have and enjoyed it then get this 
 as it is a great but short expansion pack. The graphics and sound are pretty similar to the original 
 but I think the game takes on more of a supernatural feel this time with loads of surreal experiences 
 and cut scenes. Some of the new enemies will have you jumping in parts. There are a few moments 
 where your computer may slow down a little but the game runs pretty smoothly. All in all this expansion 
 pack is a great add on to a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nonreversebird
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 12, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  My former rig:
  P4 3.2 Asus P4c800e-deluxe MB
  1 gig Corsair 3200 mem
  Hard disk space more than fine.
  EVGA 6800 Ultra and a good one.
  XFI Platinum
  
  My New 
 Rig:
  Lian Li PC-65B case
  Asus Striker Extreme Mother Board
  Intel Duo Core 6700 over clocked to 3Ghz
  2 Gig Corsair 8500s
  2 WD Raptor X 150 gig drives 
 Raid 0 to 300Gig
  EVGA 8800 GTX
  Creative Labs EXtreme Gamer Fatal1ty
  
  The game was unplayable on my original rig. Considering most people have upraded to a PCI-E and 
 AGP is essentially a dinasaur now It is not fair to have originally given it such low scores. After 
 playing it enough to see it the way it is meant to be I actually think it is a lot of fun. The 
 fire fights are so far actually funner than in FEAR. I have not played through the game so I cant 
 comment on story or theme but to me this is a FPS. For me this type of game is about the fighting. 
 As far as scary I dont think anything has really come close to DOOM 3 so that isnt a factor in 
 my review. Right to the point If you like single person fights I give this game a high score. Its 
 hard for me to review the graphics becuase it trully is impossible to play on an AGP system. I 
 like others, pretty much felt that if FEAR could run on our computer then the expansion should. 
 I worked at it for a long time and there was no way to even come close to the way this game is 
 supposed to play and look. So for those people with high end machines Extraction Point is fun for 
 the shear fighting alone. Oh and obviously I did not build this new computer to play EP. I think 
 that the requirments on the games box should have been more exact. This is my problem with it. 
 I would not even have bought it at the time if I new it was unplayable on my rig. I should be stated 
 that 2 gig of memory is required. PCI Express system is required. Considering I am not a mind reader 
 I will just simply accept that in the PC gaming world AGP died a long time ago and nVidia 7000 
 series cards are just the norm. So I will give the game new attributes taking into consideration 
 that my system happened be I guess out dated. I cant blame a game developer for wanting to stretch 
 the boundaries. I like the game better than most now, if it matters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guylapierre
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 25, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  Extraction point was a refreshing glass of shooter to quench my F. E. A. R. thirst. I can only hope 
 that this franchise continues for a long time. It has earned its place along side Half Life and 
 Far Cry in my book which are the best of the best.
  
  The story and the plot continues on very nicely and the firefights are even more spectacular at 
 times. I found the ambushing tactics more difficult this time around and a blast to play. They 
 sometimes took a few tries before I won the battle. The few open area fights with many enemies 
 was a blast! And at one point I had to take down two heavies at the same time and that was a blast 
 two. I almost lost my mind when I saw both of them!
  
  The only gripe I have is that I don't think the code was as optimized this time around as the last 
 time. The performance was not as smooth as the first time around using the same settings. At times 
 that was frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OG_Gangasta
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  Remember how we left our mouths open at the end of F. E. A. R. ? well, i did - and i gotta tell you 
 - i didn't except there's going to be and expansion pack for that game. The story continues exactly 
 when it ends the Helicopter crash leaves you without your 2 friends (They are always leaving me 
 :&lt; not fare)
  and once again - you are fighting by your own. (damn it) i can't say much more than i just love 
 the way sierra are fusing an FPS game with a horror story.
  
  The graphics are amazing i didnt have much drops while playing with my PC that is not that well, 
 buy im sure other people who have better PCs than mine - will have much fun playing this game than 
 me.
  
  amazing , awsome .Super Scary - Better than the Ring 2
  
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 23, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  I have to say the FEAR expansion is excellent.. More open environments and more usablility of different 
 weapon loadouts.. definaltely picked up all the right things I had quibbles about in the primary 
 game. Also stronger AI. New animations for soldiers as well as new soldiers with a moderate bullet 
 taking compared to a big gap in the first FEAR. (weak to strong) . The game is challenging even 
 on easy.. where FEAR was definately not so. The scares in the game felt a little less scary.. since 
 I got used to the scares in the first game.. and just felt like more of a time killer than anything 
 else. Course this comes through my first runthrough the expansion.. but I have to say, I enjoy 
 the expansion a ton.. the environments change just right so not to be boring.. unlike that Office 
 building setting where it seemed it was never going to end in the primary game. The new weps are 
 okay.. nothing to write home about.. but I found I loved the minigun more than the lazer rifle. 
 I definately switched my weapon loadout frequently, not so in the original game. The length was 
 perfect.. and the gfx did NOT bogg down my system.. so ergo, no stuttering issues. I love the expansion 
 and see myself playing more of it in the future.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 5:45 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. was sufficiently creepy and one of the most intense games that I have ever experienced. 
 If the game had a fault though, it was the lack of variety in its enemies and environments. Thats 
 why Extraction Point is a disappointment. For the most part, Extraction Point feels like a bunch 
 of copy-and-pasted levels from the core game. You could play it for an hour and not even realize 
 that its a new game. F. E. A. R. was a great game, but Extraction Point is not what an expansion 
 pack should be.
  
  Gameplay-wise, the great AI and action is still there. Enemies still find cover, flank you cleverly, 
 use grenades and run away from yours, bark out orders and exclamations, and collapse into bloody 
 heaps if you blast them with the shotgun at close range. F. E. A. R. had such an excellent formula 
 that replaying it could never be bad, perse. But why not improve it? How about fighting in some 
 new environments? How about giving enemies a new twist in how they fight or some new AI barks? 
 Extraction Point is disappointingly devoid of both. The new environments look almost exactly like 
 the ones from the core game  grey walls and crates everywhere. Crates, crates, and then more crates. 
 F. E. A. R. got away with it because the action was fresh. Extraction Point doesnt get away with 
 it because if you have played the core game once or twice, youve already been here numerous times. 
 The enemies still shout the exact same barks and the occasional creepy music is still exactly the 
 same. None of it is bad, but none of it stands out either. The new weapons in the game are deployable 
 turrets and the mini-gun. Theres also a new enemy in the game. They are nice additions, but they 
 dont change the game a lot, and you get the mini-gun pretty late.
  
  You cant fault a developer for keeping with a successful formula. But Extraction Point does this 
 to a fault. The storyline makes absolutely no sense and adds nothing to the game, leaving you with 
 a cliff hanger-esque ending. Ill be looking forward to a sequel if there is one, but Extraction 
 Point isnt a sequel. Its just a handful of copy and pasted levels that you could mostly experience 
 just by replaying F. E. A. R. again. Even if you loved F. E. A. R, you should probably wait until this 
 game is in the bargain bin before buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dtlr077
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  The initial levels felt like a multiplayer map submitted by an amateur mapper, the latter levels 
 of the game (subway, hospital) were much better. So much more could have been done with the asylum 
 section of the hospital, what with the games capability to freak me out at times, it should have 
 lasted 30 mins. not 5. The graphics were good (as usual for fear) , but the sound was not right. 
 Perhaps it was a bug or an idiosyncrasy with my system but I could never get the volume of the 
 music right, and many sounds just seemed out of place. It seems like this was rushed to the marketplace 
 before it was completely done, it's the fine details that make a game truly great, fear had them, 
 this expansion does not. $19.99 would have been a better price point for this one, it's too short, 
 and doesn't have much more to offer than the original. It was fun, but it's worth waiting until 
 this one gets cheaper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcohSS
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  It's always easiest to play quarterback on Monday morning but after finishing both existing SP 
 FEAR titles, I couldn't help saying it over and over.. this is what I wanted from the original. 
 In my review of the original game, I was impressed with the technological achievments but was a 
 little confused by elements of the story and annoyed by the fantastic contrivances to keep you 
 alone. For all the Delta Force running around, your own team on which you were the FNG (F***ing 
 New Guy) , you managed to be the only guy on site when an entire friggin clone company showed up. 
 It just grated on my nerves and lessened my enjoyment of the title. All of my concerns were put 
 to rest with Extraction point. For me, this time, they got it right.
  Your characters isolation is much more believable and it isn't permanent. You finally get someone 
 to fight by your side, and that makes it so much more fun. A game with a supernatural component 
 such as FEAR as does not lend itself to a silent hero. There should a be witness; someone to nudge 
 you and say...'did you just hear that'? And they did that perfectly with the character of Holiday 
 in this episode. Holiday could see and hear the same things you could, and his reactions were often 
 the same as mine (as the player) . It was laugh out loud funny at some points...
  The combat remains very challenging although not as gruelling as the original. I think the developers 
 worked very hard to balance it where you had a bit of a break before they dropped the hammer on 
 you. There were plenty of supernatural and conversational distractions to keep you from feeling 
 to put upon for all the combat. The existence of a definite goal, trying to reach the extraction 
 point gave a purpose to being dragged through a meat grinder as opposed to the original where you 
 were constantly being called on to investigate major enemy activity... alone. The supernatural and 
 background aspects from the last game are improved upon and explained a bit more clearly in this 
 one. There are also some surprising plot twists that really make walking down that next dark corridor 
 a bit more of a dodgy proposition than usual. And of course, the new weapons were a hoot. Give 
 me a minigun, and I'll give clones, ghosts, goblins, or pretty much anyone standing over in that 
 general area blazing hot death. The deployable turrets were quite a bit of fun too.. although not 
 when you missed your toss and stuck them to something stupid. It was very reminiscent of the turrets 
 in the killer ape movie, Congo. All in all, I enjoyed this game much more than the original, and 
 am quite looking forward to the sequel. I did not notice any bugs beyond an occasional sound bug, 
 but as I cannot determine if it is a game problem or one with my system, I do not include it as 
 a stability problem. Great game. Thanks so much for the thrill, developers. Cheers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLithium
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 19, 2006 3:01 am PT
Review:  It's a great follow-up to the original F. E. A. R., but not much story is reviled in this expantion. 
 Which I didn't expect either. They problably want PS3 and Xbox 360 buyers to play both F. E. A. R. 
 1 and 2, and fully understand the story.
  
  But this story does really leave you wondering about some great questions and after finishing this 
 game I cannot wait for F. E. A. R. 2!
  
  Although the scare tactis they use gets pretty predictable at the end of the game and therefore 
 not so scary at all, you can still enjoy the excellent gameplay which is much more challange than 
 the first game.
  
  Worth playing - excellent fps - but I didn't get so scared towards the end. If you really wanna 
 get scared you should play Condemned: Criminal Orgins.
  
  However - Great game - you should play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whadzen
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 18, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  More of the same FEAR we all know and love. Short game, but harder, more violent and scarier that 
 the first. It's worth every penny and will be tons of fun for the short play time available.
  
  Graphics: Top notch. runs on pretty high settings on my aging p4 3ghz matched to a 7800GS AGP 
 card
  
  Sound: awsome. Helps give you the creeps
  
  Storyline: whatever, it's kinda dumb, but who cares
  
  gameplay: very good ai. They are more 
 relentless that in the first game. You can't just run and gun on this one.
  
  value: short game. but we all knew it was an expansion pack, so i am not too upset about it.
 
  
  Hoping for FEAR 2 soon... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bybeach
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 17, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is as some others have said, so-so overall beginning, and as one says, searing end. I agree. 
 Alma may have become a protagonist rather than the enemy, hard to tell. No spoilers, but painful 
 scenes, Fettel definetly will be a target...
  
  Have to admit, got bored at times overall, they started something 'too good', going to have to add/develop 
 more personalities and variation to the charactors and plot. Get tired of the replicas saying the 
 same ole things.
  
  graphics was good. In the second half, very good., both in presentation and art. sound was appropiatte, downer 
 music in the end, cause it is a bit of a downer. Played well w/ what I got, yesterdays decent system, single 
 core.
  
  Thats really it, now waiting (and will in hardware prepare) for Fear 2... if it comes out. I have 
 a feeling this expansion pack didn`t do fabulous (mood of the times) . It`s unfortunatly a dark story, in 
 a dark time,.. deserves it`s due. I`m rating it higher that G. S., but I respect what the reviever 
 rated, also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 13, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is one of my best FPS Game till date. So, it's Expansion F. E. A. R Extraction Point did not 
 dissapoint me. It is a superb FPS Game. It has Excellent slow-mo effects, gunfights, AI, Graphic's etc 
 like the original Game. The Action is like a John Woo Movie. The sound quality of the game is vey 
 good also. The Game has much scary feel in some levels. It should be played by everyone (who have 
 missed it) . I immensely enjoyed the game. It never bored me for a moment. It has also some new features 
 added (like new weapons ,opponents , environments etc, which were not in the original game) . The 
 gameplay is simply amazing. I highly recommend this game to game lovers. The Expansion is short in 
 comparision to the original F. E. A. R but it's worth it. This game is worth to be added in ones Games 
 Collection. Fear Combat is free download and very popular online. The new Minigun introduced in the 
 game is striking from first glance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikehet0915
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  There really isn't much to say about Extraction Point. It is not the best action game I have ever 
 played, but it still has that original style carried over from F. E. A. R. You will get scared a couple 
 of times and you will be holding your breath during some of the gun battles, but this isn't a new 
 feeling if you played the original.
  
  Gameplay - The battles have gotten a little more extreme with more explosions and more enemies. 
 If you use your slo-mo, you should be fine. I only have two complaints about the expansion in terms 
 of gameplay. I felt like some enemies were placed in areas where they could see you before you 
 could see them. This can result in death in a few cases, but it's not a big deal. I also wanted 
 to get scared a couple more times since I found the original to be rather frightening.
  
  Graphics - All the effects still look amazing. The models move realistically and the environments 
 can be pretty spooky (especially in the last level) . You will go through a lot of abandoned buildings 
 again, so prepare to feel lonely.
  
  Sound - This is where the game excels. You hear whispers all around when the game is quiet, and 
 everything you can think of when the game is throwing action at you. Some of the ambiance really 
 makes some of the scares better than they should be.
  
  Value - I will probably never play this game again. It is very good, but I didn't feel like I was 
 playing something special, like the original. I don't know if it is worth 30 dollars, but I would 
 buy it once it goes down to 20.
  
  Play this game if you want a more extreme action-packed F. E. A. R. experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackie103
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 14, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  Fellow gamers after all the hoopla I had to say about the original F. E. A. R,
  The addon expansion pack is just the extra game cuts the developer did not put in the original 
 game. Although the game is one of the very best released in a truly long waited time for the PC. I 
 do not wish to write any spoiler type of review because FEAR is one of the creepiest and haunting 
 games to ever come out for a PC. The game its self is fantastic and one can never guess what will 
 happen next in it. The original game was so delicious and especially on a PC, the likes will probably 
 never again be made. This is why I for one am so dissapointed with the less than full length expansion 
 pack. It seems like the developers just wanted to get every last cent out of us gamers with a less 
 than two hour add on expansion pack. I truly hope that this little expansion is not the end of F. E. A. R. 
 and Sierra and the developers will give us our moneys worth sometime very soon. Come on Sierra you 
 all can do better than a expansion of
  less than two additional hours of game play, can you not ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shirley_Temple
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  As a huge FEAR fanatic I was on the fence on whether or not to get this expansion pack, however 
 I was able to borrow it from a friend so I didn't feel I spent too much on so little.
  
  However, as I was playing I definetely felt like I was playing the original Half Life, and not 
 because I was crawling through air vents, but because the game was giving me great killer encounters 
 and then throwing great scripted moments, some at the same time but mostly right after another.
 
  
  The game clocks in at about 8-9 hours but it feels a lot longer because you begin to feel depressed 
 and mentally weary because you feel like this torment that your going through is just devilishly 
 crafted to make you cry, break, and stop playing.
  
  However, once you encounter one of the new enemies, you'll be ready to see what's next. There are 
 new armored foes and encounters are usually larger, which is a perfect chance for the game to show 
 off the new addition to the physics engine, Crates and boxes now fly everywhere, and cover is sparser 
 within rooms, for example when what in the original game would have been a wall of unmovable crates, 
 has become a flying cloud of huge boxes that mostly block your sight of your enemies anytime a 
 grenade detonates near one or your bullets make it teeter and topple over. If the original game 
 was missing anything, it was this feature.
  
  The sound is again top notch although voice acting has been recycled line for line in the game 
 sometimes, it doesn't matter though when the firefight starts and you can hear individual bullets 
 whizzing by, thanks Monolith and Warner brothers for paying attention to details like that. The 
 environments are fun and perfect for FEAR's firefights, however some are too cliche to ignore, 
 the church and abandoned hospital only make you expect scares, not to say their dull, but their 
 simply not what I would have suggested for environments. The story is again told in the same hallucinegenic 
 episodes, and its told quite well.
  
  Its a fun experience, but only worth it after a price drop or if you can borrow it, the price to 
 content ratio is very poorly balanced against the consumer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kracken_KD
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 13, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  To start with, this review is written by someone who played through the first FEAR and loved it. 
 I loved it because it does things not done in games before, not particulary the graphics and gameplay 
 (which both are exceptional) but the story, sound, atmosphere and scripted events.
  So, if you agree with my view of FEAR, here is what you should expect from FEAR EP...
  The game 
 starts of from where it left of... the black hawk crashes back in the rubble of Aubrun. Essnetially, 
 the game has a mediocre first half (including little in the way of new environments and not many 
 advancements in the story.) Granted when you team up with another AI character (no spoilers here!) 
 things pick up for a while, but the beggining of the game is in the ol' warehouses and water treatment 
 facilities FEAR loves.
  But the second half of the game heats up amazingly.
  The introduction of the real scares of this title makes this game THE best horror up to date.
 
  Almas strange HL2 Stalker-esque beasts are the most creepy, scary, horrible and BEST enemies in 
 a game. EVER. And the Alma and Fettel scare sequences from here on are nothing short of something 
 from a real nightmare. The atmosphere builds up and even the gameplay, gunplay, enemies and refreshing 
 new environments until the fantastic finale.
  In summary, the first half of this game has some of the more negative points of FEAR (boring environs 
 and corridor gameplay) yet the second half has lots more of what made the original brilliant and 
 A LOT MORE.
  My lasting memory is the fact that this game includes one of the most horrifying, atmospheric, 
 memorable, nightmare sequences in gaming history despite the failings.
  But you will have to play it to find out more...
  
  There is a war coming, I have seen it in 
 my dreams... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hunk4thSurvivor
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 12, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  Let me first start off with by saying that the first F. E. A. R. was an amazing game and achievement. 
 Yet, the game did lack in the scare-factor department. The first whole half of the expansion pack 
 and the previous F. E. A. R. all you ended up fighting were the Replica shoulders that are in a warped 
 zone, like little droids. The last half of the game you spend fighting much more intense enemies 
 and some supernatural enemies that are not just human (or sane for that matter) . The game has a 
 pretty good selection to add from the prevous F. E. A. R. New weapons that thrash through enemies 
 and a few jagged edges to the game put to rest.
  
  The best part about this game is definately the chilling and very creepy enemies and interactions 
 your environment takes upon you. This game is a WHOLE lot creepier than the last. Some people may 
 not even consider the previous game scary at all, but Extraction Point brings it to a whole different 
 level of scariness/creepiness.
  
  This game always leads you to wanting more, especially with the finality of your destiny and the 
 story, of who you are and your purpose....
  
  BOTTOM LINE: If you are looking for possibly the scariest or one of the scariest first person shooters 
 with an intense story that keeps you wanting more look no further. If you beat the first F. E. A. R. 
 there is no doubt in my mind you should pick this up. It's a must-have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alijib
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 12, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  Fear Extraction Point is back with same intense fire fights we expect from the franchise, but this 
 time , the ride is too short and pointless.
  Alam is out of armacham facility and is trying to tell you something, and on other hand fettel 
 wants to kill you too.
  Fear Extraction Point sports 3 new enemies, 4 new weapons.
  Some of the scripted events in the game are better then before, especially one in the warehouse, 
 where the player tries to activate an answering machine, and Alma shouts with a loud voice. That 
 really made me jump of my seat.
  Replica soldiers are as smart as ever , and are in huge quantity, they will keep on coming from 
 every next corner. One of the fight with replica soldiers will be very memorable for every one, 
 in which the player places wall mounted turrets in strategic places &amp; tries to fend off replica 
 soldiers.
  
  Extraction Point is very good and entertaining expansion pack, and it will leave you wanting for 
 more. I have played it thrice since i bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Isaac1st
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 9, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Wow just wow. Thats what i said when i first started playing the expansion pack, and also mad. 
 Hahaha. And the reason, will Paxton Fettel is still alive. I mean you kill him in the game but 
 he's alive. Anyway, I like the new weapons like the Laser Carbine. The good about it is that it 
 can do nasty damage to your enemies but, it eats away your ammo and you can't find any where except 
 the Replicas carrying. So you have to kill them and steal it from them. The Minigun is really good. 
 Its good for mowing down bundles of enemies shooting at you, great for killing the heavy armor 
 Replicas. The game has alot fire fights, so don't expect yourself to think its over. The story 
 is really good (If there was one) . The gameplay is really good, the graphics are really good. And 
 the sounds are good. This game is recommended for people who like action or horror or even both! 
 Overall this game is the best one i ever played in my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziegd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  POSSIBLE SPOILERS
  
  A moment of silence may be in order here, since we could be witnessing the death of 2005s Game 
 of the Year. Is this the end of FEAR? Im not sure, but at the very least, Extraction Point is 
 a step backward for the award-winning franchise. Now dont get me wrongEP is a lot of fun to play, 
 and it actually does a decent job of fulfilling several of the basic expansion pack requirements. 
 Its chock full of the visceral combat and Japanese-horror-film eeriness that defined its predecessor. 
 There are also a couple of new environmentsthe in-game character known as Pointman actually gets 
 to spend some time outdoors for a change, and several of the new interiors are a welcome departure 
 from the repetitive corridor crawls that were so prevalent in the first game. I particularly 
 liked both the Cathedral level and the visit to the asylumsettings like these make an already 
 creepy atmosphere even more unsettling. Additionally, there are a couple of new enemies and new 
 weapons to play with, the most note-worthy of which is the Mini-Gun. The amount of carnage that 
 can be inflicted in just a few seconds with this room-chewing WMD is nothing short of awe-inspiring, 
 and I often included it in my weapons load-out, even when it wasnt necessarily the best option.
 
  
  And yet, despite these respectable improvements in certain aspects of the game, Extraction Point 
 is a step backward because it fails in the single most important elementcontinuation of the story. 
 Fans (like me) of FEAR were intrigued by the enigmatic mystery that was only partially resolved 
 in the first game, and we anxiously awaited the next chapter. Unfortunately, what we got was more 
 of an epilogue. After completing Extraction Point, I couldnt escape the feeling that, as Pointman, 
 I had accomplished nothing, and the 20 hours I had invested was (in a manner of speaking) pointless. 
 I understand that this is a STORY-driven game, and the experience is supposed to be its own reward. 
 Even so, game is still the operative word, and I play to win. For your review, I submit a partial 
 list of my achievements as Pointman:
  
  - everyone I was supposed to protect is dead.
  
  - everyone I was supposed to eliminate is still here (in a paranormal way) .
  
  - anyone 
 unfortunate enough to be assigned to my team has died in a grotesque fashion.
  
  - a paranormal threat I was supposed to contain is now loose on the world.
  
  - I laid an entire 
 city to waste.
  
  Lets seedid I leave anything out? Oh, yeaIm hell-on-wheels when it comes to creeping through 
 hallways and slaughtering Replicas. (I somehow expected more from an elite special forces kind 
 of guy.) Dont misunderstand meI like realism in games, where things go wrong and someone dies. 
 Im not looking for some fairy-tale ending where the good guy saves the world. But cmonIm supposed 
 to be the hero here, right? So let me keep at least one friend alive!
  
  In fairness, maybe its not all Time Gate's fault. I have a theory. As I understand it, Monolith 
 doesnt actually own the FEAR name (Vivendi does) . So Extraction Point may have a double meaning, 
 in that it is Monoliths way of extracting themselves from dependence on the name. After all, 
 if you kill off all the remaining squad mates from an elite First Encounter Assault Recon team, 
 youre left with just Pointman, and little need to use the acronym again. The sequel can jump off 
 from here with any creative name the developers choose. Again, its just my theory, but it's one 
 that helps me accept the events in EP as being the result of a sad-but-necessary business decision 
 that will ultimately allow the developers to explore the game's full potential.
  
  So back to my original questionis this the end of FEAR? Hardly. I think we may see a change in 
 identity, so to speak, but the saga simply has way too much going for it to just end here. At 
 the end of the day, whether you like the story or not, Extraction Point is still worth playing, 
 even if its just for more of the same chills-and-thrills from the original. It may not have 
 answered the questions we wanted answers to, or moved in the direction we wanted it to go, but 
 I am reminded of the old adage about taking a step back in order to take two steps forward. After 
 Extraction Point, the developers better be getting a 'running start' on the next installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _TheWombat_
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 9, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  Strangely, I really enjoyed this! Just finished playing it in a roughly 5 hour playing session...
 
  I went into it having read a fair few of the mostly negative reviews on the game, so even though 
 i thought the first fear was pretty good, with a really tight story that was delivered in a clever 
 way, my expectations for this weren't that high. I'm pleased to say, that was a big mistake!
  Yes there is literally almost nothing added onto the storyline - the story basically just consists 
 of endless rehashes of everything you've already seen and know but more cryptically this time - 
 but once you go into the game expecting this, its heaps of fun!
  I mean, i actually thought the gameplay of the original FEAR was ok to pretty good, but i had some 
 pretty amazing fun with this! The battles are all ramped up in size with larger enemy numbers in 
 a single battle, more different and varied and to me more interesting environments, and just more 
 chaos and action than in the original. The game is action packed, for each of its roughly 5 hours, 
 and i really enjoyed the dense content.
  What actually took me aback a bit though, was the intensity and explicitness of the scares in general 
 this time around. With the first game, it was mainly all implied ie. alma walks into elevator with 
 someone else, door closes just in time to cut out what happens so you just imagine the nasty stuff 
 happen, where here its really up close and personal, you see some pretty nasty things, all in your 
 face, nothing hidden or censored. Gave me a fright some of the stuff you see in this! What's funny 
 too, or i thought, is that i went in with the attitude of oh, this is fear, thats right they'll 
 try to 'scare' me, oh lets see what sort of lame and cliched tricks they'll dish out this time, 
 but it actually got to me a fair bit this time, really because of one thing you'll witness that 
 is particularly savage near the middle of the game - don't want to ruin it for you but i dont think 
 you'll expect it!
  Anyway, most of this is just me rambling after playing a great game from beginning to end, but 
 the bottom line is, i really enjoyed this, even after thinking that fear 1 was mostly only ok the 
 first time i played it, only appreciating the story and combat more after playing it a 2nd and 
 3rd time. So if you're like i was, having enjoyed fear and considering buying the expansion but 
 worried about the negative reviews, i can tell you that i really enjoyed it, not expecting anything 
 from the story, and if you approach it like that (not hard) , i think you'll really enjoy it too 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeSlayer01
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 8, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  The weapons are nice, maps are new, level design is better, storyline blows.
  
  But like I said the storyline sucks. No answers, just more questions and nothing much in between 
 except for something that does nothing but confuse you and sets up the storyline for F. E. A. R. 2, 
 which I guess is fantastic for an expansion pack. But I wish this wouldn't be considered canon 
 because of certain characters appearing idiotically...
  
  The laser carbine is awesome. Not as destructive as the chain gun, however, which rips through 
 anything from garbage bags to flesh and bone and tears the place to shreds.
  
  There are nice areas - there's even a sniping sequence, but the game did not feature a REAL sniper 
 rifle, as the early company statement claimed.
  
  Worth a buy if you like F. E. A. R. though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canxp
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 8, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 originally put the story, and awesome graphics, with EP:1 the story was even more developed 
 and the graphics were improved too. That's my idea of an expansion , but looks like F. E. A. R EP 
 was aiming to be a prolongation rather than an expansion.
  
  Graphics: No improvement, originally, the engine looks great, but try looking around the rooms, 
 you'll see the same 2 objects repeated, but with some position, and rotation changes, some bloody 
 rooms, but nothing too creative. At least the scenario changes from the office halls to some churches, 
 hospitals, subways, etc.
  
  Sound: No improvement either, but always sounded great.
  
  Weapons: Laser rifle, a minigun and some sticky turrets, that's all you get. This weapons appear 
 rarely, and almost useless, yeah, sounds fun to heat your enemies head with a laser until it blows, 
 but damn I prefer the shotgun and that blue-ray cannon (pulse gun (?) ) .
  
  Gameplay (Shooting n' stuff) : Played in Extreme difficulty, yet too easy. The quicksave, the insta-medkit 
 thing, (btw, the insane amount of medkits) and the slowmo makes it just too easy.
  
  Gameplay (Animations) : Animations are better than before, instead of running to the classic door 
 with some blood splatter behind, you can actually see someone blowing into pieces, or the room 
 breaking apart with some crazy-b***h powers.
  
  Plot (SPOILER!!!) : Story is pretty unclear, and didn't added anything, just some wannabe-spooky 
 scenes, that Fettel isn't dead, and the ending.. sucks. Let's take note:
  -First time you tried to reach a heli (with the Wade girl) , heli blows up.
  -End of the first 
 F. E. A. R, spooky-girl grabs the heli, it blows.
  -End of the F. E. A. R EP, you run to the heli, it blows.
  
  C'mon, you've been in a parking lot 
 twice, and in a subway. Everyone knows that helicopters explode for no reason in games.
  
  Conclusion: I expected more, I imagined some open-field battles, some new enemies, like over-sized 
 robot with loads of armor, a ultimate weapon,... very, VERY disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfx_fan
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 8, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  October of 2005 marked the unveiling of one of the greatest first-person shooters of all time and 
 the No. 1 shooter of the year. That game was F. E. A. R. (an acronym meaning First Encounter Assault 
 Recon) , which, at first glance, was a combination of elements from The Matrix movies and Japanese 
 horror films, most notably The Ring.
  
  The back story of the game could most readily be described as a dramatic Ghostbusters, because 
 you play as an unamed character enlisted in F. E. A. R., a government secret organization specializing 
 in the investigation and battle of paranormal entities that threaten national security. You, along 
 with various other F. E. A. R. members, are blessed with possession of supernatural powers. You, particularly, 
 have unnatural Matrix-like reflexes.
  
  Throughout the game, you are stalked by a creepy, vengeful little girl named Alma (who bears an 
 Alanis Morrisette likeness) , who apparently kills everyone in sight. Your character eventually 
 becomes treated to a subtle story of a forgotten past, which I will not detail just yet.
  
  And now we enter F. E. A. R. Extraction Point, the expansion pack to the blockbuster FPS of last year, 
 which takes off right where the first game left off.
  
  *SPOILERS BELOW*
  
  If you recall from the original game, you realize that Alma is actually a product of scientific 
 experimentation in an attempt to breed a super soldier of sorts. One super soldier is a cannibalistic 
 psychopath who is also a crucial plot element, the other super soldier is you; Alma is your mother.
 
  
  Alma, having been treated to such cruelty in a secret science lab, knows nothing but nightmares. 
 She was kept in a high-tech vault all her life, where she eventually died, with her spirit trapped 
 inside. Harlan Wade, Alma's father and mastermind of the cruel research expedition, perishes at 
 the end of the first game, resulting in the release of Alma from her prison, her powers unleashed 
 and able to wreak havoc in the world at her disposal.
  
  You end up destroying the factory and being rescued by the rest of your F. E. A. R. squad, and the 
 game closes with a cliffhanger ending in which Alma remains unleashed and plenty of questions are 
 left unanswered.
  
  *SPOLERS END*
  
  F. E. A. R. Extraction Point picks off where the last game left off. Your helicopter has crashed and 
 you are left having to reach the (you guessed it) Extraction Point. The conflict lies in battling 
 both the supernatural forces and the clone army of Paxton Fettel.
  
  Unfortunately, there isn't much juice running in this expansion pack. It lacks the subtleties of 
 the first game in favor of a relatively mindless run-and-gun shooter of old times. Unlike the original 
 game, I was surprised at the lack of imagination in the actual storyline -- and coming from developer 
 Monolith, noted for such games as TRON 2.0 and Condemned: Criminal Origins, I couldn't help but 
 be let down.
  
  On the other hand, the graphics still hold up splendidly, although at points, the game lags much 
 more than it needs to, even on a decent machine. The sound design continues to be excellent and 
 the atmosphere of the game is even more menacing.
  
  What the game lacked in new overall ideas, it more than makes up for in new environments, such 
 as a church, a subway, and a hospital. There are also new environments in the form of flashbacks, 
 such as an insane asylum (presumably of Alma's mind) and the games own vision of Hell -- or at 
 least, that's what I think it is.
  
  We are treated to new weapons, such as a chaingun, a really awesome laser weapon, and an automatic 
 turret which blasts away opponents, enabling you to sit back and relax. Monolith also has equipped 
 this expansion pack with new characters, including semi-invisible demons from the Netherworld, 
 a behemoth mechanical robot, possibly inspired by ED-209 from Robocop, and several new varieties 
 in clone designs, such as the chaingun clone.
  
  Yes, there are plenty of cool areas to explore in F. E. A. R. Extraction Point. A better variety in 
 environments is something which the first game lacked. Monolith has been more than generous at 
 providing us with an even better, more macabre atmosphere. Extraction Point also has many more 
 BOO! moments, where characters pop out at you.
  
  Unfortunately, the core of the gameplay is repetitive. It seems there is more gunning of clones 
 and robots and other demonic forces than actual story. While the environments were more innovative 
 this time around, it didn't serve much of a purpose... there were no ideas behind it. A number of 
 times, I questioned: Why? 
  
  And although the game is an expansion pack, it still is notoriously short even for that -- although 
 the original game was also very short. I wanted to see more. I expected the expansion pack to have 
 a more definite conclusion. While many of the questions of the first game were answered, many of 
 them also were not. And the final parts of the game seemed more rushed than anything.
  
  I've noticed there being a trend in FPS games that includes an endless plethora of the beings that 
 repeatedly come at you substituting for an actual boss battle. F. E. A. R. Extraction Point is a prime 
 example. It's the same running-and-gunning technique on steroids. Therefore, it didn't involve 
 too much innovative problem solving. A game like that always gets a few points knocked off in my 
 book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raegn
Rating: 5.6
Date: Nov 7, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  I was anxiously awaiting the release of F. E. A. R.: Extraction Point, and was giddy when I got it. 
 I rushed in and installed it onto my computer and sat down to play. As with F. E. A. R., I started 
 on the normal difficulty level and began to play through. The addition of breakable crates with 
 supplies was somewhat pleasant. The crates are rather easy to differentiate from non-breakable 
 crates, and the supplies include ammo, armor, and the like. The game ran smoothly, but I literally 
 completed the game within a handful of hours without being killed. The storyline from the first 
 F. E. A. R. wasn't really present, and it shed no more light on who you are if you didn't figure that 
 out from the first game.
  
  I was pleased with the overall gameplay, but extremely disappointed with the overall content. They 
 took F. E. A. R. from an involved storyline and turned it into a typical FPS or shoot 'em up. The 
 initial F. E. A. R. came across more like an interactive movie, and XP left that out in favor of more 
 action, less story.
  
  I was extremely let down with it, and haven't played it again since the first evening I played 
 through it. Don't get me wrong, everything was great if you prefer a virtually meaningless shoot 
 'em up. I'd rate this expansion along the same lines as Doom 3: lots of shooting, little story.
 
  
  I enjoyed it, but will probably not play through it again unless I am really bored and want to 
 shoot senselessly.
  
  A friend of mine who hasn't completed the game insists that there will be a third release, making 
 it a trilogy, but I disagree. I don't quite see where they can go with it beyond the ending of 
 XP.
  
  It was worth the $29.99 we paid for it, but I would have taken it back complaining that it wasn't 
 worth the money if it had cost more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slannmage
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 7, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Nothing changes from the first game which is a disappointment, no improved multiplayer and no improved 
 gameplay :S I don't really see any point to this expansion pack if you can call you that? More 
 like $4 downloadable content lol.
  
  It gets boring and as it's the same as the original game, whats the point?
  
  Graphics:
  
 
  to me their getting dated and never looked that good int he first place, only good thing is the 
 gun fire effects.
  
  Sound:
  
  Strongest point about the game, great sound and atmosphere.
  
  Value:
  
  Pretty poor, paid 
 &pound;20 for something that is worth about &pound;5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: True_Blu3
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 6, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. was the most chaotic and original game that we have not seen in many years. The game just 
 pushed us off of our seat very hard, but we still stood from the excitement. But what excitement? 
 The amazing A. I. or the gut trenching paranormal effects? These two things brought down the old 
 and put in the new. F. E. A. R. was simply put One of the Best Shooters of 2005.
  
  At the end of the game, we had one queshtion in our head: What will happen in the future? You will 
 find that out in the expansion, which is F. E. A. R. Extraction Point. The original game only gave 
 us one, important queshtion and maybe a few more that weren't important. Now Extraction Point adds 
 more queshtions into your brain, doesn't answer them, and then leaves you hopelessly lost for more 
 info about the story. It keeps you hanging. Just when you beat the game, you may just realize that 
 Monolith added more queshtions into the story just to make things creepy and to not answer them. 
 You may also think that they didn't think before they wrote. Despite the story stopping players 
 at a brick wall, you will still fight the enemies that you fought in the original, which were the 
 clone soldiers. But the only thing differnt about them if that you get to fight them in 2 or 3 
 squads. The original only made you fight one squad of soldiers, but since EP packs more enemies 
 at you, the game is rather challenging. This is one flaw that was fixed from the original; the 
 lack of challenge. With things more hard, you'd expect more chaos then before. You expected right. 
 F. E. A. R. EP's enviroments look a lot more distructable then the originals. Cans and paper will 
 fly every where, computers will blow up and spark into pieces, hardware will raddle around the 
 floor, barrels will roll into random places, grenades will make waves of distruction to tear everything 
 into pieces, rockets will fly, blood will splatter, the list of chaos goes on.
  
  But the destruction can't be made without powerful weapons. EP's arsenal is very devastating. What 
 will you choose? The assualt rifel, rocket launcher, nail gun, and..... Minigun or laser? Yes, there 
 are new weapons in the expansion pack: the minigun and the laser carbine. These weapons may have 
 very scarce ammunation, but using these babies can be powerful, but like all the weapons, they 
 have flaws. The laser carbine can abliterate ammo in a matter of seconds, especially the minigun. 
 The weapon can also make you run slow and it's accuracy is rather inaccurate. But either way, they 
 are both powerful weapons.
  
  To make things fair, the A. I. might just change your mind about using those nice goodies. In every 
 battle, you must have the right weapon in each situation or you might just make yourself an easy 
 target. What the enemies lack is style. They do the same radio chatter, same movement, and actions. 
 This gets kind of old. Monolith does add some new enemies like mechs, heavy armors, ninjas, and 
 dark spirits which aren't answerd as ti who they are in the game. But either way, you will mostly 
 fight clones. The game has many glitches. Per-se, white patterns popping out of nowhere and enemy 
 movements going awkwardly strange. Hopefully there will be a patch to fix these glitches, since 
 they are annoying enough to make you stop playing.
  
  The expansion of F. E. A. R. is 5 or 6 hours long. That may not look very convincing, especially there 
 not being any updated multiplayer. But an expansion is an expansion, and this expansion works well 
 enought to keep you on the edge of your seat in heart pounding action or fear. So if you loved 
 the original game and you wanted more but you wanted it better, you should give the expansion a 
 try. Either way, if you are sick of the originaly game, don't buy it. You will just get the same 
 thing that you have seen last year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-ray1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 6, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  This expansion definitely has more haunting surprises then the original game. The new weapons are 
 nice and flashy (i. e. mini-gun) but the assault rifle and shot gun are still all you need to get 
 through. Some of the new enemies could have been a little stronger for they could easily be destroyed 
 with most of the original weaponry. Still, the graphics, sounds, physics and expected intensity 
 of the game are as amazing as ever; in fact how could they improve it? Though the story line creates 
 more questions and leaves you unresloved, the near five hours of game play is a respectable duration 
 for an expansion pack. In all, the game is worth playing and a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djsaskdja
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 6, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  The scariest game I've ever played is back with an expansion pack and it definitely lives up to 
 the original. Basically the plot of F. E. A. R. Extraction Point is that everyone in the city is dead 
 except you, your squad mates, and the replica soldiers you fought in the original and you need 
 to get to an extraction point out of the city in a hospital. Thats about it which brings up my 
 main problem with EXP, there is little to no story involved. I guess they decided to tone up the 
 scary parts, action, and just give us something to do until F. E. A. R. 2 comes out in this expansion 
 pack so the story kind of suffers. The graphics are the same as you remember (that means pretty 
 damn good especially the partial effects) . The sound is just as creepy and atmospheric as it was 
 in F. E. A. R. But don't expect to play this one too many times through. It's too much like F. E. A. R., 
 disappointing ending, and linear level design for that; But still a very solid game and a faithful 
 follow-up to the original. Anybody who played F. E. A. R. and wants some more, I definitely recommend 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharpshooter101
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 6, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  FEAR Extraction Point definitely had some cool new enhancements over FEAR such as a few new weapons 
 and enemies, and a whole slew of new locations, but it felt lacking gameplay wise. The game had 
 the spooks and scares that made FEAR a phenomenon, and the fast frantic gun fights with the matrix 
 style slomo, but the story was a bit confusing, and disappointing. After a while of playing, i 
 just disregarded what was going on throughout the game and just went on. The game's gunfights are 
 just as frantic and fun as the original was with all of the smoke, muzzle flares, and intelligent 
 AI, so you won't hear me complain there. If you're looking for some epic story, look elsewhere 
 like Oblivion or Neverwinter Nights. The story takes so many twists, turns, and disappointments, 
 that you feel confused at times and just press on shooting at anything that moves other than the 
 occasional teammate. The game was also quite short, but it is an expansion pack so i guess that 
 does it some justice. Also, you can usually guess when something is going to happen involving the 
 paranormal. There were a few places where I'll admit i jumped (and one scene inside a mental asylum 
 that had me thoroughly creeped out) , but all of the visions and real ghostly happenings can be 
 predicted. (long hallway, nothing on either side, just a lone door at the end) though sometimes 
 i'll admit that it's just a hallway, mostly those are the scenes involving Alma or Fettel. That 
 isn't including the random scares Alma has up her sleeve, which pop up just as unexpectedly has 
 in the first which makes you tense through the entire thing waiting for something to happen, so 
 I can't complain there either. The ending of Extraction Point also felt like something out of Duke 
 Nukem or Doom. I am a big fan of the original game and have been since Day 1, but i find this expansion 
 pack to be a bit lacking. If you are a die hard FEAR fan, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 5, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  I really, really liked FEAR and so was waiting with bated breath for the expansion, which was probably 
 a mistake as I invested unrealistic expectations in the game.
  
  As it turned out its been OK, although fairly short.
  
  As you might expect from the first 
 FEAR, the sound and graphics are good (albeit what is done with the latter could do with a bit 
 more imagination) and, most importantly, the wild firefights are absolutely excellent and the enemy 
 AI does its thing with considerable vigour.
  
  However, the down side is that in contrast to the original game it just isn't that scary this time 
 round. Almost certainly this is because there really is nothing new apart from some different bad 
 guys. The first game offered something that was more than just another tedious run and gun; it 
 had gothic horror and genuinely frightening bits and it hinted at plot, at an underlying storyline. 
 Part of the anticipation for me was waiting for that to develop in the sequel. Sadly it doesn't 
 and the conclusion of the game really is just designed to keep the options open for another lucrative 
 expansion. Worse, for much of the game one suffers a disturbing sense of deja vu; haven't I been 
 in this office block/parking garage/warehouse district somewhere before? Its almost like TimeGate 
 are simply recycling elements to minimise cost of development and (coincidentally?) maximise return 
 on investment for the publishers.
  
  The result is that by the end it really is just a run and gun, and actually quite tedious with 
 it, not least because of the long empty corridors one seems to constantly find oneself in. The 
 hospital is particularly bad for this and someone should point out to the designers that chucking 
 large amounts of blood all over the place doesn't actually make it any more interesting.
  
  In the end I found myself battling on more to get the game finished than to see what happens next.
 
  
  Perhaps the designers and publishers should have taken note of how one of the great cinematic franchises 
 managed this challenge. In Alien, most of the film was about creeping about being hunted by a half 
 seen, seemingly invincible alien. For the sequel the writers could have gone for more of the same, 
 but they took the stance 'no, everyone now knows what the Alien looks like, lets give them something 
 different, with a different pace and style, that actually moves the franchise on a bit', and so 
 they did produced what is arguably one of the most successful sequels of all time.
  
  Not sure if this is a product of the franchise being taken on by Timegate, who may just have been 
 briefed to knock out more of the same as cost effectively as possible (or just not be that strong 
 in the creativity stakes) . Alternatively it could be the responsibility of the publishers for wanting 
 to screw as much margin out of their initial investment as possible. Either way it really is a 
 missed opportunity to take a game that was pretty different in its first incarnation and do something 
 clever with it to keep the novelty alive.
  
  So, don't expect anything new, don't expect it to be as scary or involving as the original and 
 don't imagine its going to take you hours to finish it, because it won't. I strongly suggest you 
 wait a bit for the price to come down because it is neither long enough nor original enough to 
 justify the price being asked for it.
  
  Shame, can't help feeling that the designers missed a golden opportunity with this one..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  I have found in the past that most expansion packs don't offer much more in the way of making a 
 game better, usually just more of the same thing that the first game offered. Extraction Point 
 on the surface seems to do the same thing, but this game goes below the surface to offer a lot 
 more than you might expect from an expansion pack. The gameplay itself is the same thing that you 
 found in the first game. There is nothing wrong with that, F. E. A. R offered some the best FPS action 
 that gamers have ever seen. What Extraction Point has done is evolve the way the storyline is played 
 out, and how the action occurs. You will see and do things that you never dreamed of in the first 
 game. I found myself speachless at some of the things that happened in this game. That in itself 
 made it worth every penny I spent. A few extra weapons to play with and you have yourself an excellent 
 game. If you loved the first game than you absolutely have to play the expansion pack. It's just 
 long enough to give you some good action that feels complete when your done, but still wishing 
 they make another game. Turn out the lights and turn up the sound, and beware of things that go 
 bump in the night! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nascarfan123
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 4, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. Extraction Point picks off right were F. E. A. R. ended and continues the story there. It 
 brings back all of the same weapons and enemies that were in F. E. A. R. and has some new additions. 
 There are some new weapons you can use such as the chain gun and the laser carbine. The chain gun 
 is a high powered gun that can mow down anything in its path, it is a lot of fun to shoot and watch 
 your enemies fall to it as well as everything else in its path. The other new gun is the laser 
 carbine; if anyone has seen a futuristic Hollywood shooter it is a gun that shoots out a laser 
 beam that can kill people. While the chain gun was a useful addition I wasnt willing to replace 
 my assault rifle or penetrater with the laser carbine. There are some new enemies in Extraction 
 Point and they will be very intimidating when you first encounter them. The most noticeable are 
 a large giant walking tank that has rocket launchers and stealthy ninjas that do melee attacks 
 on you.
  
  The story for Extraction Point is the weakest part of the expansion pack. The helicopter you were 
 riding in at the end of F. E. A. R. crashed and now you have to get to another one. It feels like 
 an idea that the developers just threw on the table so they can give us the expansion pack. Also, 
 Paxton Fettel is alive after you killed him. Another mystery is why is Alice helping you now? For 
 instance youll encounter a group of replica soldiers and she will kill them, and then youll hear 
 her say things like Youre safe now. It appears that instead of trying to kill you she is trying 
 to protect you. While the immediate story for the expansion pack isnt that great it does set things 
 up for the long term for what could possibly be the story for F. E. A. R. 2. Youll hear multiple 
 references from Paxton Fettel about things like there is a war coming, or she will kill them all. 
 At the end of the game youll see what was once an isolated incident with the replica solders has 
 now destroyed an entire city, so the threat is getting larger.
  
  Extraction Point plays just like the original with only a few tweaks. The addition of the new weapons 
 and enemies make things slightly different but the best part was when you were fighting with one 
 of your other F. E. A. R. operatives. It is pretty early in the game when it happens, even though 
 you are not completely alone you are doing most of the work. That time is short lived until they 
 are killed, which is a gruesome, but fun death to watch. Something that made the game play is a 
 bit more fun was the fact that the environments actually seemed different from one another. Most 
 of us will remember F. E. A. R. from fighting in what seemed like endless hallways, offices, and janitors 
 closets. Its different this time, battles will first start off in a church, then a warehouse, subway, 
 and finally a hospital. Extraction Point is also a lot more action packed. You will encounter large 
 groups of replica soldiers with little down time between each fight. However, towards the end of 
 the game things start to get stretched out and become a little repetitive.
  
  Extraction Point offers more of the same in terms of the graphics and sound. There arent any major 
 tweaks to it. Weapons and enemies look and sound the same as they were in the original. My favorite 
 new addition has to be the chain gun. Just the look and sound of it are really awesome. When you 
 use it, it really allows the graphics and sound to stand out the most and become real eye candy 
 for you.
  
  It takes about 4-5 hours long to complete Extraction Point, it depends on how many times you die 
 or how long it takes to get through all the battles. Thats just about right, any longer or shorter 
 would have hurt the game some. It is neat to see some of the new additions as well; it may be the 
 only reason why some people might want to play the game. The story is the weakest part of Extraction 
 Point but the heavy amount of action can make up for it. Well see what will be brought to us in 
 the next F. E. A. R. game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgross
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 3, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  The Gamespot reviewer rated this expansion pack lower because it didn't break new ground. I'm not 
 expecting or looking for a new story arc or 'revolution in gaming' from an expansion pack. I'm 
 looking for more of what I experienced in the original game. And boy does this delivery on that. 
 The fast pace, absolutely amazing fire fights are what make F. E. A. R. such a rush and on this the 
 expansion pack doesn't disappoint. The eye candy is just as mind blowing as the original (if you 
 have the hardware for all the bells and whistles) and the sound track along with the scripted events 
 keep you on the edge of your seat. If you enjoyed F. E. A. R, then you will enjoy this expansion pack 
 just as much. If I have one complaint, it would be the value. The suggested retail is $29.95 and 
 I think that's about $10 too much for the amount of game play you get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 3, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Wow, just finished playing FEAR: Extraction Point. The experience was somewhat better than the 
 original game. There is nothing much to look in to the story line, but one adrenalin rush.
  
  The GOOD: Awesome graphics, and sound the best I have seen in a FPS, and the game play is better 
 with new guns, new enemies, and those who have a bad heart, this is one scary game although it's 
 nothing like Doom 3 for me it is pretty scary, great environments that spooks you out. Still has 
 the best AI I have seen in a game, the AI act according to their environment hiding behind walls 
 and trying to flank you out.
  
  The BAD: It eats way in to your system resources, you need a high end machine to play this game 
 on full graphics and unlike some games you need to be running this in at least medium to get in 
 to the excitement and most of the game play with dust in your face and great lighting to spook 
 you out.
  
  If your looking for entertainment, good fire fights, a good scare then this is the game for you, 
 but if your looking for answers to the story in FEAR, then hardly does anything to continue the 
 game but it has a few turning points, but nothing exciting in that sense, then save your money 
 for FEAR 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I was quite excited about this expansion and after waiting a week after the "supposed" release 
 date I finally got it. Let me tell you, IGN and GameSpot were a little harsh about this game. Overall, 
 the game length depends on skill but it is estimated its going to take me 8 to 10 hours to complete 
 since I like to digest everything about this game. The story picks up one day after the events 
 of the original F. E. A. R. The entire city has been devastated due to the explosion of the Origin 
 Facility. However, Alma is still out there and Paxton Fettel? Oh yea, he's back, along with his 
 pack of Replicas ready to shoot you into a bloody mess. Your goal is to survive and make it to 
 the Extraction Point, hence the title. The story is not as well-written as the original but it 
 does a competent job of keeping you in the loop since it plays out as one big escape sequence. 
 Graphics are great, despite being a year old, and the sound is used to better effect here, especially 
 the music. The AI is quite challenging, and the new toys (the Mini-Gun, the Laser Carbine, and 
 the Deployable Gun Turret) and enemies are a nice addition. One of the new enemies is a near invisible 
 figure with glowing red eyes. They're pretty weak but due to their speed, you MUST use your slow-mo 
 ability to take them down and they present a worthy challenge. The new environments such as the 
 church, the warehouse, the subway, the parking lot and adjacent office building, and hospital are 
 all nice but sometimes, it reminds me of the original F. E. A. R. due to the reuse of large amount 
 of textures from the original game. This game is also more scary then the original (especially 
 the hospital levels) so better bring an extra pair of pants. While not as good as the original, 
 this is still a worthy and challenging expansion that all F. E. A. R. fans should love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irate_Hobbit
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  This expansion pack (original copy of FEAR required) pickes up immediately where the last game 
 left off, and ends up not much further. Think Half-Life Episode 1. The real draws are the improved 
 AI, new enemies, new weapons and more tolerable level design. Other than that its another FEAR 
 game. The AI seems to be even better and you are dealing with new enemies too. Using the new weapons 
 against usually more enemies at once than the previous is a real treat. It is more challenging 
 without being as tedious as the previous FEAR. Although nothing happens but establishing characters 
 for the next game, it does paint a pretty picture for the future of FEAR. Graphics are starting 
 to show their age. Though Monolith said they improved some effects on the new console versions, 
 with high settings I didn't notice much difference from the first FEAR game. The sound is about 
 the same as the last game. Great music that fits the story anddecent to really cool sounding (particle 
 weapon) effects makes the sound way better than the average game. Ofcoarse there is always the 
 multiplayer that was free anyway. FEAR multiplayer is underated. Due to the lack of attention on 
 the PC, you may want to look into the console versions of the original FEAR to find consistant 
 MP matches. For the FEAR fan, don't let all the other games coming out make you forget about FEAR. 
 This one promises. If you have had your hearts set on other games this time of year, grab this 
 when it goes down to $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrestlingdude
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 2, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  There's no huge improvements over the original title. The destruction in the levels has been upped 
 a notch along with a few new weapons. As most know by now the new featured weapon is the mini-gun, 
 however it's sucks that you don't really get to use it that much and there's not enough ammo to 
 keep it in your inventory for more than 1 minute. Funny enogh the new laster gun is more in plentiful 
 supply yet it too can be hard to keep in your inventory very long. You end up using the same old 
 weapons way to often for this game to be considered funner than the original title.
  
  If you know how to play F. E. A. R. and are familiar with the controls you can beat the expansion 
 way less than 5 hours. However, the ending does set up for F. E. A. R. 2 which Gamespot has already 
 found out is in the works.
  
  F. E. A. R. Extraction Point is still brain teasing fun, besides it's lack of length. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ishalan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 1, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Excellent add on but leaves you with more questions then answers... it acts like it is going to 
 add tons to the story line of the first game and yet it doesnt. It gets to the end and you really 
 dont know anything more. I loved the two new guns the laser was cool and the chain gun is a must 
 ... it really makes the red eye apparitions easy. For the most part the game is identical to the 
 original. However they finally added sequences where more then 6 ppl come after you at once.. At 
 one point you get ambushed by atleast 15men and it is really a cool fight you are picking up whatever 
 guns you see to fight back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick0060
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 1, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  So far I am loving 'extraction point', it's just like the first FEAR except I think it is probably 
 scarier and a bit tougher. However, if you are one for story lines then it seems a bit of a let 
 down as the story doesn't really seem to expand much past the first game. It was a good story line 
 back then. Personally I love the gameplay, action packed battles and being a tad frightened!! That's 
 all I really wanted from this game, and fantastic multiplayer (which to be honest the old game 
 had) , a good story line would just have been a bonus. It wasn't pricey so if you have the first 
 FEAR and loved it this is a good investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topman58
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2006 3:13 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed the action and the release of a couple of new weapons. The chain gun being great in a 
 intense fight. But the story really disappointed me going no were with only one suggested piece 
 of information. Which if was revealed here would spoil it for anyone that genuinely wants to try 
 the game. The action and graphics are as good as the first part of the games but leaving the confines 
 of the Lab gave the design team a chance to make this game a more roaming type of game giving the 
 player the opportunity to try different routes to get behind their opponents and visa versa which 
 would of add to the difficulty. Instead as in the labs you are forced down a linear route because 
 of obstacles placed in your way . FEAR was a great game and very atmospheric but as with most expansions 
 ( there are a few exceptions) the FEAR team have failed to improve or indeed keep up with the standard 
 of the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pisto89
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 1, 2006 2:58 am PT
Review:  This game is well-groomed under all details ;albeit the graphics is the only negative point. Infact 
 there are too much problems with the utility of the ram in the game, because is not possibile that 
 the game don't flow good with 1.5 gb of ram! Anyhow the gameplay is stupefacente and leave with 
 the breath hanging in all the game! The sound is realy good and the effect are exagerate! but the 
 best thing of the game are the phantoms of the child in the game! The ai is well-groumed in fact 
 the bot is very inteliggente; in hard situation (for example) for shield at the raffic of my bullets 
 this bot organize taking all that can find on the ground... Finaly this game is another fps with 
 something of special and i hope that the molith and sierra will create another chapter or similiar 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necromace2938
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 31, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  For being a relatively new franchise, FEAR has been able to boost itself into pretty high esteem. 
 The Gory, realistic violence keeps you satisfied, and bullet time feature helps you to work out 
 of tight places. All these features are thrown into a beautful and creepy package. In FEAR extraction 
 point, you are again placed as the nameless newbie in the FEAR squad and it picks up directly where 
 the first game left off. As you and your squad escape the burning reckage of your downed helicopter, 
 you are forced to run and gun your way to the new extraction point on top of a hospital. You must 
 fight a newly ressurected Fettel and his clone replica soldier to safety. The AI is sitll as good 
 as ever and a few new enemies and weapons have been added. An extra large battle robot mech thing 
 will take up arms with you. But this new enemy is only seen about 2 or 3 times throughout the entire 
 game. Two new weapons, the gatling gun and the laser have been added, i found the laser pretty 
 helpful but you will still rely on you trusty assult rifle and shotgun. All the gritty violence 
 is back, but some of the scares and spooks arnt as original. This game can still creep you out 
 when you play it in a dark room, but it is not nearly as scary as the heart pounding fear that 
 strikes you in the original FEAR. They kind of let up on the story telling and the fact that it 
 comes with no redy multiplayer is kind of a let down. so ya, if u liked fear alot, go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingprincess
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 31, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  First, If Your Playing the Fear Extraction Point Then you Obiously liked the First Fear Game. Right 
 ok Right. Basically Have to have liked it Since you need Number one In order to play Number Two. 
 The game is the same and Totally different if that is possible. Two sets of solders, Both bad. 
 Our beloved Hero and of course Alma and Fettle. With a hoste of others running a moke. This time 
 you set off with your two Buddies from the helicopter crash. All are healthy and well, After a 
 while you split up. Your given an assignment and have to carry it out which sound easier then it 
 is. The game goes Slow for a while and you will figure this is a dumb stupid waste of time. But 
 time is what you need to give it. Things do pick up quickly. maybe more quickly then you expect. 
 lamps move on there own stating somethings there or is it. never know till it happens. Some of 
 the old creatures are in there but a hoste of new ones. Some you dont see. Along with invisible 
 soldiers you have dime pink eyed creatures. They hurt a lot. At times its hard to figure out whos 
 fighting who. Alma wispers things. Walls move Pull back and fourth between times. Fettle sits a 
 high a perch watching the killing. New weapons, theres a lazer gun that really makes a mess of 
 things. ha ha. A lot of health around as when fights start you need it. A lot of BLOOD. In the 
 old game i never looked behind myself in this one i was always looking back. Worth the Time and 
 really Spooky. Great thing is it keeps you guessing, whats around the corner, in that room, down 
 the hall, ok maybe not, maybe in the Broom closet. im not telling. you need to find it out on your 
 own. happy blooding...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 31, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  First off I would like to point out that i loved the original FEAR and have beaten it multiple 
 times so I was looking forward to this expansion coming out and it definatley did not disappoint 
 me. It is basically more of the same but the gunfights against the clones are alot better this 
 time i would say with signifigantly more enemies coming at you than in the original. At one point 
 you have to fight in waves against 20 soldiers using one of the new weapons a deployable turret 
 which is alot of fun to use even though you wont get much use out of it. The new weapons included 
 are the minigun which is a very powerful close range weapon and the laser carbine which is a good 
 weapon for any distance since it has very good accuracy. There are a few new enemies which are 
 very cool like the minigun heavy which even should of been in the original, and the giant elephant 
 mechs i think they are called which u have to fight 2 in a row. On the second one I ran into a 
 doorway with a small room hoping id be safe in there and the thing blew the whole wall apart! The 
 graphics and sound in this game are some of the best on any videogame and they still hold up. I 
 thought the enviroments were actually quite a bit different than the original although the same 
 feel is there throughout most of the levels. The story is a little vague but its still really well 
 done and the cutscenes are stylish and effective.. Not that i really thought that the original fear 
 was scarey but overall this one is scarier and has some surprising moments in it which will affect 
 the rest of the series if they make a sequel. I think anyone who liked the original fear will definatley 
 have a great time with the expansion and its not all that short for an expansion either, took me 
 about 6-7 hours and that was what i was expecting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reinchester
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 31, 2006 12:28 am PT
Review:  Game presents many interesting new developments to the the story. Gameplay fun as always. And if 
 you have an actual life outside of gaming you just might get a few scares in too. Only thing wrong 
 is that it leaves you with more questions than answers at the end. I look forward to the sequel. 
 Definitley play it with yer friends in the room with lights off and volume high, it's good for 
 kicks and giggles. I do wish there were more enemies, more plot development, and less of the same 
 old corridors and cubicles. A coop version simply must be made for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FusionXN1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 30, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Following on from the original it is a must for any F. E. A. R. fan like myself. Yes, it's only 2 
 - 6 hours long but it is a great game to play and very fun.
  
  If you played F. E. A. R. then you must play this one! It's doesn't fail to surprise you with even 
 more horror, action and shocks! If you didn't you must try the demo here on Gamespot and see for 
 yourself!
  
  The graphics arn't different then the first but no biggie they look good and go with the game well. 
 Sound isn't the best but it isn't average ether so that's a plus and gameplay is the best, every 
 corner will give you a scare from things popping out to simple whispers - be sure to play with 
 the lights off! ;)
  
  My rating is a 9.3 - review total 8.2, the game is harder then F. E. A. R. and more challenging! Overall: 
 Fun to play, worth the money but maybe a little too short but it is an expansion so what are you 
 to expect? One of the best expansions in a while though! THIS NEEDS F. E. A. R. TO PLAY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlypwnage
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 30, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I also feel that a game should not be judged on length as the gamespot reviewer seems obsessed 
 with. all i can say is wait until interval 5, the most intense and scary interval ive yet played 
 in both games combined. I love the new guns, except the sentry turrets, they're not that cool. 
 the new enemies make this game far more interesting than the original.
  I also didnt think it was short at all, for an expansion. and i will be playing these battles over 
 and over again. while 5-6 hours may sound short, it really is quite a while to sit down and play 
 a game straight through. I didnt care for the story, but that doesnt bother me because the gameplay 
 and scares were SO good. If u liked the original, then this is a must. i was on the fence about 
 getting it, but now im glad i did. U will be too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noda_90
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 30, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  extraction point is as good as u can guess and it doesn't deserve the 7.8 that gamespot gave it
 
  
  gameplay: as good as the original..... even more creepy moments than the original and it's as deep 
 as u can imagie
  
  graphics: better (or maybe the same) than the original.... i just like to hit the lamps and watch 
 the lighting effects and reflections on the walls, shadows are fantastic and ofcource the slowMo 
 and grenades effects ,,, but i dunno if it was me or that the water is worse than the original (maybe 
 coz it appears only in sewers)
  
  sound: great, awesome say what u wanna say.... it's the best i have seen in a game... changes when 
 u r in combat into a fast one and ofcource after combat into a slow and creepy one preparing for 
 alma or the creepy creatures that disappear and appear or just removing some objects (and believe 
 me with the sound effect u can't be frightend more than that)
  and btw the sound in the end of the game (after alma die or blow or whatever) it's in arabic words ( 
 i know that iam from Egypt) and it was the best in the whole game
  
  value: the worst thing, it doesn't offer more than six hours of gameplay but maybe if they make 
 it taller the game would be worse coz they are hell of awesome six hours to play
  
  Tilt: what do u expect of an expansion that comes to the best shooter of 2005 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiskadoro73
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Great fun and highly recommended. If you enjoyed the original FEAR you should enjoy this one too. 
 I quite liked the slightly more varied environments, particularly the subway, and the new weapons 
 were fun, but there didn't seem to be enough of them. I actually found Extraction Point a little 
 tougher than the original, but it was still filled with the same tension and atmosphere as the 
 first. It didn't, however, scare me like the first one did, the thrills are a little inevitable 
 at times, but usually they're well scripted. As many other reviewers have mentioned, the total 
 gameplay time is fairly short, but to me felt no shorter than Half Life 2 Episode 1. The action 
 is still very visceral, and if you actually stop thinking about whether it's better/worse than 
 other games out there, just turn out the lights, crank up the headphones, it's sure to be a whole 
 lot of fun, and you can't beat that, can you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Docto878
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 28, 2006 10:05 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand the reviews by the gaming critics. This game plays like the original fear game. 
 They gave that a superb rating. To me this game deserves the same score as the original. It looks 
 and plays great. I cannot understand why more of the same is not good enough. I feel that some 
 of the scares you get in this version are even better than the original. You still need a powerful 
 computer to make this game look and play great. I have an AMD 4000 with a Nvidia 7600GT and 1 gig 
 of RAM and I can play this at maximum computer settings and high graphic settings with good frame 
 rate. If you liked the original then this game is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nite1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I always been a big fan of the game Fear, and Sierra released this expansion just in time for Halloween 
 which is excellent timing considering its a scary game. Has a good selection of new enemies and 
 weapons, but I noticed as I progressed it doesn't keep the action flowing too well because part 
 of time you feel like your walking through empty sections of levels with no enemies around. The 
 graphics were always a strong point in fear, very highly detailed levels with a great layout. This 
 game just screams physics and needs a fairly high end system to see all the eye candy. I encountered 
 a bug in the sound system when hardware mixing is enabled in game and that is the sound would cut 
 out sometimes, I never had that issue on retail fear. Overall its a great expansion pack and I 
 hope to see another Fear expansion or maybe a F. E. A. R 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdrikari
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 27, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. Extraction Point continues to provide about another 6 hours of good solid F. E. A. R.-style 
 gameplay. However, I found the added weapons to be near useless and played most of the game through 
 with my standard combo of shotgun, assault rifle and 1 special (usually plasma rifle or HV penetrator) . 
 Plasma rounds were particularly hard to come by. (That's ok, it's a really powerful gun) The chaingun 
 was sort of fun but not as much as I had hoped, and the laser carbine was just sort of silly. Turrets 
 weren't as much fun as I had hoped, but they do make the final fight cake.
  
  The Alma story was continued but not really to the end that I thought. (or I just didn't get it, 
 that's possible too) A large portion of the creep-sequences were not as well scripted as in the 
 original. I missed the visuals on a good number of them b/c I was either not looking the right 
 way, or far more often, b/c I had hit the trigger pt. but since I wasn't charging into rooms blindly, 
 didn't get to see the visual. This was disappointing, since it was a good chunk of what made the 
 original so good. Didn't think much of the ending.
  
  Music was too loud (trying to be dramatic) when launching several 'staged' fights. Which is a pain 
 when you're trying to hear which way the bad guys are going so you can do what you got the game 
 for. You know, shoot them.
  
  Overall: If you liked F. E. A. R., like the smart AI but wanted different weapons or some different 
 buildings to play in this may be for you. Otherwise replay the original or go buy something else. 
 I just replayed the original for the third time right before this came out and I enjoyed it quite 
 a bit more than this expansion. I don't think TimeGate quite 'got' exactly the mix that made the 
 original as good as it was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nixtothe3rdpowa
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 27, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Sure its not as long as people might have it expected it to be, but who cares. FEP (F. E. A. R. Extraction 
 Point) offers new weapons, more gore, and slightly better looking enviroments. Half life 2 Episode 
 One offered maybe six hours of gameplay, at most, which is what fep offers as well. Its not fear 
 2, its an expansion. It helps move the story line along and makes fear two look like and awesome 
 sequel. Plus, the new chaingun can do some serious damage, and might give you an aneurysm cause 
 of the awesome effetcs. All in all, if you like violent, swear filled, and just awesome combat, 
 matched with a high replay value, F. E. A. R. extraction point should be your next purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xsystemmods
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 25, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Complain as you will about the environments, the storyline, and even the new weapons and characters. 
 Faulting this game for being under 4 hours long is just lame. This game is EASILY longer than HL2 
 episode 1 and that was ranked as 4-6 hours! Don't believe what you are hearing about the length 
 of this game. I have played Extraction Point multiple times and, I am a better than average F. E. A. R. 
 player. I play F. E. A. R. multiplayer, have played the original game more than 10 times, and have 
 played the demos countless times as well. Its also hilarious to me that the sound is being ranked 
 higher than many of the other features in this game. If anything, the sound quality of the new 
 audio in this title are lower than the original. I would have to say that sound is a low point 
 of this Extraction Point. However, the new sounds / music do not seriously detract from the game 
 at any time. I would rank the gameplay in Extraction Point to be as good or better than the original 
 game, and considering this is an EXPANSION PACK, I would say that the goals of the developers have 
 been reached. Those complaining about this not being a full sequel need to be patient and realize 
 that this WAS NEVER attempting to be a sequel and was not touted as such by TimeGate, Monolith, 
 or VIvendi. We are still awaiting a full sequel. Overall, this is time for F. E. A. R. fans to rejoice! 
 We have 5-8 hours of NEW gameplay available that more than does the original justice! GO get it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: givemethepatch
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 25, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  Lets get the easy parts out of the way first - F. E. A. R is a great first person shooter, featuring 
 gameplay that can be said to be unforgiving at the harder settings if your best FPS tactic is to 
 run into a room and hope you don't run out of ammunition before everything is dead. Ideally, this 
 forces you to become a better player, or turn the difficulty down and be forced to live with your 
 lack of manhood : (
  
  The graphics, musical score and sound effects, as well as the gameplay are all terrific offerings 
 from this game, and I would whole heartedly suggest that any fan of first person shooters who hasn't 
 bought the original is missing out on a great experience. However, the value in the expansion pack, 
 Extraction Point, just isn't there. While just as good visually as its predecessor, Extraction 
 Point lacks the same degree of depth and development. Where the first was innovative and added 
 significantly eerie moments to enhance the game, the expansion offers no really new content; interiors 
 feel recycled to the point that a player wonders if they've reused the same parking garage map 
 from the original game, and only reversed the direction you're expected to travel. Enemies are 
 the staple guys-with-guns with enough regularity as to be annoying - when bigger bad guys come 
 out to play, their appearance is predictable, and not at all challening to defeat. At only a few 
 locations in the game do multiple harder enemies appear, and they are successive fights, not concurrent, 
 so the challenge is again minimal. More disappointing than the lack of new-feeling locations was 
 the reliance the game has on once again using the tricks that set the atmosphere of the first so 
 well - only the audience has seen the tricks before. In almost every case, the appearance of the 
 supernatural characters in the game were telegraphed far, far too ahead of time; the things that 
 made you jump during the first game, now provided very short and hardly noticable distraction from 
 the almost-pointless gunplay. I felt that there were only two standout moments in this expansion, 
 which I won't describe so as to not ruin the moment for anyone; suffice to say that the solid execution 
 of those two moments proved to be acts that were too hard to follow for the rest of the game. When 
 the designers get it right, this franchise is spectacular in all respects. Now, on to the reason 
 that I rated the value of this expansion pack at a lowly two points.
  
  I play first person shooters a great deal, and I am known to chew through content fairly quickly. 
 That said, however, even I cannot justify the pitifuly short playtime in this expansion. I paid 
 39.99 (Canadian) , and finished the expansion in just under 5 hours at the 'hard' setting. I suspect 
 the 'extreme' difficulty may add a handful of additional deaths and subsequent reload times, but 
 not enough to add hours of play. To me, that is not an acceptable return for the money; games should 
 not be shorter than 2 feature films, unless they are priced accordingly; this expansion should 
 not have retailed at release for more than 19.99.
  
  Because of the strong gameplay and good value of the original FEAR, I expected far more value for 
 my money with the expansion. I highly recommend waiting until this expansion is discounted from 
 the release price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: claudiu91
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  It's the best game whom I saw. The graphic is perfect, the sound with a 5.1 audio system si like 
 real. I don't have words to compare whit other games. This game need a good computer to enjoy all 
 details , but deserve to be play at full graphics. I'm impatient to play the full version because 
 I want to see all weapons and cross the story. This game is the first witch captive my with story 
 and graphics. It's wonderful because you have many possibility to kill your enemy and your health 
 is enough. I have friends who don't like shooter games but they like F. E. A. R. because has a grate 
 story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dubastic
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 24, 2006 2:45 am PT
Review:  The great thing I like about this game is Physics and the rich environment. A. I is also excellent, 
 they react different according to your move that you make. Another thing that i like is that when 
 you throw a grenade and when it explode, it forms spherical kind of ship in the air. And when shoot 
 an enemy, for every bullet their reaction is different, for example if you shoot a person on the 
 leg then that enemy cannot run rather he walks slow. Bullet time is also awwsum, in which you get 
 fast enough to kill as many as possible. In the I would like to say that the game is just simply 
 amazing and spectacular graphics! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
