-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: F.E.A.R. 2: Project Origin
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/fear2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Slow-motion shootouts are good, gory fun.
 Mech sequences provide welcome variety.
 Some cool, spooky imagery.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story offers little mystery or suspense.
 Cliched random scares and level design.
 Multiplayer is drab and disappointing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 10, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.9, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,460 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment
Developer: Monolith
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Feb 10, 2009 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This somewhat scary sequel is a solid shooter, but it can't keep pace with its lauded predecessor. 
 

  The image of a pasty-skinned, greasy-haired young girl has become an iconic one in horror films 
 like  The Ring , and the original F. E. A. R. introduced a similar figure with great success. Of course, 
 that game gave its ghostly visions a chilling context, drawing you into the unnerving story of 
 a paranormal prodigy named Alma and the horrific suffering to which she was subjected. F. E. A. R. 
 2: Project Origin returns to this fertile universe, but rather than scrutinize even darker reaches 
 of the soul, it merely skims the surface, offering up a series of eerie visions without delivering 
 a good mystery to bind them together. The good news for shooter fans is that the bullet-blasting 
 core of the experience is sound, propelling you forward with enough intensity to keep the single-player 
 campaign engaging. Most of what's here has been done better before, but the unspectacular elements 
 have been stitched into an enjoyably moody first-person shooter that relies on rock-solid mechanics 
 rather than true inspiration.  

           Nothing like the smell of the napalm gun in the morning.      

  After a short exposition, 
 F. E. A. R. 2 picks up where the original left off -- with a bang. The city is in tatters, and as Michael 
 Becket of Delta Force, it is up to you and your squadmates to capture the elusive Genevieve Aristide, 
 president of the nefarious Armacham Technology Corporation. Too much description would risk spoiling 
 the game's few surprises, which are better experienced than narrated, though as it happens, there 
 are few enigmas to unravel. F. E. A. R. 2's story paints itself into a corner, offering very little 
 new to players already familiar with the Project Origin referred to in the title, and nothing compelling 
 enough to wrap newcomers into its fold. With Alma now a known quantity, paranormal secrecy has 
 been replaced by a series of near-cliche bump-in-the-night scares and murky visions that do the 
 unthinkable where a horror-themed game is concerned: They become predictable.  

  Because the pacing and story layout of the game can be a bit predictable at times, F. E. A. R. 2s 
 real scares come from its atmosphere -- and this actually works, sometimes. Expect to jump out of 
 your seat on occasion, when your flashlight flickers and ghostly visages surround you, or when 
 staccato orchestral chords signal the emergence of abominations as they break free from their confining 
 cells. Other attempts at scares just seem stale, given that the game's pacing and level design 
 foreshadow these encounters, therefore emasculating the necessary sense of surprise. However, the 
 excellent sound design is never to blame. A variety of creaks and groans gives ebb and flow to 
 the sense of tension, and musical swells and increasingly hectic clatters and clangs will get your 
 pulse pounding when needed. Unfortunately, the visuals don't paint a picture dour enough to match. 
 Some areas are shrouded with moody environmental shadows, in which light and dark contrast to excellent 
 effect. In other levels, the lack of ambient lighting and accompanying silhouettes are noticeable, 
 and the surrounding frights just feel flaccid. F. E. A. R. 2 simply doesn't match its FPS peers from 
 a technical perspective, so though it looks good, the simple textures, inconsistent shadows, and 
 occasional clipping and other glitches detract from the atmosphere. The upside is that PC enthusiasts 
 playing on even a medium-powered system should be able to crank up the options and still maintain 
 a smooth frame rate.  

  The level design also falls victim to a fair bit of predictability, though to F. E. A. R. 2's credit, 
 you'll break away from the endless office corridors of the original and journey through a greater 
 variety of environments. These areas are usually just as claustrophobic, but they won't often deliver 
 that spine-tingling fear of the specters lurking beyond the reach of your flashlight. Trekking 
 through the rubble of decaying city streets is a good change of pace, but the ultraconvenient manner 
 in which the debris holds you to your narrow path is a familiar design ploy. Similarly, there's 
 no more excitement to be found in F. E. A. R. 2's same-old subway than that of any other game. It's 
 at its best when it leaves these stale tropes behind and builds on its roots as a corridor shooter, 
 such as in a nail-biting sojourn through the halls of an elementary school that hides unspeakable 
 horrors. Entering a dusky music classroom to find a hideous mutant pounding on the keys of a piano 
 with abandon is a singular moment, and the ensuing battles are ripe and exhilarating reminders 
 of the series' explosive origins.  

           For the best bloodshed, zoom in.      

  Those same inhuman atrocities will spawn clones while emitting ear-splitting, disorienting roars, 
 and others scurry about at super speeds -- though as it happens, you've got a helpful skill at your 
 disposal that helps manage nimble and sluggish foes alike. Like the protagonist of F. E. A. R., you 
 can activate reflex time, which slows the action to a crawl and lets you battle your enemies in 
 a bullet-time ballet. You've seen a similar mechanic a lot by now, but it's skillfully done here. 
 Grenade explosions create impressive visual distortions, bullets leave an airstream in their wake, 
 and spoken dialogue and sound effects grind to a muffled crawl. Landing headshots in reflex time 
 is particularly enjoyable and gives F. E. A. R. 2's gruesome levels of violence a temporary starring 
 role. Foes erupt in red gushers, staining the walls with blood and flailing around in their final 
 moments, an effect made even more effective by robust (and occasionally oversensitive) rag-doll 
 animations.  

  Your instruments of destruction aren't spectacular, but they're varied enough to make shooting 
 a pleasure, even when the flow of time takes its normal path. The two shotguns are particular delights; 
 they feel weighty and dispatch most enemies with a single bloody blast to the noggin. The hammerhead 
 is another delight, filling your foes with neon barbs and potentially affixing them to the wall 
 behind. However, shooter fans should consider playing at higher difficulty levels, given that F. E. A. R. 
 2 feels noticeably easier than its predecessor.  

  The AI can offer occasional challenges, particularly in levels featuring intersecting corridors 
 in which human enemies will flank you, use cover effectively, and tumble to the side should they 
 find themselves gazing down the barrel of your automatic shotgun. They will also tip over furniture 
 or other objects and use them as cover (a trick you can use, though will likely never need) . However, 
 enemy behavior is inconsistent; a table-tipping guard may not follow through, running away from 
 his improvised cover rather than ducking behind it. Some enemies will blindly fire from behind 
 low obstacles but may also do so when in plain view. The best adversaries are those not governed 
 by rules of human behavior, such as ethereal foes that take shape as you enter reflex time. And 
 in some cases, your enemies are so visually elusive that you're better off finding a way out of 
 the dark environs that spawn them.  

  The most notable additions to the formula are a couple of armored-suit sequences in which you climb 
 into a giant metal mech and riddle your attackers with machine-gun spray and rockets. These sequences 
 aren't tough -- you're a powerful death machine plowing down your weakling foes -- but the mech controls 
 nicely and you'll be treated to some impressive displays of environmental destruction and general 
 chaos. You can move through these areas on foot if you like, so these levels do offer a bit of 
 replay value, though you should take great pains to wreak fun robotic havoc when given the possibility. 
 You'll also take control of the turret atop the squad's armored vehicle, but this weapon isn't 
 all that enjoyable to use, and these bits feel like filler.  

           Armored exoskeletons can defeat everything except heavy grain filters.      

  F. E. A. R. 
 2's multiplayer component also feels like filler, and though we've come to expect online play from 
 most of our shooters, there's nothing special about this suite of lackluster options. For fans 
 of the original, the most notable omission is that of the slow-motion modes, which brought reflex 
 time into an online arena and made for some clever and enjoyable showdowns. Without these modes, 
 F. E. A. R. 2 feels a bit hollow online, serving up helpings of Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch, a 
 couple of Conquest variants, Capture the Flag, and a mode called Failsafe that owes a large debt 
 to Counter-Strike. The best of these is Armored Front, in which a player on each team can hop into 
 one of those robotic exoskeletons while his or her teammates capture control points. Otherwise, 
 the shooting mechanics don't translate as well to a multiplayer environment, and the by-the-numbers 
 levels are unimpressive. You have the ability to customize your loadout and level up in ranked 
 matches, but this just isn't enough to breathe life into the musty online play.  

  You'll get the occasional heebie-jeebies from F. E. A. R. 2, but the magic of the first game hasn't 
 been re-created here. Its true that some of the changes in the new game seem like they were intended 
 to address criticism of the first F. E. A. R.: tedious and claustrophobic environments, lack of enemy 
 variety, and so on. Sadly, though these changes were made, the resulting sequel, while fun and 
 well-crafted, seems to have lost sight of the strengths that made its predecessor so unique. Nevertheless, 
 playing F. E. A. R. 2 is a worthwhile way to pass the time while we wait for the inevitable next installment. 

    Editor's Note: This review previously contained inaccurate information about the melee combat 
 system. GameSpot regrets the error.       
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (93 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2009 7:06 am PT
Review:  Its been now almost four years since the first F. E. A. R hit the stores.
  Now we finally have the second game of the series, that manages to still deliver some great horror 
 moments and great action sequences.
  
  People who say that F. E. A. R 2 is F. E. A. R with better graphics commits a mistake.
  With a good 
 variety of enemies and the introduction of vehicles to the formula this game differs from the first.
 
  
  Well first things first, to begin you play now as Sergeant Michael Beckett, a member of a Delta 
 Force Team sent to rescue Genevieve Aristide. (don't worry, i won't give spoilers) .
  But your operation is interrupted by an explosion in the Armacham Facility in Auburn (as you may 
 know it was caused by the first game's protagonist, the so called point man) .
  After passing through some cirurgical procedures, Beckett begin to present the same slowmo ability 
 present by the point man.
  But i still thing that the point man is much more interesting as a protagonist.
  
  Well now 
 the experience, as i said before this sequel differs from the first when the matters is enemies.
 
  F. E. A. R 2 has some very cool vehicles and some new scary enemies such as the abominations (very 
 fast mutants, that can crawl and jump around through boosted agility) .
  There are some interesting new "zombies" as well that manages to use corpses to fight against you.
 
  The Vehicles moments are a great BOOM! as well.
  They are very fun to play, they definitely deserve a second play through.
  All That pretty much 
 garanties a great and above all a different experience from the first game.
  The problem as you may already heard are some horror moments, that are definitely getting old.
 
  And the multiplayer isn't something to really look forward for.
  
  F. E. A. R 2 in the end can be a great rent.
  buying? 
  well only for real fans of the series.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OverTheBelow
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 8:50 am PT
Review:  This game had an incredible demo and after I had played it I was desperate for it. Then to my delight 
 I got it for my birthday.
  
  After playing through 75% of the story I gave up. Alot of the enemies were re-used far too many 
 times making completing a level more like a chore instead of having fun. Overall, I'd guess there 
 was about.. literally 13 different enemies throughout the whole game. If thats not true well then 
 that is most certainly what it seemed like.
  
  The gun noises were also quite disappointing. The shotgun, for example, sounds like you are slamming 
 a door. But this isn't something you should worry about since you tend to get used to it.
  
  Overall, sure, getting scared by Alma is fun, but the repetitive gameplay just makes it really 
 boring. If you like a good scare and don't mind killing the same things over and over then this 
 game will be good for you. Otherwise I'd say give it a miss.
  
  Good things:
  Very scary moments.
  Beautiful graphics.
  Nice looking weapons.
  Cool special effects ingame 
 adds to the scariness.
  Good voice actors. :D
  
  Bad things:
  Not a large variety of enemies.
  Bad weapon sounds.
  Gets boring quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tashman
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2009 2:07 am PT
Review:  Personally I thought that no other game would be as creepy as FEAR... but FEAR2 actually made me 
 jump up once and scream...
  
  What made FEAR a creepy game was basically Alma... however I thought we didnt really get enough 
 of her in the first game... Now, in the fear2 theres plenty of her to go around! We basically are 
 left off with Alma being a lady, as she was left off at the end of FEAR, however, we also get flash 
 backs to a some of her past. Theres nothing creepier than a girl on a swing...
  
  Fear2 even a bunch more creepy Alma like characters, who crawl around on the floors and walls, 
 basically doing what ever they can to scare the living hell out of you. 
  
  With, what I believe to be improved graphics and a cooler interface system, FEAR2 also allows you 
 to interact with the environment a bit more than the original. Keeping on with the environment, 
 we get the same amazing bullet to whatever surface response.
  FEAR 2, for me, was a much scarier game... in fact I refuse to play it with the lights off lol. 
 BUY IT, play it, burrow it from a friend, you just owe yourself a crack at this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2009 4:52 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. 1   F. E. A. R. 2
  
  There is no doubt about that. Still, that doesn't mean that F. E. A. R. 2 is a bad game. It doesn't 
 even mean that it is the worse game. Project Origin suffered a lot of criticism, including from 
 Gamespot, because it is simply not a new game. Following the flawed practice with F. E. A. R.'s two 
 expansion packs, F. E. A. R. 2 recycles the same events again as the ones in the original game. Disappointed 
 by that, many people fail to see that the youngest child of Monolith is better than its elder brother 
 in almost every aspect.
  
  Starting with the story, it might be the very same story, but this time around it is told much 
 better. There are far more answers than in the first game and the narration is much more coherent. 
 They even gave the main character a name now!
  
  Level design is on a whole new level so to speak. Not that it is something phenomenal, but this 
 was one of F. E. A. R.'s worst errors and now levels feel much more diverse and believable. There 
 are even some masterpieces like the elementary school. Open-air levels are also a welcome addition 
 and the ash remains of citizens on the streets after the nuclear blast create a thick atmosphere.
 
  
  Weapons are pretty much the same but somehow they feel "heavier" in the player's hands. Enemies 
 are also a bit more diverse and slow motion effects are just as good as ever so overall, battles 
 feel kind of better in Project Origin.
  
  No need to say that graphics would be better four years later. However, the first F. E. A. R. was 
 counting on marvelous special effects alone while this one actually has some detail to the environments 
 as well. The only thing that ruins the impression is the helmet screen through which you will observe 
 the whole game. It adds a nasty static effect to your vision. The few times when you will look 
 at the world without this screen, you will be astounded how much better Project Origin looks.
 
  
  In fact F. E. A. R. 2 has only one notable downside compared to F. E. A. R. 1. It is that Alma is simply 
 not scary anymore. This comes from the fact that the game recycles the same events, as mentioned 
 above. There are still the occasional cliche jump-out-of-your-seat scare moments but now you know 
 exactly what Alma is, you know the nature of her tricks and most of all, you know from the first 
 game that she only barks but never bites... at least when it comes to you. There are few literal 
 exceptions of the later but they are not much of a challenge, hence they do not produce a thrill. 
 Besides all of Alma's scary moves become much more predictable, much faster than in the first F. E. A. R.
 
  
  Well, that's pretty much everything there is to say about Project Origin. It is a very standard 
 run 'n' gun shooter that is less scary and more action-oriented than its predecessor. Still, it 
 doesn't mean that it is the worse game. In fact it is pretty much what the original F. E. A. R. was 
 supposed to be, but it is just that now the audience knows what to expect. Look at it not as a 
 sequel to the original game but rather as a second attempt at F. E. A. R. It is also heaps of fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarrisDo
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2009 5:52 am PT
Review:  Previously on fear: An army of telepathetic controled soldiers, created by the biological weapons 
 company "Armachaman" starts to kill people. Really many people.! The soldiers are controled by 
 a crazy and gifted with special psychic powers who leads them to the detection of a young mysterious 
 girl named Alma.
  
  And that was the first game. You were controlling Point Man a dark non speaking person who can 
 slow down time but the real star in the game wasn't he. It was Alma. The sequel begins right before 
 the nuclear explosion in the "finale" of the first game. You are a member of a team that is send 
 there for a mission. To protect the president of "Armachaman" company. His name is Geneviene Aristide 
 and in no case needs to be murdered. Soon things are getting bad. You try to find your way between 
 Replica soldiers that try to kill you. Moreover weird things happen to your mind. Then not only 
 you develop a power that slows down time but you also begin to suffer from visons which depict 
 another older more naked and much more frightening Alma.
  
  In Fear 2 the levels do not consist of simple offices and narrow coridors but you play in flaming 
 hospitals schools streets... .The variety is big. That doesn't mean that you have the chance to 
 explore them. Most doors are locked but nevertheless you have more important things to do like 
 staffing conning towers and fighting a huge amount of enemies while wearing a mech suit. On the 
 other hand those levels deprive the frighten that the first game offered.
  
  However there is a lot of humour in the game and a readiness for playing. The heroe's reaction 
 when he meets the guy who interferfers during your discussions is inestimable. Something like this 
 happens also when he presents himself as Snake Fist. Furthermore the story that made the first 
 Fear famous remains strong with some smart backfalls.
  
  But the novelty isn't the Fear's strong point. The collection of key doors and the locket shots 
 in order to open a gate isn't a rare thing. All in all is a little common. The only unrelevant 
 in searching and with battle collectibles are the boosters which help you slowing down time a bit 
 more and some blue items (I don't know how exactly they are called) which offer you some extra information 
 about the city that Armachaman builted. Although they are little stupid it isn't bad to collect 
 them.
  
  Fortunately the battles are satisfying with a huge variety of weapons and ideal ammo amounts. The 
 shotguns are necessary in the game and work pretty good especially for close enemies. However you 
 aren't going to get close to a lot of enemies unless you slow down time. In the covering system 
 there has been some adds. Now there is a new ability. Your player can turn tables in order to cover 
 or use other items that will help him. In the battles there are of course some dissadvantages. 
 Despite the fact that the weapons are many may dissapoint you. Some guns for example aren't so 
 fun while using them.
  
  To sum up Fear 2 has been greatly improved and it is a game with an awesome atmosphere. However 
 as for the gameplay it is out of date and the final is a big mistake. All in all it is a game that 
 stimulates your senses.
  
  Graphics:9
  Gameplay:7
  Sound:8
  Controls:9
  Lasting appeal:8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameObserver
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 3:10 am PT
Review:  When F. E. A. R. came out in 2005 it brought new meaning to "survival action horror". The game played 
 with shadows and sound like few titles before it, even rivaling the Resident Evil series in some 
 aspects. Monolith Productions had successfully adapted popular horror movie formulas to scare the 
 living daylights out of players. They took the most mundane of settings and turned them into veritable 
 nightmares. Offices never looked the same. 
  
  The first game was poignant but short, which was a downer because the overall product left many 
 wanting more. F. E. A. R. also disappointingly ended in a cliffhanger, guaranteeing a sequel that 
 would finish all the loose ends. F. E. A. R. 2: Project Origin unfortunately doesn't quite finish 
 the story (ya, another one of those episodic series) but in the process it improves on the overall 
 gameplay experience with smarter A. I. and sharper action. Though this sequel might be a notch below 
 its predecessor in terms of horror, it surpasses its forerunner in terms of execution as a solid 
 shooter.
  
  THEY GOT ME IN THE AORTA! 
  
  The game begins rather abruptly with Michael Becket and his squad sent to retrieve Genevieve Aristide, 
 the Armacham Technology Corporation executive so frequently mentioned in the first game. It turns 
 out the events of the first encounter were but a prelude to the real crisis involving the omni-powerful 
 telepath, Alma, and the Replica force running loose. Players are again thrust into a chaotic situation 
 as the point man of First Encounter Assault Recon (F. E. A. R.) , a special unit almost as secretive 
 as the evil Armacham Corporation that concocted the whole mess by trying to clone telepathic super-soldiers. 
 
  
  Once the dust settles players end up with more questions than answers but the story finally begins 
 to make sense, maybe because the whole experience no longer feels like a cold shower and because 
 we see reoccurring faces and names. A rundown of previous events would have helped but it's not 
 essential, though it might take players some time to repaint the first game (it took me a few "intel 
 pieces" to remember who Paxton Fettel was) . Regardless, once things start rolling F. E. A. R. 2 presents 
 a better picture than its overly-abstract predecessor. 
  
  Alma begins to show signs of humanity, clearly the victim in the ordeal, and players are no longer 
 alone in fixing the mess. Becket's squad, while not very present, makes a few cameos. Sadly, their 
 company isn't used to the fullest. Most of the game is played out in solo with nothing more than 
 exchanges over the comm. system to remind us of Becket's team, but the exchanges are well executed 
 with some funny lines, especially in the beginning and the end. Besides the gratuitous and forced 
 swearing your mates properly react to your actions, but again, this is very rare -- a mere two 
 or three occasions. 
  
  OFFERS LESS FEAR AND MORE SHOOT 
  
  F. E. A. R. 2 shines in the gameplay even though previous melee elements are absent, like kicks and 
 slides. A. I. is smarter and deadlier. Enemy opponents aptly use grenades and various tactics to 
 flush players out. They will often run and gun to move between cover points and you will never 
 see any of them walk through a door only to get blasted one after another. Shooting blindly from 
 behind objects, ducking and jumping over railings is also in their repertoire, which makes the 
 whole experience a welcome change of pace from the various clones out there that have players gunning 
 swarms of stupid targets. In fact, the game prefers to focus on fewer, quality skirmishes.
  
  One negative about the gameplay has to be the lack of side-routes. This aspect of level design 
 takes a toll on action because it's very scripted. Enemies always come out of the same spots -- 
 in front of you because of the linear paths -- and players can't take different routes to dispatch 
 them. Objects can be flipped over for cover, like tables and desks, but that feature will be seldom 
 used since levels have a natural abundance of cove points and because, unlike his opponents, Becket 
 can't shoot around corners. Another bummer is the ridiculously slow sprint mode. Running makes 
 the character increase his speed to a meager trot, which is totally useless during a fight. But 
 overall F. E. A. R. 2 is an excellent shooter. 
  
  Enemies react to hit locations and die in the most realistic of ways. Death animations are particularly 
 well done, as one would expect from armor-encumbered characters. Hit detection is precise even 
 amidst the myriad of objects in rooms. Gun fights in office settings usually leave shreds of paper 
 flying and bullets sometimes create realistic burning effects on solid surfaces. All weapons are 
 perfectly balanced, depending on whom you are facing. All in all, great shooter action. The lack 
 of melee options is not missed. In fact, action is so precise, players will seldom need to use 
 time-reflex mode.
  
  But despite the clean action some elements could have been improved, like limited interaction with 
 levels. Most of it comes in the form of flipping objects over or pressing buttons (lifts, elevators, 
 computers) . Only two instances actually offers level interaction with any creative bearing on gameplay 
 (on one occasion Becket can power a set of subway tracks to zap three opponents and in another 
 he has to shoot an electrical transformer) , but the rest of the game is very straightforward. 
 
  
  AWW, THE MECH RIDE IS OVER ALREADY? 
  
  Levels, however, have a degree of destructibility. Some walls and pillars can be blasted away. 
 Rooms are loaded with trivial objects that fall and explode when shot and hanging lights rock when 
 hit, creating some eerie effects. Speaking of lights, Monolith seems to have toned down the use 
 of lighting to instill fear. In fact, the entire game has fewer frightening moments than in the 
 first installment. Overall Monolith tries to scare players more frequently than in the previous 
 game and that strategy seems to have an adverse effect. Clearly more emphasis was put on action 
 than horror, though a few spots will have you jump. 
  
  Monolith again does a great job designing realistic settings. The game features fewer offices but 
 players are now treated to more urban fighting. Labs, school, cities, subways, offices, hospitals 
 and giant underground facilities create a perfect tapestry for the unfolding devastation. Some 
 parts even have Becket riding a mechanized armored suit. The suit is a great addition to gameplay, 
 which almost acts as a pleasant intermission to the constant tension players feel while pushing 
 onward on foot. 
  
  The Mech compliments Monolith's attention to detail and knack for making the simplest of things 
 look and sound cool. I personally never got tired of the screen going black then seeing the control 
 deck power up every time Becket entered the Mech, or hearing the onboard computer notify me when 
 missiles where ready for launch -- great stuff. Traversing bombed out cities while mowing down 
 Replica soldier is also a blast, especially the sound and effects characters produce when they 
 get nailed with the Mech's powerful guns. Other instances have Becket manning gun turrets with 
 the same gratifying results. 
  
  Levels have enough details to paint a clear picture of the events and their ramifications and make 
 players forget about the linear action. The bombed out city does a great job presenting the effects 
 of a nuclear explosion (come on, all the trailers shows it) . The closer players get to the epicenter, 
 the worse the devastation gets. The school where Replica leaders were groomed conveys the sick 
 methodology used to create future telepaths. Details like the three school test groups (Ladybugs, 
 Frogs and Bluebirds) spread out in the classrooms and the propaganda used to mold impressionable 
 children is subtle but very much visible. Sadly, there aren't enough moments like that. The non-existent 
 intro and virtually non-existent ending also sours an otherwise delicious action-horror-soup. 
 
  
  "SNAKE FIST  LOSE YOUR HEAD OVER IT THIS SUMMER" 
  
  The first game used voicemails to tell the story behind the events. Now, voicemails have been entirely 
 replaced with text "intel items" lying around on the ground. Granted, we still get to hear things 
 unfold through our teammates and other supporting characters, like "Snake Fist", but voice messages 
 have made a very conspicuous retreat in this sequel. Intel items offer a cheap plot-to-game transition. 
 
  
  Voice acting is superb. In fact, sound effects and music are probably the game's strongest point. 
 Some of the better tunes are repeated from the previous game, which is smart from Monolith's part 
 (gives the game a sense of continuity) , but overall F. E. A. R. 2 has perfectly eerie ambient music. 
 A few instances have hard rock and heavy metal, especially at the end. With the amount of moveable 
 items in each level, Monolith did a great job giving most of them their own sound effects. The 
 game is also alive with various spectral moans and groans, maybe one of the reasons this version 
 isn't as scary (you're always on edge) . 
  
  Your character wears a visor that produces a grainy effect on screen and gets wet on occasion, 
 and players get to see their character's body as he climbs ladders or hurdles over pieces of furniture 
 or railings, so attention to detail is there. Cars alarms go off when shot at, broken glass cracks 
 under your feet, fire extinguishers and gas tanks on flamethrower units explode when shot, all 
 of it creates a fully immersive experience.
  
  SUMMARY 
  
  F. E. A. R. 2: Project Origin is a better shooter than a horror game. Precision and details abound, 
 which make the whole experience highly immersive. Action is a bit linear because of the straightforward 
 level designs, but again, details and solid shooter action make you forget that the game practically 
 plays on rails. Things aren't as scary as in the first title, mainly because levels are oversaturated 
 with scary sounds and ghostly effects. Players eventually get used to the constant tension and 
 become impervious to all the horror parts. Despite being a bit repetitive, action doesn't get old 
 because of its fine polish and the occasional Mech and turret scenes, which are a guilty pleasure. 
 Recommended for anyone who likes solid shooters. 
  
  
  GRAPHICS 82
  Good details and effects. Nice character animation. Lighting isn't as prominent as in the first 
 game.
  
  GAMEPLAY 85
  Precise shooter action. A few features could be improved. Lack of team interaction and linear levels. 
 Enemies have more moves than Becket.
  
  PRODUCTION 83
  Lack of intro and another cliffhanger ending. Intel items cheaply tie all the loose ends. Unscrupulousness 
 of Armacham Corp. conveyed well in most levels.
  
  SOUND 95
  Great ambient music and sound effects. Sound holds its ground to level details. Excellent voice 
 acting. Too many scary sounds dilute horror experience.
  
  LASTING APPEAL 78
  For some the 10-15 hours of polished shooter action might warrant a second playthrough in solo 
 mode. Average multiplayer. Useless extras.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutcrackr
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2009 8:58 pm PT
Review:  +Fun action, good AI, appropriate sound, solid pacing
  -Poor scares, too easy, predictable, too short, generic in spots
  
  F. E. A. R. 2 is a decent 
 shooter, unfortunately not quite as good as the original. Certainly it does some things a little 
 better, and in many cases it's simply a refinement of the existing formula but it needed to do 
 more to have the same impact as the original. The combat and the AI are both fairly good but there 
 simply aren't enough shocks or psychological scares for it to uphold the F. E. A. R. name. Overall 
 the pacing is good and at times excellent but the game is too short for a predominately single 
 player title coming in at about six hours, one less than the original. 
  
  One of the biggest areas of improvement for F. E. A. R. 2 over the original is the open level design, 
 even early on there will be many side rooms and alternate ways to circle around or approach enemies 
 positioned further on. Some of these rooms will contain goodies or extra intelligence that may 
 reveal more about past or future events, others may contain additional yet brief scares. Thankfully 
 the enemy AI uses these as well, coming at you from behind or ducking in and back out of these 
 side rooms. The levels themselves are also more detailed, with more objects and architectural features. 
 They don't seem to have a big impact on the combat, although you and the AI can tip over cover, 
 the world doesn't feel as crowded as perhaps it should when in combat, possibly because the actual 
 combat sequences are generally short and don't persist in one room for long enough. Links across 
 levels present more detail, for example a plane that is seen crashing early on will be in one of 
 the next levels which helps keep the levels within some real environment rather than just producing 
 individual level one after another.
  
  The Artificial Intelligence is still very capable, in particular the combination of animation and 
 AI routines works quite well. Replica soldiers will duck under pipes and limp around behind cover, 
 they do appear more patient waiting for you to make a move than risking an assault. Thankfully 
 they will continue with their catchphrases when you engage slow motion "he's too fast" or "that's 
 impossible" help make some of the action a little more fun. They do not appear to talk to each 
 other as much as the original which makes the combat a bit less interesting. One perceivable negative 
 for the AI is that on Normal the game is far too easy, even attempting to go out from cover against 
 multiple enemies usually results in little more than a scratch especially with slow-motion at your 
 disposal. A few times I turned around to face a replica soldier with a shotgun at my back, which 
 would have easily spelled death if the original's difficulty was used. I think I died more from 
 environment traps like electricity and fire than in any complex combat situations.
  
  In terms of gameplay the weapons are adequate but I think they needed more work in terms of balance. 
 The assault rifle is incredibly good at long and short ranges and there was an excessive amount 
 of ammo for it which means even if you don't like it you'll probably use it a lot anyway. The other 
 weapons seemed to lack some real punch in general situations. The sniper rifle perhaps the exception, 
 although it's long reload time became a nuisance it still punches through guys with ease, effectively 
 replacing the particle cannon. Of course the gore is well and truly back, enemies still explode 
 into mists of blood, they lose limbs and torso sections depending on the ordinance used, again 
 more gore could have been reserved for scare sections in order to mess with the player's minds. 
 The scare sections themselves are leapfrogged a little too obviously between action segments which 
 again reduces the scare factor. Add this with the easy nature of the game and it loses much of 
 the tension of the first. I think nearly every ladder I descended down in the last half of the 
 game I was praying for them to surprise me with a F. E. A. R. 1 like scare, only to be disappointed. 
 Even the "ghost" type enemies pale in comparison to the original onslaught. The scariest parts 
 for me were during the first few levels with some very basic scares that weren't really used at 
 all during the later parts.
  
  The game is a visually polished version of the original. It does feature many more effects that 
 distort the screen and in some cases they cover the action a too much while you wait for it to 
 clear so you can see. Sound wise the game does a pretty good job; the character audio is clear 
 and sharp. Characters near you will switch from directional audio when you face them to earpiece 
 audio when you are facing away from them. The ambient sound scapes improve the audio throughout. 
 Music is very similar to the original but in some situations poor choices of music bring down an 
 otherwise high action section; the spooky type music is also much lighter. Some of the later enemies 
 do some wall walking and the implementation of this is fairly well done, they will move a considerable 
 distance before falling to the ground and attacking you although there may be some fuzzy invincibility 
 when midway through some animations.
  
  The game features very little backtracking but it does still get a bit predictable, this in part 
 is due to the music and level design, combined with the auto save feature. In slow motion the enemies 
 will be shaded a distinct bluish tinge, perhaps added because the enemy forces do blend in much 
 more with the background than the original. Power armour "mechs" are drivable in a few sections 
 of the game, both are fairly linear and ordinary experiences, thankfully they are extremely short 
 and serve really only to break up the normal ground combat rather than being features onto themselves. 
 The game is also predominately played by yourself, although you have a squad you keep into contact 
 with they'll usually be cut off from you or take another route, meeting with you at key points 
 for brief combat situations. Some of these situations involve using an APC mounted weapon to point 
 and shoot enemies, if anything it shows how many times the replica soldiers burst into blood mist. 
 The last APC battle features a generic character spurting off some tiresome and mood killing one-liners, 
 although the sequence needed an overhaul anyway.
  
  Multiplayer seems to have been given some more attention, a map is shown in a small section on 
 your HUD, enemies who fire are highlighted on this map for quicker encounters. There are a few 
 default classes that carry different load outs along with different armour ratings. The actual 
 netcode is fairly good because you'll generally have a smooth experience even with quite a bit 
 of lag and it does have a server browser that is a bit clumsy but functional. The multiplayer still 
 feels very sterile and lacks that real fun element multiplayer games need. The maps are a mix of 
 new and existing retweaked single player sections. Unfortunately word is that no dedicated servers 
 are coming for PC and there will be no anti-cheat technology used at all, which makes the multiplayer 
 component completely useless for virtually anybody looking to spend some time with it. 
  
  The story of F. E. A. R. 2 is told simply via first person cut scenes and messages from your squad. 
 The rest of the story occurs between the pages and pages of digital intelligence discs that are 
 scattered around over the levels detailing character profiles and project information that will 
 make some of the story outcomes fairly obvious and understandable. This is in opposition to the 
 answering messages you found in the first game. If you go through at a normal pace it's unlikely 
 you will find all the extra information but most of the main story elements will be revealed. The 
 game ends on a bit of a cliff-hanger  but again not quite as good as the original. Fans of the 
 original will still appreciate the combat but will not see it exceeding the first game in most 
 areas due to the rather formulaic nature and basic improvements over the original. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagicTestacle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 3:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game all by itself.
  
  I played the first F. E. A. R when I was bored and wanted to try a good FPS, as I never really enjoy 
 these games before, but it made my eyes tear with joy, and suspense. It made me try more and more 
 FPS games just to try and find something to catch up with this masterpiece, but I didn't find it.
 
  
  When I bought F. E. A. R 2, I had mixed expectations. I thought: "I want more and more of the same, 
 with some extra info on Alma and her actual agenda", while I also yearned for some new huge feature, 
 like character customization, RPG elements or some new combat mechanic like grabs and such.
  When I ran it for the first time I also thought: "It'll probably be full of bugs, like every game 
 that is released these days.", but NO! This game just comes out great out of the box, just installed 
 it, went through it once, payed attention to the details of the story (almost none) , jumped whenever 
 (almost) that little female dog, Alma, appeared out of nowhere, started spraying when those spectres 
 started rushing me out of room corners, delivered headshots to the intelligent (yes, they are) 
 clones as they tried to flank me, and even died a few times on hard difficulty (I tend to go straight 
 to hard and then I can truly say I mastered the game with one pass) ,
  I used the slo-mo feature, which felt quite satisfying and extremely necessary in most combat situations, 
 I tried to explore the maps to get some extra ammo and injectors (extra slo-mo time) , and all this 
 journey lasted no more than 7 hours. That really is the only downside of this game, as I only play 
 one multiplayer game and it doesn't matter to me, but those 7 hours are something that I enjoyed 
 so much that I couldn't stop playing.
  
  I understand that they wanted to keep some secrets for the third game, but wtf?! give me more single 
 player game time! Multiplayer feature is not an excuse! you've got so many great games that offer 
 both, why can't FEAR 2 do that?
  
  Other than that, I think that this game is so solid, so polished, so much fun, that it deserves 
 a good rating like I gave it. But to get a 10, it must have some more single player content, or 
 at least replayability value, as this game doesn't have.
  
  Buy it, spread the playing playing hours generously and you will truly appreciate this great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewer74
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I played the first FEAR a number of times. The combination of the spooky storyline and the intense 
 combat was a winner with me. The slow down time feature was also a major drawcard of the first 
 game. All this stuff is tthere in this sequel, but it just seems to come off as a re-hash. There 
 is nothing new to the way the game plays, expect for some new grenades. This is not a bad thing, 
 as it still works in the sequel, but I felt these elements should have been polished a bit more, to 
 give FEAR 2 a real flavour of its own. The AI in FEAR 2 is great, but not as good as FEAR 1. I 
 can remember really feeling as if they could flank me without me noticing in the first game, and 
 it happend all the time. In F2 they tried, but I always seemed to spot them or smash the crap out 
 of them before it came to that critical point, this was a shame that again a quality of the first 
 game was not built upon, but its certainlty not crap AI either. I found the storyline a feature 
 here though. Just complex enough to keep you interested, but so over the top and dis-jointed that 
 you loose interest either. The intense gun fights, good story and the feeling of a quality title, 
 make this sequel defenitly worth a look, but Gamepot is right, it dosent exceed the original in 
 quality or immersivness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HotGTO
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 7:00 pm PT
Review:  I can't fault anything in this game. Super fast loading with little wait times. Spooky evolving 
 environment that keeps you on your toes. I love a good shooter and this one delivers. 
  
  Something is working when you "drop" your mouse in F. E. A. R. You never know what to expect next. 
 The added fun of "Payne" sloww-mo lets you watch the blood fly. It even splatters on your goggles 
 as will water from a broken pipe. Even the sound of your footsteps as you crawl inside a HVAC duck 
 adds to the tension. 
  
  I only have a few minor complaints. The soundtrack is a little over powering at times. I think 
 cutting down on the spook music in some scenes would make it even better.
  
  Another complaint has more to do with the whole game industry. Explosions will dismember the bad 
 guys and monsters but I can't mutilate a corpse. I still have fond memories of "Soldier of Fortune".
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: esba160
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2009 7:11 am PT
Review:  
  First FEAR is one of my favorite shooters out there. Solid action pack with plenty of scares and 
 intense settings. 
  
  
  FEAR 2 is not the same game. 
  
  The good:
  Well let me put it this way. It's the same game of course with enhanced graphics and physics and 
 water effects but nothing groundbreaking.. basically same engine and objects/models dressed up 
 and polished visually it is pretty good. But if you played the first one you will recognize every 
 corner of the game. Performance wise it is great, very scalable and I think as long as you have 
 a dual core and a decent GPU, it will run smoothly which does not surprise me since its the same 
 game from 2004. FEAR 2 still gives you couple thrills and chills. Solid combat which is not all 
 that different from the first game. differences are: use of cover, zoom, different grenades. The 
 weapons are pretty much the same with and addition of a sniper rifle and a massive shotty. Gore 
 presents throughout the game and will satisfy bloodthirsty crowd. 
  
  The Bad:
  The game is TOOO easy!!!! And TOOO short!!! I mean I haven't played the game in years but it didn't 
 take much to remember how it plays. I played on hard and did not die or went below 2 med kits ever 
 throughout the game ( u can only carry 3 medkits) , not because I am super noober.. but because it 
 is just so freaking easy. 
  
  The game is not scary or original, and that's probably the biggest disappointment. I mean how can 
 you develop a game that runs on a script that completely rips of all the movies you've seen with 
 an evil girl. That s... is just played out... And in addition try to set us up with a sequel at 
 the end of the game. I don't need more of that bubble gum crap. 
  
  Story: what story?? Who cares.. 
  
  All in all the game is OK you will play it ones and forget 
 about it, nothing ground breaking in graphics or story. It seems to me that the game was commercialized 
 to the fullest, developed for the console and ported on to PC. Im sorry but I don't think that 
 this is a great follow up to a solid game like FEAR. I give it 7 simply because I can not give 
 it more that that.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: just_for_kicks
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 7, 2009 2:09 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. 2 was shaping up to as good as it predecessor and so much more. Unfortunately this is 
 not the case. While the single player is good, the multiplayer is terrible and the support for 
 it isn't much better either.
  
  F. E. A. R. 2 starts off where the first F. E. A. R. ended, except your not F. E. A. R. point man. You're 
 Sgt. Beckett from Special Forces who has been sent in to retrieve Genevieve Aristide, the president 
 of Armacham Technology Corporation which is the company responsible for Alma in the first place. 
 Deployed minutes before the explosion in the original F. E. A. R. you get caught up in searching for 
 answers to mysteries and are left in Alma's terrifying wake.
  
  Single player does not disappoint F. E. A. R. fans as it is just as freaky as the first. Alma is not 
 only scarier she is in your face as well, making you furiously click your mouse button to fend 
 her off. The Alma visions have really been stepped up a notch this time and are one of the best 
 bits of the game. They are sometimes subtle but other times sudden and up close. The range of Alma 
 visions and freaky effects have really elevated the scariness of the game and give you an even 
 better experience. Playing with a protagonist with actual character gave you more connection your 
 squad members and overall got you more involved which is a great change from the first F. E. A. R. 
 where the point man had little character involvement. The environment is more interactive then 
 the first F. E. A. R as well. You're able to push things over for cover, pick up filing cabinets that 
 are your way and also shoot explosive barrels like in the original. The story has you hooked all 
 the way through with some pretty great moments during the story. Its obvious that Monolith have 
 put a lot of time into the story and it shows that this area is their forte. The story line keeps 
 you guessing right until the end and leaves you on quite a cliff-hanger, which makes you want to 
 know more. Play this one through on hard though because any lower can be considered quite a push 
 over particularly to veterans of the FPS genre. The single player lasts for about 9-10 hours which 
 is a pretty decent amount of time.
  
  The graphics are pretty nice to look at and make the whole F. E. A. R atmosphere more realistic. The 
 environments were often dark but also had bright colours, particularly the red which added to the 
 spooky atmosphere. The design of the environments had a good variety; they had the classic office 
 levels staying true the first F. E. A. R. but also new ones such as city streets and an elementary 
 school (one of the highlights of the design) . The blood effects look good but the blood seemed 
 to be gooey and not the right consistency, this may have been done to lower the effects of the 
 violence but overall it didn't matter the game. The explosions don't create as much impact as they 
 did in the first F. E. A. R. either. After throwing a grenade it would make the explosion noise and 
 create lots of smoke but the effect of the impact is gone, making using grenades a little less 
 fun. The enemy textures were well designed, some very good detail on the assassin type enemies. 
 There were a few glitches such as falling through the fall once or twice and enemies getting stuck 
 on things but over all the game looked pretty good.
  
  A large weapon range was welcome but they suffered from being too generic. You had range of weapons 
 like sub machine guns, shotguns, laser weapons, a pistol, rocket launcher, sniper rifle (a real 
 one, not semi auto like the first) and a flame thrower. Also there are a range of grenade type 
 weapons like flame and shock grenades at your disposal. It feels like you used all of these before 
 though as they have nothing really special about them. The LED lights on the weapons also gave 
 them a little too much of the high tech look and it sometimes didn't seem to fit in. There were 
 too many explosives to handle as well. Having 3 different grenades at once as well as proximity 
 mines made using a certain one difficult in battle. One addition to the weapons that were fun to 
 use though was being able to control big armoured suits called 'mechs'. Once you climbed in you 
 able to move and fire its machine guns and also fire missiles. If you couldn't find enemies hiding 
 in cover you could switch to infer red. The mechs were easy and fun to use, it felt good to pump 
 bullets through soldiers and take down other mechs with rockets. The mechs were easily the best 
 addition to the weapons.
  
  Controls are a little different this time round and some of the best moves were removed which was 
 disappointing. The mle move jump kick was removed and also the ability to lean around corners. 
 The lean was supposedly replaced with the pushing things over for cover but you never really got 
 the chance to push things over or they just weren't there at the time for it to be any use at all. 
 The slide kick was still there but used the shift button instead of c. Most of the controls felt 
 a little awkward to handle on the default settings but were easily fixed when switching the controls 
 to your liking. The slow mo meter was back and still got good use, it was still fun to take down 
 your enemies in slow motion. It was disappointing that they had to remove those features that made 
 F. E. A. R. controls different from other FPS.
  
  The AI didn't seem to be at the same standard as the original F. E. A. R. but still pretty good. They 
 would use the cover system a lot more then you could but they didn't seem to try to flank you as 
 much. The range of enemies was refreshing though and they were all well designed. One unit was 
 quite fun to kill because of the oxygen tanks strapped to their backs. One shot on that and they 
 would disappear in an explosion. It was good to see some different enemies this time though instead 
 of killing cloned troops all the time.
  
  The multiplayer is the big let down in this game. It almost felt like a side thought at the end 
 as it was pretty boring. They had modes such as Death match/team death match, CTF and Armoured 
 assault where you try to capture points with the help of a mech. These all failed to entertain 
 and were just plain boring. The map designs are bland and not all that good to look at. They didn't 
 seem to get the right balance of open space and confined areas either. They tried put in a weapons 
 set and light XP system similar to Call of Duty 4 but it just didn't really fit the game play. 
 The semi auto rifle was added into the multiplayer for some reason and was very over powered. With 
 most players having this weapon you would be dead almost instantly when you met them. Fire grenades 
 are also pretty overwhelming when spammed and often resulted in 3 quarters of your health being 
 depleted. You have the choice of ranked play or unranked play. In ranked play you created a game 
 spy account and your stats would be recorded on a leader board. What was annoying about the ranked 
 play was you can only join a server at the start and when the match is over you're kicked back 
 out to the menu. To top it all off there are no dedicated servers available for the game so all 
 games you join are hosted by people who are usually in other countries. The lag that you get makes 
 it very hard to play decently. The support from Monolith on the multiplayer is pretty appalling 
 as well, with no plans on bringing out dedicated server files anytime soon. There is no reason 
 why they couldn't have been available from the games release and this choice will hurt Monolith's 
 community. Overall the game would have been better off without the multiplayer aspect.
  
  F. E. A. R. 2 had the starting of a great sequel, but was let down with lack of originality. The horrible 
 and bland multiplayer along with its terrible support over shadow the great storyline and awesome 
 Alma vision effects. Monolith might want to stick to just single player next time if that's the 
 effort they are going to put in. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_1011
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 3:12 pm PT
Review:  A 7.0 is just unforgivable for this game. I have been playing a lot of FPS recently and am a fan 
 of the original F. E. A. R. FPS games have been getting a bit dry to me and so I was hesitant to get 
 F. E. A. R. 2, but I am so glad I did!
  
  First off, the graphics are not earth shattering, but the textures and blood decals are really 
 quite unique. The rest is well... good, but not record breaking. Does this subtract from the experience? 
 Hell no, too many people think graphics make the game, but they don't. Don't get me wrong the graphics 
 of F. E. A. R. 2 are very good, but its no Crysis
  
  Ah, now the atmosphere. On this point I have conflicting thoughts. The game has some scary moments 
 and the presentation is done masterfully. However, the came is not as heart pounding as the first 
 in terms of scare factor, but makes up for some of it in creepiness. All in all, the game still 
 has that tension and mental pressure the first did.
  
  One of the best things about the first F. E. A. R. was that it took seemingly formula type fighting 
 and changed it in tiny ways to make it one of the most intense FPS experiences out there. From 
 a glance the gameplay seemed to be totally by the book, but a few minutes playing will award you 
 with some insanely brutal fire fights. Does F. E. A. R. 2 live up to this legacy? Yes, and more. Where 
 F. E. A. R. 2 does not quite match it's predecessor's scare factor it makes up for it by taking the 
 extremely brutal and intense fighting and adding even better AI and weapons that are just PERFECT! 
 
  
  (Warning, semi detailed list of the weapons so it is a semi spoiler)
  
  The Submachine (SMG) gun feels much more lethal than the first. The Assault Rifle is perfect and 
 can snap off some quick kills where the SMG can't. The Combat shotgun, while extremely inaccurate, 
 is an insane weapon for close combat encounters. The Assault shotgun however is a much better balance 
 with better accuracy, fire rate, but slightly less damage. The sniper rifle... well where to begin? 
 Slo-mo will allow you to snap off headshots at insane accuracy and will reward you with showers 
 of gore. The Hammerhead is much improved and can really take out soldiers with a couple of headshots 
 in ways that the assault rifle cannot, and have the enemy's dead body pinned to a wall is oddly 
 rewarding. The laser gun, wow, it can actually cut soldier's heads right off which is very rewarding. 
 The missile launcher is also quite rewarding with its characteristic explosions that can destroy 
 the enemy's cover. Lastly, the pulse rifle. The pulse rifle fires extremely slow blasts of energy 
 that can instantly kill even the heaviest of armored soldiers.
  
  All this coupled with a great story that really brings out the emotions, anger, disgust, dread, 
 nervousness, and even the unexplainable WTF?! moments. Everything in this game is presented well 
 with only ONE glitch or bug that I could find, something that is all too common in today's games.
 
  
  Just buy it or rent it, the game kicks some serious replica ass!
  
  (Semi-spoiler!)
  
  (Semi-spoiler!)
  
  (Semi-spoiler!)
  
  (Semi-spoiler!)
  
  And for those who are 
 hating on the ending: What do you want? The ending of F. E. A. R.2 is one of the most memorable ever, 
 how many times can you say that the ending of a game raped you?!
  
  (End Semi-spoiler!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soadforever1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 7:55 am PT
Review:  Monolith made such a great work on fear 2. It's much better than the first one. Visuals of fear 2 
 are just brilliant and i believe it should own an award for 'Most Realistic Blood Game'. Anyway 
 the best new feature is the robot which the player uses to kill Replicas. It's really realistic 
 seeing walls collapsing as you fire the robot. When your robot is damaged it needs to recharge so 
 you need to eject it until it recharges. You will have to defend yourself against other robots and 
 Replicas coming to kill you until your robot is ready and this makes the adrenaline in your blood 
 increase.
  As far as concerned the weapons they are really well designed. However when firing a pulse weapon 
 it takes ages to reach the target. If the target is moving he won't be hit by your shot so this 
 leads to loss of ammo and it makes the player want to change this weapon.
  F. E. A. R. 2 has extremely good movements! Seeing you hands pressing buttons and yous legs when you 
 jump obstacles is brilliant.
  The Artificial Intelligence is one of the best in games as enemies hide behind walls, tables etc 
 and communicate with each other, trying to find a way to kill you.
  The player can move objects to find a way through, open broken elevator doors, throw down a wide 
 variety of objects in order to cover himself.
  There are only 2 negative things about this game:
  It is a bit easy as a skilled FPS player can 
 rush his way through the enemies without getting to cover and losing a lot of health on normal 
 difficulty.
  It is not scary at all. The first one was much more scary. However there are some times in fear 2 
 where the player has to push alma away from him ,as she is holding tightly his hands, leading to 
 health loss.
  Obviously this game in no 7 at all. It should be 9+ but i don't why it was scored for 7.
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCrapper
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I cannot believe after all this time, after all the hype, that they would turn out a pile of crap 
 like this. It's not near as good as the original. It's like a totally different group of people 
 did this one. Even those crap your pants moments were a bust. The ending is just as weak. I guess 
 it's just a continuing trend in computer games in general. 
  
  The game play is good. It's just the story seems to have bogged down. No intrigue. Nothing new. 
 The updated weaponry isn't too bad. The graphics are decent, but again, nothing to set it apart 
 from anything else. It's especially unsettling after all this time and the release of the Perseus 
 Mandate which was done by a different company, and how poor that was. Was really counting on the 
 same quality from this group as in the original. Even the ending was anticlimactic. 
  
  You want to wait until this one is in the bargain bin at $9.95. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alijib
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 11:17 am PT
Review:  Monolith should have given it some more time, Fear 2 feels like half baked product.
  
  I am not saying that it is not good , but it is not what the fans have expected, in fact it feels 
 like a simple add on to Fear 1.
  
  Graphics wise game has changed a little, you still have those blocky , narrow corridors, those 
 specific times, where you are sure that you will see a glimpse of alma or someone else, enemy A. I 
 is not up to par as Fear 1. story is again told by email, logs etc, there is again a character 
 like mapes to help you out, and then there is alma, whom you wont be able to figure out correctly, 
 as a friend or foe & ending will leave you flamed up, as it points towards another sequel.
  
  There are some moments, where you will definitely feel a chill going down your spine, but that's 
 it, nothing more, no spectacular fight with Clone soldiers, though there are some power armor fights, 
 which are not enjoyable as before.
  
  The best part of Fear 2 is where you are allowed to pilot a mech, which is fitted with a Gatling 
 gun and rocket launcher with unlimited ammo. These events are very enjoyable, but lacks a proper 
 challenge, as you can pretty easily mow down your enemies, while you are in Mech.
  
  Overall, It feels like been there & done that sort of feeling.
  Play it on weekends, if you don't 
 have anything else to do.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamrob7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 9:26 pm PT
Review:  I played the original Fear when it came out and found that an enjoyable game to play through. Although 
 I found the combat system a little tedious after a while, the slowing down time concept became 
 quite boring and didn't really work for me. I did not replay the game which was odd considering 
 the fairly well presented and original storyline inovations. The lacklustre combat was the main 
 reason.
  
  Fear 2 in part addresses a few of these problems. The combat is slightly improved in certain areas, 
 weapons are beter, better AI, movement is better etc. However I still have an issue with the slowing 
 down time malarky. In the later levels it is essential that you use it in certain situations to 
 survive but personally I would prefer it if they just removed this feature altogether from the 
 game and created the combat system based on normal time dynamics.
  
  The story is well executed and presented and carries the game well throughout. Although obviously 
 not as startling as the first game, as many ideas are repeated and the Alma character is now a 
 grown woman which takes away a little from her spooky quality, it does have its moments.
  
  I actually enjoyed the ending although I have seen that many thought it was weak. 
  
  Overall 
 the story is not quite as fresh as the first game but executed a little better. The combat is improved 
 from the first game but still does not deal with the major issues completely.
  
  Worth playing through once, a quality shooter with some good moments. Although could have been 
 a top quality shooter had a few things been altered.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiddenSanctum
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2009 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Finally I got my hands on FEAR 2 xD And I have to say its.... OMFG WHAT THE HELL..... SHOOT SHOOT 
 SHOOT.
  
  Graphics 8/10:
  The graphics are on par with most current gen games. BUT there is an VERY annoying glitch where 
 you get stop in the same place sometimes. You have to exit out of the game and restart it for it 
 to work which is very annoying at times. Besides this glitch I don't see anything wrong with the 
 graphics.
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  The gameplay is good. There is a decent selection of guns, not a lot but its mostly the same guns 
 as the First FEAR. Saving is by auto save points, which means you'll have to restart from that 
 point every time you exit out. The good thing is there are tons of save points. The other elements 
 are pretty much the safe as the first version of the game.
  The horror factor comes in a few basic forms. First is sound (which I will explain in the sound 
 section) , Second is lighting. The dark atmosphere and flickering of lights gives you a sensation 
 of the unknown. In some parts of the game its almost completely dark and ur flashlight starts flickering. 
 Third is the classic "POPPING IN YOUR FACE" scenes. Basically you will experience some good random 
 popping out of nowhere which will make you jump out of your chair.
  
  Plotline 7/10:
  The plotline is kinda lacking in this game. First, the plot does not really have a point. When 
 you finish this game you will pretty much get a feeling that you have not accomplished anything 
 that you were sent out to do. The ending of this game is very vague as well. I won't elaborate 
 cause anymore explaining would be spoilers.
  
  Sound 9/10:
  I have to say this is one of the things that this game excelled. The sound and music is manipulated 
 in such a way that it will make you stand on your feet and make your heart skip a beat. There are 
 even instances where the music tries to fool you that something is coming.
  
  Value 8/10:
  If you are a fan of horror survival games you should really try this one out! It 
 will give you chills and leave you breathless, if that's a good thing  _ ;
  
  Overall 8.1/10
  Its a decent game, if you are up for some scare then go try out this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 7
  Sounds: 8
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 8
  Actual score: 7.9
  
  Monolith had a wonderful reputation when it comes to sequels  for example: No Lives Forever 
 I and II, Aliens Vs Predator I and II and to those who remembers Blood I and II. Unsurprisingly 
 these are not the complete list of games produced by Monolith however I'm highlighting the fact 
 that their sequels are normally better than the first. FEAR was a huge blockbuster that captivated 
 many players to the world of the unknown; things that goes 'bump in the night' for which a famous 
 icon of 'who's afraid of a little girl' was born. Given the proven past performance, it will be 
 a daunting task to see if FEAR 2 supersedes FEAR in action, storyline and able to stand on its 
 own two feet.
  
  The plot for FEAR 2 interlinks with FEAR however there's no real reason to play FEAR to understand 
 its sequel. A new squad has been introduced and the player takes on the role of Michael Becket, 
 forming part of the delta force group to save Aristide for which the event takes place approximately 
 thirty minutes before FEAR ends. Naturally this means that if you haven't played FEAR before, prepare 
 for a major spoiler otherwise boot up FEAR before launching into FEAR 2  you have been warned 
 as very soon you'll witness the outcome of FEAR.
  
  The game play is essentially the same as FEAR where the hero can perform slow-mo attacks, melee 
 and carry up to four weapons at one time. All of the enemies in FEAR are in FEAR 2 and of course 
 some new ones will appear (which I won't say because it will spoil the surprise) . Of course the 
 two main factions (being the ATC and the uber soldiers the replicas) are in full force however 
 instead of just lumping those groups for no apparent reason, FEAR 2 introduced the replicas in 
 a specular fashion where just before the encounter you will experience dread as you can hear the 
 announcement of the replicas congregating. 
  
  Newer combat aspects are introduced to FEAR 2; Michael (and of course your opponents) are able 
 to move furniture to block/take cover, employ iron sight aiming and noticeably the introduction 
 of the merc. Originally I wasn't a big fan of the merc however kudos to Monolith of making the 
 merc an exciting part of your arsenal as just like the replicas intro, the intro for the merc will 
 place a smile on your face as the events before grabbing that precious piece of protection, you'll 
 be getting a serious beating on all fronts and once placing your butt on the seat of the merc for 
 the first time, a pleasant woman's voice will confirm 'all systems are now operational', you cannot 
 help but get the feeling of 'you want some, come get some'.
  
  Continuing on this, there will be many memorable moments to FEAR 2 as Monolith have made significant 
 improvements visually. All the environments are quite detailed from the office buildings adorned 
 with lovely frescos (spot the iconic painting of the swing hanging from the tree) to the worn-torn 
 city of Auburn. This places the player more into the game than just playing the game. In addition, 
 FEAR 2 storyline is further fleshed out and as part of the FEAR 2 reward system is to encourage 
 players to collect as many documents as possible therefore getting the full picture of Project 
 Origin et al. Speaking of which, there's a comprehensive incentive system to inspire players to 
 get the most out of their game (similar to Window's live system) ; for example headshot ten people 
 to obtain the 'bulls eye' tag and so forth. 
  
  To appreciate any horror type games, it needs to be played on a good sound system. FEAR 2 qualities 
 is convincing as every sound will produce an extremely heavy thump that will guarantee reverberation 
 into your ear drums. Ranging from the light footsteps (which can be a life saver) to the heavy 
 mechanical movements of the merc to falling rocks will make you turn in anticipation. The musical 
 scores are mostly ambience therefore aimed to create the mood yet the voice acting can improve 
 somewhat as at times you expect a little more terror or anger from your fellow team mates than 
 just swearing and/or shaking their heads.
  
  Sadly there are some bugs in the game yet not enough to cause you harm. Graphical glitches like 
 bodies merging through walls places the shock factor out the door as it's more humorous to look 
 at. Also at times your character will be jammed into a corner or trapped under an item/staircase 
 hence your only saviour is to reload and considering the game uses the 'checkpoint' save system, 
 can be a thorn on your side if you decide to try a different approach instead of 'following the 
 required path'. Also the AI seems like they've taken a step backwards as considering FEAR was famed 
 for its superior AI technology, in FEAR 2 they act kinda dense and predictable. Maybe because of 
 the checkpoint save system Monolith decided to make things a little easier for the player. Well, 
 since I played it on the 'hard' level it was challenging but not too difficult therefore I cannot 
 begin to imagine how trouble-free it would be on 'medium' or even on the 'easy' level.
  
  Without stating the obvious about FEAR 2 being the sequel to FEAR (too late) , game play wise, Monolith 
 uses two different methods; FEAR brought that 'in-your-face-horror' as you are trying to understand 
 the enemy you are up against. Naturally this will be an easy concept as the entire game is shrouded 
 with this 'unknown' factor and literally at the end, you'll still only have a minuscule idea of 
 what's going on. Yet on the other hand, the AI is nothing short but remarkable as the replicas 
 will stalk and hunt you down and the ATC relying on superior numbers.
  
  In FEAR 2, brought in what few video games rarely displays; that is emotion to the player as considering 
 the 'horror' factor is not much of a 'spooky' sensation (as Alma is plastered all over the cover) 
 but bringing in a sense of purpose fabricates the 'horror' formula in a different way. The introduction 
 of the replicas rising from their vats during that combat 'simulation' to the a sigh of relief 
 and hope when seeing the merc in arms-length away (as you are getting bombarded with replica soldiers) 
 to the ending sequence (mum's the word) brought the 'care' factor to the major players in the game. 
 Yet by the time I was starting to feel all giddy inside, it was all too late as the game ended.
 
  
  So FEAR and FEAR 2 is like comparing to 'Star Wars' and the 'Empire Strikes Back'; sequels in the 
 true sense of the word but two totally different experiences (I prefer Empire Strikes Back over 
 Star Wars because of the 'care factor' e. g. Han Solo carbonised and the famous quote 'I am your 
 father' brought shock to me but to understand this is to seen Star Wars beforehand) .
  
  So the choice here is that whether you prefer all-out combat and uncanny AI (a. k. a. FEAR) or a 
 decent story (a. k. a. FEAR 2) yet the irony is that to truly respect FEAR 2 is to play FEAR first 
 (like seeing Star Wars before The Empire Strikes Back) . As a standalone FEAR 2 certainly brought 
 dashes of horror and tries to break the 'story' barrier of introducing a new squad but it's not 
 at all a replacement. Play it for what its worth however bare in mind that FEAR 2 is part two to 
 the story hence really couldn't stand on its own two feet if played independently. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 10:52 am PT
Review:  What will go down in my book as one of the greatest genre breaking games of all time, the orginal 
 F. E. A. R ranks up there with the Dooms, Quakes, and Half-Life's of the gaming world in that it brought 
 things to a new level.
  
  Since the original, things have gone slightly down hill, and in this most recent version of the 
 series, F. E. A. R 2 Project Origin, has taken a deeper step down that hill. Nothing ground breaking, 
 nothing new, and not enough to warrant anything above average scores... sad indeed.
  
  Graphics - Overall very nice, and what I would expect from a next gen from this series, however, 
 physics aside, the lack of fully destructible environments made the game seem cheap.
  
  Gameplay - Fit right in with the series, and the controls were simple enough, however AI was only 
 slightly better than the original. Weapons were.... well, not used... I played pretty much the entire 
 game with 3-4 basic weapons, and although I found plenty of ammo, I never really saw a need for 
 some weaponry, other than just to look cool.
  
  Storyline - Ok, I am sorry, "Snakefist"? Come F'ing on! Cant you get even slightly more creative 
 than something that GD boring?! The storyline was boring, and I wont give any spoilers away with 
 the ending. I will leave that up to you and your $50.
  
  Unless your a FEAR die hard, hold off on this one for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d0zin0X
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 8:18 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R 2 is better than the first F. E. A. R in some ways, and it has more and better scares. Though 
 i did not like the outdoor levels, the inside were fun, especially the hospital level. If you like 
 the first, you should definitely buy this one. Weapons are fun to shoot with, and you can drive 
 this ''Power Armor'' thingy to pwn the enemies too. I do recommend this game. If it were not for 
 the story i would rate the game 9.5. Incredible sounds and combat, lots of fun with the familiar 
 weapons, also the reflect boosters are harder to find, so you will have a little challenge with 
 finding them. As the gamespot reviewer said; it dont live up to its predecessor' i agree with, 
 because, it is now clear that FEAR will continue to be LONG story, hopefully a good story for the 
 next game, if Monolith releases one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apenoot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Well, frankly I'm surprised this game gets the scores that it does. I think this is because the 
 first FEAR was such a big surprise and so much fun to play. Expectations being too high and all 
 that. In this review I'm trying to go over some 'cons' that people have complained about.
  
  First of all: FEAR 2 isn't as scary as the first one. Woopdeedoo reviewers, good thing pointing 
 out the obvious, it isn't. It is however, more emotionally and more 'under the skin' than the first 
 FEAR which relied a lot on jump-out-of-your-seat moments. When I finished Project Origin I really 
 had a weird feeling in my stomach. In a good way. If you start playing this game expecting to get 
 startled around every corner, you're doing something wrong. Best just start playing with an empty 
 mind and see where the ride takes you. I thought Project Origin was less scary but more immersive 
 than the original.
  
  Ending. Lots of people think the ending sucks. I'm not gonna spoil it for you, but I thought the 
 ending was quite good, shocking actually. It also explains some of the stuff that happens to your 
 character during the game itself. I think many people don't like the ending because they don't 
 understand what it is that happened.
  
  Crappy online. I played a bunch of matches online and tbh I enjoyed it, even though it wasn't the 
 best mp shooter I've played. Shame they didn't add table topping and hop-over-stuff in the online 
 game. But defo not as bad as ppl say.
  
  Graphics. Supposedly bland. I liked the graphics a lot, they're very sharp and you can read the 
 prints on boxes and all posters. Nice use of some colour, and not every area is just another bland, 
 dark hallway. Sure, FEAR 2 uses shadows less than the first one, but that doesn't make the graphics 
 'suck'. (there still are quite some dark places however) .
  
  Doesn't add to the FEAR story. Now sadly, this is one point of critisism I have to agree with. 
 It doesn't. It does however, flesh the story out more. I'm expecting more of the story to be revealed 
 in an expansion.
  
  In addition I would like to add that Monolith implemented some really cool stuff into Project Origin. 
 I'm not even talking about the Mech parts and such. No, I'm talking about flipping over tables 
 that you can then use as cover (which I did quite often, shoooo gamespot) , being able to hop over 
 railings and through windows and such. You can see your own feet and legs (call me silly but in 
 a lot of shooters you can't...) and generally Monolith does a great job at making you feel you 
 really ARE Michael Beckett. In short, you can do all the cool stuff the Replica's did in FEAR 1 
 yourself now (except lean, but it's really overrated anyways) .
  
  Some critics on this game are really idiotic, and probably born from the fact it's not FEAR 1 with 
 better graphics. Monolith did it's best to brush away the bad sides from the original, and imo, 
 succeeded. More level and enemy variety, some actual light in the game, Alma finally being dangerous 
 (in FEAR 1 once I found out Alma can't hurt you except in 2nd and very last levels, game instantly 
 got less scary) . I even read the review of a fruitcake who decided to criticize Project Origin 
 for not being able to melee enemies to death in one hit (as if a punch is deadlier than a bullet) 
 or for needing internet activation.
  
  I am writing all this and finding I can go on forever refuting the negative reviews. The point 
 is: expectations were too high. If you can live with the fact that some things have changed since 
 FEAR 1 then I'm pretty sure you'll be able to enjoy Project Origin. Oh and this port is actually 
 optimized for PC.
  
  Gj Monolith, I love this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: major_mayhem_01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 7:36 pm PT
Review:  FEAR 2 was very well done, but suffers from what seems to be becoming the norm for PC games. This 
 port-over-to-pc from console crap seriously needs to be discarded especially when the port over 
 doesn't take advantage of the power and the controls of a PC. The addition of the need to install 
 STEAM prior to the game definitely left me steaming, as you need an internet connection just to 
 install both. The developers failed to realize that NOT EVERYBODY has internet! I couldn't even 
 play FEAR 2 for several days until my ISP had me online again because I had moved. This left me 
 feeling sorry for people that couldn't afford internet and bought a game like FEAR 2 for their 
 PC. This marketing ploy is extremely underhanded as this forces people to purchase an internet 
 connection in addition to the price of this type of software that runs STEAM. Most ISP's use contracts 
 and monthly rates which fluctuate in cost resulting in a game like FEAR 2 costing more than its 
 worth! Additionally, STEAM downloads unknown content that can be assumed as updates, fixes and/or 
 game patches, but ultimately is unknown. These types of elements are NOT systemic traits of democracy, 
 but dictatorship. Take STEAM and shove it you-know-where Monolith!!! 
  
  Another gripe are the very strange "bugs" that take place in this game. An example would be the 
 elevator in the level "Nurse's Office". After obtaining the required key card you need to backtrack 
 in order to advance the game. However, after Alma attacks you from this same elevator, I decided 
 that it was an in-game glitch because the only way back down was through this same elevator. Sure 
 enough after I restarted the game from the LAST SAVE POINT (there are no manual or quick saves 
 in FEAR 2) the glitch managed to somehow correct itself and the elevator remained open, as it should 
 have done in the first place. Another, among several glitches, involves the use of the SHIFT button 
 to thwart off character attacks. Sometimes it works and some times it doesn't. Last saved restarts 
 seem to resolve the issue, but not always. However, this type of SHIFT button defensive method 
 is a novel idea and is implemented rather well throughout the game. It would have been even better 
 if it could have also been used to save someone else as to give the player a choice whether or 
 not to have someone accompany the player. This isn't no big deal; however, seeing that the AI has 
 been doing a little too much 4:20. 
  
  Don't get me wrong, I thoroughly enjoyed FEAR 2 and thought that it was put together fairly well. 
 I loved the RUIN stage the most as this was done extremely well. A person can crank up the game 
 to its highest graphical settings on a medium based PC and still play it without much difficulty. 
 The sounds are done fairly well also and definitely add to the horrific atmosphere. But when I 
 want to play my games WITHOUT any music I mean with NO MUSIC! FEAR 2 and its predecessors force 
 you to listen to music in climatic situations. Unfortunately this spoils the element of surprise 
 for the player as the music gives away most of these events before they even happen. Is FEAR 2 
 predictable? Most of the time it is aside from audible cues as the lighting within FEAR 2 will 
 give most of them away. The game does have its scary moments, but for best effect it should be 
 played while you're alone in the dark with the sound a little higher than usual. Playing FEAR 2 
 in a bright-populated atmosphere seriously degrades the scare effectduh? 
  
  The most predictable element is that the player KNOWS he's going to be alone throughout most of 
 the game so having any emotional attachments to other game characters just isn't going to happen. 
 I felt like shooting Stokes just so she'd shut the hell up. Uhuh, let's just order that new Becket 
 guy into a 10 to 1 firefight while I baby-sit Mr. Headache (Sgt. Keegan) . There were points in 
 FEAR 2 that became a little too clichd as to why your character must do everything alone to really 
 be believable. Either way, Colonel Vaneck was probably my most memorable and favourite nemesis. 
 The developers really knew how to make a bad guy irritate the hell outta you to the point where 
 you really wanted to splatter his pea-brain all over the place. The main problem people seem to 
 have with FEAR 2 is interpreting the story line. It can be somewhat confusing, but if the story 
 was followed closely throughout the series it really isn't because after all, it's a Mature rated 
 game.
  
  The control is very tight, but lacks the finesse of the previous lean ability. The way it ends 
 does leave the suggestion that there will be a FEAR 3. If there is a FEAR 3 then I hope that Monolith 
 and its affiliates go a no-holds-barred approach. Especially taking out the strict linear path 
 approach that most titles seem to suffer from. I'm not suggesting a RPG type game, but let's also 
 not become too narrow minded. Instant scares such as the in-your-face approach that the original 
 FEAR has was far more effective. I found at times that with the original FEAR there were points 
 where I didn't even want to look at my screen because of this. In FEAR 2 this effect was lost at 
 times because I wasn't even looking in the right direction of what happened. 
  
  So if you read this far through this "review", than great. If you're a fan of FEAR than that's 
 great too as you will enjoy this instalment. But only if you can overlook some nasty flaws that 
 will eventually grind your guts. It's a shame that Monolith came so close to creating an almost 
 perfect game with FEAR 2. Hopefully, if there is a 3, Monolith will fine-tune a great franchise 
 into a well-deserved finale. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2009 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Fear 2 is an interesting game that is a fun shooter, but this time around seemed to be more action 
 oriented, features less scares, but easy to pick up play. 
  
  Graphics
  the visuals in PO are at times top notch, but you can see a lot of low resolution textures that 
 reminds you that its just an updated version of the engine in the first FEAR. The water looks a 
 lot better and realistic, blood splatters on your visor, sounds of walking on broken glass are 
 awesome, and the chracters motions are more fluid, etc.
  So ya, there are a lot of improvements, so the game looks pretty sharp, and runs better than the 
 first FEAR. 
  
  Story
  The story is pretty much right before the end of FEAR 1 (spoiler)
  where you blow up a factory 
 or something and the town around it gets obliverated. then you find out about Alma, and pursue 
 her to figure out her mystery, its a decent story, but its pretty predictable and there are not 
 many characters like yourself that stay around that long. In the last part where your on the turret, 
 The martiez guy is pretty badass. Besides that, there is not much else here to write home about.
 
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay in PO are probably the best part of the game, as there are less scares (which i dont 
 like) but its action packed and gets pretty sweet later in the game. Blowing someones' limbs again 
 in slo-mo is welcome and very fun. This experience is also most definitely satisfying, as your 
 weapons pack a good punch.
  Overall, a fun, straightforward shooter with some cool stuff.
  
  Overall, PO is a fun game that just pales a little bit compared to the tenseness and inching 
 horror of the first game. Its still an enjoyable game, and im excited for the sequel.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epic_Oatmeal
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 9:31 am PT
Review:  Monolith Productions deserves every bit of high praise they earned from developing the PC game 
 F. E. A. R. It blended extremely brutal and tactical combat with suspenseful and unsettling horror 
 elements to tell a story, featuring a creepy little girl named Alma who looks like she was lifted 
 right out of a Japanese horror film. It wasn't necessarily a perfect blend, as the atmosphere constantly 
 alternated between exciting combat and oppressive horror in a very obvious and jarring manner, 
 but it all maintained a very cinematic feeling with a little bit of mystery and intrigue mixed 
 in for good measure. The real icing on the delicious cake was that the game looked excellent at 
 the time, with very liberal use of dynamic lighting and shadows, showers of sparks and smoke particle 
 effects, and a little something called "parallax occlusion mapping" that all lent to the game a 
 unique atmosphere that you couldn't help but get immersed into. F. E. A. R. 2 - Project Origin sure 
 has a lot to live up to, but even for a new IP that came out at the introduction of the current 
 gaming generation, you wouldn't think developer Monolith would have any trouble making a sequel 
 that would make its pedigree predecessor proud. Project Origin is a particularly good shooter at 
 the very least, but it just lacks that special something that made the first F. E. A. R. game so good, 
 and it isn't too hard to put my finger on just what exactly it is. Top it off with some worrisome 
 signs that the PC version is a lackluster console port, and Project Origin ends up feeling like 
 a slight disappointment, but it still has its moments.
  
  Abandoning the events of the F. E. A. R. special forces group from the first game, you play as Michael 
 Becket, a Delta Force operative who's been assigned to arrest Genevieve Aristide, president of 
 Armacham Technoligies Corporation. She's to be taken into custody and questioned about the happenings 
 at the ATC headquarters, and she's being held hostage by Armacham mercenaries. This plays out several 
 minutes before the explosive ending of the first game, and to avoid revealing any important or 
 surprising plot elements (basically, the whole thing) , I'll just say this: crap hits the fan and 
 fate quickly intervenes to give you the same unnaturally fast reflexes as the original protagonist, 
 thanks in part to Aristide and her secret agenda. Your Delta Force teammates are all slightly exaggerated 
 and boring to listen to, so its hard to care about them at all, especially when they're so oblivious 
 to all the nightmarish Hell you and you alone have to endure throughout the game. You're always 
 tasked to complete seemingly simple objectives that balloon out of proportion into huge paranormal 
 catastrophes, all while your squad mates stand around and give you strange looks. I do want to 
 go off the record and say that the ending was extraordinarily perplexing and painfully anticlimactic, 
 but at the same time I found it hard to get excited for the possibility of another sequel to finish 
 the story. It was just so awkward and had no closure what so ever, and it left me with a hundred 
 more questions on my mind than the entire story answered for me in the first place, including just 
 where the Hell the F. E. A. R. story would even continue from here. Not to mention, it didn't bother 
 to reveal the untimely fate of the F. E. A. R. squad, a group of characters I actually grew somewhat 
 attached to. There isn't even a lovable fat guy made of Cheetos to add a layer of lighthearted 
 humor to the grim situation...
  
  If there's one major thing that makes Project Origin feel weaker than the first game, it's that 
 the horror atmosphere just feels different, in particular a lot less original. A lot of things 
 can be attributed to this, such as the more open outdoor areas, less impressive graphics, and many 
 cliche scares that rely more on gruesome and disturbing imagery than claustrophobic suspense. There's 
 never a dull moment either, throwing you into these nightmares with every single chance it gets 
 in between fights. That's not to say it isn't well done; it'll send chills up your spine, and on 
 a couple of occasions out right terrify you (results may vary) . The game also has an uncanny ability 
 to know exactly whenever you look behind you, adding a sort of dynamic scare factor when turning 
 around may result in a scary image appearing before you. I gotta say, that's pretty damn cool. 
 Overall, it just won't get under your skin and defy your expectations like the well done horror 
 in the first game. To its merit, it isn't a step back so much as it is a step in the wrong direction. 
 To summarize it to the best of my abilities, it's a lot less subtle and clever than the first game, 
 and it feels like its intentions are more focused on actually scaring you constantly instead of 
 forwarding the underlying plot, but it's sure to make the average person a little jumpy if you 
 let your guard down.
  
  Aside from the eye-candy, the first thing that comes to mind about the combat in the first F. E. A. R. 
 game was the intelligent AI. If you were smart and used your reflex time ability as often as you 
 could, it was hard to see your opponents' impressive AI in full swing, but if you ever gave the 
 opposition a chance you would see that it was very aggressive and often tactical, but never did 
 anything really thick or stupid. This is where Project Origin feels like an actual downgrade from 
 the first game, because the AI poses a lot less of a challenge to you. They take cover every waking 
 moment, yeah, but they never coordinate to try and flank you, let alone run out of cover and straight 
 at you like the AI in practically every other game would do. They're not even as good a shots as 
 they were in the first game, making you almost completely invincible if you're using reflex time 
 on the move. F. E. A. R. was also thoroughly challenging, but it was hard to get frustrated when the 
 game was so enjoyable to play, so it was strange to find that Project Origin is an absolute cake 
 walk in comparison. It's simply much easier, even though it would seem like it isn't at a first 
 glance, because of a wide assortment of small gameplay changes.
  
  Project Origin has definitely opted for more variety in the gameplay and scenery. With variety 
 comes the obligatory stationary turret sequence, two of them in fact, one of which with out of 
 place heavy metal playing in the background to psyche you up for the game's finale. There's also 
 two areas in the game in which you commandeer a mech suit through post-nuclear concrete jungle, 
 absolutely decimating everything in your path without exerting the slightest bit of effort. These 
 are indeed a nice change of pace, but the sheer lack of challenge, in particular for the mech sequences, 
 leave you wanting a lot more from it. Another attempt at varied gameplay is the addition of extremely 
 minor quick-time events. All they ever consist of is mashing the melee attack button rapidly, and 
 boy am I glad I mapped that function to a key on my keyboard. By default the melee attack is mapped 
 to your right mouse button, and the thought of trying to press that button fast enough to pass 
 these quick-time events is painful to even think about. A game like F. E. A. R. really is better off 
 without this sort of thing, especially for the PC, because it adds nothing but inconsistency to 
 the experience.
  
  Your arsenal of firearms hasn't changed very much, but it does have a few worthy additions. The 
 repeating cannon and ASP rifle have been removed, but a new sniper rifle, napalm cannon, automatic 
 shotgun, and laser weapon make up for the removal of those two lesser used guns. Incendiary and 
 electrical shock grenades have been added alongside your frag grenades and proximity mines. The 
 standard shotgun's amazing effectiveness in the first game has been turned down a few notches, 
 rendering it a much less favorable weapon to use now. On the other hand, the functionality of the 
 rocket launcher and particle weapon has been completely reworked, which is good for the former, 
 but bad for the latter. The pistol also feels weaker, but the submachine gun, assault rifle, and 
 awesome nail gun still hold up very well in any combat situation. Being able to carry four weapons 
 now instead of three is a nice feature that allows for more tactical diversity, but it's a shame 
 they removed the ability to dual-wield pistols.
  
  You can once again carry medkits to restore your health when needed, but your capacity has been 
 reduced from ten to only three. In exchange, there's now health injectors that act as simple health 
 restoring pickups; they basically replace the insane number of portable medkits you'd find in the 
 first F. E. A. R. There's no injectors that boost your maximum health, though, but there's still the 
 ones that increase your reflex time length if you explore a little bit to find them. Abandoning 
 the Alienware laptops and telephone messages to give you insight on the back story, there's now 
 just simple and uninteresting intel items to pick up and read though. They don't take on any logical 
 form other than a bright blue computer disk or notebook lying around randomly, clashing horribly 
 with the rest of the environment, and not an ounce of effort was made to hide them anywhere to 
 encourage more exploration, but that was most likely intentional.
  
  The only thing more deadly than the weapons at your disposal is your Max Payne-style reflex time, 
 the ability to temporarily speed your reflexes up tremendously, making everything else around you 
 appear incredibly slow. Just like in F. E. A. R., you can and absolutely have to use reflex time liberally 
 during combat if you want to get anywhere, and it still never gets old when you slow everything 
 down to jump-kick a guy upside the head, or carefully toss a grenade that detonates on impact into 
 a group of enemies. The only difference with the reflex time in Project Origin is that when you're 
 using it, enemies light up like Christmas trees, a rather unnecessary feature that neither helps 
 nor hinders you. Another new gameplay mechanic that's a little more useful is the environmental 
 cover. Objects like tables, cabinets, and the like can all be flipped over or spun around on the 
 fly to provide you with makeshift cover in the heat of battle, instead of just unrealistically 
 having them already in a convenient position to be used as cover. Even the AI can use objects as 
 cover in the same way you can. It's difficult to remember it even exists early on, but the more 
 you use it, the more you'll begin to see that its a pretty nice touch.
  
  Picky hit-detection is a recurring issue with Project Origin. You'll notice this most often you're 
 shooting enemies in reflex time, and you can clearly see where your shots occasionally pass right 
 through your target, but this isn't when it becomes a serious problem; it's the melee attacking 
 that suffers the most. In F. E. A. R., you didn't even have to try to make full contact with an enemy 
 for a jump-kick or slide to send them flying back ten feet, and even simply hitting them with the 
 blunt of your weapon would kill them instantly, but this isn't the case with its predecessor. You'll 
 struggle to successfully beat down a standing enemy as they repeatedly hit you back, and you have 
 to be much more accurate now to correctly land a jump-kick on someone's poor helmeted face. It 
 sure doesn't help make combat any less frustrating that they took out the lean function. One might 
 think being able to lean around corners to pick off enemies is overrated, but it could be used 
 to good effect in the first F. E. A. R. game given the competent AI, and it would have worked equally 
 well in Project Origin. It makes some sense, though, because of Project Origin being developed 
 on consoles along with the PC, but there's no reason why they couldn't have added the feature for 
 the PC version, like Infinity Ward did with Call of Duty 4. This was a severe disappointment in 
 my book.
  
  F. E. A. R. was easily the best looking game when it came out in 2005, so it came as a surprise to 
 find Project Origin's visuals very inconsistent and overall bland. Literally every single light 
 source in F. E. A. R. would cast volumetric shadows, including your own, so you were constantly aware 
 of everything around you simply by the shadows they cast. It was the first time I ever remember 
 being able to see my own shadow in a game, too, which added to the immersion factor and atmosphere. 
 In Project Origin, the vast majority of light sources do not cast any shadows; only a tiny number 
 of select few do, and they'll always catch your eye because of the rarity of the occasion. My first 
 thought was that this was because of the more outdoor areas in the game, but after playing through 
 it fully, I've come to realize that 80% of the game is still indoors. Firefights in F. E. A. R. were 
 defined not only by the good AI, but also the action movie-style particle effects. Bullet impacts 
 would kick up clouds of dust that would obscure your view, ricochet off of metal and send tons 
 of sparks flying everywhere, and leave huge gaping holes in ceramic and concrete surfaces. The 
 spark effects are still present, but lingering dust clouds are clearly absent, as are the bullet 
 holes rendered with parallax occlusion mapping. Muzzle flashes, fire, fancy electrical effects, 
 and blood all look real great, though, and the scary imagery is better looking than ever. I wanted 
 to say that the character models and textures looked good too, but overall they're just average 
 by today's standards. Textures are too plain and uninteresting to look at, and some enemy character 
 models are flat and lack detail. Even the overall art style has been changed to be more realistic 
 in a slightly futuristic way, as you can clearly see in the completely re-done weapon designs, 
 and the appearances of the ATC mercenaries and Replica soldiers.
  
  I would have given Project Origin's multiplayer a try, like I do for almost every game whether 
 I actually comment on it or not, but I was immediately turned off by the multiplayer offerings 
 here. Remember that this is the PC version of the game, and not having anti-cheat support, a developer 
 console, or dedicated servers is a load of crap. I didn't even bother touching the multiplayer 
 after I found this out, and I have no intention to try it in the future. You can't even save your 
 singleplayer game manually; you have to play through just one game at a time with checkpoints that 
 save your progress, which, thankfully, wasn't much of a problem given the easy difficulty. Just 
 like the removal of the lean function, these are very obvious signs that the PC version of the 
 game was carelessly ported from the console version. At least the engine is extremely well optimized 
 and offers lots of scalability, but not bothering to properly adapt the game for the PC platform 
 is a lazy move on Monolith's part. Project Origin even has "awards" to unlock in the PC version. 
 No, not achievements; this is not a Games for Windows - LIVE game, which would have made infinitely 
 more sense. They're just completely pointless awards that don't unlock anything to my knowledge, 
 and no one will ever see them.
  
  To wrap this up, F. E. A. R. 2: Project Origin is absolutely not a bad game. It's above average, and 
 offers some very satisfying combat, but it fails to live up to the standards set by the first F. E. A. R. 
 game in almost every category. The storyline is also not very accessible to someone who isn't already 
 familiar with the plot, and this could have been remedied if the game better explained everything 
 that's going on. With a lame ending sequence that makes one wonder if the F. E. A. R. series would 
 even continue from here, Project Origin will leave you with that empty feeling inside. I would 
 recommend this as a rent, as I'm convinced the multiplayer isn't going to be replacing anyone's 
 Killzone 2 any time soon, and the singleplayer is only about 6-7 hours in length with virtually 
 no incentive to play through multiple times. I'm still so shocked by the outcome of Project Origin, 
 because Monolith is a very respectable developer, but I'm ultimately disappointed by them this 
 time, even though I'm not entirely unsatisfied with my purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reinchester
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 12:39 pm PT
Review:  From, the broken physics, lack of immersiver shootouts, cliched scare tactics, and lack of good 
 plot development; FEAR 2 misses on the greatest points of its predecessor. 
  1. Enviroments, yes they are (slightley) more varied than the original, but with the inhability 
 to destroy the simplest of things, such as TVs, computers lights, printers, and so forth the action 
 sequences seem stagnant and generic. Explosive gas cans and electrical panels are strategicaly 
 placed, and while they do actually burn and electrocute enemies, they are not needed nor ad any 
 flare to gunfights. Missing is the particle effects, flying paper electric sparks, so forth, and 
 dynamic lighting. Shadows look awful, even by the originals standards and don't evoke fear or surprise 
 because they blend in with the already TOO dark envrioments. 
  2. Scare tactics, nothing new or related to the original, no moments where you ask "what was that" 
 or yell "sweet jesus in a birch bark canoe!!!". They happen too often and in places you expect 
 and lot of times don't actually happen. You might hear the VUP!! scared ya sound, but nothing will 
 actually have happened or will happen.
  3. Story, could've done better, wasn't terrible but not creative, to avoid spilers in the reviews 
 the basic premise is this "HOLY CRAP THEY RELEASED THE MOTHER OF THE APOCOLYPSE AND NOW WERE ALL 
 DEAD UNLESS WE KILL HER BUT THE COMPANY NEEDS HER ALIVE BUT SHE KILLS THEM ANYWAY AND WANTS SOMTHING 
 TO DO WITH YOU!" 
  4. Valve and Steam, I cannot express how much steam sucks or how much it sucks that you have no 
 customizing options. You cannot set display settings, sound settings, mouse settings (I have a 
 7 button mouse, I'm allowed to use 3) You cannot quicksave when YOU want, you cannot quick load 
 when YOU want. I can't play the game (or anything else on steam for that matter) while my second 
 copy of HL2 is being played by my little brother. 
  
  Conclusion: Last game that needs Steam in order to run that I will ever purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2009 11:41 am PT
Review:  Summary:
  --Very fun FPS gameplay, characters seem un-polished and have bland personalities. The game has 
 a jumpy scariness to it, a lot of the creepiness is in the environment. Trying to figure out Alma's 
 motives is about as impossible as finding the meaning of life, monolith should have made a more 
 obvious reason for Alma to be haunting and killing everyone around. Bullet-Time is a neccissary 
 component in F. E. A. R. 2's combabt, but I wish it wasn't. Bullet-Time has become a thing of the 
 past. Unless Monolith had used it in some new or important piece to the story they should have 
 just let The Matrix and Max Payne keep their genius use of bullet-time. This games story depth 
 is pale compared to the first F. E. A. R. If you have already played the original FEAR, you may just 
 stay away from spending money on this one.
  
  Key Positives:
  --Overall fun FPS gameplay, quick and easy learning scale
  --Great selection and amount of different 
 weapons. There are some new weapons to go along with the old weapons, but finding ammo for them 
 can be tedious.
  --Fantastic Audibles, Ambience, and voice. This game is best using a good pair of headphones or 
 a good solid surround sound system. Good surround sound can add a lot to the overall scary and 
 jumpiness.
  --The info and objective tool is adds a good amount of detail to the story and back history, but 
 even with this the games story is pale compared to the first in the series.
  --Enemy forces are very smart, they use their environment to their advantage, including knocking 
 or pushing over furniture to use for cover.
  
  Key Negative:
  --Story was difficult to fully understand. Monolith claimed that after beating the game that the 
 player would apparently have some great understanding of why and how all of it happened. Well if 
 their statement was true then I must be and idiot or this game tells the story in too confusing 
 of a way.
  --Characters are bland, their personalities are quite typical and leave no real impression on the 
 player after everything is said and done.
  --Enemy forces seem ridiculously hard when you can shoot more than two 5" nails through their heads 
 and they STILL won't die.
  --As I stated in the positive, enemy forces can use their environment to their advantage. Unfortunately, 
 the furniture, that you use for cover, shields you from NOTHING.
  --It's nearly impossible to figure out why Alma is after your character in this game, Project Origin 
 does a poor job of showing Alma's motives when compared to the original F. E. A. R. --End was was 
 shocking, in the sense that I was surprised that the developers would actually end the game the 
 way they did. I won't ruin the ending, but to me it sucked and left me thinking of all of the ways 
 they could have ended it in a better, more understandable way.
  
  Overall Worth Buying?
  I would wait till the price drops, or buy it used. For instance, buy mine on eBay if you want, 
 cause I'm sure it will be posted later today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Fitch
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2009 6:34 am PT
Review:  Let me answer the big question - No, it's not as good as F. E. A. R 1 but still is a brilliant game. 
 What can be better than trying to fighting a seriously aggravated woman on a very bad day?
  
  Pros:
  The one thing most striking is the effort in the detail of the maps - the random mugs 
 and file cabinets everywhere. It gives a good sense of realism. Graphics are absolutely superb. 
 The ambiance will make you leave a light on in your room and check behind you every few minutes. 
 The thrill and suspense that something bad is about pop out of the corner will probably make you 
 close every door you go through in the game. All the elements combined makes the game a brilliant 
 psychological thriller and this is what will keep you wanting more... and nothing better says can 
 describe "PWN" as when you shoot a Replica Soldier with your pump action shotgun in slow-mo and 
 its blood everywhere. Nice touch. They even added a Mech warrior. Oh, how I loved the Mech Warrior!
 
  
  Cons:
  The first point lost: The A. I does not act as one and they do not plan very strategically. More 
 like, run around, shoot, maybe throw a grenade, shoot some more... Kinda like a newbie group of 
 optimistic bank robbers storming into a bank with toy guns hoping for the best. It took me 9-hours 
 to finish the game on Normal. It took me just 7-Hours to finish on Hard knowing the game. The second 
 point lost is for the storyline. This is the type of story when you ask a question, you get your 
 answer only leaving you with more questions. The story itself is very short and unclear. You don't 
 quite know what are you doing and why are you doing it. Just to understand what is actually going 
 on you will most likely need to use Wikia. The other thing that was kinda stupid is the terrain 
 and the weapons are almost exactly the same as F. E. A. R 1, but it would make sense because the two 
 games runs parallel in time. Would be weird if you were in fairyland with a gravity gun fighting 
 off mutated unicorns?
  
  Bottom line: Bound to be a Classic, though a very monotonous game play. Definitely worth buying 
 it and playing it two times.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightworks
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2009 6:05 am PT
Review:  I was a bit cautious with this title by reading the Gamespot review, thinking it might not live 
 up to what I expected it to be. When I started playing, I had to admit it didn't feel like the 
 first F. E. A. R. games.
  Graphics have had an update and look OK (even with the film grain effect) and are detailed enough 
 to create a believable environment of a destroyed city, where fear lies around every corner.
  
  Game play is good, solid and gives the player the necessary freedom to hide from, dodge, slow-mo 
 and kill your enemies in a satisfying way. It's nothing revolutionary, but it plays well.
  
  Sound is good as well, maybe not all voices seem to be recorded in high quality, but perhaps 
 it's intended.
  
  The storyline perhaps could have been built out a bit more to show more background about how things 
 went crazy in the first place. I feel there's not much added to the story than what we didn't hear 
 before in F. E. A. R.
  
  All in all, I have to say I don't agree with Gamespot on this one, which has rated many worse games 
 higher - I won't call any names. I think I will start to trust the user reviews a lot more.
  
  Project Origin is a new F. E. A. R. game that plays well and will offer you enough playtime for 
 a nice horror experience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashrafvai
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 12:20 pm PT
Review:  1st of all I did not finished fear1, so i dont know da story, i dont even kno ho am i and wat am 
 i doing in there??. My first impression was, WoW dis game gonna rock, but it didn't as i expected. 
 I finisher DEAD SPACE few months bak, so comparativly FEAR2 did not scared me atall. And da grfx 
 are not impressive (come on dis is a 2009 something surprising should be there!) , im playing all 
 in max but it seems like something is missing. Oh does da sound quality sukks. I would give it 
 a 7 but dis game doesnot worth another .5.
  
  I distrubute da pints like dis   
  Gfx                              7/10
  Sound                            5/10
  Story        
                      4/10 (if u havent finish da first game)
  Gameplay                         6.5/10
  
  
  Overall dis is a nice shooting game, go get 
 it cause u dont wanna miss dis even if it wont suit u.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onisak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 1:13 am PT
Review:  When I started playing this game, I thought that I will be dissapointed. But boy I was wrong. This 
 game is really better than the first one. Graphics are great, superb efects and lightning, that 
 really ad to a scary factor in this game. And people who say that this game isn't scary. I would 
 ask you, what is scary if this isn't? I got scared before the game even started, when Alma grabs 
 you, it almost knocked me out of my chair. The shooting part of the game is really great, with 
 fun weapons and great effects. What I like about this game is that there is alot of diferent opponents 
 in the first game there was a big lack of that. Ai is solid, but not great, but it doesn't really 
 bother me to much. I also like that you comunicate with your team, that makes the game les lonely. 
 I haven't tried the multiplayer so I can't say anything about that, but singlepaleyr is great, 
 it has a solid story, great gameplay and graphics, and is also quite scarry.
  So its worth to buy in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellbishop
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 12:12 am PT
Review:  Graphics-
  Very detailed and crisp environment. I can even read the very small text of notes scattered about 
 at a resolution of 1024x which is amazing and makes me wonder what it will look like at my normal 
 game playing res of 1280x. Plenty of gruesome gore which is enhanced by the realistic havoc physics 
 targeting choice spots like flamable tanks some soldiers carry which explode into a ball of fire 
 when hit. Buildings are gorgeous and makes one feel like they're walking around in a scene from 
 LIFE STYLE OF THE RICH AND FAMOUS til it all gets shot up in combat. Some buetiful art pieces kept 
 in rooms that are even more buetiful then the pieces themselves. Combat effects are brutal with 
 plenty of visuals while not slowing framerates down just like in the first F. E. A. R. where framerates 
 were tweaked to perfection. On the creepy supernatural side its a nightmare world where every horrifying 
 ghost story seems to have materialized before ones eyes with inhuman fury. Just like the first 
 F. E. A. R. there are plenty of customizable graphics options to make the game run smoothly on many 
 older machines while upping the graphics to the max for modern day pcs.
  
  Sound-
  Fx bring the environment alive like few games have. It sounds like am in a actual living breathing 
 world with things going on around me and beyond. High quality to the max here.
  
  Gameplay-
  Very interactive environment which adds depth and life adding to the you are there 
 visceral feeling of F. E. A. R. 2. Excellent evolving story line follow up of the first games main 
 character ALMA with plenty of mysteries to solve. It was a great change of pace when ones own character 
 did not have to run and gun through an area for awhile and instead just explored taking in the 
 world before one looking for hints about Alma and what is going on.
  
  Sum total-
  F. E. A. R. 2 is a true sequel to the amazing original which delievers plenty of thrills and chills 
 in a horrifying world where a dark abyss has opened its gates to visit mans compassionless sins 
 upon a remorseless mankind. A must buy for fans of horror. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 10:00 am PT
Review:  Back in 2005, there was a little game called FEAR that caught everyone by surprise. It featured 
 a tense horror atmosphere mixed in with furious gun battles that invoked that John Woo/Matrix style. 
 It also set the graphics bar even higher on PC, becoming a reliable benchmark in future video card 
 tests. When Monolith split from Vivendi and was brought by WB Interactive, the FEAR name was still 
 the property of Vivendi but the universe itself was still in Monolith's hands. Vivendi and TimeGate 
 released two expansions to the first game, though they failed to live up to the original. Monolith 
 went to work on the true sequel, titled Project Origin. They managed to get the FEAR name back 
 near the release date and so the confusing journey of FEAR 2 has finally made it to PC and consoles. 
 Does it exceed the original? No, but it come's damn close! Much of the gameplay is the same and 
 Monolith has beefed up the weaker areas, mainly with the level variety. The story takes place 30 
 minutes before the cataclysmic explosion in the original FEAR where you, Michael Beckett, part 
 of a Delta squad, are tasked with arresting Genevieve Aristide. All hell soon breaks loose with 
 you getting captured and put through a bloody surgery procedure where you gain the Point Man's 
 powers, namely slo-mo. With the city devastated, you must solve the mystery of Alma and hopefully 
 put a stop to her destruction. That may be easier said then done as Alma herself has a different 
 plan for you... The story isn't as strong this time around and part of the reason is the abrupt 
 change to different cast of characters. What happened to the Point Man and his team? Are they still 
 alive? Hopefully, FEAR 3 will go back and answer these questions. As it stands now, the plot features 
 an intriguing mystery and answers a few questions but also leaving a lot unanswered, especially 
 the ending. I've seen it inspire a lot of debate among fans (a good thing, as it is a sign of franchise 
 loyalty) . To me, it was pretty shocking as I did not expect it but suffice to say, Alma 'does' 
 something to you. The game uses the same engine as the original though heavily updated. Character 
 models are exceptionally detailed and the environment this time has much more color. Most impressive 
 is the blasted city streets that'll travel through. Bloom/HDR lighting is somewhat overdone but 
 it's still a great looking game. I was disappointed that the environment wasn't as destructible 
 as I first thought. Unfortunately, it doesn't set the graphics bar as the previous did. Sound is 
 great as you're treated to furious gun battles with shell casings falling to the floor. Music is 
 still as creepy as ever but most of it seems to be recycled from the first game. Voice acting is 
 nothing to write home about but generally well-done. Gameplay remains unchanged as you battle with 
 Replica clones wielding your slo-mo abilities. There are some parts where you'll drive an armored 
 mech or pilot a gun turret. Though exciting, they're relatively easy. You can also create cover 
 by toppling objects but you probably won't use it much considering you can't really hug cover like 
 Rainbow Six Vegas. AI is still great with enemies actively searching for you, using squad tactics, 
 and throwing grenades to flush you out. Multiplayer seems tacked on and features the same modes 
 that most shooters have, namely Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Control and some new ones like Blitz, 
 Failsafe, and Armored Front. They're just variations of standard FPS types and though fun, still 
 seems like a fairly pedestrian effort. The game also runs incredibly well on PC (60 to 80 frames 
 per second at maximum settings) so people who said that Monolith sold out to consoles should just 
 shut their mouths. The widescreen mode does betray the fact that it's a multiplatform title and 
 hopefully a patch can fix this. As for DRM, the game uses Steam but since I already have a Steam 
 account (from Silent Hill 5) this isn't a big issue for me. FEAR 2 Project Origin is a great game 
 that delivers on the horror and the action but doesn't exceed its lauded predecessor. Perhaps after 
 4 years, we've set our expectations too high but if you've played all the FEAR games, then this 
 is a must-buy for you. Bring on FEAR 3... or some other expansion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexngwl
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 7:54 am PT
Review:  Seriously i was not the hype in horror games unfortunately lately i discover some interest on horror 
 games. First and foremost, FEAR 2 is my first game in FEAR franchaises. I never play FEAR predecessor 
 games before. I brought the game as i played through the demo and i thought it was not bad to fulfill 
 my hours. Here is some of my comments:
  
  1. Graphic: Outdated as Crysis (out more than a year before) or Dead Space are much more better. 
 Monolith should improve on graphic.
  
  2. Sound: Great as it should be. Chilling...
  
  3. Environment: Repetitive environment (Office / Tunnel / Apocalypes Town / Train) . Not much details.
 
  
  4. Enemies: Moderate AI. Too few types.
  
  5. Co-operation. Dissapointed as it stand alone rather than teamplay.
  
  7. Weapons: Great 
 SlowMo effect. Quite few arsenal to disppose.
  
  8. Gameplay: Repetitive and sometime quite boring. Normal mode being too easy.
  
  9. Storyline: 
 Weak and linear.
  
  10. Fear: Quite but sooner or later, you won't fear Alma again. Everytime Alma attacks, you are 
 struggling all the same way (mouse right clicks -  done) .... grrr... really dissapointed. Agreed?
 
  
  A solid game, dull, doesn't have any moments to attract me. Benchmark with other horror games (Bioshock, 
 Dead Space) , FEAR doesn't deserve to have high rating.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: faiz_fahad
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 25, 2009 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Total disappointment ..........
  i had such HIGH hopes with this one but..... they all went to drain ..........
  b/c iam a hard 
 core fan of it
  i have played all its parts like everyone else did
  FEAR
  FEAR :extraction POINT
  FEAR Perseus mandate
  but in FEAR 2
  
  there was nothing new in 
 the game ...... (nothing was new in its perilous parts either except FEAR ) but i was hoping from 
 them that they would introduce some cool stuff or more awesome scares like the original FEAR but 
 nothing few in the game
  accept for few things like
  
  knocking down anything u find for cover which was kinda cool but useless.......... at the same time 
 ....
  
  and the flaming gun ... which i rarely used it
  
  Low storage of Med kit ............ as if they were trying to make FEAR 2 a little challenging......... well 
 it was challenging if u play it on HARD settings...............
  
  and a CHICK as ur commander or instructor or Superior Operative 
  
  and off course the MECH 
 sequence it was cool but waaaaay to easy.... KINDA made that part of the game very easy 
  ( just like walk in the park)
  
  
  AND honestly to me Graphic were little outdated....... no 
 offense but that's what i think they just polished the previous engine and again with the stupid 
 OFFICE environment
  now at this point i am sick of watching office desk and lab Flasks and funnels
  
  As compare 
 to other hot shot games which have been released few months back.............
  and i don't even want to talk about the Story
  
  i was hoping that by chance PAXTON will show 
 up.......
  but................... :D
  
  
  Well i don`t know about u guys but i was totally disappointed
  may be someone of u in fact a 
 lot of gamers ...
  would have loved it like shooting people (which was by far most satisfying) in order to take your 
 frustration if u know what i mean .....
  
  but if your looking for a change in the FEAR franchise i am not saying a complete makeover.... then 
 u would be disappointed
  and if your a story LOVER like me then ....................... u will keep scratching ur head till 
 the end credits.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowball_921
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2009 5:37 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. I was simply blown away by it. It scares the **** out of you, then lets you 
 cool down a bit, and then pulls you back in. The graphics are superb, the missions are intriguing 
 and the weapon selection will fulfill your needs. Trust this game boys and girls. Ever ridden on 
 a roller coaster, yeah its kinda like that. The pace changes, excellent lighting, never the same 
 thing and just when you think your out... you get pulled right back in. Other than the numerious 
 different enemies enviroments and guns, you also get to jump into a big flesh tearing robot. With 
 big guns and even bigger missiles you'll just tear through your enemy. The story line is really 
 good too. 10! 10! 10! 10+++++ I understand that most people liked the first one better, but this 
 one is without a doubt the perfect sequel and even though a tad bit different it still lived up 
 to the hype. I remember calling all my friends and even my girlfriend came over to play it and 
 she rarely finds a game that she would actually play, believe me fellas that means ALOT. Yes I 
 know that the AI is a bit weak, but play it on hard and you'll be challenged. I know that after 
 a few patches, the AI will be fixed. Sound is great, the talking and the bullets being ricoshaded 
 off the walls. Alot of good gore as well. I know im not too good on all the details but this game 
 is just AWWWSOME!!!!! So go out and get it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rlg3
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2009 9:11 am PT
Review:  This game is great and I don't know what all the whining is about. The graphics & sound are top 
 notch and it runs flawlessly on my 2 year old system. OK, so maybe some of the other new games 
 out there might be a bit better in graphics or sound, but come on, this game draws you in. After 
 clearing one room I turn around and Alma is standing right there and I literally jumped in my chair, 
 if that's not being immersed in the game then I not sure what others are looking for. The ability 
 to carry 4 weapons is much better than some other titles, and yes, the shotguns (either one) are 
 a little weak except when using them point blank, but the sniper rifle, flame thrower, and rocket 
 launcher more than make up for anything the shotguns lack. 
  If you're a fan of the series or just enjoy a great FPS, you should be playing this right now!!
 
  My only real complaint is it not having a quick save, the checkpoint system is terrible. It seems 
 the farther you get into the game (and the more difficult it becomes) the farther the checkpoints 
 are apart.
  My final though is how can GameSpot give that boring repetative Far Cry 2 a score of 9 and this 
 a 7. 
  Come on guys - Did you even play either of these games?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bah-Humbug
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2009 2:27 am PT
Review:  FEAR 1 is one of my favorite game I have ever played. It combined amazing fire fights against very 
 good AI, in well made environments that had top notch sound and graphics which combined to make 
 a game that sucked you in. Sadly Monolith seems to have forgotten much of and as a result FEAR 
 2 is no were near as good.
  
  First thing you will note about the game is that you are not continuing from where you last left 
 off instead you assume the role of a new character 30 minutes before FEAR's ending. Without going 
 into details and spoiling anything major about the plot FEAR 2 basically just explains the events 
 leading up to of the first one more thoroughly. If you were eager to find out what happened to 
 the FEAR team and the Point Man you simply won't in this game.
  
  The enemy AI seems less smart this time. Enemies sometimes stand in the open and even end up killing 
 themselves with environmental hazards. Gone is the ability to lean and so you are forced to seek 
 premade cover or knock, or slide objects in the environment to protect yourself. The AI also does 
 this but it turns out to be much less effective then when they leaned like in the first game.
 
  
  Even when in cover the AI often leaves a large part of themselves exposed. The AI is less accurate 
 even on the hardest difficulty and couple this with the fact that they drop health pickups and 
 that armor provides perfect protection against most attacks makes the game quite a bit easier then 
 the first. 
  
  The environments although more colorful seem more linear and do not display the awe-inspiring damage 
 when shot up from the first game. Sound also disappoints in terms of weapons, namely the shotguns 
 as well as enemy chatter which is much harder to hear nor is it as good as the first. Weapons are 
 strong with the exception of the shotgun which can take up to three point blank shots to kill normal 
 solider enemies.
  
  In closing FEAR 2 can be fun but it pales in comparison to the first. Hopefully Monolith can fix 
 these issues with future patches as it stands I can't see myself playing the entire game through 
 multiple times.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rafael-89
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2009 4:00 pm PT
Review:  I finished playing this game in a couple of days not because it was short or anything of the sort 
 but because I just couldn't put it down. FEAR 2 had me hooked with its plot from the moment I figured 
 out what was my first mission objective didn't let go until well after seeing the credits roll 
 after its AMAZING ENDING sequence which I might add completely hints that another sequel is coming. 
 The visuals were beautiful through every environment that I came across while the sound effects 
 were also on par with the visuals setting the perfect mood for scaring the crap out of you while 
 not leaving you tactically neutered. Its not all about the scares either which really makes this 
 for game is the FPS part of it. I love shooters but this one takes the throne for its brilliant 
 AI enemies and the tight control system it has. The reflex time is also done here better than I 
 have ever seen in other games and I've seen it in a lot of games. Pretty much everything in single 
 player mode is just amazing. THOUGH I will admit that while I haven't played multiplayer mode, 
 I have heard of a few problems there which a few simple patches can fix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_originator
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 9:37 pm PT
Review:  To put it simply, this is one of the greatest shooters ever. This is better than Halo 3, or at 
 least the campaign is. But the multiplayer feels outdated. Now the details, because I have a lot 
 to say.
  
  First off, as sequel to F. E. A. R., one of the greatest masterpieces I've ever owned, i was having 
 mixed thoughts about this: would it be a letdown, or will i be blown away yet again? The answer, 
 I have to say, is 5% letdown and 95% totally blown away. The 5% only comes from the fact that the 
 multiplayer lacks what the first game's the Slow-Mo games. But this game triumphs over many others.
 
  
  Why is it so great?
  
  Well, to begin, the graphics look just plain awesome. It's not the latest look, like Call of Duty 
 4 or 5, but it doesn't need to be. If fact, i think i prefer these graphics better than most. You 
 have to admire every little detail that was put into this game. Even a little flickering lightbulb 
 in the game deserves credit. However, when comparing the graphics to the first game, you either 
 think it's gotten better or slightly worse. I think it got better. In addition, you need a REALLY 
 GOOD video card to run this game normal. I'm talking about a GeForce 8800 or 9800 GTX. An 8600 
 at the minimum. This is a high end game. Even the best cards will have SOME trouble at one point 
 or another. But if you have the right computer, go buy this game.
  
  The plot is that you are Michael Becket of SFOD-D (Special Forces Operational Detachment-Delta) , 
 the military unit that was working with F. E. A. R. in the first game. Beginning approximately 30 
 minutes before the ending of F. E. A. R., your squad of 6 operatives has been ordered to take Armacham 
 Technologies President Genevieve Aristide into protective custody, apperently due to the events 
 of the first game. However your mission is interrupted by the catastrophic explosion of the Origin 
 Facility from the first game, and now you find yourself fighting the newly-released Alma (who for 
 some reason is drawn to you) , as well as other threats in the midst of a destroyed city in ruins. 
 There isn't as much twist as the first game, but it will still keep you guessing.
  
  The levels are, well, what can I say, A HELL OF A LOT BETTER THAN THE FIRST GAME. The environments 
 are a lot more varied. You got a fancy penthouse environment, an abandoned hospital, a savage city 
 in ruins, a creepy elementary school, an underground lab, and more. In addition to the ruined city 
 level, after an hour or so of shooting, the game knows that it's getting repetitive. So what do 
 you get? A VERY POWERFUL, YET VERY COOL ROBOTIC POWER ARMOR SUIT. This was my favorite level in 
 the game. You jump into one of the replica's power armors, and unleash havec on them and destroy 
 them. It's fun and exciting the first time you ride in one.
  
  Now for the enemies. Again, Monolith fixed their mistakes, and now we've got a lot more bad guys 
 than the first game. You got the average replica soldiers, but in addition, a lot more crazier 
 foes that i think you should find out for yourself, because figuring them out is just as fun.
 
  
  The weapons also pack a punch too. In addition to the standard set of Assault rifle, Sub Machinegun, 
 Shotgun, but you also got a missile launcher, a laserbeam weapon, a nailshooter, an AUTOMATIC shotgun, 
 and flamethrower, as well as different types of grenades, making the gameplay a lot more fun than 
 the first game.
  
  Speaking of gameplay, little has changed since F. E. A. R.. You still got a flashlight, and of course, 
 the Slow-Mo feature. But the biggest difference is that now you have red dot sights on the weapons, 
 for precision aiming. It's nice to have, and it makes up for the fact that the ability to lean 
 left or right is gone.
  
  Now for what you probably want to hear about the most: the FEAR factor. This game is pretty scary. 
 Alma is back, and scarier than ever, because now she CAN kill YOU! to me, this was an exceptional 
 improvemnt to the FEAR-O-METER, because in the first F. E. A. R., she never did jack s**t to you. 
 But now, she can harm you, and you've got to fight back. There also ghosts you'll be facing eventually, 
 but i won't give out much detail.
  
  The multiplayer's pretty stale by today's standards. Unlike the first F. E. A. R., you can now set 
 up your own classes, though, it's nowhere as deep as COD4 was. There are some new multiplayer games, 
 though, say bye-bye to the Slo-Mo Deathmatch game. I was bummed out by that. 
  
  All in all, this game isn't as breathtaking as the first F. E. A. R., but it damn well reaches up 
 to it's level. It's scary, gory, action packed, and sexy (those who've beaten the game will know 
 what i mean by sexy XD) . My scores are
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  
  Multiplayer 7/10
  
  Story 8/10
  
  Horror 9/10
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  Variety (The Stuff That Keeps You Playing 
 'Til The End) 10/10
  
  All In All: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 12:01 am PT
Review:  Two non-canonical expansions, corporate pugilism over who owns what and now it's finally here: 
 A true sequel to the unabashedly and gloriously over the top F. E. A. R., F. E. A. R. 2: Project Origin. 
 This is the first F. E. A. R. game Monolith has taken development duties on since the release of the 
 original classic and it's a vastly different game. F. E. A. R. 2 feels different in the feel of its 
 shooting, the action and how everything feels compared to its predecessor. It's tough to jot down 
 one obvious detail that reveals this schism; there are many subtle and obvious tweaks to the core 
 gameplay that add up to a sequel that feels substantially different and entirely justified. Ultimately, 
 F. E. A. R. 2: Project Origin is a rock-solid shooter that's entertaining, memorable and if you a 
 have weak heart and a fragile mind, horrifyingly scary.
  
  F. E. A. R. ended on a cliffhanger. An explosive one. F. E. A. R. 2 takes place 30 minutes before said 
 cliffhanger, away from the immediate vicinity of where the explosion takes place. You even take 
 control of a brand new character, Becket. Just like the point man in the original, you're an enigmatic 
 mute and you're part of the First Encounter Assault Recon, or F. E. A. R. for short, even though both 
 are equally irritating to type out. Eventually, the game catches up to the cataclysmic end in F. E. A. R. 
 and the city's in ruins. The game's cover girl, Alma, is unleashed and it's up to you and your 
 squad to find a way to kill her before she kills everything.
  
  Having strong ties with the first game, it initially felt underwhelming when the faith of the point 
 man, Jin and all the characters from F. E. A. R. were never given proper resolutions, but Becket intertwines 
 with the overall arc well enough that eventually, I became focused on him and his relevance to 
 Alma. You don't need to play the first game to understand second; the story stands on its own well 
 enough and how F. E. A. R. 2 completely distances itself from the characters from the original helps. 
 That's not to say playing F. E. A. R. before jumping into its sequel won't be beneficial, though. 
 There are references to previous characters and the many intel items scattered throughout the game 
 dole out plot details that are much more substantial to anyone who's played F. E. A. R. Monolith's 
 found a nice middle ground  the story is accessible for newcomers and veterans will find that 
 F. E. A. R. 2 pushes the story forward. Yeah, the game does end on another cliffhanger, a really, 
 really weird cliffhanger, and while Monolith still hasn't been able to conjure up the excellent 
 prose they delivered in No One Lives Forever 1 (No One Lives Forever 2 does not deserve to belong 
 in the same franchise, but I digress.) , F. E. A. R. 2's script is good enough to put it above forgettable, 
 but way below exceptional. The banter between your squad is occasionally funny and makes them more 
 than just objective providers with a gruff face. Overall, F. E. A. R. 2's story is more than just 
 an excuse to make you do the things. Monolith's also made an admirable effort to answer some of 
 the questions lingering in F. E. A. R.'s lore, but that does lead to a multitude of new ones. Still, 
 I'm interested in the game's universe and I want to know more. Just don't end on a cliffhanger 
 next time, please.
  
  Even if you decide to not care for the narrative or you just never cared in the first place, the 
 gunplay should sate appetites. This is where it gets weird, though. F. E. A. R. 2's combat is not 
 nearly as visually frenetic, chaotic and over the top as F. E. A. R, but I found it to be nearly as 
 fun. There are a lot of special effects that have toned down or completely removed  shooting anything 
 metal doesn't create the same, dizzying fireworks, a lot of objects don't show decals, walls don't 
 vomit out the absurd amount of dust and particles when shot at, dust doesn't build up and subside 
 during and after each firefight, slow-mo lacks the same insanity and stylish panache and in general, 
 I never felt like I tore the game's world apart. Even the physics feel toned down and restrained. 
 The shotgun used to send enemy soldiers into backflips, triple axles and every single gymnastic 
 maneuver you could think of, but now, a simple plop and they fall the ground. The game's two shotguns 
 feel incredibly unsatisfying to fire off as a result.
  
  I know it seems shallow to have a ranting paragraph on visuals, but a satisfying output is a reason 
 why shooters tend to be so cathartic. They feel good. You input an action and you expect a solid 
 output. Interaction is why we play games. You make a choice and you're given a consequence. F. E. A. R. 
 2 doesn't react as adversely when I shoot things and stuff.
  
  But it sure as hell offers an extreme reaction when I shoot people. F. E. A. R. 2's gore model is 
 better. There's more violence all-around, more blood and more gore flying around when carbon-based 
 chumps take my bullets. The catharsis is present. It's further augmented with small graphical overlays, 
 like the great implementation of motion blur that gives all the firefights an injection of confusion 
 and anarchy.
  
  F. E. A. R. 2 also feels tighter, smoother, better and so very right. This word's coming up a lot 
  feel. This vague, ambiguous term is important. Every movement, every step, every single firefight 
 feels unique to F. E. A. R. 2 alone and F. E. A. R. 2 alone. It's like how Mario feels so right when 
 you control him in Super Mario World. Once all the actions in the game feel spot on, something 
 would have to go awry to truly mess up a game. F. E. A. R. 2 does not go awry.
  
  Now that I've potentially wasted many paragraphs on some of the less obvious aspects of the game, 
 it may be time to focus on the meat of the gameplay. Just like a lot of things in this sequel, 
 the combat is different in how you go about tackling each firefight. F. E. A. R. had very subtle, 
 tactical undertones. For all its wanton violence, slow-mo was as much of gawk-inducing show stopper 
 as it was proper leverage against an enemy force of superior numbers. You could lean around corners 
 to make yourself a smaller target, grenades exploded on contact and you could even shoot them in 
 mid-air. Replica soldiers took more of a ballistic beating before they went down and they doled 
 out a lot more damage.
  
  F. E. A. R. 2 encourages violence in only excess, reckless maneuvers and generally being a burly idiot, 
 running into the middle of a firefight and shooting everything that shoots back. It is more arcadey, 
 but almost as fun as the original, albeit for different reasons. Even on the hardest difficulty, 
 the game rarely presented a true challenge. I felt motivated to get up in everybody's faces and 
 fire away, as they indirectly praised my ability to move quickly and wipe out their entire squad, 
 which only fired me up more. A great amount of weaponry is open for you dish out all this pain 
 and explosions. Some of the favorites, like the nailgun are back and better than ever, while the 
 particle beam sees some neat modifications that makes it unique, but still familiar. New guns include 
 a sniper rifle, which is one of the best sniper rifles I have ever fired in a game, a flamethrower 
 with a range of 50 kilometers and a laser gun. No gimmicks with that last one. It fires a laser 
 and fries things. It's great.
  
  For all the great qualities of F. E. A. R. 2's close-quarter shoot 'em ups have, Monolith really went 
 above and beyond to squash one, obvious problem that plagued the first game  repetition. Levels 
 jump around from bombed out city streets, hospitals, schools and more. There's a better sense of 
 pacing because of this. When I started to grow weary of the perpetually dark underground tunnels, 
 the game suddenly launched me up into the surface. Suddenly, I could breathe the musty air, with 
 most of it consisting of ash and cinder. Now, granted, the weariness of the underground facility 
 affected my objectivity and I was just so happy to see more than every shade of gray, but the level 
 design is varied nonetheless. So, the pacing's not perfect and there are times when the game definitely 
 started to drag, but it always managed to pick itself right up. Enemy variety is another attributing 
 factor. You will be going against grunt soldiers for the most of the game, but every once in awhile 
 the game presents some really great foes. The puppeteer that takes control of dead soldiers, the 
 impressively animated wall-crawlers and the much cooler and much more awesome assassins from the 
 original. These guys don't appear ofte, but when they do, they're always refreshing and welcomed. 
 The only encounters that disappoint are the "boss" battles, which amount to nothing more than mashing 
 keys in a quick-time event. They look great; it's very in-your-face, but to relegate these potentially 
 exciting moments to a simple tap of a key does sap most of the dramatic tension. 
  
  F. E. A. R. was also known for its mindtrip psychosis sequences and F. E. A. R. 2 continues that tradition. 
 Your vision gets hazy and weird and inexplicable apparitions appear in and out of sight, distorting 
 physical space. These never scared me, nor was the entire game scary, but they were very atmospheric 
 and just on a technical level, damn impressive. They're a lot more fun to go through this time 
 around, how visually stimulating these are. There's also two sequences where you don a power suit 
 and they are perfect. There is absolutely nothing wrong with these two sections of the game. You 
 man a robot that fires some of the biggest bullets in the world and fire an infinite stock of missiles. 
 Replicas will shoot bullets at you, as you laugh at the futility of their actions. These will elicit 
 screams of war and bloodlust.
  
  The game retains a consistent ebb and flow of combat, freaky sequence and combat, with constant 
 and consistent alterations to those two basic ingredients. There is, however, one horrible, god 
 awful sequence toward the end of the game. This deserves a paragraph. You man a turret and some 
 piss-poor metal song starts playing. It is horrible, comes close to vitiating the mood set by everything 
 beforehand. I don't know how this got through. I'd love a patch that removes the garbage that plays 
 entirely.
  
  Okay, time to repress bad memories again. Oh, and there's multi-player. The game's most unique 
 mode, Armored Front, is arguably the worst. It's basically like any other capture point multi-player 
 mode, except each side has a power suit. The only problem is you feel like the replicas that you 
 laughed at in the single-player if you're not in one. The mode basically amounts to seeing which 
 power suit blows up first allowing whichever team to capitalize on their opposing side's lack of 
 destructive ordinance. The other, more traditional modes are better just because of the lack of 
 robots blowing a hole into the balance. F. E. A. R. 2's tight and smooth feel and intensity of the 
 gunplay from the single-player rubs off onto the multi-player. It does a lot to make what is a 
 relatively mundane multi-player mode a lot more exciting, but it won't dethrone whatever you're 
 still hooked on. There are some nice ideas, like the ability to edit your loadout and spend a set 
 amount of points by trading off medpacks for grenades, grenades for body armor and so on. These 
 feel like a starting point for something deeper, but don't amount to anything more.
  
  Graphically, F. E. A. R. 2 looks leaps and bounds better than its predecessor. Textures are sharper, 
 the guns actually have definition and personality this time, the world geometry is much more complex, 
 the lighting is better, the shadows are better, the character models are better and yes, you get 
 where I'm going with this. Animations are also superb; all of the guns have exceptional reload 
 animations, enemy soldiers move and shuffle around realistically and the cut-scenes have received 
 a huge boost in quality. There's just the odd case with the special particle effects. It's strange, 
 considering how F. E. A. R. did do crazy and wild effects a whole lot better, but F. E. A. R. 2 manages 
 to almost keep pace. Like I mentioned before, there's a lot more post-processing and effects like 
 motion blur that gloss over the screen, which almost gives the game that same "Oh my lord this 
 is insane [insert loud, cacophonous scream or belching laughing here] " reaction F. E. A. R. gave me 
 on a regular basis. Just almost, though.
  
  Monolith's sound team has been doing an incredible job since forever and F. E. A. R. 2 receives the 
 same amount of detail, attention and love. All the little creaks and subtle sounds effects add 
 so much to the mood and the bombastic stuff, like hearing a burning plane streak across the sky 
 destroys eardrums. The music is resoundingly excellent once again, smartly reusing tracks from 
 the first game with new tracks that fit right into the game's musical direction, except for that 
 piece of music. The sounds of combat are just as good and the only few complaints I have with the 
 audio, like the less cool-sounding replica soldiers, are minimal and don't detract immensely from 
 what is another stunning audio package from Monolith.
  
  The single-player lasted me around 7 hours, which makes sense, because the game consists of 7 intervals, 
 or levels. I plan on playing through the single-player again (and just closing my ears during that 
 part) and the generic deathmatch modes were fun, so there's some extra life in Monolith's latest 
 shooter.
  
  If F. E. A. R. 2 still had the same, insane presentation of its predeccessor intact with the tightness, 
 smoothness and unique feel this game has, F. E. A. R. 2 would've blown my mind. What we get is a weird 
 trade-off. Gone are the inane sparks, the dumb physics and everything that made F. E. A. R. such an 
 impressive display of gun porn. Whatever. What's done is done. F. E. A. R. 2: Project Origin is a 
 great game and if you have an itch for shooters, F. E. A. R. 2 will scratch.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doctor_Z_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 9:33 pm PT
Review:  First off, this is indeed a GREAT game but it has a few cons.
  Note: The PC version uses STEAM as it DRM, so people who despise Steam should be wary. I personally 
 love it though.
  
  
  STORY_
  The length of the Story mode is just as long as it predecessor, and with a few Easter eggs around, 
 it should take you quite some time. It took me around 10 hours to complete, and around 20 to get 
 all intel items and Slow-mo boosters.
  
  You start out as a SFOD member, Michael Becket, just diverted from a mission to assist fellow SFOD 
 members in the Auburn district of the city, you now commence a seemingly easier mission to attempt 
 to bring in a high ranked Armacham employee. Things suddenly get harder for you and your squad, 
 Dark Echo, and now you must find out what you need to do to make your squad survive and carry on 
 with your previous mission.
  
  Difficulty_
  The game is easy, even on hard. You should expect to die once in every interval at least. The next 
 patch has promised a revised hard mode, so expect to die a lot then.
  
  Scariness_
  The fact that the name of the game is FEAR doesn't really hold up much. In fact, after a few hours 
 of playing, Alma really isn't scary anymore. She is more disturbing and creepy, but you should 
 have a few jumps here and there.
  
  AI/Enemies_
  The AI in this game is great. Contrary to what people are saying, the AI is very good, and they 
 have a few new tricks that has been added to their arsenal.
  The Enemy variety has been significantly increased since the original FEAR, and many of the enemies 
 very interesting to fight with, and many look supremely cool. While the physics in FEAR 2 have 
 toned down to be more realistic (as opposed to FEAR 1's Hollywood physics) , it is still very much 
 possible to have fun with your enemies (Gib them, melee them, blow them to bits) 
  
  Audio/Sound_
  The music and the audio mix together into something FEAR should have had, an even 
 more intense and creepy soundtrack. With an eerie soundtrack and effects, you should feel the tension 
 by the end of the first level. The guns sound fantastic as well.
  Even the explosions feel and sound right.
  
  Special effects_
  The overdone fog of war from 
 FEAR 1 is very much still here, but toned down to be more realistic. Blood has a new "cherry juice" 
 flavor which looks awesome in Slow mo, but it's decals now have a short life now, making it look 
 like the puddles of blood that were there just a few seconds ago look rather awkward now that they 
 dissapear. Bullet holes also look very realistic as opposed to FEAR 1's cannon holes.
  
  Multiplayer_
  The Multiplayer in this game is VERY smooth. 
  With generic game play modes (Capture 
 the PLAG (Yep, it spelled PLAG) , DM and TDM) , and a few new game types (Armored Front, Control) 
 added to the FEAR universe, the MP in this game should keep you busy for quite a while.
  The game uses a Loadout menu, similar to the CoD: WaW one.
  
  Game play mechanics_
  FEAR 2 
 is for the most part a regular FPS with a few interesting things added to the fray.
  The EPA is essentially an almost indestructible armored vehicle you will be using (Although it's 
 not mandatory to use) .
  Cover System: You can now push some objects to block bullets in battle (Does the same as Lean, 
 which has been removed)
  The grenade cooking timer is now in FEAR, just don't overcook :) .
  
  So the basics:
  PROS:
  -Great Atmosphere, the creepiness is in the game throughout a lot 
 of the levels
  -The guns feel fantastic, and very fitting
  -The AI is great, better than most games
  -The environments are very interesting, and fun to 
 play around in
  -Story is great
  -HUD is a plus
  -Low System requirements
  -Special Effects are awesome to look at
  -Interesting new game play mechanics 
  
  CONS:
 
  -Overall scariness has been reduced; Alma is no longer extremely scary
  -Story could have been WAY better.
  -Letterboxing is acceptable, but it would have been better 
 in full screen
  -Game is easy!
  -Cliffhanger ending
  
  
  In conclusion, if you have the chance to pick this game up, I would extremely recommend you do 
 so. With intense, creepy and very fun moments, FEAR 2 is a game you would play until your mouse 
 is at it limit, and although it is close to par with FEAR 1, and its almost there, it makes up 
 with new options added to the fray. And even though it could have surpassed it's older sibling, 
 it seems Monolith wants to make sure FEAR 3 will be the one to truly make heads (and stomachs) 
 turn. With the DLC on its way, you should expect to be playing FEAR 2: Project Origin for quite 
 some time.
  
  So despite minor technical and visual wrongs, you certainly can't go wrong with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maf17
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 6:39 pm PT
Review:  My rating for this game varied considerably as I played through it. Mostly it was hovering about 
 an 8, sometimes touching 9, but the absolutely derisory ending really was a drag. There was no 
 climax - the game just ended. Yeah, yeah, they're building up for a 3rd game, still you battle 
 through God knows how many replicas, creepy-crawlies, kick-ass armour - and it just ends! Up till 
 then I'd been pretty happy, the gameplay & combat was satisfying, there was just enough supernatural 
 creepiness to remind you it was FEAR & not some run of the mill corridor shooter. And the new Alma 
 is HOT!!! I replayed several sequences just to ogle her smooth new bod. (No, I'm sure the creators 
 never intended for anyone to do that. Word of honour) . Getting to ride the armoured suits was great, 
 although the sequences were way too short - an extended ride like the highway from HL2 would be 
 greatly appreciated (hint, hint for FEAR 3) . Did not like the changeover to a checkpoint system, 
 but the game wasnt difficult enough to really make it frustrating. I cant think of any sequence 
 I had to replay more than 3 or 4 times. The game did have a console flavour, but it didnt really 
 detract from the overall solidity of the game. As a plain run & gun shooter, its up there with 
 the best I've played. As something greater, ie the whole FEAR experience, it fell down a bit. I 
 just hope the weak ending is justified with a really kickass sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drkl0rd2000
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2009 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I was seriously stoked when they initially announced a sequel to the instant hit F. E. A. R. but this 
 installment falls short in a number of areas.
  
  First it's just not as creepy or chilling as the first game. The story is weaker than the first 
 installment to the point that it's easy to forget that there is a story outside run and gun the 
 bad guys down. Instead we have gotten a standard shooter that lacks the story, scare factor and 
 overall feel of the original.
  
  It also suffers from a case of consoleitus- enemies glow when you are in bullet time and there 
 are hundreds of micro messages on your screen "acquired assault rifle ammo", I am so tired of developers 
 treating me like I am a 5 year old I know what the I just picked up I don't need you holding my 
 hand and telling me. It feels like with all the handholding and all glow-ey enemies the developers 
 groomed this game for the 5yr to 10yr old crowd.
  
  Do not get me wrong the game is not all bad it is still a descent shooter but it just lacks what 
 made F. E. A. R. well Fearful 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VirusXI
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 4:56 am PT
Review:  First off, I'd like to say that this game, as a shooter, is one of the best I've played. The levels 
 are nice, the gunfights fun. You still have the slow-mo, and the exaggerated gore accompanying 
 it.
  
  In contrast to the first, F. E. A. R. 2 is a better shooter, and the scares are a lot more cinematic, 
 so they're nice to watch, even if they aren't as scary as the first game. The graphics are better, 
 the gore is pretty nice. 
  
  For those that complain about the scares just being 'pop-out' scares, maybe you should go back 
 and play the first one. It's the same thing. I'll admit, F. E. A. R. was more atmospheric, so it was 
 scarier to a degree.
  
  The story and ending are great, though it does end abruptly. And to avoid spoilers, I'll just say 
 that the ending is easy to understand if you pay attention to the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Konigatiger
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2009 3:08 am PT
Review:  When I first played the first F. E. A. R. I knew I have stumbled upon a masterpiece of a game. I also 
 played Extraction Point and Perseus mandate which were ok but thats all they were. When I found 
 out that a proper sequel will be made I knew it was going to be a hit. And it was all I was expected 
 to be, entertaining, scary and make you want more of it. I wasn't very long though it seemed long 
 to me, due to the fact that I also have to work for a living so I spent an hour or 2 a day during 
 the week to play it. But it was great, the story, the atmosphere, the enemy and especially Alma. 
 The boys and girls at Monolith did a great job, although the game wasn't as acclaimed as the first 
 one, probably due to the fact that it wasn't as innovative as the first. I work as a game tester 
 and I can tell that a great deal of work was invested in it so next time you play a game as this, 
 think about the volume of work involved in it and try to enjoy all its good parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikeroefone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 11:30 am PT
Review:  Assuming you have a beastly gaming rig, F. E. A. R. 2 brings to the table amazingly well detailed 
 graphics and fun, fluid combat. Every time I encountered soldiers, replica or not, I found myself 
 leaning into the screen with my eyes absorbing the limited amount of light the game environment 
 provides.
  
  As for the freaky factor, F. E. A. R. 2 doesn't blow the first one out of the water or anything like 
 that, but does tip the scale just oh so slightly. In my opinion, the only reason number 2 takes 
 the cake is because of how amazing the graphics really are. While things still pop out at you and 
 the lights flicker, it just looks better and more disturbing.
  
  F. E. A. R. 2 is a fast-paced, very intense first person shooter that is scary enough to make you 
 want to take a break from playing to go clean your house or take the dog for the walk. Anything 
 to get you out of your room and away from the monitor for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimberWolf_CLT
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 11:03 am PT
Review:  I'll try to avoid any spoilers if I can. Bottom line for me: good solid firefights but the storyline 
 left me yawning.
  
  I'm sorry guys, but Alma was scarier in the other sequels. Here she appears all over the place 
 and the only scare for me was that she might get it on with Beckett.
  
  I did like the flesh-stripping dynamic however. It wasn't scary but I like the way that it plays 
 out better than the "they boil and blow up" of the first game.
  
  The areas with the lack of lighting or randomly blinking lights just felt like a carnival fun-house. 
 
  
  Underneath it all, it's missing that same suspenseful "what's going on" that the other games in 
 the series have had.
  
  And without giving it away, as for the ending "what the H#ll and why"?
  
  I have to admit that 
 I was very into the game the first time through and that the ending just left me feeling like I'd 
 been had.
  
  I can only hope that there's a third one and that they get that one dead on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: browersr
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2009 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Installation: For some reason the single player game purchased from a retailer requires the installation 
 of Steam. While I've had Steam before to play HL2 and Portal, I uninstalled it as it offers no 
 advantage for me. Again there is zero advantage in setting up Steam once again for a single player 
 experience when I already have the discs. The game comes on 2 DVD's which is quite a lot when other 
 games in this genre like Crysis or Far Cry 2 are able to come with a single install disc. The installation 
 itself also took at least twice as long as those other games. The game's recommended settings, 
 like all such features, are too conservative. I was able to easily set all settings to maximum 
 with my quad core CPU, 8800 GTS, and 2GB RAM running at 1920X1280. The game ran smooth as glass. 
 
  
  Play: The game plays like all other great FPS with the exception of the "bullet time" feature which 
 is a staple for FEAR. It works great especially when mapped to the right mouse button which by 
 default is set for melee action (which you will NEVER use except to break locks or in some scripted 
 scenes) . The game is missing a peak around corners feature, but to be honest this isn't exactly 
 Rainbow 6 here so that's not a big deal. I like to squat a lot, but frankly I found movement while 
 in the squat position to be slower than in other games within this genre (although probably more 
 realistic) . You are led through various locations mostly indoors and underground, except for some 
 nicely designed outdoor disaster city landscapes. Your path is always obvious with the ability 
 to find some locations that can contain hard to come by boosts of "bullet time" length as well 
 as health, ammo, intel, etc. The story itself is told through some dialog you hear from various 
 team members, a few cut scenes, and a lot of intelligence you can find and read. I think this latter 
 device could have been served better with recordings such as those found in BioShock. However, 
 they were pithy, informational, and at times funny. The game uses a check point save system of 
 which I will comment on later. Finally, although named "FEAR" and clearly set in a spooky environment, 
 the game really isn't scary at all. In fact after the first FEAR game was released, the scare factor 
 has decreased steadily. There was never a single moment in this game when I was so much as even 
 a little startled. Yes some of the environments were creepy, but the game itself just didn't provide 
 any good scares. 
  
  Weapons: Nothing terribly interesting here. It is your usual assortment of assault rifles, shotguns, 
 rocket launchers, sniper rifles, grenades, and energy weapons. I typically used the assault rifle 
 and used the others for some specific cases. There are some scenes with large mecs that require 
 the use of a stronger weapon, and there also some fantastic sniper opportunities that are a nice 
 change and great fun. Of real interest here is the ability at set points in the game to take over 
 a mec and fight in one of those. Really a lot of fun with a great feeling of power. Chain guns 
 and missiles that do extreme damage. 
  
  Difficulty: I played on the normal default level and the game was certainly not difficult. Due 
 to the plentiful supplies of ammo, armor, and health, combined with bullet time, means you shouldn't 
 die very often. In fact I was almost 3/4 of the way through before I met my first death. In total 
 I died maybe 3-4 times. Obviously harder difficulty levels should yield a tougher experience. 
 
  
  Save Games: I am of the school that says anyone proposing a game without a save option should be 
 fired on the spot. This is interactive entertainment and if the developer wants to more fully control 
 the experience then I suggest they get into movies or TV. I will decide when I need to get up and 
 leave or when I don't want to replay something. Also given the lack of any real scares in this 
 game doesn't make their control of saving a necessity to preserve that experience. In fact it was 
 more of a tell since when the game saved you could expect action was coming.... All of that said 
 and frankly in this case I really didn't miss the save game feature. The checkpoints where fairly 
 quick and as I mentioned earlier, dying was extremely rare. Both of these make the missing save 
 game feature much less of an issue. Perhaps on harder difficulty settings this feature would be 
 missed more.
  
  Length: FEAR has plenty of content and I'd say ligament content at that. Many games, especially 
 those with checkpoint saves, use re-do's to artificially lengthen the game. Yet despite only a 
 few deaths in my case, the game offered plenty of content and I felt I got my monies worth.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are average with nothing really standing out. I have no complaints and 
 as mentioned earlier, the game ran very smoothly. Only a very few times did I notice any clipping. 
 
  
  Sound: Appropriate but repetitive. This became a problem with one piece in particular. It was sort 
 of an Arabic chanting style music that was very cool until you heard the same piece repeated so 
 many times at such length that it became distracting. If you are going to repeat music then it 
 really has to be background stuff that no one is going to notice. When it stands out like this 
 piece did, repeating it over and over becomes a problem. 
  
  Bugs: None that I noticed. Worked perfectly with zero issues (sans some minor clipping as mentioned) . 
 
  
  Conclusion: This is really a great game that any FPS fan will enjoy and certainly any fan of the 
 FEAR series. You really come to understand what is going on in this iteration which I enjoyed. 
 The ending, while giving nothing away, clearly sets up the next iteration of which I certainly 
 will be happy to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obliteraser
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 2:15 pm PT
Review:  first of let me get one thing straight. this game is not really as good as its predecessor. BUT! 
 that really doesnt mean this game is waste of money. there is only one thing this game does worse 
 than the first one. actually all the other parts are done a lot better than the first one (kudos 
 monolith!) the atmosphere isnt quite the same. 
  
  the atmosphere isnt quite as flowing as the first game. here its a bit more rushed to be honest, 
 it isnt the same harmony that the little girl expresses in the first. still this game really stands 
 on its own legs.
  yea the friendly characters are a bit dull in the design, so what, the graphics in the game isnt 
 really that great.
  
  
  but shortly.
  great shooter, great action, great "ballet of death", ok graphics... not that scary. and i did 
 this in a day! so its pretty short be preped for that!
  
  good game, not the best we have ever seen... but good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2009 9:55 am PT
Review:  FEAR is a great game and people are expecting perfection from it and pick out anything that isnt 
 what they expected. They are complaining about small things such as lack of shadows (which isnt 
 true) and how it isnt scary blah blah. But if you completely forget about FEAR 1 and just play 
 the game you realise how good it is. For the record I've never been a big FEAR fan as I played 
 FEAR 1 last year so it wasnt as revolutionary as it used to be and seemed medicore.
  
  It is the most intense shooter ever and the effects and sounds are 10/10. No game can compare to 
 FEAR 2 when it actually comes down to the gun fights. It doesnt matter if you are still fighting 
 in small spaces because if you werent the game would loose all the intensity of the gun fights, 
 you wont see the amazing effects up close and it will be even less scary and boring. Not to say 
 that is isnt already scary. It doesnt spook you as much as the first one but I find that as a good 
 thing. For the first few missions you might become really jumpy and tense but after a while all 
 the "ghosts" and random flashes of alma just become really annoying and you just want to get back 
 to the action. The no leaning option may seem like a step backwards but I've never used lean in 
 anyway in FEAR 1 and I the new cover system. Lean would have made the game way to easy and you'll 
 forget about it. People are also complaining it's a console port yet you cannot tell the difference 
 except the main menu which is trivial. Lack of quicksave also means that the game is more punishing 
 when you die but there are enough auto saves that if you do die it will be a matter of seconds 
 before your back to where your at.
  
  Graphics are also great and has some cool effects like motion blur. Doesnt match up to Crysis but 
 then the gameplay far exceeds Crysis. Everything looks well done and if you want to be really picky 
 u can say that there are a lack of dynamic shadows but who walks around FEAR 2 admiring the shadows 
 their flashlight casts? 
  
  Only con in the game is that the hud is a bit strange and takes up too much space but you get use 
 to it and the difficulty is really easy at the start and becomes really hard near the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilisek
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 6:02 pm PT
Review:  I was scared before I could even control charter.
  Effect's of screen moving when getting Alma attention or scary blackouts are really made almost 
 perfect. The sound and voices makes a great cocktail. Enemies AI is quite good, they hide or doing 
 cover by their own. The bullet time looks even more cool, and doing blood bath frenzy on it its 
 why You should play this game.
  I don't know about multi-player, maybe I try it after I end single.
  I can just tell You all 
 its really enjoyable game, for me of course because I like to get scared sometimes. 
  For now I didn't end the game, chapter 5 so far but for me the story is lacking something, can't 
 tell what it is or maybe I'm still in early game event's (I hope) , maybe a bit to low complex level.
 
  And to all peoples that says its not scary: make Your self climate. Play by night and wear headphones, 
 than say it's not scary.
  Peace
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigerbc
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 6:07 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Beautiful but they do not come close to the previous versions specially in the shooting 
 sequences. For example, sparks don't fly as much, glass doesn't shatter as much and my personal 
 favorite, the dust after the fight, which is absent in this case (Almost) . Blood seems a bit animated 
 at close range but blood spatter and decapitations are picture perfect.
  Environment: Much darker and since the majority of the game is after the nuclear explosion (in F. E. A. R) , 
 its mostly ruins and rubble. Something which I personally didn't feel good about, because I appreciate 
 a more sterile and settled environment of FEAR for a shootout.
  Gameplay: Linear. Like before. It differs in quiet a few points here though. Firstly, iron sights 
 make for better aim, specially with the assault rifle and the sub-machine gun. Sniper combined 
 with the ability of slow-mo makes for a killing spree. Ammo and grenades are frequent and plentiful. 
 The normal mode in this is much more challenging than the one in FEAR. I classified it as "immersive" 
 due to one single factor and that is the constant reoccurring of psychic images of Alma and her 
 Demons. It gives you more jitters and a specific stage in which Michael Becket (myself) faces off 
 with "test subjects" (Abominations) which are apparently let out of their holding cells by a well 
 meaning woman, had me going to town on the shotgun and the slow-mo. Its etched in my brain and 
 that works. Commandeering a self repairing powered armor and killing hordes of ATC personnel as 
 well as replica soldiers was an awaited and a welcome change.
  Physics and Dynamics: Very plain vanilla and nothing new here. If anything, they seem to have toned 
 it down for an unknown reason.
  I felt disappointed about one major factor. The game doesn't "yield". By that I mean it does not 
 give you the satisfaction from killing hundreds of enemy soldiers and surviving to reach the finish. 
 It just decides to switch off at the end. I believe, Monolith could have come up with a much more 
 explosive (relation to FEAR 1 unintentional) ending which could have left me asking for more, but 
 in this case, I was just tired of fighting in ruined environments and switching back and forth 
 between hallucinations and reality. Pound for pound, the game delivers on the expected fronts, 
 but decides to leave loose strings unattached.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam3231
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2009 11:54 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. 2 follows the footsteps of its predecessor maintaining the reputation of being a brutal, 
 exciting, and yet creepy first person shooter experience. It has a familiar slow-mo feature that 
 allows players to turtle pace action during difficult situations.
  
  First let's address the brutal. No, this is not your grandma's idea of brutal. To all you T-rated, 
 clean shooter fans out there who appreciate video game designers scaling back on violence, please 
 stop reading now and do not consider buying or playing this game. This is not your typical medal 
 of honor where you might see a puff of red smoke come out of their chest if you shoot them. Firefights 
 in this game usually end up turning a previously clean room into a total wreck, severed limbs on 
 the ground and walls stained with blood. Your weapons are highly powerful, generally all possessing 
 the capability to detach the limb of choice to your enemy. These tools of destruction do vary, 
 ranging from the original sniper rifle to the cleverly named laser gun. I know what you original 
 F. E. A. R. fans are thinking - what about the nail gun? Don't worry its back, and still crucifying 
 victims to the wall. There are also a couple of moments in the game where you get to use a giant 
 killing robot. It's fun to maul down soldiers but ultimately felt a little unnecessary since it 
 only ever helped you travel from A to B. While all these weapons are powerful, the game does seem 
 a bit easy at times so I would recommend fps veterans to play hard (even then the game is still 
 pretty easy compared to other sp fps) . Any easier difficulties I'd recommend for people that just 
 want to beat the game quickly, new to fps, or playing with a gamepad. Wait, this game doesn't support 
 gamepads (Yeah I tried it) . Oh well, it probably supports the xbox 360 controller like many "Games 
 for Windows" releases. 
  
  The unique environment this game provides is simply phenomenal. The overall level design and detail 
 is probably the best aspect of this game. Often the game will transition between moods of darkness 
 and utter chaos. At times the lighting will be extremely dark, with very eerie sound effects to 
 give a high tension feel to what you're doing. But contrary to the game's title, there is hardly 
 any moments where you feel any actual "fear", I would say it's more along the lines of just being 
 creepy  although there is a few quick frights though throughout the game. But when you're not 
 in a slow horror sequence, the game picks up pace with a bang, or should I say a lot of bangs. 
 The environment outside the horror sequences feels extremely unstable with everything blowing up 
 all the time. There's rarely any moments where you stop and just can say "Hey I'm in a nice quiet 
 room," it's more like "OMG! This random environment thingy is going to kill me!" or "WTF! I'm getting 
 ambushed!!!" Those were pretty dense examples but I think you understand my point. The random and 
 unpredictable gameplay environment packaged with F. E. A. R. 2 is gold.
  
  In terms of storyline, I would have to say they kept things generally simple and appropriate to 
 the game's setting. It opens and closes well with a typical "protagonist vs. antagonists" with 
 a couple plot twists that nicely built appropriate tension and mystique leading to the final showdown. 
 I was happy with the approach Monolith took into presenting their story  very few areas where 
 you're just watching, most of the story takes place while you're actually playing. It's not going 
 to be winning any awards for story writing anytime soon, but still delivers.
  
  The graphics presented aren't groundbreaking like the original F. E. A. R. was for its time but it 
 manages to get the job done. The levels displayed in F. E. A. R. 2's environment have definitely become 
 more eye-appealing and varied compared to its prequel. Overall you'll probably be satisfied with 
 any pc that at least meets the recommended.
  
  Multiplayer was obviously not the prime focus for this game. It has some decent modes but nothing 
 revolutionary, and I wouldn't be surprised if it went free like the first F. E. A. R. did after awhile. 
 It's alright though, for a game that relies primarily on single player success, the multiplayer 
 is good.
  
  Overall, I would highly recommend this to fans of the fps genre and F. E. A. R. veterans alike. A 
 remarkable sequel to a highly defined classic is what F. E. A. R. 2 has to offer. Let's not forget 
 tons of gore and explosions and who doesn't like that? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chinto20
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2009 10:59 am PT
Review:  This time I must say that gamespot rated this game a little low, I mean yeah it's not that really 
 creepy game that made us jump out of our seats but it's still a pretty damn good game, the graphics 
 do the job nicely, even though they can't compare to games like crysis or far cry 2, they're still 
 pretty good, combat is just awesome, the chaos that the firefights produce is just amazing, playing 
 with those intelligent soldiers is always fun cuz they're always moving so even if you chase them 
 they may as well hide in another position, the game feels easy bcuz even if you take 5 or 6 hits 
 you're still alive and you have your medkits while the soldiers die from 2 o 3 shots or 1 melee 
 attack (lol) , the sound remains awesome and it makes you feel like you are really in an abandoned 
 place, there's actually no music, it's more life like and gives you a whole new experience, the 
 scary moments are not quiet up to the level we were used to but you're still going to jump quiet 
 a few times so it's not that total letdown, the fear factor here comes from this weird zombie-like 
 creatures cuz they're way way harder to kill than the soldiers and they're quite fast so expect 
 to waste quite some ammo with this bastards.
  Rating:
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound:9/10
  Story: ?? dunno cuz I'm like at half the game xD
  Gameplay:9/10 (strongest point, It could 
 have been 10 but they took away the leaning action from the controls)
  Fear: 8/10 compared to the old F. E. A. R. 
  
  PD to gamespot: even if a game is not up to previous 
 games, it doesn't mean they're not good : ]
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: detoam13
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 8:35 am PT
Review:  I gave it a 5 because there were still some really freaky parts that made me wonder why I was scared 
 even though I new that it's just a game. The armoured suit was awesome and I loved blasting those 
 bastards to pieces. Sniper rifle was way too cool and I wish they would have given it more play 
 time.
  If not for that I would have given it a 1.00. Seriously.
  The game is very linear. The physics of the game are way too old. Considering the games such as 
 Crysis and FarCry 2 this is simply horrible. The checkpoint saving ONLY is simply stupid. And it 
 was not as scary actually as the first one. This time it was way too predictable when the monsters 
 would come out. In the first part You never knew. I have a huge list of whines about it. Mainly 
 because I had waited for so damn long for this game to come out. I am still gonna finish the game, 
 but I am very sad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAftHour
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2009 6:24 am PT
Review:  gamespot is relly losing credibility these days... scoring games when they shouldn't be doing that!! 
 let the gamers say their oppinion !! you're making really great games look bad... seriously bad! 
 like this one. and i heard that retarded penguin say that it has a 7 hour gameplay... LOL. let 
 the gamers decide whteher to play it or not! try not to think so much for them... i palyed this 
 game and when i had finished there was a huge smile on my face!!! FEAR is by itself a great game 
 and monolith as well as WB did their best to rise up to the first game... and in my opinion they 
 did just that:) gosh they think they know it all
  play this game if you want not just because i said so... it's awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torinraven
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2009 11:22 am PT
Review:  I eagerly awaited this game for some time, and was even more excited for it once I'd played the 
 demo. Upon playing the full game, though, I have to say Im a bit underwhelmed. It is certainly 
 a pretty game (although not quite as beautiful as some recent releases) , and the sound was fantastic, 
 but I wasn't blown away with this game like I was with the first game. 
  
  At the heart of FEAR should be, well... fear, but aside from a few good "shock" moments, I wasn't 
 frightened by this game. Add to that the fact that the scares were fairly predicatable and cliche. 
 Usually when I am playing a good "scary" game, I'll find myself slowly becoming more and more reluctant 
 to continue onward, but in this iteration, I felt like a nearly invincible death-dealer most of 
 the time. It's hard to be scared when you're playing a bad@$$. 
  
  This talk of trouncing one's enemies brings me to my next point. The enemy AI is very good here... 
 most of the time. They'll use cover, flank you, flush you out with grenades, etc, BUT they're just 
 too easy for some reason. I wouldn't consider myself to be a great FPS player by any stretch of 
 the imagination, but I managed to beat the game on one of the harder difficulties without having 
 to reload saved games more than half a dozen times. The truly potentially scary enemies such as 
 the abominations and the ninja-like characters were neutered by being too weak. If they were tougher 
 to kill, they would have been a lot more frightening. Add to that the powered armor sections, and 
 "weak and scared" is the last thing I felt like.
  
  FEAR 2 is still a very solid shooter and the gun battles are a visceral joy. All in all, the game 
 was a lot of fun, but I don't think I'll be replaying it anytime soon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tubaloth
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 10:46 am PT
Review:  Big Fear fan. Once I played the first Fear (like year after it came out) I loved the game. Nothing 
 like killing somebody in Slow-mo with a shot gun. (There is even a slow-mo mode like this in Call 
 of Duty 4)
  
  I was excited to play this game! Took a while for stores to get it. 
  
  Graphics I feel are good for being Direct X9. c For some reason most of the game you feel like Half 
 Life 2. I would say the graphics are still better then Half life 2, but not Crysis level. The "ghosts" 
 effects in the game are done really well. Not seen in most games. 
  
  But they used Direct X 9 the game played really smooth, no problems at all. 
  
  Sound wise 
 its just as good. Maybe not as intense of battles as there was in Fear 1. But close enough. But 
 the sound and music keep your heart going at the right times. 
  
  I bought the game on Thursday (Feb 12) I played it for just over 3 days and have finished the game. 
 
  
  This is probably the biggest downfall off the game. Its just over 6 and half levels. Now each of 
 these levels are done really well, and thought out. But the game ends quickly. There really is 
 7 levels but the last level isn't really a level just the last battle so its really just a half 
 level if that. 
  
  This is probably the only bad thing about the game is I spend $50 on a game that took me maybe 
 7 hours to play. That just doesn't seem worth it. (I would hate for Xbox 360 and PS3 people that 
 spend $60 on this game and not as good of graphics) . 
  
  
  I'm probably going to go through the whole game again because it was so quick. (But thinking of 
 playing through Half Life 2 first)
  
  The other thing that I didn't like, but wasn't really that bad. In the Fear 1 you kind of learned 
 more of the back story through different voice messages left on peoples phones. This one doesn't 
 do that, there are these "intel" Items you pick up and read them to get the back story. This is 
 the normal way of doing it in a game, but after the first one actually had voices doing it, its 
 kind of a bummer they didn't find a way to keep this going. Even to the affect of having some small 
 video reading it. 
  
  Over all a good shooter. Nothing new. Good graphics for Fear! Fun as always. Good level Layout. 
 The biggest problem is there isn't much here! I hope they allow for a free download level at least! 
 
  
  I guess because this game attaches to your STREAM account I can't even sell it used? I haven't 
 tried. But thats what I hear! 
  
  I would wait until this drops to $40 at least. I would say buy it used, but I don't even know if 
 you can do that? Because of it tieing your SN to your Stream account. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dchalf10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 1:46 am PT
Review:  Here it is!
  
  Very nice graphics, not surpassing crysis of course but that's what made this game so good- it 
 wasn't a hardware demo, it had really solid graphics and cool little touches to the effects to 
 make combat more realistic and i didn't notice a single texture glitch or any other glitch the 
 whole game through, and that says something because every game has those.
  
  Realistic combat as i mentioned, but the little things such as the realistic 3d fisheye effect 
 on the sniper scope that made the centre of the scope appear closer than the outside of the lens.... unlike 
 other games that just blur the edges, and the when you get hit or the enemy gets hit it really 
 knocks your aim off instead of just making the screen flash red (somehow indicating you've been 
 damaged) and keeping your aim dead on- minus the usual recoil. 
  
  Great A. I - the best i've seen even. The enemies really seek out cover, not like in every other 
 game where they come out for a bit, go behind a wall, rinse and repeat... they change their technique 
 and search for better ways to come at you
  
  Mechs - there are sequences where you can choose to get in mechanical armored walkers that really 
 shred the scenery... and you enemies to pieces, it's a nice change from the relentless battles.... (your 
 pretty much invincible in them for a time)
  
  Only one downside and it's a shame to leave it for last, but the multi-player. There are no a. i 
 bots, and people don't seem to mind but i think arena matches with mechs and such in this game 
 with the command point style matches, bots would have made this awsome, i'm sure the online is 
 ok, but it's not for me ( haven't touched Left 4 Dead in ages as there was no a. i bots and matchmaking 
 on steam with fools can become tedious .
  
  To summarise Fear 2- 10% originality 100% fun (single player that is) , but that's why i got it, 
 for the single player. May Alma haunt your dreams. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dpadam450
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 10:19 pm PT
Review:  I just wanted to make that headline cuz gamespot is hardly credible anymore. Look at any games 
 review score vs player score. This game is really good. The ending is gay. It sucks that it doesnt 
 have more scary parts. It is also hinted to a third game. I hope monolith goes all out if they 
 do. They might need a new idea though. I dont want to see fear become Halo.
  
  Play it on hard.
  
  Play it with headphones.
  
  Turn the lights out.
  
  Had to add 
 this to make it long enough.
  
  I just wanted to make that headline cuz gamespot is hardly credible anymore. Look at any games 
 review score vs player score. This game is really good. The ending is gay. It sucks that it doesnt 
 have more scary parts. It is also hinted to a third game. I hope monolith goes all out if they 
 do. They might need a new idea though. I dont want to see fear become Halo.
  
  Play it on hard.
  
  Play it with headphones.
  
  Turn the lights out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r2d2c3p0
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2009 11:46 am PT
Review:  If your looking for more of the original FEAR your may or may not like this game. I enjoyed this 
 game as I did the original but it's a differant game and yet still much the same.
  
  I played though in about 15 hours and that's a little fast for me so I'd say it's shorter than 
 the original but I feel I got my money's worth. Fear1 25 hours - I check out every nook and cranny.
 
  
  Apperance wise the enviorement is a HUGE improvement from the original and the game looks great 
 and runs smoothly. More time is spent in an outdoor appocolypse and the feel is much less industrial. 
 It is however a corridor crawl and doesn't offer the complex layout that allowed the soldiers to 
 outflank you in the original games. Most of the shooting is face-on with some arena shoot-outs 
 throw into the mix.
  
  The soldiers can be idiots at times and often will blow themselves up with there own grenades. 
 The A. I. is not up to the original standards but it's not bad either. I played on normal and found 
 it a turkey-shoot especially with the advantage of slow motion. There were exeptions to this and 
 a couple of fire fights were more intense - next time I'll try difficult.
  
  The audio was good although I am not a fan of the music. At times it helped with the atmosphere 
 and at time it did not. The FEAR franchise is one of tension and fright with the audio playing 
 a big part of the atmosphere. In that respect the game has it's moments but over all is not nearly 
 as spooky as the original, It also takes place in a brighter setting, unfortunately the much nicer 
 graphics hinder the fear factor.
  
  The Checkpoint save system just sucks and dispite what monolith says does not add tension to the 
 game. Overall this is an excellent port with the key-bindings properly accessable. The only negitive 
 was the checkpoint saves. The ability to lean would also have been nice.
  
  Weapons were good (not great) but the effects could have used more punch. I used the assult rifle 
 as often as possible and avoided the shotgun as weak and ineffective. Was not impressed with the 
 grenades at all.
  
  Storyline is well........... maybe it's making more sense.......... maybe it's more filler then anything 
 even though your told alot in the form of pick-up info items......... maybe I'm begining to believe 
 Alma's the good guy (girl) and were all mess-up pons working for the system............. I'm now 
 routing for Alma........ Hope she gets her revenge ..... and I can't wait for the  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phileosophos
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2009 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I have no idea why people are slagging this game. They gripe about the graphics, saying the dynamic 
 shadows aren't right, that it's not as good as Crysis, and so forth. But let me ask you something: 
 do you buy games because the dynamic shadows are correct? Or because they push your hardware so 
 hard it will be five years before you can turn all the sliders up to the max? F. E. A. R. 2 looks 
 fantastic and runs beautifully: butter smooth with 4xAA and 8x AF at 1920 x 1200 with everything 
 on high. It's the only game I've ever seen that does movie-quality spectral/special effects in 
 real time.
  
  The audio is equally fantastic. All the great weapon sounds, ambient tracks, music, etc. are just 
 as good or better than the first game. Even the voice over stuff is quite good, though it seems 
 like the industry really needs a larger voice-talent pool from which to draw (I recognize several 
 of the actors from other games) . The dialogue is pretty goofy stuff, but then what do you expect 
 from a game who's primary antagonist is a super-psychic little girl?
  
  As far as gameplay goes, F. E. A. R. 2 strikes me as surpassing the original, which had some dull 
 moments. I played through the first game about half a dozen times, and there were parts of it that 
 just weren't all that interesting. In contrast. the sequel has kept my attention every moment. 
 It's gripping if not positively enthralling. The story is rather forgettable, but that's true of 
 most FPS games. It's not the story that matters; it's the engrossing manner in which it's told. 
 I enjoyed every minute of the game.
  
  Frankly, I can think of but two complaints to make. First, the game is a bit easier than I expected. 
 The original game was pretty hard in a few spots, but I can't believe how plentiful armor and health 
 are in F. E. A. R. 2 by comparison. Of course, I'd say I'm pretty good at FPS games, so maybe it's 
 just right for a newbie; maybe it will be just right for me at a higher difficulty level (I'm playing 
 at normal at the moment) . Whatever the case, that's not a big complaint.
  
  And second, I'm disappointed with the multiplayer in a couple of aspects: (1) lack of any anti-cheat 
 mechanism, and (2) no enhanced reflexes. I can't imagine what the developers were smoking to think 
 not including at least PunkBuster was a good idea. It's early, but without an anti-cheat mechanism, 
 the cretins will be wallhacking, botting, and everything else soon enough. I'm sorry to see the 
 enhanced reflexes go as well, insofar as I thought the first game handled it really well. But of 
 course one doesn't buy a F. E. A. R. game for the multiplayer anyway; perhaps these two flaws are 
 the developers' tacit acknowledgment thereof?
  
  Suffice it to say that F. E. A. R. 2 is the best FPS game I've played in quite some time. If you're 
 an FPS fan, the demo is a must-try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simeon_Crane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Check out this game if you are a fan of the series. This is a great innovative game that introduces 
 some new concepts and introduces very advanced graphics. The story has been very good so far and 
 the FPS aspect of the game is top notch. I think it may be getting a lower score from some because 
 it is a little confusing in the beginning and you are not the same character as the first game. 
 This effectivly fills in a lot of blanks from the first game and expands on the story in other 
 areas. The heads up display is killer. Some say it detracts from the game, but I disagree, it makes 
 the game high tech and easier to interface with. It allows you to pick out informational story 
 elements so you don't miss them, and it also allows you to keep easy track of ammo and items in 
 dark environments. Cool, Cool game, I say check it out and don't listen to the nay-sayers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reino6
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2009 10:01 am PT
Review:  In the first F. E. A. R. i jumped a lot in the chair. In this one, i had to exit the game for a while, 
 before i could play through a nasty part. In Project Origin you can`t really tell where starts 
 a firefight sequence or a Alma sequence. Which was in the previous game easily sensible. I mean 
 it`s sometimes still obvious, when the room gets quiet and paranormal sounds and images occur, 
 but in the last game the boundaries are more blurry. It keeps you more frightened through the game.
 
  The new enemies are frightening also. Excluding Alma. When the Alma precence is sensible, its`s 
 complete horror. I get shivers sometimes. Really, i tell you. If i, let`s say get in the position 
 in the main character, in real life somehow. I could not take this and blow my brains out. :)
 
  Story is good. Game ends nicely. Hoping for a sequel, again. Graphics are excellent. The game 
 doesn`t require a high end computer.
  Overall: If you liked the movie "Ring" then it`s "must have" game. And it`s nice to play the first 
 FEAR before playing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Powerofc3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 12:08 am PT
Review:  Warning there will be some spoilers!
  
  Ok so the game start off a little off beat, and you don't really understand why until you're about 
 1/2 thorugh the game. The people that don't like this game must have been expecting it to take 
 place after FEAR (and expansions,) but the story is driven in to an even deeper parallel direction. 
 We learn more about who's behind Alma and the telepathic commanders, and why they're doing it. 
 You also learn how they're manipulating people to see who the best candidates are. You learn most 
 of this back story through little data files floating around (kinda like Doom3.) The story is by 
 far the best part of this game as it's so twisted you don't really know which end is up, and that's 
 the most engaging part.
  
  The combat doesn't feel as tight in this game (probably due to it being developed for consoles 
 as well,) but with some tweaking to the settings it gets to where it needs to be. 
  
  The graphics won't blow you away (ahhh Crysis... ahem...) but they look good enough that you stop 
 caring after an hour or so. My main beef is the limitations of the PS3 and X360 hindering progression 
 in graphics... but that the nature of a $300/$400 machine vs a $1000/$2000 in recession heading 
 towards depression times.
  
  The sound is both great and ok. The music is perfectly spot on. There's some good pump you up music 
 when you know all hell's gonna break loose, and really creepy music when there needs to be. The 
 weapons however don't have enough pop behind them. They sound a bit weak to me.
  
  Overall play the game to continue the story of Alma, and when you beat the game you won't believe 
 the ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKL06
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2009 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Its not that bad either. Like most series whether it be movies or video games the sequel is usually 
 inferior to the original, as is the case with FEAR 2, but being worse doesn't mean that it was 
 a bad game either. In this installment you play as Sgt. Beckett another random soldier that's been 
 thrown into the mess that all began with the original game. The game itself offers superb graphics, 
 sound effects, gore, and enjoyable firefights with an enemy that has seemed to grow even smarter 
 from the original FEAR. And that's about where the good stuff ends I'm afraid. The story doesn't 
 really seem to advance much from the previous games. You end up learning a thing or two about whats 
 going on but not much that we already know is revealed in this sequel. To add to the cons the weapons 
 were really downgraded from the original game. There is a fewer selection of unremarkable guns 
 in comparison to the devastating and creative arsenal that you are supplied with in FEAR, well 
 that is to say with the exception of the mech suit, which helps to keep you interested in the game. 
 The horror while still present isn't so scary, now that we already know whats going on. And to 
 top it off the ending begs the question why anyone even bothers to play the game in the first place. 
 Overall FEAR 2 is a good fps game, and fans of the previous installments will have a good time 
 playing it even with its downfalls, but the story is something to be worked on for the future FEAR 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Read full review and score breakdown here:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,3673,0. html
  
  The FEAR franchise has gone through a history almost as convoluted as its plot and story. Starting 
 off as a property underneath Vivendi and developed by Monolith Productions, the IP was torn away 
 from its parents as Monolith was bought up by Warner Brothers. What followed was a pair of average 
 TimeGate-developed expansions that took the plot in directions that Monolith never intended to 
 explore. Although not able to use the FEAR name, Monolith remained interested in the concept, creating 
 an "unofficial" sequel named Project Origin. With the Activision-Vivendi merger, many IPs were 
 let go or sold by the resulting Activision Blizzard conglomerate. Luckily, FEAR was brought back 
 home to Monolith, and the result is FEAR 2: Project Origin. The first FEAR was considered one of 
 the best action games of the previous generation, but does Project Origin continue that legacy 
 or fall to the wayside in this golden age of shooters?
  
  Project Origin picks up approximately a half hour before the epic conclusion of the first game. 
 You are put in the role of a Sergeant Beckett: a member of a Delta Force team sent to arrest the 
 president of Armacham, the company that started this whole mess. What follows is a tale of revelations 
 and surprises that highlight some of the most apparent improvements that FEAR 2 has over its predecessor: 
 a well-paced plot. In the original FEAR, the game ran out of gas for many players at approximately 
 the halfway point because they had seen all that the game had to offer in terms of plot and presentation 
 by that point. Plot details are much better integrated and don't require the player to hunt down 
 obscure answering machine messages to figure out what the hell is going on.
  
  The meat of the game, for better or for worse, preserves a lot of the gunplay and mechanics that 
 the original brought to the table. FEAR was well-known for successfully bringing the bullet time 
 mechanic to the first-person genre. FEAR 2 preserves this mechanic perfectly, making some seemingly 
 impossible fights possible. For the majority of the game, you'll be fighting soldiers, whether 
 they be Armacham mercenaries or cloned Replica soldiers. Their appearances are more varied than 
 in the first game, and they fight intelligently, flushing out players with grenades and constantly 
 moving through the environment. Naturally, there are some paranormal enemies, such as the usual 
 assortment of ghosts and some cool new foe called Remnants, dead "reliving" their final moments. 
 If you disturb one of them, they become aggressive and let off a disorientating scream, all while 
 emanating red "strings" that pick up and control bodies like a puppet-master. They're tough and 
 they're interesting enemies to fight, but there are too few of them to make a real impact on the 
 gunplay. All in all, FEAR 2 doesn't seem to lose any of the mechanics that the first game had (including 
 the jump-and-slide-kicking that other reviewers have wrongfully called out the game for not preserving) . 
 However, it does seem to be noticebly easier due to the development team's desire to appeal to 
 the more casual console audience that they didn't have to worry about when handling the original 
 installment. This may put off series vets, but it won't ruin the game if you're truly a fan of 
 the franchise.
  
  In what was a wise choice, Monolith lets the player take control of several powerful mech suits 
 scattered throughout the levels. They are fun diversions, and its refreshing to be able to mow 
 down the enemies that had been hounding you for the last several hours. These sequences are short 
 and sweet, again demonstrating the drastic improvement in pacing that Monolith has learned to incorporate.
 
  
  One of the chief issues that critics and fans alike had with the first game was the unoriginality 
 and repetition of the environments. Once you entered your first office building, you had basically 
 seen the layout of the entire game. Here, Monolith really mixed things up, introducing a variety 
 of environments that include devastated streets, hospitals, labs, and even schools (think of what's 
 possible given these locations and I assure you that Monolith has already pulled it off) .
  
  Project Origin wouldn't rightfully be called a FEAR game if it didn't have creepy environments 
 and sudden jarring scares perpetrated by the antagonist Alma. Thankfully, it does. For fans of 
 the previous games, the "scares" won't really affect you the same way that they did the first time 
 around, but that doesn't mean that Alma's run out of tricks. Specifically, Monolith has really 
 stepped it up in terms of the distortion and lighting effects during and around these scenes, resulting 
 in a creep factor that is noticebly stronger, simply giving an unsettling and insecure feel to 
 the rest of the game. So, while the game won't necessarily make you jump at every other corner, 
 it will radiate a sense of foreboding and evil that few others have managed to pull off.
  
  As in with the first game, multiplayer feels like an afterthought when compared to the quality 
 single player experience. The modes are standard fare, but the addition of the game's huge mechs 
 to some of the matches is an amusing factor. It's no Call of Duty, but it does the trick if you 
 want to blast some random strangers online.
  
  Although FEAR 2 isn't the genre-defining visual benchmark that the original was (again, most likely 
 due to its multiplatform development roots) it doesn't look bad and manages to pull off a variety 
 of special effects that, as previously mentioned, really add a sense of atmosphere to the well-rendered 
 environments. All the standard bells and whistles, like HDR, motion blur and film grain, can be 
 found here along with some specific enhancements. The franchise has always had some real smooth 
 animations and impressive lighting effects, and Project Origin is most definitely not an exception. 
 The blood and gore effects have really improved as well, resulting in some truly gruesome scenes. 
 Some might take issue with the just-a-bit-too-simple geometry or random low-rez textures, but they 
 are rather minor gripes in what is a good-looking visual experience.
  
  Of course, there are differences between the three versions of the game. The PC version is by far 
 and away the best-looking and best-playing version. We're at the point where we don't need a pricey 
 rig to max out the PC versions of multiplatform titles and have them looking much sharper and "fuller" 
 than their console counterparts. Not only does the PC version run best, the console versions have 
 some significant issues. Although the 360 and PS3 are similar in terms of processing power, the 
 difference in framerate stability between the two versions is quite drastic with the PS3 version 
 often choking up every few minutes or so. Both the 360 and PS3 versions have some obnoxious aliasing 
 issues and lower-resolution textures that actually impact the sense of atmosphere that the game 
 is trying to communicate. Neither console version is terrible, but if one is able to, they should 
 choose the 360 version over the PS3 one and the PC one over both.
  
  The audio design in Project Origin is extremely strong, so you'll want to play the game using a 
 surround sound system or a quality set of headphones. The music is fitting, the voice acting is 
 more than adequate (with the female voice actor behind a certain famous AI making a significant 
 contribution) and the ambient sound effects are what make the game the atmospheric tour de force 
 that it is.
  
  While FEAR 2 isn't the be-all, end-all of either horror games or first person shooters, it successfully 
 builds on the strengths and eliminates most of the issues found in the previous games. The game 
 might be easier than expected and it probably won't leave you terrified of playing it at night, 
 but it successfully creates a sense of atmosphere, mixed with some really intense combat. FEAR 
 2 might not be a revolutionary title, but its a damn fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasuke1982
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2009 6:58 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. 2: Project Origin is a fantastic game. It does a better job of gripping the player than 
 F. E. A. R.. The story does a very good job of tying the two titles, and has an one of the creepiest 
 twists that I've ever seen in the conclusion of the game. If you've played F. E. A. R., you have to 
 pick up this game, you will not be disappointed.
  
  There are some excellent new weapons, and ignoring everything else, it's worth playing just for 
 the Elite Armored Suits. Props to Monolith for making the players feel... godlike? Maybe, definitely 
 close.
  
  The game mechanics are basically the same, but there really isn't anything wrong with that. If 
 it's not broke, don't fix it. The reflex ability is part of what made the original so fantastic.
 
  
  Anyways, I'm off to try the multiplayer, but if it's anything like the first game, I don't expect 
 to be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dtlr077
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Fear 2 does not live up to its title. The original Fear was an excellent game, and still is. In 
 fact, every part of the original seems to be lost on this sequel. This obvious console port is 
 fundamentally flawed in a way that no patch will fix. The graphics are circa 2003, the gameplay 
 is circa 1999. The voice acting is stilted and laughable at times when it's supposed to be serious. 
 The sound is ok, but that's about it. I don't see how professional reviewers can be giving this 
 a 7 or 8 or A- etc. This is a D- game. That GameSpot gave "Perseus Mandate", an expansion pack, 
 a 5.5 is strange, since it is far better than Fear 2 which was rated as a 7. There seems to be 
 too much intermixing of PC/Console standards. The PC will always be at the top, as it should be, 
 some PC's can cost 10 to 20+ times that of a console. PC games such as this should be held to those 
 standards. I'm not saying that this should be a nearly unplayable game unless you own a $5000 PC 
 (Crysis) , but this is a low tech port, and I'm glad that I got to play this at another persons 
 home before wasting $54 on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2009 9:54 am PT
Review:  I played through the entire original FEAR the night before FEAR 2 was released, so I jumped into 
 FEAR 2 with FEAR fresh on my mind and at first.... I wasn't happy. I'll start off with the things 
 I personally was not happy with.
  
  Right off the bad the first thing I didn't like was the interface. Instead of the basic interface 
 of the original, which was completely fine, you now have these glasses they have all the interface 
 stats as a HUD display... looks very much like Ghost Recon and I hated it. It "highlights" enemies 
 and objects (information disks, ammo, health, weapons) almost as if it's saying "Hey your to stupid 
 to look over here, so I'm gonna help you". However as time goes by, you tend to get use to it and 
 don't really pay it much attention. 
  
  The graphics look nice... however in some instances (especially in bullet time) the original actually 
 looks better. Also whenever you get hit, there is a spray of gore that just looks terrible (as 
 in it looks like chucks of beef flying around for some reason) . Also, the "smoke" effect from the 
 original FEAR (when in intense firefights rooms would fill up with smoke to the point you could 
 not see) is been turned down drastically, to the point where I never had this happen. 
  
  The story starts off kinda rocky and very cliche, but as time goes by it really starts to get good 
 and interesting. The ending (which I won't give away) is somewhat confusing though but enjoyable. 
 One thing I hated was there is a ton of information laying around in the form of discs, manifests, 
 clipboards, etc all of which you have to stop and read which breaks the game play and immersion. 
 In the original, all extra info was on telephone voice mail and laptops that was spoken or summarized 
 to you. That was such a better method because if added a realistic feel to the game. Also I feel 
 the acting and dialog was much better in the original. 
  
  The enemy AI seems to have been turned down in the area of squad tactics but they certainly have 
 increased in their shooting abilities. In the original, enemies didn't shoot you until you were 
 in a reasonable area where your presence could be detected. In FEAR 2 if you have a thread of hair 
 sticking from around the corner, your getting shot. It's not constant, but it does happen often. 
 Stealth is certainly not an option in this game. 
  
  Also, and this was a biggie for me, there is NO safe anywhere. It's a checkpoint system, however 
 the checkpoints are well placed and not to far apart. Still I hate the fact they I just can't stop 
 and save whenever I want. 
  
  Ok now for the good:
  
  The sound is fantastic. Weapons, the eerie moments, the music (except for the snakefist song... that 
 was just brutal but it's only at one part and it doesn't last long) . There's even some of the eerie 
 music from the original too. 
  
  Alma is done fairly well and her scary moments live up to the original in some cases, surpasses. 
 
  
  Weapons are done very well. The new weapons are fun and interesting, and the power armor (kinda 
 like mechs) are great fun. 
  
  Graphics for the most part look great and with everything maxed it ran flawlessly on my computer 
 (2.66ghz quad, dual 8800gtxs in SLI, 3 gigs RAM) . 
  
  All in all:
  
  It's a good game that falls short of the original like so many do. By itself, it's a great game, 
 but when riding the coat tails of an amazing game, people expect something equal or greater. If 
 you compare it to the original, you will be disappointed, like I was when I first started playing. 
 However if you keep to it and just play it for what it is, then the game becomes quite enjoyable. 
 I really wish they would have left it more like the original and a bit more of a realistic feel 
 instead of a more futuristic type feel of this game, however that is just my own personal preference. 
 Definitely worth play, but I wouldn't say this is a "must buy". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plm3d_basic
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 8:01 pm PT
Review:  This review is for the pc version which most review sites are too lazy to provide separately and 
 have lumped them together with the console version. For a console game Gamespot's 7.0 is about 
 appropriate, but for a pc game this game is 5/10 at best which is considered average. Where to 
 start? The original was a milestone in terms of graphics and AI. It served as a benchmark for high 
 end GPUs and CPUs and as the gold standard for what AI should be like in a first person shooter. 
 It had one of the most addictive close quarters combat in a FPS. Now nearly 5 years later Monolith 
 brings us FEAR 2 which was developed first on the xbox360 and ported over to the pc & PS3 and unfortunately 
 it shows. Several interviews from Monolith has shown that they created this game for the "lowest 
 common denominator" and fully admitted that they catered the game for the xbox360. The pc version 
 has letterbox (16x9) aspect ratio used predominantly in HDTV sets which can't be fixed with absolutely 
 no support for 4:3 or 16:10 monitors which MOST pc users have which is entirely unacceptable for 
 a pc game. This means that you'll have black bars on the top and bottom of your monitor if you 
 don't have a 16:9 monitor. Monolith didn't even try to port this correctly or hide the fact that 
 it's a console port.
  
  Also, what you'll notice immediately upon starting is that the menu is also consolized for a gamepad 
 instead of quick changes that comes from a mouse. The graphics are a slight improvement in texture 
 from the original but certain aspects of the game is far worse than the original which is also 
 unacceptable in a sequel. The game uses an effect known as film grain which just looks terrible 
 on the pc and can't be disabled. There is also a complete lack of smoke, debris, sparks, physics, 
 & volumetric particles, ie chaos during a firefight which was found in the original and contributed 
 in large part to the excitement and thrill in the original game and lacking in the sequel. In the 
 original game after a firefight the room would look f**ked up beyond all recognition (FUBAR) with 
 clouds of smoke hanging in the air, pieces of paper floating about, chunks of plaster blown off 
 the wall, and body parts and blood splatter all over the place. It's all GONE in FEAR 2. Blood 
 now come out in unrealistic over the top chunks instead of spraying out of bullet wounds. On top 
 of that, enemies now glow in the dark upon slow motion to help casual console users aim with their 
 gaypad and looks unbelievably UGLY! Furthermore, the HUD is entirely intrusive and takes up most 
 of the screen and just plain hideous as well and creates an uncomfortable effect of looking behind 
 a bowl. To make the game even easier for casual gamers, items like health packs and ammo have a 
 giant highlighted box around them. You can even see them behind walls. Lastly on the topic of graphics, 
 the number of dynamic lights has been considerably reduced thus the number of real time shadows 
 which helped tremendously with the atmosphere in the original is also gone. Even the bloody flashlight 
 doesn't produce shadows. The flashlight from Doom 3 produced real time shadows and that game is 
 5 years old. Apparently the xbox360 couldn't handle all these graphical effects which were expected 
 from pc gamers and fans of the original game so they either reduced it or just plain took it out.
 
  
  They've also taken out the lean feature, not that you need it anymore because the game is excessively 
 easy where you can just stand still and fire away like the Terminator. On the original you couldn't 
 last more than a few seconds out in the open but here there is no challenge, ie. no fun. Also, 
 the AI has been considerably dumbed down where they no longer flank, take cover, etc but are more 
 concerned with rearranging furniture and blowing themselves up with their own grenades. Another 
 feature which was removed was the slide kick and bicycle kick which caused enemies to fly into 
 the air and was supremely satisfying to pull off. The funny radio chatter from the AI are also 
 gone and the cool scream they made when they died is also gone. The sound effects for weapons has 
 been reduced and lacks the oomph from the original. Also, they have taken out quicksave feature 
 present in nearly every FPS and in the original which reeks of being a console port. Another omission 
 is the support for extra mouse buttons which are somehow nonfunctional which is another example 
 of bad console porting and further evidence that this game was made for the xbox360. Multiplayer 
 is completely broken as well with no dedicated server list or anti-cheat software. Modes consists 
 of typical deathmatch and team deathmatch, sometimes with the addition of the mech. Also, they 
 took out the slow motion feature from the multiplayer as well which were present in the original. 
 Finally, the single player campaign is far too short and will last only about 6 hours. 
  
  The only pros for this game was the storyline which continues from the first game and there are 
 some scare moments, but honestly both features were better done in the original and relied less 
 on cheap scare tactics. Other pros consists of more varied enemies than the original and different 
 environments other than office settings, both of which were minor complaints from the original. 
 And operating the mech during small segments of the game were also fun albeit short. Another welcomed 
 feature is being able to kick over tables and create cover, but this becomes unnecessary and you'll 
 rarely ever use it.
  
  Lasting impressions is that this game literally screams console port and if you liked the original 
 on the pc you will hate the sequel. There is almost no replayability since it is way too easy and 
 firefights no longer have that intensity from the original due to toned down graphics and dumbed 
 down AI and multiplayer is also a mess. Monolith has already stated that they will make a patch 
 to fix all the issues with the pc version such as letterbox, highlighted enemies, HUD, etc. which 
 clearly shows that they never tested this game with pcgamers or even fans of the original game. 
 For a more accurate representation of this game instead of reading console reviews which are more 
 lenient and don't even bother discussing any of the issues in the pc version, go to their official 
 forum and see the number of hate mails and complaints from pcgamers. It's so bad that they had 
 to censor and ban people who were critical of the game. You know a game is a stinker when they 
 have to resort to censoring information. Had Monolith made the game FIRST for the pc then ported 
 it over to the consoles like they did with the original this would have been a truly epic sequel 
 deserving of the FEAR name, but instead we are left with a lackluster average game that was limited 
 technologically from the start by the xbox360 and will probably soon be forgotten within a few 
 months. The FEAR franchise on the pc is officially dead with this half baked poor port and the 
 hype for the next installment in the series for pcgamers has waned considerably after this mediocre 
 effort or betrayal by Monolith. It is a shame since Monolith was a well known and trusted competent 
 pc game developer but unfortunately this game will leave a black mark on their stellar record and 
 reputation. Five years in the making and so much potential. All I can say now is what an utter 
 waste! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaDaStar
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2009 2:05 am PT
Review:  I pre-ordered this game from Steam, even though I wasn't terribly impressed with the demo. However, 
 I now find myself wondering why the average professional critic scores for this title are relatively 
 low. 
  
  Perhaps it isn't innovative, but this is a sequel that works on what made the original a success. 
 I don't know why so many critics seem to think that there has to be something radically new for 
 a game to be good. The gameplay is almost identical to the original, but why is that a bad thing? 
 I bought this game because I enjoyed playing the first one, and wanted more. Unfortunately, the 
 expansion packs didn't do it for me.
  
  I've read critisism with regards to the textures being poor and the graphics being weak considering 
 this is a 'Next Gen" tiltle. Looks pretty damn good to me, and it plays like butter with all details 
 maxed on my Phenom and 4870 (512 MB) . The load times are amazingly fast.
  
  I love the A. I. and how they take cover, or move to a better position. The music seems to fit quite 
 well, and helps with the immersion factor.
  
  The lack of a quick save and save anywhere smacks of consolitis, but at least the checkpoints are 
 plentiful. 
  
  I haven't tried the multi-player portion of the game, so I'm not qualified to even give an opinion. 
 I bought this game for SP only. So if MP is a big part of why you buy FPS, perhaps fifty bucks 
 is a bit much for this title. If you're looking for a good game to play with the lights off, then 
 F. E. A. R. 2: Project Origin is the one to get. Best FPS I've played in months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daishi20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 5:35 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion, this is one hell of a sequel to a game, especially a scary game such as FEAR. The 
 original FEAR had its galore of scares/jumps/screams, and FEAR 2 adds onto this with its with ease 
 and equal scare.
  Many-a-times seeing alma pop outta nowhere and lunge/grab at me gave me a good scare/yell "Holy 
 Sh*t!". I'm pretty sure many of you have seen the infamous review done by Kevin, by all means his 
 review is crap.
  Not gonna sugar coat it. 
  The graphics are beautiful and the gore is plentiful as wanted, the added walker sequences are 
 loads of entertainment. The feeling of tearing through the demolished remains of the city, gunning 
 down anything standing in your way and leaving a smoldering mess behind you is VERY satisfying. 
 The weapons are satisfactory, the standard classes are there but the nail gun is once again, beyond 
 satisfying.
  If your pc can handle this monster, I recommend you get this game, along with the original if you 
 have yet to play it!
  Game On!
  
  ,Daishi20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2009 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I was very skeptical of buying this after reading the first reviews and also playing the demo. 
 I wasn't at all impressed at first, but changed my mind fairly quickly.
  
  
  But heres the review.
  
  
  The goods:
  
  -Rock solid FPS game. All the elements are there 
 for a nice simple, yet effective, run and gun kind of game. Though maybe a little too basic.
  
  -The kick over cover feature is nice, adds a little strategic touch to the finished product.
 
  
  -The immersion factor is amazing. Graphics, effects, lighting, and overall design are simply the 
 core of the game. Shows where all the work was done. Really nice guys. This is what makes it a 
 solid FEAR sequel (apart from the freakish Alma of course)
  
  -Scary parts are through the roof. They improved 10 fold from the first. The effects help achieve 
 that. They also prevent any repetitiveness to the experience. I knew when something scary was coming 
 but still unable to expect what.
  
  The bad:
  
  -Some sound issues when using my headphones (they are good ones) . The guns sound way muffled and 
 almost like air canisters popping, expecially the shotgun. Though everything else sounds crisp 
 and has plenty of bass. This is not as bad when i use my altec lansing speakers. Not really sure 
 what the problem is there.
  
  -The things you can do are pretty much the same as in the first FEAR. Slow time, kick, punch. Was 
 hoping for something more
  
  -Save checkpoints are a pain. Some are too far apart and repeating a whole section of a level can 
 be tiresome.
  
  -Really easy on normal setting. Havent tried hard yet so not sure what im complaining about here.
 
  
  -Lacks multiplayer, but that also is a minor issue for me. Multiplayer is a bonus in the first 
 place in my opinion. Maybe they will release a standalone free package like they did with the first 
 one.
  
  
  
  Overall its a great FEAR sequel. Alma is twice as scary as she was before and the level design 
 + effects are incredibly immersive. If you enjoyed the scares in the first one, you will defenetly 
 enjoy this too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightLike
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 14, 2009 7:24 am PT
Review:  This game is not just a shooter, it is a horror genre... yet i get more thrills and chills playing 
 left 4 dead on live then this... Yes the game is playable, yes it is good, yes it has a story line... 
 but the little old lady popping up here and there wasn't enough to make me jump off my seat.
  
  Good
  Ill start by saying awesome graphics, good sound effects, and a smooth ride with no 
 glitches/errors or nothing to slow down a smooth game play.
  It has quite a bit of action, a nice slow motion feature that helps ease tension in the more spooky 
 areas of the game, or for bullet time. The game is pretty interactive, you can turn over tables/counters/sofas 
 to use as a defense. I did like the ammo displacement, enough to go around so you don't feel to 
 helpless.
  
  For more cautious people - It really wasnt that scary so if you think your going to have a heart 
 attack from this game, you really wont go head and buy it. The previous 2 are a bit scarier
  
  
  Bad
  The character you play as comes off idiotic, not one of my favorite's that's for 
 sure, the first person mode is a bit to small i tried different screen modes but none of it truly 
 helped... im using a 21 inch screen and the gun looked babyish so i couldn't feel like i was really 
 there. You also don't sprint very fast, the entire game feels a bit enclosed... theirs never really 
 an open area. 
  
  You pick up these dapa-pads threw out the game, i found them completely 100% useless... i didn't 
 read a god damned single one, they bored the heck out of me. 
  
  The worst thing about the game is its massive 10-12 gig space needed, its lamenting for a game 
 that is only playable once a year or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neil108
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 10:03 pm PT
Review:  I can only say, having played the original F. E. A. R. and 
  absolutely loving that game;
  Fear 2 is nothing of the original. It's not
  a matter of the graphics or anything like that. 
 
  The GFX are completely sound for Fear 2.
  However, the game is not on par or in
  unison with the original FEAR game. I really do not 
  know how to describe it. The story isn't 
 there. 
  it is not the same game or was not created
  in concept or theory aligning with the original
  and this game does not deserve 
  the title 
 of "FEAR 2".
  The game does not frighten me. I found the 
  "scare-tactics" un-frightening. Specifically, the flashing 
  images of Alma, etc, the flashing 
 of images in general
  is just annoying and does not scare me. I really felt
  like i was going to have a seizure or something. Just
  constant cheap scare tactics ? It is 
 
  overused and really makes me not want to play this game.
  Regarding the difficulty, far to easy, the grenade effects 
  are lacking, the particle effects 
 are not in the 
  style of the original. I can only say i am disappointed 
  in this game. 
  GFX: 8 
  Sound: 7
  Story: 3
  Fear: 1/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 13, 2009 9:31 pm PT
Review:  In F. E. A. R 2 had massive massive hype. Its a great shooter in its own right, but it just dosnt 
 bring anything new to the F. E. A. R shooter. Everything is not very scary, though i regard think 
 the only games that are scary is silent hill and the orignal F. E. A. R.
  
  Good: From the screenshots, you can already tell it looks great. The lighting is pure awsomeness. 
 Its a great shooter all round, great pace, great fire fights. everything. well mostly everything. 
 The Slo-Motion Max payne ness.... is back. Theres a frekin napalm gun. Mech parts of the game are 
 super distructive. So Much BLOOOOOOODDDDD!!!!!!!!!
  
  Bad: there are a few bugs, for example there is one where if you climb up a ladder and the space 
 is too small, you will jsut fall through. Story is very stright forward and it is quite confusuing. 
 (if anyone reads this, please tell me what the story is... though i did kind of skip a bit of F. E. A. R. 
 how does she become a teenager? isnt that just an older version of alma?) dont get to see much 
 of red dress alma. the ending is very very..... weird. random scares just dont seem scary after 
 half way through. I finished tis game the same day i got it. serious.
  
  Though F. E. A. R is still a good shooter, it is alot like COD5 in the sense that it just dosnt do 
 anything very new. the only massive upgrade to the game was just the graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MADKAT676
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2009 8:39 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R 2 Project origin was a beautiful game with lots of action and thrills to make it worth 
 while buying. Its just the right amount of "fear" to get your stomach in a knot and leave you wanting 
 more. The game play is magnificent and made with precision. Like the first FEAR the AI was very 
 smart but in this one they are MUCH smarter. It give a more realistic feel to how someone would 
 react in real life. The graphics are not disappointing at all! They may not be "Crysis" level of 
 detail, but its not bad at all. F. E. A. R 2 is a game worth buying and will leave you wanting more 
 which is exactly what monolith wanted.
  Multi-player is pretty much as enjoyable as the first FEAR's. If you didn't like it, then go play 
 another multi-player game. But all in all it gives a good amount of action for the online gamer 
 to keep him or her occupied. 
  Good Job monolith your game OWNZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfx_fan
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2009 3:15 pm PT
Review:  The follow-up to 2005's supernatural first-person shooter F. E. A. R., an acronym for First Encounter 
 Assault and Recon, places you in the shoes of Sgt. Michael Becket.
  
  If you recall from the first game, you play as an unnamed character with enhanced psychic abilities 
 and increased strength sent to investigate the paranormal activity in an abandoned city district, 
 where you are confronted by a ghostly (and vengeful) little girl named Alma.
  
  Heavily inspired by Japanese horror movies (or perhaps the American remakes of Japanese horror 
 movies) , along with John Woo action movies, 2005's F. E. A. R. was noted for its intense gunfights 
 (made even more stylish with your character's superior reflexes which slow down time) , distinctive 
 atmospheric lighting to create tension, and a very smart AI. But perhaps most of all, F. E. A. R. 
 was also a subtle and compelling psychological thriller.
  
  F. E. A. R. 2: Project Origin takes place about a half-hour before the end of the first game, which, 
 if you recall, ended with a nuclear explosion which would devastate a nearby metropolis.
  
  Obviously, as Michael Becket, you are now a different character first sent to arrest Genevive Aristede, 
 the CEO of the corporation responsible for the misdeeds implied in the first game through telephone 
 voice mails which the player would periodically come across.
  
  But after the nuclear explosion leaves you unconscious, you wake up as the victim of an operation 
 in which you are implanted with the same supernatural reflexes as the character in the first game.
 
  
  Once again, throughout the game, you are granted with superior reflexes to your opponents, giving 
 you the tactical advantage. And you are also confronted with ghostly visions, including Alma.
 
  
  Rather than revisit the repetitive labyrinths of office buildings and warehouses that punctuated 
 the first game, F. E. A. R. 2 attempts to spice things up, for better or worse, by adding more variety. 
 Let's just say that while the variety is there, it sometimes feels out of place. In addition, much 
 of what's explored in the game has been done in countless other games.
  
  In F. E. A. R. 2, you'll get to explore a hospital, an abandoned elementary school, an abandoned underground 
 subway, and the devastated streets of a major city after a nuclear blast, painted with all the 
 ghostly apparitions in between.
  
  Graphically, the game has notably higher-rez textures and even more atmospheric lighting, which 
 is, again, an improvement for the F. E. A. R. franchise, but is nothing special by today's FPS gaming 
 standards. The slow-motion gunfights, however, continue to be impressive and intense.
  
  But where the game truly shines is through its wicked intelligent AI (continuing the trend of the 
 first game) and especially its amazing sound, which is what really keeps the player engaged.
  
  There are some genuinely creepy moments. Like the first game, there will be moments where you 
 walk through empty hallways waiting for something to pop out -- sometimes it does, sometimes it 
 doesn't -- plus some unforeseen plot twists -- some of which work well, some of which are disappointing.
 
  
  Particularly problematic is the character dialogue, which, given developer Monolith's track record 
 for cinematic quality writing, is a bit underwhelming and sometimes unintentionally funny. Furthermore, 
 the attempts at humor are often funny in the wrong way and feel displaced.
  
  Overall, however, F. E. A. R. 2 is a relatively engaging first-person shooter, and although nothing 
 terribly innovative, especially given the first game's achievement, it is worthy of a try and perhaps 
 retry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diebye
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2009 10:58 am PT
Review:  The combat in game is fun, if easy due to slow-mo. The atmosphere is great, Alma is supported by 
 tons of ghosts and leaky pipes keeping you on your toes the entire time. 
  
  The problem comes when you hit a autosave point, you get this big white square in the top right 
 corner of your screen screaming to you that you are indeed still playing a game. And lets not forget 
 the pieces of "intel" on the ground and information on guns you pickup, big screen obviously designed 
 for a console, pops up, pauses the game and takes forever to scroll through.
  
  The only problems with the graphics are the lack of dynamic shadows and the glass break animations 
 are pretty weak, but while playing your kicking so much ass that you hardly even notice it.
  
  Overall its a damn good game, the bit of console port feeling especially those silly little 
 melee quick time events the lack of graphics polish and immersion breakage don't overshadow the 
 fact that it is well worth the $50 price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PCbadjer
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 7:29 pm PT
Review:  What can I say. I hate the hud. I hate the grainy texture which is way too excessive. Letterboxing 
 in a PC game? Seriously? Who thought this was a good idea? I hate the overuse of blurring. (Sure 
 you can turn it off but it's a PC for f'ing sakes.) Fine tuning would be nice. No proper mouse 
 support is unacceptable. I hate the fact it has no lean. I hate the furniture arranging A. I.. But 
 probably my biggest problem with this game is the lack of dedicated servers. Been playing FEAR 
 combat for free for years and there is still a great community of players and clans. The online 
 community for this game will no doubt be dead within months of release. Actually it's already dead 
 and usually only comes up with 5 or 6 hosts with a handfull of players. This is console port garbage 
 at its worst. Maybe they will patch some stuff but I wouldn't count on it. (If they throw in dedicated 
 servers I would probably put my score to 6.0) If you're a hardcore PC FEAR fan and buying it for 
 some lasting/engaging/rewarding online and cutting edge gameplay and graphics you will be sadly 
 disappointed. U should rent it on the PS3 or 360 and burn thru the ho-hum story and then move on. 
 Monolith, thanks for selling out and taking my hard earned money with you, you lazy console loving 
 jerks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeycorpse
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 13, 2009 1:17 am PT
Review:  If you have ever played the first FEAR this will seem like total garbage which in my opinion it 
 is. A very sub-par shooter especially for being this new, stupid ai, lame gun effects, no grenade 
 effects like the sweet effects in the first FEAR. Shooting ghosts is just lame and not scary. The 
 atmosphere is totally not scary unlike the original. And since the first FEAR was made for the 
 PC and not a port the graphics where fantastic and also the effects. Bottom line it is another 
 developer not the original FEAR team and they took it in the wrong direction and came out with 
 a game that pales in comparison to a game that is 3 years old, its just sad. The Alma in this game 
 is not creepy like the first FEAR either, she is too little girlish unlike the preteen/teen anorexic 
 version in the first game. Upon playing this I installed the original and I am now playing through 
 that and enjoying it way more than the 2nd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noob4Hire
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2009 10:46 pm PT
Review:  The Gamespot Rating of 7.0 doesn't do the game justice.
  If F. E. A. R had a different label on it would definitely get a higher score.
  
  F. E. A. R 2 is 
 a solid shooter from the bottom up.
  
  The game does seems to have lost its touch with what it F. E. A. R is all about. The approach was 
 "Different"
  
  You feel like your master chief in this game plowing through grunts and elites. You literally will 
 be massacring the masses of soldiers. Because of this approach to the game, tension is unable to 
 build because their is no real threatening force up against you.
  
  In the first game the enemies did pose a challenge in where it became a necessity at times to use 
 Slo-Mo. The lean function was also a great help in the first game.
  
  In FEAR 2 Slo-Mo is not even needed, the enemies are far to weak to bother with it. Using it will 
 result in making the "Hard" difficulty setting not Normal but "Easy". The enemies do lean in the 
 game while you cant. They need it though unlike your invincible protagonist.
  
  In the first game you had to pump a good of amount of lead before a soldier drop dead. In this 
 game tap the trigger one or twice and they are good as gone.
  
  The Atmosphere of this game is very weak, unlike its predecessor which magnificently was able to 
 create tension toward the player.
  
  F. E. A. R 1 Alma's appearance was very subtle and the atmosphere was darker and quiet. 
  
  F. E. A. R 
 2 the levels are much brighter and its actually quite loud ALL THE TIME. and Alma's appearances 
 are far to frequent. Because of her frequent appearances and loud atmosphere it breaks any possibility 
 of feeling "FEAR" or tension.
  
  What made F. E. A. R 1 so great was the exploitation of the use silence. In F. E. A. R 2 you always hear 
 screaming again and again and again. It breaks any tension you could have possibly built from silence 
 and the quiet scary sounds that could have occurred.
  
  The first few levels are a drag but when you get out of the hospital it gets much much better.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Average by today's FPS Standards. The PC Version certainly does have a significant increase to 
 crisper and sharper textures. Gamespot seemed to have missed that probably gave the 7.0 to all 
 3 platforms without actually checking the graphics on all 3 versions.
  
  Gameplay:
  Very Fluid and Solid. Get a little lost at times but no problem. Enemies are fun to kill but to 
 easy. Atmosphere is not thrilling at all. It does feel Eerie at times. Mech Sequences are a blast.
 
  
  Sound:
  Little to excessive, should have used less to create tension in the atmosphere. Guns sound real, 
 enemies getting torn up with bullets sound good and everything else hits the standard.
  
  ----
  
  I expected a lot more from this game, its not a bad game but its not what I was looking 
 for either. I bought a F. E. A. R game to play a F. E. A. R game, turned out to be another HALO game 
 with guns blazing, runnin n gunnin til the bitter end.
  
  Different publisher maybe thats why it turned out different. Also heard they tried to fix what 
 they were criticized for in the first game.
  
  Hopefully F. E. A. R 3 will go back to its roots with some more innovation and bring another groundbreaking 
 success.
  
  So I Hope.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vividnightmare
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 9:20 pm PT
Review:  If you're like me, you couldn't wait to get your hands on FEAR 2 when it was announced. Not only 
 because FEAR 1 was so great but because it was Monolith at the helm again, one of the better scary 
 game makers in the industry.
  While FEAR 2 does offer great visuals and a lot more fire fighting it still feels like it comes 
 up short of the quality and especially the frights from FEAR 1.
  
  Graphics - An obvious upgrade from FEAR 1, while it doesn't quite compare to Crysis visually it's 
 nothing to scoff at. Crisp visuals, good creature design and tight texture work make this title 
 something fun to look at. Effects are a major highlight, though the particle system in this one 
 don't seem as intense as the particle effects from FEAR 1, though this could have been done to 
 increase visibility on the players end. Explosions look better than ever and the cloaked assassins 
 make a return from FEAR 1 and their effects look better than ever.
  
  Mechanics - While the game works mostly the way you'd expect, the ability to lean didn't make it 
 into this build which makes your options during combat feel some how handicapped and cut short. 
 Many a time I found myself pressing my old lean keys from from FEAR 1 to have nothing happen. The 
 games addition of moving and knocking things over to form cover in real time is a nice addition, 
 but your inability to stick to cover like in Rainbow Six Vegas or Gears of War make the cover ineffective 
 since enemies can easily shoot you while you're behind cover, this is only highlighted further 
 with the lack of a lean option since the only way to fire around a corner is to completely come 
 out from behind it. Still though the core combat is a blast and the addition of the Mech suit segments 
 in the game do give the game a much more combat oriented feel. Nothing quite matches the entertainment 
 value of blowing through a city block in a over power two legged tank. To wrap up though a major 
 draw back to the games design is the layout, maps feel quite bland though very detailed they feel 
 quite static and recycled. There seems to be no dynamics to most of the levels and though the location 
 changes the layouts don't feel as different, long hallways attached to wider areas for fire fights 
 seems to repeat often. The school, office buildings, labs and everything feel the same though they 
 look different. While FEAR 1 managed to make everything feel unique, with roof top battles, office 
 shoot outs and a strange underground lab, FEAR 2 has multiple locations but they strangely all 
 feel similar to each other.
  
  Audio - While I typically don't comments on Audio, for reasons of excellence or below average I 
 do. For FEAR 2 this is a mark of Excellence, while most games tend to treat 5.1 Surround Sound 
 as just pumping the same audio stream through every speaker. FEAR 2 is a auditory treat, minutes 
 into the game while sitting in the APC just turning my view from side to side I could clearly hear 
 the audio shifting from right to left. As well combat feels much more intimate with full 5.1 support, 
 the sound of glass breaking behind you while tile and such is destroyed behind you. While this 
 title does take much more advantage of 5.1 than the first one, there doesn't feel to be as much 
 care given to detail audio wise. One of my favorite things from FEAR 1 is after a good fire fight 
 you could hear the shells from discharged rounds hitting the floor and rolling around, but sadly 
 this detail did not follow into FEAR 2.
  
  Story - One of the main keys to a scary game (or movie) is a well written plot and dialogue. FEAR 
 2 has neither, while not of the extremely low quality seen in Hollywood. Dialogue feels expected 
 and bland and in some was budgeted. The first time I heard the name "Snake Fist" I almost turned 
 the game off in fear of a sudden plummet in budget. The story rides briskly but fails to be anything 
 but typical. While many games start strong, tend to go weak in the middle and then pick back up 
 in terms of story and events, Fear 2 seem to start strong and slowly decline till the credits roll. 
 The ending must be one of the most anti-climatic endings ever, while not poor it simply does not 
 have the kick the first FEAR did. I remember the end of FEAR 1, with a giant nuclear blast coming 
 at you really got the heart pumping. The end to FEAR 2 on the other hand is not only short and 
 uninteresting it's actually slightly confusing, I found myself sitting through the credits to see 
 what little Easter Egg was hidden after the credits only to find nothing.
  
  Overall - While FEAR 2 doesn't live up to the quality of FEAR 1 it's by no means a bad game, the 
 game starts strong as a Horror Shooter but quickly levels out to a high action blow'em up shooter. 
 Which isn't a bad thing at all, just not what one is expecting when going for a title like FEAR. 
 The combat is much thicker this time around, instead of the small skirmishes from time to time 
 like in the original fear, at times in FEAR 2 it will feel like you're holding off a small platoon. 
 While this is great, the AI this time around actually feels less intelligent. While in the original 
 enemies would communicate and work together to flank you, enemies tend to drive straight at you 
 in hordes. While this thickens combat directly it may leave some of the more experienced gamers 
 feeling left out as combat doesn't require much thinking or maneuvering to win a conflict. Others 
 may also find the weapons in FEAR 2 over powered, this may pass though as you proceed further into 
 the game. While early on a couple of rounds from the games Sub-Machine Gun or a single blast from 
 the combat shotgun will take an enemy down, but games end those same weapons will roughly triple 
 in the amount of ammo required for a kill. Finally comes the multi-player, while the original boasted 
 some pretty good online play, FEAR 2 comes in weak in comparison. Levels feel uncared for and bland, 
 the online play it's self feels sluggish and last minute. The long wait times inbetween each round 
 become plain annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TaintedMindz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 8:00 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard that F. E. A. R. 2 was going to be coming out soon I was all excited. So I downloaded 
 the demo like most people to see if it'd run on my P. C. and it did. The demo looked good and gave 
 me an idea of what the game was going to be like. So I went out and purchased the game and installed 
 it. The graphics aren't state of the art but unlike most people I buy a game for the storyline 
 rather than graphics so I really didn't mind it. The game performance was excellent probably because 
 of the lack of great graphics. The controls are basically the same as the other games but one thing 
 that really made me upset.. no lean function! Ugh... Well I got over it but.. still. You do have 
 a few more actions you can do in this game than the others (e. g. move objects away from doors, 
 push objects down for cover, etc) . The difficulty was far far far far far too easy. I mean I play 
 on hard and beat the game without too much trouble only died twice I believe. The "scariness" of 
 this game is.. well let's just say I never jumped like I did in the first F. E. A. R. Now to the storyline... 
 I really tried to like it but, I just couldn't get into it like the previous games. There were 
 parts were it didn't match up with any of the previous games. I was extremely disappointed on this 
 one's story. I also liked when they kept the 'player's' identity such as name and face a secret. 
 They show both the name and face in this game. The ending to this game was horrible just as I expected 
 since the three other endings to the previous games were bad. Even with all these small problems 
 I still liked the game. It was worth buying and playing and if they came out with another F. E. A. R. 
 I'd probably buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dietmoxie10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 7:53 am PT
Review:  It doesnt have the same scares as the first because weve already seen it. seeing alittle girl isnt 
 that scary anymore after playing through 15 hours of fear 1. The game is beautiful the effects 
 are great, the scares are less often but more intense and the firefights are fun and exciting from 
 start to finish. The imagery comes together in a cool way linking things from the beginning to 
 the end. Predictable at times its a cliched horror story that were all used to but thats what makes 
 it so much fun. Scary girl stalks and tries to kill the player ripping stuff up in her path. Just 
 because the concept has been thought of before since theyre continuing a story I think they have 
 they right to continue it, not revolutionize horror gaming. In addition to the legitimate scares 
 theres also a large panic feel when some of the faster l4d hunter-like creatures start getting 
 past you. Its a little on the short side but I didnt notice until I counted the hours up to about 
 9 since it feels like 10-12. All in all I had a lot of fun playing it and only once came back to 
 reality to pee.7 my ass gamespot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2009 7:01 am PT
Review:  I really liked the first Fear game, I also had mixed reactions to it also, but in the end it came 
 out to be a great game. So I couldn't wait for Fear 2: Project Origin, I'm a little disappointed 
 with some reviews for it though. I for one think it's a great game better than the first one was, 
 I don't know maybe it's just me that thinks that.
  
  The good: 
  Once again you got the awesome story being delivered to you, it really keep me interested in it 
 all the way through I never got bored with it one bit. If you like the story from the first game 
 that you'll really enjoy this one to.
  
  The graphics and sound are really nice, all of the environment and characters look great. They 
 all got a lot of detail in them. The sound just adds to the game and makes it more fun, all of 
 the weapons sound great and sound real. Everything you'll hear just sounds great and that's the 
 bottom line.
  
  The level design is good much like the first though which isn't a bad thing at all. The AI is better 
 than what it was in the first game which is a plus. Just a great FPS it's not the best but it's 
 defiantly great.
  
  The bad:
  It isn't really scary basically not at all, they could of at least put some things in to make you 
 jump but they didn't.
  
  There's some things that are left open in the story that they don't explain, that they should of 
 done.
  
  Overall Fear 2: Project Origin is a great game a lot better than the first one was, if you like 
 the first you will like this one just as much are more. If your looking for scares then this is 
 the wrong game but if your looking for a great FPS with a lot of action then your in the right 
 place.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgmann16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 9:30 pm PT
Review:  What can I say. I've been waiting for the opportunity to play and criticize the hell out of this 
 game for quite some time. While not visceral and genre changing in the way the COD series has been, 
 the F. E. A. R. genre has become a dear friend of mine. That is to say the first game was. The myriad 
 of ports and expansions that I couldn't keep track of really didn't do much to further my love 
 affair with the first F. E. A. R. Nevertheless I've been anticipating this for a while. So lets get 
 down to it. For anyone who says that this game isn't very much a sequel to the first, I have a 
 very energetic up yours. F. E. A. R. 2 has very much brought back many of the things I loved from 
 the first installment. I'll admit that the first interval or two didn't quite capture the feeling 
 of the first, but as soon as I began my trek into the underground facility I was confronted with 
 the very familiar increase in pulse that first had made so joyful to me. A large complaint on everyone's 
 list for the first game was the limited linear level design that stayed in the same boring settings 
 throughout the experience. They did address that in this game to a degree. While the environments 
 at least give the illusion of more freedom, they are definitely still very linear and corridor 
 based. Personally I enjoy this after seeing games like Gears 2 somewhat inhibited by the addition 
 of poorly constructed outdoors areas that let you "breathe" more. Aside from just the environments 
 the look has remained much the same. Of course it did give that slightly too polished look, which 
 surprises me when much of the world is soaked in bloody writing on walls and the post nuclear destruction 
 you'd expect. F. E. A. R. looked great, for a sequel to an already very well envisioned game. The 
 lighting as always was fantastic in most levels while the textures seemed just a bit to flat. I 
 won't even bother wasting time on the actual feel of the gun fights here. It's as wonderfully fast 
 paced as ever and a welcome break from realistic simulations of gun physics in a war based FPS. 
 The reflex mechanic is very much what makes this game unique. The interesting side effect of this 
 mechanic is that everything moves incredibly fast when its not used. This came as a fun little 
 challenge to me as I tried to show what a badass I was by using it as little as possible. This 
 brings me to the reason you have the reflexes in the first place. You're not playing the same supers 
 soldier from the first game, instead you're yet another faceless protagonist shafted into fighting 
 a crazy little **** with awe inspiring psychological powers. There was very little put into your 
 character, but I think that part of this comes from the fact that F. E. A. R. is more driven by the 
 world you are fighting in than the character who's doing the fighting. I was torn as I progressed 
 through the game because the familiarity of the first was nice, but I wasn't sure how to feel about 
 the ever expanding story line. I felt as though the creepy mysteriousness of the first game was 
 becoming less and less creepy as I began to know more about what was going on. The fact that you 
 really didn't know much in the first game seemed to have an effect on the pure joy it brought because 
 you didn't NEED to know what was happening. This game trades that for a less compelling protagonist 
 and a high level of awareness as to what the **** is going on. There's a duality here that I can't 
 quite reconcile as I enjoy the new knowledge but miss the feeling of being completely lost from 
 the first game. Either way the ideas from the first are VERY much expanded upon in this game. As 
 far as the scare factor goes I'm also torn there. There weren't a lot of sudden jump moments in 
 the first. More just ambient horror that resulted in me jumping anyway when I turned around and 
 someone was standing there. While there is a decent amount of that in this game there is also the 
 cheap thrill kind of horror I hate. You know, the "hey look I'm a creepy fast moving mutant and 
 I'm gonna jump out at you and scare the **** out of you even though you already know exactly where 
 I'm coming from." Not cool Monolith. Thankfully there are still plenty of awesome moments in this 
 game very reminiscent of the first. In fact, its kind of nice having the improved graphical capabilities 
 to show some of what couldn't be shown in the first. Watching the shattered wreckage of a 737 come 
 crashing down above my head was rather enjoyable. Observing as three soldiers get the flesh ripped 
 from their skeletons in a torrent of telepathic energy as tentacles sprout from he ground to consume 
 the carnage was also rather enjoyable. This is definitely a perfect mixture of creepy ambiance 
 and heart pounding carnal slashing combined into one horror experience. I suppose what makes this 
 game so bittersweet is that everyone had expectations from the first one. And I know that's always 
 an issue with sequels, but with F. E. A. R. there seemed to be very much left to the imagination when 
 it comes to what we could expect from a second. I can't lie, I'm thoroughly enjoying this game's 
 single player (since that's the ONLY aspect of the game you can enjoy) , but I'd like to see a third 
 that can capitalize on all the series has shown us. Come on Monolith, we know you can do it. Blow 
 my ****ing mind next time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hatak
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2009 9:28 pm PT
Review:  I've been looking at some of the reviews for the game and I'm a little disappointed with what people 
 have to say about the game. Mostly people are saying that not enough changed from the first game, 
 or that it wasn't as scary enough, or the story wasn't as good. I don't really agree with these 
 assessments. FEAR was a great game, and I'm glad to see that Monolith has kept the essence of the 
 first game intact. Don't get me wrong I do like change, but I don't really feel that FEAR needed 
 much change. It was just great the way it was.
  
  Good things: The story is solid, and the characters are better than the originals. Graphics are 
 awesome, and the atmosphere is breathtaking. The weapons are great, and look more realistic than 
 the originals. More ways to kill guys this time around. Level design is pretty good; much like 
 the original. AI is even more intelligent than the first game. YOU GET TO DRIVE A FREAKING MECH 
 SUIT! There is definitely gonna be another FEAR game! YEAH!!!! 
  
  Bad things: Certain characters like Paxton Fettell have disappeared without and explanation. Reflex 
 boosters are a little harder to find this time. Grenades are a little underpowered. The ending 
 was a little disappointing, but like I said it sets it up for another game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken32
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 9:02 pm PT
Review:  FEAR took an innovative approach, and basically became the standard fro horror shooters. Now the 
 original developers behind the title Monolith is back to deliver the official extension in the 
 series, with Project Origin.
  
  The game starts off a little before the first game, specifically before the big blast. You're first 
 objective is capture the President of Armichan, but before you could, you black out from the blast 
 and appear on the operating table. Apparently the surgery, has made you a telekinetic magnet or 
 Alma magnet, and has granted you the trademark Reflex/Slo-Mo ability. From there, you learn more 
 about Alma and Amrichan, this time around Alma seems to want some sort of salvation. The experience 
 has dumbed down on the scares, as they have taken a backseat, instead of playing a scary shooter, 
 you are playing a shooter that happens to have some paranormal activity. But don't get me wrong, 
 there are still some scary moments, but not as good or frequent as the first. For example there 
 is a fire fight, where rock and roll music is present, this felt extremely out of place.
  
  The gameplay is very fun, with explosives lying around everywhere, and your slo-mo ability makes 
 for some awesome fire fights, weapons feel powerful thanks to ragdoll phyics. Weapons include a 
 SMG, Assault Rifle, Missile Launcher and in addition a Sniper Rifle just to name a few. A new addition 
 is the Elite Power Armour (EPA) in these section you pilot a mech equipped with machine guns and 
 missiles, during these sections you're basically invincible, as your only weak point is your back.
 
  
  Multiplayer is well done, it doesn't feel slapped on at the last second, the slo-mo ability is 
 removed obviously, creating a more fast paced experience, you get game modes such as Deathmatch 
 and Team DeathMatch, Monolith's version of CTF, PHlags, which basically leave trails for the opposing 
 team to find you you more easily. Amoured Front is a territory style mode, where both teams get 
 one Elite Power Armour (EPA) .
  
  Graphics are superb, the lighting and especially the motion blur are the main highlights. The game 
 is more variant than the first, with levels taking place inside, and outside. The outside levels 
 are very well detailed, creating a convincing blown out metropolis. Blood is very crisp and you 
 will definitely be seeing alot of it. There are alot of particle effects, but I would've liked 
 to see more destructibility. For example, after a grenade explodes, smoke and debris fly, but after 
 it clears, floors and walls are still intact, and doesn't really leave any battle scars. In addition 
 you can't shoot out the lights. Also since this game uses an modified engine used in the first 
 FEAR, some things still remain such as, soft shadows are not included and some character models 
 look blocky.
  
  Sound is also very well done, you can't have a horror medium without it. The mutant enemies sound 
 very frighting especially the ghosts, Alma also whispers some words this time around. Weapon sounds 
 are very convincing and powerful. Voice acting is decent, with talents from Jen Taylor aka Cortana 
 (Halo 3) . But since the game has become more of a shooter cliche, swearing and cheesy lines have 
 unfortunately been included, and yet again feel out of place.
  
  FEAR 2: Project Origin unfortunately does not live up to it's predecessor, but still does a good 
 job as a fun shooter. The story and narrative have seem to have been driven away from the scares 
 and mystery of Alma and Armichan, instead taking a more mainstream shooter direction. Multiplayer 
 is decent enough to consume at least a couple weeks or months of your time. And if not, the single 
 player is fun enough for multiple run throughs. F. E. A. R. 2: Project Origin gets a solid 8.5/10, 
 if the story was as good as the first it would've gotten higher, the graphics, gameplay and decent 
 multiplayer keep it from getting any lower. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EthanPobes
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2009 7:58 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is suppose to be an amazing horrific, action genre. With intense fire fights, and intense 
 scenes of horror. Blood is also a key factor for FEAR. It brings out the action more and the horror. 
 Story is also important. This game just doesn't give any good plot. It's unorganized and sloppy. 
 It's a "Back and Forth" kind of thing. Little be too repetitive. The voice acting was also bad. 
 Not very much time was put into this game. The demo was such a tease. I was amazed by the demo, 
 but once I got through this game, I was disappointed with the story and horror. Although there 
 were some parts where I jumped a lot, and some awesome fire fights. They just needed to work on 
 the story more. 
  
  So overall it deserves an 8.0 grade. 
  
  Oh and please it got a little to scientific with the whole underground facility that was held under 
 an elementary school lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kamui_basic
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2009 5:29 pm PT
Review:  I loved the first FEAR, it was an instant visceral success. I was fairly skeptical at first when 
 i played the FEAR 2 demo. It wasn't very immersive, felt slightly ported, and a tad on the easy 
 side. Runs great on high settings too! But once i played through the full-version, i don't hate 
 it as much. The atmosphere is still very creepy, the graphics are a welcome improvement. Lots of 
 good lighting, physics and particle effects. Weapons are decent, though the sniper rifle seems 
 out of place in such and intense close quarters combat game. There's also creatable cover where 
 you can knock over bookcases or sofas to duck behind, but I never actually used it except to recieve 
 an achievement. They also added (mainly for the console players i'm sure) QREs, quick response 
 events, if an enemy grabs you can press a button to shake them off. This adds a bit more tension 
 and excitement. I wish there was a quicksave feature, hopefully Monolith can add that later. Great 
 new environments ( outdoor and indoor) , and playing the game through steam means i can play without 
 the CD and it will automatically update itself. Awards are a surprising addition as well. The new 
 patch fixes the letterbox widescreen so now you can see what is going on! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
