-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: F1 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/f12002/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 28, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.7, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 280 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Formula One Racing
Date:     Jun 13, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This version of F1 is not just the best F1 to date, but it is also the finest computerized representation 
 of Formula 1 racing from any source. 

 If it seems like it has been just a few months since EA Sports last released a Formula 1 racing 
 game, that's because it has. Just half a year after F1 2001's release comes F1 2002, the fourth 
 edition in the series since its inception a scant 26 months ago and the third game in the series 
 to come out since the last edition of PC racing's other top-tier open-wheeled simulation series, 
 Geoff Crammond's Grand Prix. The good news is that this version of F1 is not just the best F1 to 
 date, but it is also the finest computerized representation of Formula 1 racing from any source. 
 Not quite a monumental leap forward, the game nevertheless builds on the strong framework of last 
 year's model and introduces just enough graphical and practical tweaks to really make a difference. 
 With Crammond's Grand Prix 4 purportedly just around the corner, EA had to come up with a strong 
 showing this time around. And with F1 2002, it has done just that.           An F1 2002 course 
 can be a very unforgiving place to be.    

 Once again developed by Britain's Image Space Incorporated, the same blokes responsible for all 
 prior F1 installments and 1999's wonderful Sports Car GT, F1 2002 is the first Formula 1 game to 
 depict the 2002 season. As such, it features all the current driver allegiances, team stables, 
 and sponsorships (without tobacco and liquor, of course) . It also lets you race on each of this 
 year's 17 circuits, including the freshly revamped Hockenheim layout. The latter is a particular 
 treat, being much curvier, substantially bouncier, and far more interesting than it was previously. 
   

  In fact, F1 2002 does a superb job of translating pavement roughness on all its tracks. And that's 
 just one of the many ways Image Space has instilled a new sense of speed into a series that has 
 seemed deceptively slow in the past. Now, when you flash down the front straight at Hockenheim 
 or through the high-banked final curve and onward to the finish line at Indianapolis, the racing 
 surface ripples by you in high-speed waves. Completely textured and packed with pronounced undulations, 
 the tracks of F1 2002 are the most realistic and gritty thoroughfares you'll find in any racing 
 sim. The same is true of the trackside grass and sand and surrounding greenery, which varies substantially 
 from section to section and moment to moment, as it does in real life. That the game also features 
 excellent motion-blur effects only accentuates the feeling that you are indeed traveling inordinately 
 fast.   

  Yet in both a graphical and a practical sense, one of the most intriguing new aspects of the latest 
 installment in the series is the randomness and unpredictability of the game's dynamic weather 
 patterns. Now when you begin an event with the "Changeable Weather" option selected, you'll never 
 really know what to expect. You may begin under gloriously clear skies, only to encounter looming 
 clouds a few laps later, a torrential downpour not long after, and a return to sunshine still later. 
 You may begin on a wet track, only to have it slowly dry and then once again fall victim to pounding 
 rain. Alternately, the black clouds above may dissipate without ever delivering their payload. 
 In any case, your tires and handling always accurately reflect the effects of the current environmental 
 conditions, so you should always be prepared to head for the pits and swap that rubber.  

  Unfortunately, Image Space's implementation of dynamic weather leaves something to be desired. 
 Unlike Grand Prix 3, which somehow nailed the concept perfectly in 2000, F1 2002 fails in two important 
 aspects. Most critically, the frame rate takes a huge hit when the skies begin to darken, particularly 
 if you've chosen an abbreviated race distance, as the weather will change in a similarly abbreviated 
 fashion. Furthermore, even the most substantial rainstorm won't cause puddles to form on the racing 
 surface. One would hope to see these issues addressed in an upcoming patch.           Racing surfaces 
 and their surroundings are gritty and extremely realistic.     

 Otherwise, F1 2002 puts on a stunning graphics exhibition, particularly if your computer far exceeds 
 the recommended system requirements and is capable of handling its higher resolutions and optional 
 2x, 3x, and 4x antialiasing. If you're running anything less than the recommended setup, you won't 
 be able to go beyond midlevel resolutions and midlevel detail without incurring prohibitive frame 
 rate troubles or complete lockups. Apart from the magnificent visuals described above, F1 2002 
 also introduces us to such perks as authentic cockpits and voluptuous grid girls. Vehicular damage 
 seems only slightly more varied than in the past, with tires and wings flying willy-nilly but no 
 grand destruction, no fire, and no massive plumes of blackened smoke.   

  F1 2002's ontrack audio is another story. Although the game capably translates all the sounds you 
 need to hear to be a better driver and goes out of its way to intricately duplicate minor events 
 such as gear shifts, it doesn't sound as dramatic as Papyrus' best. In particular, engine notes 
 are digital and incremental rather than gutsy and flowing. Even tire squeals seem hidden in the 
 mix.    

 As has been typical for the series, F1 2002 is once again built to satisfy any level of computer 
 racer. Although it could never be considered a pure arcade game, it can certainly be tweaked to 
 be as simple and approachable as just about any racing game out there. The list of fully adjustable 
 driver's aids includes steering and braking assistance, traction control, automatic shifting and 
 spin recovery, variable damage, independent AI driver strength and aggression modifications, and 
 much more. Even mechanical failure rates can be scaled to correspond to the duration of an event. 
 Image Space has also ensured the game will handle virtually any style of controller by incorporating 
 a variety of dead-zone, sensitivity, and digital rate adjustments.           The claustrophobic 
 avenues of Monaco are no longer a guarantee of failure.    

 Furthermore, F1 2002 is the first game in the F1 series to support force feedback devices. Now, 
 drivers will feel the vibration of their engine, the shake of a rumble strip, and, unlike in the 
 majority of driving games, the effects of car-to-car collisions. Sadly, though the game delivers 
 a comparatively satisfying and full force feedback experience, it does so in the same erratic manner 
 as most competing titles. Collisions and G-force sensations in particular are hit and miss.   

 
  What hasn't changed for this latest game is the F1 series' fantastically ponderous load times. 
 Even with a blazingly fast computer, you'll experience a half-minute delay just waiting for the 
 game to load and another half minute or more when it takes you to the track. Fortunately for those 
 who like to race without all the preparation, F1 2002 features several time-savers, including an 
 ontrack instant race restart function and a global "race session" interface that lets you eliminate 
 all sessions apart from the ones you'd like to enter.   

  Yet the game is at its best with a skilled pilot at the wheel and all those driver's aids either 
 diminished or switched completely off. It is in this situation where you'll see just how much work 
 Image Space has put into its physics model. In the past, the F1 series has delivered a challenging 
 and compelling ride that has been undeniably lessened by its twitchiness and lack of attention 
 to realistic wheelspin and powerslides. In previous games, your car has been either attached to 
 the track and completely within your control or adrift atop the pavement and ready to spin. Now, 
 you can do what drivers of the NASCAR Racing series have been able to do for quite some time -- control 
 your slides and drifts.   

  As such, a talented racer is now able to tame a car that was once untamable. If you dive too deeply 
 into a hard corner, you may just be able to save it with judicious use of your throttle, brakes, 
 and steering wheel. If you lose contact with the racing surface in the midst of a high-speed turn, 
 you can manage the slide and work your way through it. Monaco is no longer an accident waiting 
 to happen -- now it is a wonderful exercise in car control. This is a magnificent development for 
 the series, and one that makes it seem infinitely more real.   

  Helping you along the way to a successful ride are some of the finest, most spatially aware AI 
 competitors ever to grace a racing game. Aggressive and ready to pounce on a timid driver, they'll 
 nevertheless back off and move immediately to avoid danger if and when those circumstances arise. 
 Even if you slow dramatically and totally unexpectedly in the middle of a straightaway, they'll 
 get the heck out of the way and rarely bop you from the rear. Of course, by enacting a sudden defensive 
 maneuver they may end up in the grass themselves, but that's that way it is in the real world too. 
 Moreover, the offtrack zones of F1 2002 are not the deadly skating rinks that populate so many 
 other racing games, and they can in most instances be successfully negotiated.           As always, 
 F1 features tight racing and wheel-to-wheel action.     

 The F1 garage continues to be one of the most daunting and complex in the racing sim genre. Although 
 very basic adjustments may be implemented via the opening garage interface, you'll need to analyze 
 the lengthy "Vehicle Setup" chapter of the manual and experiment again and again if you seek even 
 moderate setup success in the facility's advanced sections. For even more in-depth information 
 and a real feel for specific setup requirements, you'll also want to access F1's new telemetry 
 module. By clicking on the telemetry button in the garage interface, you'll be transported to a 
 companion application that graphically displays every piece of information pertaining to the last 
 60-plus laps on a given track. If you've lost or gained time on a certain section or in a particular 
 corner, you may come to understand the possible reasons and potential solutions. Far more than 
 just an intriguing sideshow, the intricate F1 telemetry component is packed with graphs and charts 
 (and even an Internet link to the fastest posted laps in the world) , and it can be an exceedingly 
 profound learning tool for those who want to take the time to fully understand it.   

  Despite several minor issues, F1 2002 is clearly superior to F1 2001 in several important categories, 
 and it's a superb single-player driving game for those who appreciate real-world driving intricacies 
 and generally authentic visuals. Crammond's next Grand Prix had best be a good one, or EA will 
 be wearing the F1 crown for some time.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 13, 2008 2:11 am PT
Review:  F1 2002 game is a very good game and the races are excellent and are the real race tracks in the 
 real F1. 
  
  The graphics are very good and it is realistic timing when you apply the brake at high speed tyre 
 marks are on the track and smoke is seen from the tyres. 
  
  The sound of the engine is very good and you can tell if you have the car on manual the revs pick 
 up quite fast and then you have to change gear, 
  
  The game play is very good and the difficulty if good you can set it to easy or hard if you set 
 it to easy you can lap every car but if you have it on hard you have no hope of wining the race. 
 
  
  The multiplayer is very good you challenge another player on your LAN and you race each other and 
 try to win the race you can also have other opponents on the race track and also as many as you 
 want. 
  
  The pits are realistic and the rules of the race apply to what ever the mistake is. 
  
  I just 
 can not describe this game anymore all I know is that it is a very good game and you should buy 
 this game if you really love racing and driving F1 cars at a high speed. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarCrazy709
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 25, 2006 3:26 am PT
Review:  I remember purchasing this game at Staples Business Depot for a mere $4.97 from some sort of "bargain 
 bin" I discovered while looking for NHL 2005. An F1 game by EA Sports just out of luck popped out 
 at me after I had searched for a marvelous F1 sim for oh so long.
  
  The gameplay, sound, graphics, it all came together in creating a realistic racing environment 
 that one could enjoy for hours and hours. Being an avid F1 fan, this game satisfied me fully. The 
 only little quirks I found hard to swallow included the incredibly simple damage effects which 
 could've been done much better, the lack of a pit car and yellow flag situations, the lack of a 
 career mode, and the inability to simply mod drivers, cars, and teams. But once you look past these 
 flaws, all in all F1 2002 is a fully immersive and realistic F1 simulation-racing game that can 
 be enjoyed as long as you own the game. Once you turn down the driving assists, you'll see how 
 great it is to learn the tricks of the trade and experience the realism through the driver's eye.
 
  
  What's hard to believe is that this excellent game somehow "escaped" the public eye. There are 
 barely 2 people online at all times and it is overall underappreciated. F1 fans need to brush the 
 dust off the classics section and pick up F1 2002. You'll be happy you did. I know I was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2005 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Unique game that has been built for you to take part as a formula one drive to take part in a ligue 
 and try and work your way to the top of the leader board and steal it away from the top formula 
 one drivers.
  
  This means on every track, you need to puch very hard and get pole postion on the grid in the qualifying 
 lap, and then keep first all the way round the 35 laps or more.
  
  You have to have a nerve of steal to keep awake through this game.
  Just when your winning, you 
 get all relaxed, taken it easy, and out of no where comes all the other 22 cars ready to over take 
 you.
  
  The good points about this formula one game is that you get to race against the new session cars 
 of 2002 .
  Toyota, Renault, Felip Massa, Mark Webber, Allan McNish, Takuma Sato and all the other drivers 
 and cars.
  
  The graphics enegine is suberb, stright into the pit lane and watch the animation cockcrew take 
 over, then prepair your self again before you leave.
  
  A great game, A must Buy if you a fan of formula one or Not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ae86ben
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 18, 2003 1:35 am PT
Review:  I heard about this game through the mod for it, GTR Racing 2002, which gives you some GT cars to 
 race with some more tracks. But I'll talk about F1 2002 here, you can look up GTR mod yourself. 
 
  
  This is the first racing sim I've tried on my recently upgraded computer, complete with Logitech 
 Momo Racing FF wheel. Well I was impressed to say the least. Graphics are beautiful, if you have 
 the hardware then it is just simply stunning to look at. The driving views are useful and easy 
 to get used to. But i was a tad disappointed by the lack of a good behind the car view. The one 
 in game is a bit further back from the car so I don't like to use it. 
  
  Gameplay is very realistic, with practice sessions, qualifying, pits, tyre, downforce, etc, etc, 
 telemetry (whatever that is!) , etc. Well you get the drift that I'm not the biggest F1 fan. I come 
 from the Gran Turismo school of driving, and F1 came as a big leap in styles for me. So it was 
 an adjustment and a new learning experience. I wasn't let down though, the physics model and car/environment 
 reactions are top notch. For me this is the defining factor for a good driving game. Without a 
 realistic physics model there is no point buying a racing game. 
  
  For the racing fan who appreciates realism and nice graphics, buy this game. It may be hard to 
 find now (took me some searching) since it was released a while ago, but its worth it. If i was 
 a Formula freak then I'd probably score it higher. I'm just hoping that a Gran Turismo type game 
 comes to PC.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
