-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: F1 Challenge '99-'02
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/f1challenge9902/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 12, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 8.5, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 406 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Genre: Formula One Racing
Date:     Jun 24, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
On the track, the already incredible racing experience of last year's installment, F1 2002, is incrementally 
 better this time around. 

  When EA Sports' F1 series first bounded into our consciousness in 2000, it appeared as a thrilling 
 and exacting, but somewhat flawed, strike at the reigning Formula 1 champs in Geoff Crammond's 
 Grand Prix and Ubisoft's superb Monaco Grand Prix II. In the three short years since, developer 
 Image Space Incorporated has tweaked the game through three revisions, the most recent of which 
 drove this series to the top of the open-wheeled racing genre. Surely something even more exciting 
 would arrive in the next edition. And it has, in the form of F1 Challenge '99-'02. Sadly, this 
 excitement is somewhat tainted. Firstly, though the game is a grandiose and stunningly gorgeous 
 affair that builds upon its already strong base by combining all four seasons from 1999 to 2002 
 into one neat package, it is not the huge face-lift some were expecting. Nor does it even brush 
 upon the most recent season, 2003. Furthermore, there's little doubt that it feels like a backward-looking 
 wrap-up -- a parting shot -- to a series that has unfortunately come to its fruition. And that's because 
 it has.  

          Courtesy of the F1 Challenge replay camera, this section of Canada's Circuit Gilles Villeneuve 
 looks even busier than it actually is.     

  Indeed, F1 Challenge is to be the final installment of this superb franchise. Whether it is resurrected 
 in the distant future is anyone's guess, but it is most assuredly gone for some time to come. According 
 to EA, "The license was up, and we chose not to renew." According to its growing fan base, which 
 has come to view F1 as the most authentic depiction of open-wheeled racing on any gaming platform -- and 
 leagues ahead of anything played on a console system -- the end came far too soon. The good news 
 is that EA and Image Space have given us a really big finale that is already the subject of numerous 
 third-party modifications.  

  F1 Challenge begins humbly, with a simple interface sporting a simple request to login with your 
 chosen player ID. It then expands exponentially from there. Once you've entered your ID, which, 
 thankfully, allows you to race as yourself rather than one of the game's 34 real-life F1 pilots, 
 you have a big decision to make. Namely, you have to decide which of the last four seasons, excluding 
 2003, you wish to enter. To the uneducated driver, four separate seasons -- each with many of the 
 same venues and many of the same drivers, teams and cars -- would mean very little. But the seasoned 
 pro knows differently. Image Space has done a nice job in this respect, developing a unique set 
 of parameters for each year. If a circuit has been altered, dropped, or added in the real world 
 during those years (Hello, Indianapolis!) , such changes are reflected in the game. If a driver 
 has changed teams or a team changed sponsors or colors, you'll see it.  

  When you create your ID, you'll also be asked to choose a nationality, a team, and a car in which 
 to drive. The latter is quite important, as a fast, capable machine in the real world is also just 
 that within the game. This means by selecting something like an also-ran British American Racing 
 entry, you'll have to perform at an even higher level if you hope to dislodge the Ferraris and 
 McLarens from their typical podium positions.  

  Once through the opening rigmarole, you needn't revisit it unless you want to change teams or seasons. 
 In the meantime, you'll want to do some driving. F1 Challenge offers a variety of choices, including 
 single races, test days, and full season-long championships; the latter of which incorporates every 
 test, qualifying, and warm-up session you'd find at a real F1 event. Unfortunately, EA decided 
 to drop its informative driving school component, which certainly makes the game a more difficult 
 proposal for newcomers. What's worse for returning veterans is the continuing exclusion of a career. 
 Seeing that this is the grand finale of the series and an examination of four full seasons, a career 
 or even a chance to do a little sponsorship hunting and business wheeling and dealing would seem 
 like a natural fit. Too bad EA didn't see it that way. In F1 Challenge, you can't even campaign 
 the four championships concurrently without starting freshly on each given season. Nor can you 
 build a custom season or undertake a second championship without first ending your current championship. 

  On the track, the already incredible racing experience of last year's installment, F1 2002, is 
 incrementally better this time around. It should be noted that the game sports no dramatic enhancements, 
 just a few key improvements here and there to further increase the sense of authenticity. From 
 a visual standpoint, F1 continues to excel, delivering the finest, most painstakingly detailed 
 representation of open-wheeled racing cars of any game past or present. Each of the game's 44 vehicles 
 is purportedly modeled to perfection, right on down to every aerodynamic nuance and sponsor decal -- and 
 they certainly look it. Only slightly less impressive are the game's incredible lighting effects, 
 which are seemingly picture-perfect from any perspective. Certainly, for believable three-dimensional 
 virtual racecars, you can't currently do any better. As a bonus, Image Space has apparently fiddled 
 slightly with the graphics engine to produce a more fluid frame rate, even at comparatively high 
 levels of detail.  

          In F1 Challenge, getting airborne is not recommended, but it's certainly possible!     
 

  Vehicular damage is a slightly different story. Though suspensions may bend and tires and wings 
 may detach, F1 Challenge cars never display the raw, ragged effects of collisions. When a chassis 
 takes a beating, it doesn't crumple as it would in real life. When two or three cars come together 
 in an accidental mass, there are few flames and very little of the smoke that accompanies serious 
 real-world contact. And when a part separates, it never, ever remains on the track long enough 
 to harm another car. It simply disappears instead.  

  Conversely, tire smoke is billowy, translucent, and dead-on perfect. Skid marks and offtrack tire 
 indentations are convincing and permanent. Track textures are meticulously and grittily depicted, 
 thus enhancing the game's already awesome sense of speed. Bumps and dips in the track can be seen 
 and felt, bouncing your car about like the fragile piece of technology it is. Motion-captured pit 
 crews and scantily clad grid girls add a human touch to the ambience, and the skies above are now 
 alive with distant aircraft and hovering helicopters. Away from the track, the menu interfaces 
 are polished and much more professional than ever before, though they still rely on cryptic icons 
 that may confuse newbies.     

  However, the truth is that the latest game doesn't look too far removed from F1 2002. Fine details 
 and improved frame rate aside, most would be hard-pressed to tell the difference. Still, it is 
 fair to say that even with minor enhancements, it's easily one of the prettiest racing titles in 
 existence today. In fact, at 1024x768 resolution or above and with all graphic options cranked, 
 F1 looks  better  than television coverage, simply because it's so cleanly displayed via the high 
 definition of your computer monitor. Interestingly, the game does not feature direct control over 
 antialiasing. For that, you must access your graphic controller's properties window.  

          F1 Challenge's motion-captured pit crew is impressive, believable, and really, really busy! 
     

  Cockpit audio is both authentic and informative. Image Space says it's sampled its engine sounds 
 from real-world F1 recordings, and you'd have a tough time arguing otherwise. Certainly it's a 
 big step up from last year's digitized, milder motor growl. And from an external trackside camera, 
 you'll hear those lovely engine notes in their full Doppler glory. To best experience all the other 
 sounds -- like tire squeals, gearshifts, road rash, and the multitude of other effects so smartly 
 incorporated into the game -- you'll want to go to the audio menu and trim back the default engine 
 volume. When you do, you'll realize just how much sonic variety Image Space has concocted.  

  If the racing in F1 2002 was convincing, it is now marginally more so. Continuing a trend developed 
 in last year's edition, Image Space has tweaked the physics model even more to lessen the twitchiness 
 in turns and allow the patient, smooth driver to excel where the fast reaction arcade driver will 
 fail. Returning players will surely note that the game now features a more advanced, more gradual 
 application of adhesion loss, thus allowing them to ride that envelope even further. We were able 
 to pull off high-speed outside passes on long, sweeping turns that were literally impossible in 
 prior versions.  

  Certainly one of the game's great joys is its car control. Driving with some or any of the abundant 
 driving aids activated is fine for rookies, but when you finally arrive at the point where you 
 can race "naked," F1 Challenge really comes into its own. Learning the track fully and completely, 
 including all its new rough sections and each and every nuance, is the first step. Thereafter, 
 you can rely on the physics model to deliver even, credible feedback.  

  Aiding in your quest is your artificially intelligent opposition. Certainly they are driven to 
 beat you, but they do so with respect and impressive high-speed collision avoidance maneuvers. 
 However, as was the case in F1 2002, they are prone to certain foibles. They'll smack you from 
 behind if you don't gun it immediately at the outset of a race. They tend to slow more than they 
 should in turns, especially if the AI difficulty level has been reduced. Furthermore, at some corners, 
 like Spa's Chicane de L'Arret de Bus, they come to a virtual standstill. Nevertheless, the game's 
 separate AI strength and AI aggression slider controls are the best AI modifiers we've seen in 
 any game to date. Adaptive AI would have been a nice option, but the lack thereof is not surprising 
 when you consider the finality of this edition.  

  Whatever you do, don't hit the Esc key while in midrace. Doing so will dump you immediately and 
 unceremoniously from the event, with no chance to get back on. This is one of several niggling 
 annoyances that remain with the series even still. Another is the inordinate amount of time involved 
 in loading a track. We lost 30-45 seconds of our valuable life with every load. We also lost some 
 of our eyesight squinting to decipher images in our tiny rearview mirrors.  

  The F1 Challenge garage is an extremely daunting proposition, but it's one you must master if you 
 want to battle it out at top speed. The game caters somewhat to those who want to keep it simple 
 by offering a simplified garage front end, featuring four large, self-explanatory sliders, but 
 demands that you get in there and tinker if you really want to battle with the big boys. Ultrahardcore 
 racers will undoubtedly turn to the telemetry section, which, just like last year, provides all 
 manner of graphs and charts for your last 60-plus laps on a given circuit. This is exceedingly 
 complex stuff that few other developers have even attempted.  

          Avoiding improperly positioned cars is just part of the job at the confining and dangerous 
 Monaco course.     

  One area that has seen admirable enhancement is F1's multiplayer mode. And it's about time! In 
 last year's game, chances are your car felt and looked a lot like a Mexican jumping bean when battling 
 online. Yes, the frame rate and lag times were that bad. However, F1 Challenge now offers vastly 
 improved imaging that, at times, resembles that of a single-player game. The number of participants 
 is limited to just eight, and, from what we saw of the game sessions being hosted online, there 
 were a heck of a lot of mismatched .exe files out there. Nevertheless, the car was, at least, drivable 
 when we were able to get up and running. Unfortunately, though you can now race successfully with 
 either human or AI competition, you cannot do both at the same time.  

  The F1 series is deserving of the fine legacy it will leave behind. There is a certain sadness 
 over "what could have been" had EA somehow held on to the F1 license and dropped a few more dollars 
 into new ideas and concepts rather than rehashing and stabilizing that which already existed. Nevertheless, 
 F1 Challenge '99-'02 is currently the most authentic, most taxing open-wheeled sim on the market, 
 and, with a sophisticated mod community already established, may well remain that way for some 
 time to come.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 27, 2008 1:51 am PT
Review:  F1 challenge 99- 02
  
  F1 challenge 99- 02 is in my opinion not as good as F1 2002 it is a lot harder to do the races 
 and you are driving a car that has not got any good power even when you tune the cars engine you 
 loose a lot of grip on the wheels and the car slides all over the place. 
  
  The game play you are a racing driver and when you choose you profile name you can then choose 
 your team and the driver that you want to be, then when you have done that it is time to race. 
 
  
  The graphics 
  
  The graphic are very good but could be improved, but when you slam on the brakes to go around the 
 bend of the track you can see your wheels lock and leave skid marks from the tiers on the track. 
 
  
  The sounds well the sounds are very good you can hear the cars engine rev up and if you have you 
 car on manual to change the gears you can take the car to its highest revving point you can hear 
 the car wanting you to change gear but do it fast because you will blow up you engine, 
  
  Well the want more can I say it is the next game up form the F1 2002 and the sounds are exactly 
 the same.
  
  This game is good but I would play the demo first. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paulitis
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 1, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  Good Damage. This is the first F1 game i ever enjoyed. This game have many good feautures like 
 very realistic oponents. Your opponent`s names are like Felipe Massa or Ralf Schumacher. You can 
 choose four years of championship 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002. Thear are many teams from you can 
 choose your favourite team. Graphic is very good for 2003. This game is like f1 simulation. You 
 can even rip off your tyres. This game for those people who like to run around circuits. if you 
 don`t like simulations don`t waste your time playng this game. This is the best simulation ever. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlaZe_irl
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 21, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  F1 Challenge is a fantastic game for any level of racer. This is one that actual offers a challenge 
 to the hardcore racing fans, and has enough driving aids to help put the rookies, although the 
 controls seem a bit rigid. It features all the teams, drivers and tracks from '99 to '02 and you 
 can choose how you want to play the game, whether battle it out at the front as Michael Schumacher, 
 or fight mid-pack as your favourite team. You can compete in a World Championship, a race weekend, 
 or take part in a test day with no other cars no track.
  
  The graphics are solid and the model details are very good, although framerates can get bogged 
 down at times. You can identify the different cars you are fighting with on track with ease, and 
 the draw distance is great, so u can see a good bit ahead of you. The track detail is done very 
 well, from the corners to the pit-striaght, and even the crowd, it all helps in the experience.
 
  
  The physics in this game are phenomenal. If u witness an AI crash (or get involved in one yourself) 
 you will see that it is as realistic as in real life. cars will spin (or even flip a few times) 
 and be hit by other cars trying desperately to avoid. Nearly every part of the car can be damaged 
 from the nose cone to the rear wing. The kerbs are slighty elevated so it is a good challenge to 
 stop your car from sliding when bouncing over them at blinding speeds.
  
  The ai isnt too bad either. You can easily dive down the inside into a corner and trust the ai 
 not to just turn in on you, instead tha AI will position itself to pass you on the next corner, 
 so u can expect some exciting battles. Sonetimes the AI would cut chicanes when trying to pass 
 on another, but this only happens a few times.
  
  The only fustrating thing about this game is the lack of commentating. People have found unused 
 files of commentating that were not implemented in game which would of helped authenticate the 
 experience. A safety car model was also found, but not used. Maybe EA forgot..... The mod community 
 will make sure this game dosent die out as mods to convert the game to the latest season are always 
 around.
  
  Overall this is a top notch F1 game worthy of even the most demanding and hardcore players.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: warmack1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 12, 2004 10:05 pm PT
Review:  This title is a very accurate simulation of the real thing. F1 challenge 99- 02 has it all for 
 the most enthusiastic formula one fan or just a casual racing gamer. This game has every car track 
 and driver from the 1999 thru 2002 seasons and every car and track changes from year to year as 
 necessary. For instance if you pick a 1999 Ferrari it will drive, sound and act like it should 
 and same goes for the 2002 version of the car. As well as the same fact if you race against a Williams 
 BMW or a Maclaren and you are a Ferrari you will see a noticeable difference between the cars as 
 it goes down the straight or a fast turn. All of the other cars will be the same in that aspect, 
 in fact if you play enough you will be able to distinguish the cars just buy the engine sound alone. 
 The A. I. in this game is very good and completely customizable; you can set it up for a Sunday 
 cruse or set it up so that you have to be spot on perfect just to compete. The graphics in this 
 game are very well done from the principality streets of Monte Carlo to the fast sweeping turns 
 at Monza. Every skid mark bump on the wall through out the entire week stays there. The cars are 
 extremely detailed from year to year and have very clean lines. On the game play side it is very 
 realistic, you can setup every aspect of the car from how high your car can rev, starting fuel, 
 tire pressure, arrow package, to just about every thing you probably have no idea about. All in 
 all this is a magnificent replication of the real thing and you should defiantly take a look at 
 this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racerx32
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 13, 2003 9:02 am PT
Review:  I was a major GP4 fan, and I had reason for it. I bought F12001 & 02 and hated them because of 
 the replays. 02 was really good because of the car handling and that is the only reason I bought 
 it. BUt did not play it long. GP4 was always my favorite, until. F1 Challenge came out and I was 
 hesitant to buy it but did it anyway. Since its release I have not played GP4 since. And that was 
 just the retail version. Now since the mod community has kicked in I find GP4 still a good game 
 but does not compare to the detail and enjoyment I get from F1 challenge. I just wish and hope 
 that this game lives long enough for me until something better comes along, and I am told that 
 is going to be awhile. 
  
  RacerX32 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnuffDaddyNZ
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 29, 2003 3:51 am PT
Review:  Do not buy this game.
  
  I had F1 2001 and thought it was great, didn't bother getting F1 2002. I thought I'd pick this 
 up because it featured the 2002 season. There is a reason why this game is not called F1 CARREER 
 CHALLENGE like it's console counterparts, and that is because it is an unfinished game. Firstly 
 the driving feels like that from F1 2000 which was EA's first F1 game, F1 2001 is far superior 
 in this repect as is F1 2002. They have dropped the driving school, or was it just not finished 
 in time? Being able to select different seasons is a waste of time - it's pretty obvious there 
 was supposed to be a career mode but it cant have been finished in time. I have had the game crash 
 on me when playing online, one of my main motivations for picking this up.
  
  But the worst thing is even if I play the game at the absolute lowest detail (which makes the game 
 look truly sad) I still dont get the silky smooth framerates I got with F1 2001 at the full detail 
 level. This is an alpha folks. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
