-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: F/A-18E Super Hornet
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/fa18esuperhornet/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 27, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 6.6, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 21 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Digital Int.
Genre: Jet Sim
Date:     Feb 29, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Super Hornet contains none of the extras that make a flight simulation a complete package, even 
 though there's a good flight simulator at its core. 

 Super Hornet F/A-18E from British developer Digital Integration first appeared in UK stores last 
 November, but it has only now become available in America. Digital Integration is a flight-sim 
 developer with a long pedigree and has produced such simulations as F-16 Fighting Falcon and the 
 legendary Tornado. Thus, Super Hornet F/A-18E can be expected to contain all the elements of a 
 hard-core flight simulation, such as particular attention to the realism of the flight model, weapons 
 modeling, and avionics. And for the most part, the game does indeed deliver on these key elements. 
 The problem is that Super Hornet contains none of the extras that make a flight simulation a complete 
 package, even though there's a good flight simulator at its core.  

 Super Hornet's flight model is generally good, if perhaps a bit forgiving in areas such as energy 
 bleed in turns. The Super Hornet itself is a particularly stable aircraft, which might lead you 
 to believe that the sim unreasonably prevents departure from controlled flight, but in fact that's 
 characteristic of the aircraft.  

 The graphics in Super Hornet are generally poor. The dark and generally featureless terrain textures 
 make the game look quite dated and serve to make the graphics the most disappointing aspect of 
 the simulation. Luckily, while the terrain textures are poor, the aircraft models themselves are 
 not. The Super Hornet itself is beautifully modeled, and all its flight-control surfaces are actually 
 fully articulated. Unfortunately, the game's lighting effects are substandard, so the overall visual 
 effect of Super Hornet is simply not up to the standards of current simulations.  

 Inside the aircraft, Super Hornet treats you to one of the most detailed 2D cockpits ever designed 
 for a flight sim. Almost every knob, switch, and display in this cockpit configuration can be manipulated. 
 Compared with the cockpits and cockpit functionality in Jane's F/A-18, Super Hornet wins hands 
 down. The 2D cockpit can be almost completely operated using the mouse alone, and it gives you 
 an unprecedented level of control. Super Hornet also gives the option of a 3D virtual cockpit, 
 like in Jane's F/A-18.  

 Super Hornet's avionics are commensurate with the detail of the cockpit and make up one of the best 
 parts of the game. Its weapons modeling is also fairly comprehensive, and includes the standard 
 loadout of missiles, iron bombs, and guided air-to-ground munitions that you'd expect to find in 
 an F/A-18 sim. Unfortunately, the AIM-7 Sparrow air-to-air missile is strangely absent, and the 
 AMRAAM is the only radar-guided air-to-air missile available. Furthermore, the capabilities of 
 the air-to-air weapons seem a little optimistic in Super Hornet, as weapons seem quite effective 
 even at the outer edges of their supposed maximum ranges.  

 Besides the cockpit and avionics, the other exceptional aspect of Super Hornet is its simulation 
 of carrier operations. Unlike other sims in which the carrier deck is devoid of activity except 
 for the aircraft taking off and landing, Super Hornet attempts to simulate the crewmen who direct 
 planes on the flight deck. Crewmen are even differentiated by the color of their jackets, which 
 designate them as plane directors, catapult crew, or landing-signal officers. They are not just 
 for show: A careless pilot can easily cause an accident on the flight deck by running over a crewman, 
 and following the crew's hand signals gives you a real feeling of being on a carrier deck. Unfortunately 
 the on-deck maneuvers don't have a lot of variety, so eventually you'll get somewhat bored with 
 repeatedly waiting for your clearance to advance to the catapult. Still, anyone looking for complete 
 modeling of carrier operations won't find such detail anywhere but in Super Hornet. The Super Hornet 
 manual is written in a very readable style, and while it sometimes spends more time on general 
 background information than necessary, it does a very good job of explaining, step-by-step, how 
 to use the many systems aboard the aircraft. Its explanations should be particularly helpful for 
 novices, who might feel overwhelmed by the complexity of the simulation. Super Hornet also includes 
 a fair number of training flights, which are full-fledged missions including takeoffs, transit 
 time to target, and landing. Once you have flown the training missions successfully, you'll have 
 a good idea of how to handle the plane. As such, Super Hornet is a great sim for novices.  

 All of the above would add up to a solid flight sim had Super Hornet been completed. While the 
 basic game framework is complete - for instance, the game is very stable - Super Hornet F/A-18E 
 is missing several crucial elements, as though the game had been ripped from its developers by 
 evil elves bent on releasing it in time to fill Santa's bags of toys. That was certainly the case 
 with the European version, which was released a month or so before Christmas, but it's more puzzling 
 why Interplay chose to sell the game in the US in a completely unchanged state from the one pushed 
 out the door four months ago.  

 First of all, Super Hornet has no campaign. There are two distinct theaters of operation, the North 
 Cape and the Indian Ocean, and each has a variety of missions, but they are all completely separate 
 endeavors. The only way to link the scenarios together is to keep track of your results on a piece 
 of paper and fill in your own imaginary cutscenes. The theaters in Super Hornet appear to have 
 been originally planned as the basis for two separate campaigns, judging by the types of missions 
 included and their general descriptions. It's a shame they were never completed.  

 Super Hornet also has no mission builder. There is a mission planner, but it merely lets you make 
 adjustments to existing missions, and small adjustments at that. There are certain waypoints in 
 each flight plan that cannot be deleted, which means you're stuck with the basic mission structure 
 for the missions that are already generated. The mission planner itself looks very similar to that 
 in Tornado (which had a very powerful editor that made it possible to design an endless variety 
 of missions) , but it seems like another feature that couldn't be completed before the game shipped. 

 Perhaps the most unfortunate shortcoming of Super Hornet is that there's no cooperative multiplayer 
 mode available. Super Hornet multiplayer only supports deathmatch, which is far less popular among 
 serious flight-simulation players than cooperative play. Flying as your buddy's wingman or forward 
 air controller is far more rewarding than simply going head-to-head against him in a dogfight. 

 Digital Integration announced quite some time ago that work on a fully dynamic campaign as well 
 as a mission editor continues (presumably along with the implementation of cooperative multiplayer 
 features) , and when they're completed they'll be included in a separate release called Super Hornet 
 Gold. It's great that Digital Integration has chosen to finish the game rather than abandon it, 
 but given the announcement, it makes little sense to purchase the current version when it will 
 soon be made obsolete by the more complete version.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
