-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fable: The Lost Chapters
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/fablethelostchapters/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lively, beautifully envisioned gameworld is fun to explore.
 Interesting, if slightly shallow, morality system causes your character to evolve.
 Solid action and role-playing elements.
 Outstanding presentation makes the game exciting to see and listen to.
 The Lost Chapters adds some great new quests, extending the storyline .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Main quest is quite short and linear.
 Combat system can be exploited, thanks to some overpowered spells.
 Character interaction is shallow.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 16, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.3, 62 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 9,171 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Lionhead Studios
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Sep 20, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fable is an imaginative game that's got enough remarkable, unique moments in it to make it shine. 
 

  Some heroes are made when they rise to the occasion. Others build their reputations over time. 
 This latter case is the subject of Fable: The Lost Chapters, a game in which you get to vicariously 
 experience the life of an archetypal fantasy hero, and, in some respects, decide what eventually 
 becomes of him. Originally released for the Xbox last year, Fable was one of the most highly anticipated 
 games since the Xbox's debut, and the latest title overseen by visionary game designer Peter Molyneux 
 since 2001's innovative Black &amp; White. Like that game, Fable invites you to solve problems 
 either by being good or by being evil, and to watch as the effects of your decisions gradually 
 take a noticeable toll on your persona. Fable also features a number of novel elements, such as 
 how your hero's appearance gradually changes with age, and how villagers respond differently to 
 him depending on his reputation, looks, and other factors. These elements serve to significantly 
 differentiate a game that's actually pretty straightforward in terms of how it plays. Beneath the 
 surface, Fable is a well-put-together but standard action adventure, primarily consisting of lots 
 of basic combat and running from point to point. Mind you, this is a decidedly great game, all 
 in all. Its most interesting, riskiest features may lie at the fringes rather than at the core -- but 
 they're there.  

          You become a battle-hardened hero over the course of Fable.     

  If you're familiar 
 with the Xbox version of Fable, you'll find that Fable: The Lost Chapters is essentially the same 
 game, though it's been tuned to work well for the PC and gains a significant amount of new content. 
 That is, the 12 months since the release of the original apparently were well spent -- this game 
 isn't any worse for wear today. The new Lost Chapters storyline picks up immediately following 
 the conclusion of the original Fable's main quest, challenging you to explore the treacherous north 
 of the world of Albion, and conquer a great threat lurking there. Featuring new places to explore, 
 new items to find, and new monsters to fight, plus lots of new dialogue and cutscenes, the additional 
 content of The Lost Chapters is at least as good as that of the original game, and it blends in 
 seamlessly with the rest. It's like getting an expansion pack together with the original game, 
 and The Lost Chapters helps address one of the original Fable's problems, which is that it was 
 quite short. Fable veterans will of course need to play through the game again in order to get 
 to the new stuff, and the additional quests amount to only a few more hours of gameplay, if you 
 play straight through them. So while fans will surely enjoy the new content, it isn't necessarily 
 enough to justify getting a second copy of the game. And if you're new to Fable, you'll be better 
 off for all the stuff that's been added. Other than the new content, Fable's controls and presentation 
 have been translated very well to the PC, to the point where the game barely shows its console 
 roots.  

  You begin Fable as a young child, and it's here that you're introduced to the game's moral alignment 
 system, its sense of humor, and its dark edge -- as well as its basic controls, which will be mostly 
 intuitive if you've played other third-person perspective games recently. Your first order of business 
 is to earn a few gold pieces with which to purchase a birthday gift for your sister. Whether you 
 make the money by being helpful or by making trouble is up to you. This initial  
 sequence is quite impressive in the amount of freedom and variety it affords you, and it suggests 
 that Fable will constantly challenge you to make moral decisions like the ones presented early 
 on. For example, will you help a little kid fend off a bully, or will you join in on the bullying 
 (or beat them both up) ? These decisions are so ethically basic that they're not at all difficult 
 to make, but it's still interesting to see how the game plays out depending on what you do. You'll 
 discover, though, that Fable's introduction is not reflective of most of the game's quests, which 
 don't give you many choices. At any rate, soon after you complete your first main task, something 
 sinister happens. Fortunately for your young character, he is saved by an enigmatic man who transports 
 him to the Heroes' Guild, where he is to be trained to become an adventurer.  

          How you treat the populace of Fable's world of Albion is your decision to make. Whatever 
 you do, it can be interesting to observe their reactions.     

  Cut to your hero's teenage years. At the Heroes' Guild, you're instructed on how to fight with 
 melee weapons, a bow and arrow, and the powers of will -- otherwise known as magic. All three of 
 these fighting styles are relatively simple to use, but they work well. It's possible to lock onto 
 nearby targets, and you can switch between ranged and melee weapons easily. Melee combos are unleashed 
 just by left-clicking repeatedly. Some foes will block your attacks, but you can penetrate their 
 defenses either by maneuvering behind them or by using a slower, stronger, unblockable strike that 
 becomes available after every few normal strikes. Archery works similarly but is more methodical -- the 
 longer you press and hold the attack button, the more fiercely you'll draw your bow, resulting 
 in significant damage per hit. Actually, archery may not seem altogether practical in Fable. It 
 can be plenty effective, but since you'll be fighting most foes single-handedly, and most of them 
 will quickly close the distance between you, toe-to-toe combat proficiency will seem like the obvious 
 first choice. A few flying enemies will require you to put your unlimited arrows to good use, though. 

  Magic is unquestionably valuable in Fable. You'll start off with a simple lightning attack, but 
 you'll be able to spend experience points on more than a dozen other different spells (and upgrades 
 to those spells) . There are spells that do such things as temporarily boost your strength and speed 
 or temporarily cause time to slow down all around you, letting you easily outmaneuver foes. (Descriptions 
 of these spells make them sound very useful, and, in fact, they are.) Magic is a little awkward 
 to use at first: You need to hold down the shift button to access your spells, then you have to 
 use your mousewheel to cycle through your available spells, if you have more than a couple. But 
 this is easy enough to get used to, and worth getting used to sooner rather than later, because 
 magic helps make Fable's frequent battles pretty easy, for better or worse.     

   

  You'll face a fairly diverse variety of foes during the course of the game, some of which will 
 seem reasonably smart. Bands of bandits will fire on you with crossbows, switch to swords as you 
 approach, and attempt to flank you. Undead will spring right out of the ground underneath your 
 feet. Creatures resembling werewolves will lunge at you from all directions. Yet all these foes 
 can be defeated handily in groups, using the same types of tactics. Fable's combat has a pretty 
 good, solid feel to it as you wallop your foes with swords, axes, maces, crossbows, and more. But 
 the combat isn't really a challenge once you inevitably figure out a few key tricks. Items that 
 quickly or instantly restore your health will be available in copious supply, letting you recover 
 your energies in a pinch, even in the midst of battle. You'll also probably end up hoarding numerous 
 "resurrection phials," which automatically restore all your health should you be struck down. Once 
 you learn Fable's controls and figure out its fairly complex leveling-up system, you'll have overcome 
 its greatest challenges.  

          The game's moral alignment system is intriguing, but isn't particularly deep.     

 
  Of course, you won't be fighting hordes of foes while you're still training at the Heroes' Guild. 
 After the training is complete, you're invited (rather awkwardly, via an onscreen prompt) to continue 
 on to your hero's adulthood, the time during which the vast majority of Fable takes place. You 
 can get through the younger years in about an hour, and the rest of the story is fairly brief and 
 will take you maybe 10 or 12 hours on your first run, including the content of The Lost Chapters -- that's 
 if you ignore a few available side quests, though these don't pad the game's length much further. 
 Fortunately, Fable's world is sprinkled with little hidden secrets -- collectible special keys, talking 
 demon doors challenging you to open them up in some obscure fashion, concealed treasure chests, 
 and so forth -- and these give the game some additional lasting value. Ironically, though, there 
 isn't a clear incentive to play through the entire game over from scratch once you've finished 
 it the first time. Yet, however you choose to spend your time with the game, you should be able 
 to squeeze a good 20 to 30 hours out of it when all is said and done.  

  Fable's storyline, which is punctuated by an elegant sequence of paintings showing your hero's 
 latest exploits, is mostly linear and starts slowly, after you get past the childhood prologue. 
 Past the halfway point, it actually becomes fairly involved, since its few key characters become 
 relatively fleshed out. However, the hero himself remains silent during all the proceedings, and 
 all the moral decisions you've made have little effect on what happens or how it happens. The game 
 does have multiple endings, depending on your morality and the ultimate decisions you make, but 
 each version of the epilogue is very brief, and it's fairly easy to see the numerous different 
 alternatives without having to play through the game from the beginning. This is partly because 
 your character's morality can be reversed just by visiting one of two different locations in the 
 game, respectively devoted to a good and an evil god.  

  All you need to do is pay a hefty donation and your evil or good deeds will be negated -- and, toward 
 the end of the game, you should have plenty of money to spend. The inclusion of these temples seems 
 somehow unfortunate, as they can undermine the deliberate process through which your character's 
 nature normally emerges. Furthermore, the fact that you may continue exploring the game's world 
 of Albion even after you've finished the main storyline means that you'll be able to see most of 
 what Fable has to offer without having to restart. Part of the appeal of role-playing games that 
 purport to let you live by the consequences of your actions is that they offer significant replay 
 value. However, that's not necessarily true of Fable, though the game does have lots of interesting 
 peripheral content to explore on your first go-round. The thing is, you might miss it if you simply 
 follow Fable's main quest, finish it, and reckon you're done. If that happens, you'll have experienced 
 a quality action adventure game, but you will have missed out on most of what makes Fable special. 

  It's fun to see your character develop as you play. You can get a nice close-up look at the hero 
 at any time at the touch of a button, and you'll see him visibly age and transform in other ways 
 during his adulthood. It's possible to adorn your hero with different hairstyles and tattoos -- which 
 don't have much impact on gameplay (as you'd probably expect) , but may nonetheless cause certain 
 villagers to respond to you differently. Your clothing or armor can have a similar effect, but 
 the most interesting visual changes to the hero occur as a result of your moral choices. Act evilly, 
 and soon enough you'll sprout horns, walk with a hunch, and gain blood-red eyes; act like an angel 
 and you'll gradually gain a divine aura around you. There's a dramatic range of appearances possible 
 for your main character, and even though the variations are mostly cosmetic, it's still very impressive. 
 Your character even becomes weathered and scarred from constant battle.  

          You may choose to take certain dares before you go questing, but regardless, your adventures 
 in Fable won't be too much of a challenge.     

  There are other aspects to Fable's personalization system worth noting. Your alignment will gradually 
 give you access to various social gestures -- a nasty insult if you're evil, or an apology if you're 
 good, for instance. The Lost Chapters adds more on top of the original game's options. Using these 
 in civilized settings yields results that are, at least, frequently funny. Ultimately, there really 
 isn't much to character interaction in Fable. However, gesticulating in various ways and watching 
 as villagers react differently to you based on your attire and reputation can be entertaining for 
 a while. So can a few different tavern games available at the drinking establishments in Fable's 
 handful of villages. The extracurricular activities don't stop there: You may also get married 
 (and divorced) , which is another fairly basic process that leads to some amusing results; expect 
 your spouse to have some choice words for you whenever you change your appearance. You may purposely 
 or inadvertently commit all kinds of different crimes while in town, from brandishing a weapon 
 to breaking windows to shoplifting, and the guards will come looking for you if you do -- you can 
 pay a fine, flee, or try to fight them. There are other nice little details here and there. As 
 day turns to night, villagers will light street lamps and shutter their doors. Taverns are always 
 bustling with customers. The way the game's nonplayer characters act and respond to you eventually 
 becomes pretty transparent, but messing around with them as though this were a virtual ant farm 
 can be rewarding.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (446 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Well The Lost Chapters is one hell of a game. After Diablo had actually turned the tables of RPG 
 way back in 1997 introducing the genre of Point-Click-Play games, Fable has actually impressed 
 me in spite of the fact that I am a die-hard Diablo fan. And as any other game Fable - TLC has 
 its ups and downs.
  
  1. Gameplay - Fable uses a gameplay that has been seen and used before in games such as The Elder 
 Scrolls. However unlike Morrowind, which was massively sandbox (meaning there are practically vast 
 number of quests and side - quests to follow) , Fable is a bit more reserved. It has specific quests 
 (primary quests) that have to be finished, secondary quests which you may finish and may play from 
 either the good side or the bad side. Like there is a quest where bandits are attacking an orchard. 
 You either protect the orchard from the bandits (good side) or you may assist the bandits to attack 
 the orchard (evil side) . Your personal appearance and the way people interact with you changes 
 with your inclination towards good or evil. Then there are accessory quests that are provided to 
 you using demon doors. So all in all the gameplay and the interface is not unheard of, but you 
 will be pleasantly surprised at the way it improves the overall gaming experience. 
  
  2. Story - The game was good, the story was better. You start of as a boy whose village has been 
 destroyed. You are then taken to the Heroes Guild, where you train. You then step out to find who 
 is behind whatever had happened in your village. Your journey towards good or evil begins from 
 there. I don't want to spoil the fun of telling the entire story, but well if you are playing the 
 game, you should know that it was Jack of Blades who did it all. But the reason for his behavior, 
 I will refrain from telling.
  
  3. Music - This is a let down for Fable. The music is disastrously mixed. You might get an eerie 
 music while walking in broad daylight in the city, while getting a childlike music while fighting 
 undead monsters in a graveyard.
  
  4. Graphics - Fable has a decent graphics. I won't comment much about this as I have got mixed 
 feelings regarding this.
  
  I must also mention that another letdown for Fable - TLC is the fact that your final fights with 
 Jack of Blades (yes there are two boss fights with the same boss. You kill him the first time, he 
 returns as a dragon) are pretty easy. To say the least I found the arena march to be more challenging 
 than fighting Jack.
  
  And for those who are yet to play the game or for those playing and have not yet reached the arena, 
 it is one hell of a fight, where all kinds of monsters attack you and in vast multitude.
  
  All in all, Fable - TLC is a game that every gamer must have with him/her. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z-Raptor
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Fable 1 is a great game!!! Totally awesome
  
  This game is about a small boy who's family and friends get ''killed'' by bandits. He is taken 
 into the heroes guild, which is a guild where a character called 'maze' trains the boy up to become 
 a hero.
  
  The storyline on Fable is one of the best story lines I've ever 'played'. Its more or less like 
 readying a book. Ive played alot of rpg's in my life but this one is great.. Honestly
  
  One great thing about fable is that you as the player get to choose what happens in the story. 
 You can choose to bee good or evil or in between, one little thing you do can completely change 
 the story line, this is great, this means when you beat the game you can start again and its like 
 playing a whole different version.
  
  Fable isn't all about killing either (like some rpg's) you can get married, buy a house, buy a 
 shop or join the forces of evil and kill everyone and everything you see. 
  
  I played this game on PC. Its up until not the best game i have played on PC. There are so many 
 thing you can do.
  
  Another great thing about this game is the variety of quests, weapons, armor, people and opions 
 you get. You actually get sucked into the game and start playing the character like he is you. 
 This makes the game alot funner, because to overcome something you have to do something immoral 
 to you, but this can be altered... by you.
  
  The bottom line is... This game is totally awesome i recommend it to all ages. Really... buy it
 
  
  Z-Raptor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadDevotion
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 1:33 pm PT
Review:  As one could easily tell by the game's title, Fable is a game that is told just like a story, and 
 the story remains full of surprises throughout the game. The storyline is one of many things that 
 sets Fable aside from other Action RPG's. When you first start off your adventure in Fable, you 
 will play as a boy that is trying to find a way to get his sister a present for her birthday. Your 
 father gives you a gold coin for each good deed you do, however, you may choose alternative ways 
 of getting the gold necessary to buy your sister the present she wants. This alone helps introduce 
 what takes a big part in Fable, which is alignment. Your alignment adjusts according to the decisions 
 you make throughout the game, and even with the main quest, this works very well. Certain factors 
 that contribute to whether you become good or evil are saving or killing people. choosing whether 
 or not to steal things, what type of armor you decide to wear, and which side quests (if any) , 
 you decide to choose.
  
  Shortly after your first task, you find to discover that bandits have raided your town, killing 
 your family members. In the next cinematic, which comes shortly after, you find a man named Maize, 
 which is who ultimately guides you throughout the game. He then brings you to a guild, which is 
 from then on your home. The guild mainly introduces to you the different styles of combat offered, 
 and it also has a few side-quests you can choose to complete as well. However, your stay in the 
 guild is not a long one, and after you have completed all of your training, you can choose to either 
 progress directly to the years of adulthood, or remain a teenager for as long as you choose. However, 
 you do not progress any further in the game until you decide to progress to adulthood. When you 
 finally decide to give up your teenage years, you then carry on with the main quest, and you receive 
 a guild crest, which allows you to teleport back to the guild, which is useful for using your experience 
 points to level up certain skills, as well as teleport other places as well.
  
  The combat system in Fable is for the most part, well-done. However there are a few spells that 
 have too much of an advantage over others, which makes it a little bit unbalanced. Despite this 
 minor flaw, it still keeps the game fun. Eventually in the game, you get a combat multiplier, which 
 increases as you hit enemies without getting hit. This combat multiplier unleashes a very powerful 
 and unblockable attack, which is absolutely necessary in certain situations. Aside from this, you 
 can (obviously) , dodge and block. Blocking attacks is simple, and can be done by holding the middle 
 mouse button, and dodging is simply blocking while moving.
  
  For the most part, Fable is a pretty easy game to get through. However, you do run into some challenges. 
 The enemies each have their own strategies of attacking you and defending themselves, and each 
 of the different kinds of enemies attacks are basically a pattern, and finding out their patterns 
 while coming up with strategies of your own can be a big help, especially when you are fighting 
 bosses. I assume the real reason behind why the game is so easy, is the fact that you can use as 
 many potions as you can carry and afford, without having to worry about a cooldown of any sort. 
 Aside from this, Resurrection vials (which are fairly easy to obtain) make the game a bit too easy. 
 The biggest challenge in the game, as with most games, is the end. Unlike and of the other bosses, 
 the last boss requires you to use your bow or magic at a certain point, which can be a rather bad 
 thing for players who had never increased attributes of any of these skills. Nevertheless, he is 
 still beatable. And after you have beat the "final boss", there are luckily different options to 
 choose from, which will decide on how good or evil you really want to be. Aside from quests, there 
 are many other things to do in your adventure through Fable, and in order to get the full enjoyment 
 of the game, it is best just to take it slow. For one thing, Marriage is a new idea introduced 
 in this game. However, it is not particularly good for anything, and is mentioned once in the game, 
 but when participating in this, it doesn't make the game any different. You can also buy property, 
 which, like the marriage, does not progress you anywhere. One thing that does help you, is silver 
 keys you can find in various places you travel through in the game. These silver keys can unlock 
 certain chests, and when acquired a decent amount, they can give you some very nice rewards. One 
 very lackluster part of Fable, is its armor and weapon system. Although both the weapons and armor 
 are well balanced out, one could complain that there are simply not enough of them. You can choose 
 from Iron, Steel, and Obsidian (the most powerful kind available to buy) , as well as rewards you 
 have received. If you'd like to customize your weapon a bit, you can always imbue it with augmentations, 
 which can enhance your weapon and make it more powerful with certain elements.
  
  One of the very first things that many players will notice, is that Fable is graphically outstanding. 
 Perhaps it is the art that contributes to this, and while this isn't gameplay related, the beautiful 
 environments you venture through and spells you cast make the game more pleasing to look at. One 
 downfall with the graphics (probably the only one) would be that the shadows make a ridiculous 
 performance impact, and don't particularly make the game look much better. The game also sounds 
 great as well, and its atmospheric music and ambience can really draw you in. However, some of 
 the characters seem to repeat the same lines over and over again, which can be rather annoying 
 while you're traveling through a townsworth of people.
  
  When the game ends, there isn't much more to it. After defeating the last boss, you can choose 
 to continue completing any quests you have missed, or you can just experiment with some things 
 you may have not gotten to. Even with its rather short storyline and minor shortcomings, Fable 
 is definitely a game worth purchasing, and should be considered by anyone who is a fan of Action-RPG's. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theplagued
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 7:48 am PT
Review:  Whereas most RPGs aim for character development, the Lost Chapters succeeds in not only immersing 
 the player but satisfying that hack-and-slash aspect within each of us. The choice to become anything 
 other than a warrior is rather drab, since a wizard has only so much mana, and the archer's controls 
 are rather lacking. Nevertheless, Fable has plenty of its humorous moments. Who could resist being 
 called 'Arseface'? Trifes aside, the plot of the Lost Chapters is somewhat short and repetitive, 
 but in a good way. The idea of hewing down massive enemies sandwiched in between massive, ground-shaking 
 spells, is what this RPG is all about. True, choices play some role in plot but it often does not 
 create "changes" in your environment. On another note, Molyneaux does not do a good job in the 
 good/evil alignment. Characters, and people, in general, do not follow a generic evil or good side. 
 True, one could be tempted to do mischief and have a good laugh but in Fable, that equates to turning 
 out to be a fly-infested, fire-walking, red-eyed, demon! By putting the generic evil 'appearance' 
 to mischief-doers, there is somewhat of a revulsion. An evil character is supposed to be cool-looking 
 to some degree and while you could cover your character in black, spiky armor, I would have felt 
 more at ease with a subtly evil creature. The good side has little to no flaws. The light and halo 
 all are creative tidbits that surprise and satisfy. Overall, Fable is a good game, making up for 
 its poor 'applications' of the player's choices with magic, items, and the usual RPG elements jazzed 
 to another level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrnesbit2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 4:20 am PT
Review:  I absolutely loved the game, and it is one of the few games I actually played over and over within 
 a short period of time. Every time you play the game it can be different depending on your choices. 
 
  
  I can not think of a single thing that irritated me about this game. There is no cons, and I pay 
 attention to details. If you like role playing and adventure this is it. You actually get to do 
 things like marry and own a house, which you don't have to but it sure does make it a lot more 
 immersive.
  
  You grow up as you play the game. Your body even changes to the skills you chose. For instance, 
 you grow tall and athletic looking if you have high dex skills. Or if you use strength alot you 
 get big muscles. You even grow old, but that does not make you weak.
  If you use magic you start glowing.
  Also, if you chose to become a good person and do good deeds, 
 you will have a holy aura about you and look good.
  If you are evil, you will grow horns and become sinister looking.
  It is this type of detail 
 that makes me love the game.
  
  Of course the combat system is awesome too. Very good and easy to use combat system, but takes 
 some skill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatal-Chaos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 1:17 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for an addictive, fun and adventurous game you've found it, Fable The Lost Chapters 
 holds a good story line, and great characteristics. It's not a massively big game but it is quite 
 a lot of fun to play, due to a lot of small factors which make it unique. Fable's storyline goes 
 for around 10 hours at average, not including all the side quests you can do, however there isn't 
 allot of them. The main story line is about trying to stop The Famous Jack of Blades who was known 
 as a hero, but is really a villain, the story has allot of twists and surprises, so i can't really 
 tell you anymore without ruining it for you, but it does hold a full-filling adventure. There isn't 
 a really advanced leveling system you collect orbs from where you kill enemies, and you go back 
 to a shrine which can grant you to put the orbs into a certain attribute. The main attributes are 
 Strength, Magic and Skill, each one of these attributes has their own personal skills attached 
 to them, for instance Strength is more heavier weapons and how much damage you do, Magic is spells 
 and how much Magicka you have, and Skill is like Blades and Bow skills. You can build your character 
 to how you want him to be, and you can also have a mixture of all these, because even if you finish 
 the game you can still go out and level up. Another cool feature about this game is you can change 
 your hairstyles, get tattoos, get married etc, it really does how some interesting benefits within 
 it. Your character will, as you go along in the game age, which is quite cool but the problem with 
 this is it's actually rather annoying because your character ages way too fast, before no time 
 you're at the age of 55 before you have finished the game, which is rather stupid because your 
 55 slaying monsters and doing things you should be at the age of 30-40, having your character age 
 is really unique in a game but they could have made it a little more accurate. However there are 
 ways you can decrease your age in the game but i recommend not bothering because within 1 hour 
 of playing the game your age will increase 7 years. The combat in the game is pretty fun even though 
 it's point and click he does different combos and moves, and this makes it feel like you're a bit 
 more involved in the game. Even though Fable's main storyline is quite short and could be a bit 
 more immersive, after you finish the game you can still go wandering around looking for new armor 
 or trying to unlock chest or hidden items you haven't already got during the game. But on the topic 
 Fable does lack armor and weapon types there's really not allot to select from, and in the end 
 everyone will end up having the same type of armor everyone else does that plays the game. But 
 despite Fable's little lacks of depth, this is still a terrific and addictive game to play and 
 if you enjoy a good RPG, you will get your money's worth by purchasing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnnyRebel33
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  great graphics, new spin on rpg with great gameplay. the campaign is really long but doesnt make 
 one bored, in fact its rather addictive as i just keep playing it over and over. the magic system 
 and skills system are rather usual in their execution but unique in their abilities. the animations 
 in battle are great as well, unfortunately there is no difficulty setting on the game so it was 
 rather easy after the tenth go-around, though there are different ways to play the campaign than 
 the usual route, you'll have to find those on your own. the demon doors are sometimes rather hard 
 to open but in general they are doable, also there is a demon door that requires all your silver 
 keys, it has an ultimate weapon but thereafter you cant open all the chests. just a little annoyance... 
 other than that, well worth the coin to buy, unless you're one of those people who gets way too 
 addicted to games... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Electroctoo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  Wonderful fairytale-kind game. Lionhead has done a great job developing Fable: The Lost Chapters.
 
  
  Generalising, this game is like a medieval GTA, mixed with third person RPGs. All the environment 
 is absolutely astonishing, and the "good or bad" factor is something that counts a lot for this 
 game to be superb.
  
  The plot isn't very surprising, but it surely suits this game's style very well. Building a hero 
 can be very fun.
  
  Although the game is short and it becomes too easy after a while, it's very addictive and pleasurable.
 
  
  The interactivity present in this work is something very innovative. Something I've never seen 
 in RPG-style adventure games. There are very challenging missions and a lot of fun sidequests.
 
  
  Fable: The Lost Chapters won't let you down. That's for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: um_i_love_games
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  The Goods:
  Everything ranging from the fun quests to the free roaming exploration. It has greatly improved 
 since the first Fable.
  
  
  The Bad's:
  Nothing at all.
  
  
  This game deserves well more than an 8.6 score. Considering it has improved a lot more since the 
 first Fable game for X-Box. Not only the graphics, but bugs too were fixed. This game is great, 
 going from head to toe. It is fun to play, also is it very fun to watch. Personally I am one to 
 watch people play video games, but this would most likely be the pick of choice. The emoticons 
 are cool, for instance, the Middle Finger emote, and the Air Guitar Emote. Overall, this game deserves 
 to get every positive award out there there is to get. This game is truthfully one of the best 
 games ever made.
  
  
  Note: The time spent playing also counts for Fable and Fable: The Lost Chapters on the original 
 X-Box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lond69
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I couldn't play fable for a long time, since I was being a console gamer, and only had a PS2. Just 
 recently I have tried to play it on my not-so-new PC and discovered it was up to the task.
  
  So, here is my late review about fable.
  
  You first hour in fable, will be a little slow 
 one. You start with a little introduction on your character history, and after that, you get a 
 little teaching on the controls, magic (known in the game as will) and the such.
  After that, you will begin in the world of quests and exploration of fable.
  
  And this is 
 where fable starts to shine. You can travel the whole world to do whatever you want. It reminds 
 me of a MMORPG, but with the difference that, when you want, you can follow the game storyline, 
 and have an ending.
  
  Graphics are good, and the sound is too. Neither will be on your mind, but they will do the job.
 
  
  The Alignment system is great. And, as in Black And White, you will have visual feedback of how 
 good/bad your character actually is. 
  
  The game is not huge, but it is big enough. It will not make you 
  bored, and in my opinion, 
 is just enough.
  If you are a MMORPG fan, you will notice that the replay value of the game is very good.
  
 
  I looking forward to play Fable II, after all, if lionhead managed to make it as good as the first 
 one, it should be awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orcsblade
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  I liked playing this game a lot because it just had so much fun in it. The main quest is kind of 
 short but you wouldn't really notice that because there is a lot of side quest to deal with. The 
 game takes a while to complete like up to 20 hours to finish so its quite long. The game play is 
 open-ended and the story gets better and solid about half-way through the adventure. The combat 
 in the game is pretty fun. The combos and moves that you can use on your enemies makes it feel 
 like your a bit more involved with the action. I love the graphics in the game they are just so 
 atmospheric and wonderful to look at. The music is very good in the game its very nice to listen 
 to and I wish I had the soundtrack and play it anytime I want.
  
  Graphics 9/10 
  Game play 8/10
  Sound 10/10
  Value 8/10
  
  Its definitely worth getting and you wouldn't 
 regret it. And also ignore that review that gave this wonderful game a 1/10.
  
  Overall 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightscout_11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  I haven't had so much fun for a rly long time. Everywhere you see great games that offer a challenging 
 campaign or hardcore multyplayer. But you rarely see a fun and relaxing game that actually is rly 
 good. Such game is Fable. Graphics are kinda bad but good in other way (they are fun like in a 
 cartoon) . Soundtrack is great and rly fits on the fairytale theme. The gameplay is simple (that's 
 great in my opinion) but not click=attack like in other RPGs, you can attack/block. The best thing 
 about this game its the endless amount of choice you can make (even if it isn't rly affecting the 
 story) . You can steal, cheat your wife, rent homes , donate for poor kids and much, much more. 
 The story is rly great and what makes it so good is that you can choose to do good things or bad 
 things during it. I strongly recommend this because its one of the few games that are rly fun / 
 relaxing and in the same time with great gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spoox78
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 14, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Graphics - 7.5
  The diverse color schemes and rich scenery are a great draw into the whole storybook fantasy land 
 of Fable. From the bright town of Oakvale to the dark, bleak graveyard, the feel of each location 
 is well realized. There were plenty of clipping issues with grass wiggling in and out of rocks 
 and whatnot, but nothing too bad. Character models, however, are reused far too often, such as 
 every guard in every town looking virtually identical, and townsfolk consisting of about 5-10 characters 
 total.
  
  Sound - 9.0
  What may be the best part of the game. The sound effects of the creatures you encounter are crisp 
 and believable. The screams of the undead with the chilling choral music during missions like the 
 graveyard and haunted house sections are first-rate. Some of the other symphonic pieces aren't 
 quite as mood-setting or memorable, but they fit the games premise very well. The only slight drawback 
 to the audio is some of the voice acting, but I found that I could just read the subtitles and 
 skip the spoken dialogue for the voices I didn't like. Too, when you are gambling at a table in 
 the taverns, you are unrelentingly hammered by the same lines of spoken dialogue from the bystanders, 
 as they have nothing better to do than sit there their whole lives and try to disturb your concentration/enjoyment 
 of the diversion.
  
  Controls - 7.0
  I played with a mouse and keyboard. One thing that I cannot stand is fighting the camera. When 
 I would try to look up and around while walking around, the camera consistently fought with me 
 to level itself back out to ground-level. There is no option to turn that off. Beyond that, the 
 controls were fluid and my character pretty much always did what I was trying to do. Unleashing 
 massive chain attacks with spells thrown in was simple to do and felt fluid. Changing from one 
 pair of spells to another was easy and caused no pause in the action. The targeting system could 
 have been better, but I didn't really use it all that much, anyways.
  
  Gameplay - 4.5
  May sound harsh, but I feel the game fell flat on its face compared to the promises it was making. 
 You can choose which quests to take and in many cases the method which you will do them. However, 
 should you wish to try your hand at the dark side, the game will fight you at most junctions. Most 
 story-related quests constantly give you tons of positive moral points for killing the monsters 
 that stand in your way. The truly evil-minded quests are few and far between, and don't really 
 swing the meter that much to the negative side. Sure, you can slaughter an entire town, but I did 
 that and spent an extra 20 minutes mauling every guard that spawned my way, but even that barely 
 put a dent in my holy esteem. A quest or two later, all was forgiven and the halo was glistening 
 over my head yet again.
  The whole relationship deal is flat and lifeless. Do a couple of poses, hand out a couple flowers 
 and chocolates, and your to-be spouse demands a ring and a house, then blammo. Sex with your spouse 
 often entails the same string of events, minus the now-owned ring and house. You can go gay and 
 take a husband, but when he offers you a gift, the game still says "Your WIFE has given you a present." 
 That is a flat-out insult.
  Leveling up caused me a major problem. Early on there is one of the many doors that have a requirement 
 to open that asks for a high combo chain to be active when you try to activate it. Nearby there 
 is a cave consisting of several rooms with enough enemies to fulfill the task, even though the 
 act of going from one room to another cuts your combo bar in half. It took me half an hour to get 
 that door open, as I found out I was usually just a couple chains lacking to get through. In that 
 half hour, I had accrued enough skill points to last me the game. What's worse, when I spent those 
 points to level up, I emerged from the level-up altar already 60 years old (you age with each stat/spell 
 you upgrade) . So here I am an elderly gent almost at the beginning of the darned game. Thankfully, 
 there is an exploit later on to reduce your age to your hearts content. On a second playthough, 
 I found out that even sans mega-level, the game was ridiculously easy except for a few major battles.
 
  Money is also sorely unbalanced. While the gambling games were interesting on the whole, you cannot 
 wager enough to make them truly tense, as there is a simple supply/demand scale at the shops, you 
 can make hundreds of thousands more in a minuscule fraction of the time that it would take at a 
 game table. Figure out how to work a vendor, you will very quickly own some of the best weapons 
 and armor very early in the quest, as well as buy every house you come across and upgrade it fully 
 without batting an eyelash.
  As for difficulty... there is none. You carry up to 9 auto-resurrect vials on top of a limitless 
 stack of potions. On either of my playthroughs, I didn't see a game-over screen once. Ridiculous.
 
  
  Replayability level - moderate to low. Going through the mostly stale quests again can be very 
 tedious and since the off-quest goings-on are mostly flat and uninvolved, there really isn't all 
 that much to do on another go-around. By the time I was done the first time around, I was actually 
 glad it was finally over. However, if you skip the miscellaneous activities, you can cleave your 
 way to legend in just a sitting or two. Hardly fits the massive, Epic scale the game promises.
 
  
  Value - If I had paid more than the 20 bucks I spent, I would have certainly felt cheated, but 
 for a bargain price it serves it's purpose.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterz0306
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  So finally I bought It, I remember back in 2005 how much I wanted this game, everybody was talking 
 about it, and my poor PC could not afford those graphics, so I waited and when finally I bought 
 a new PC I could play it.
  
  I will try to say as less possible of the story to avoid spoilers, because I really hate them too.
 
  
  The hype was just incredible, they told that you where totally free to do anything and that you 
 could change the story in relation of your behavior.
  
  The first isn't true, first of all and most frustrating the levels are constructed in a way that 
 you have to follow a path, think of crash bandicoot, you could not go anywhere outside the designed 
 borders, so the landscape is very very limited and say goodbye to the exploring part, because you 
 will practically see all of it just following the story. Secondly if you are so free why you cannot 
 choose to be a boy or girl? Well this I can understand for story reasons, but more importantly 
 (that was a quick rant) you cannot chose a class, this part is not well structured. Well you gain 
 experience, but in a very strange way, when a foe dies the experience burst out from It's body 
 and you have to press shift so it moves toward you and you collect it... It happened very often 
 that I ran like a desperate all over the place to find the lost experience that went down the road (yes 
 it moves) , meanwhile other foes where shooting at me. So then you can choose how to use this experience, 
 say for example that you want too be a mage, so you use it all to gain level in magic, so you have 
 powerful spells but your character still uses a sword and bow, in shops you cannot buy rodes or 
 mage robes, just armor, weapons like swords, axes hammers and bows and there isn't very much to 
 choose. So your character will be everything and nothing, and it can be very disappointing for 
 others. 
  
  It is true that you can change the story in relation on your behavior, but also here you are limited, 
 you can bee very good or very bad, you cannot be in the between, or think that you are doing well 
 but the consequences are terrible.
  
  The story is good, like a nice fairy tale or a tale of the evil (depends on what you choose) , the 
 strange fact is that it sometimes is childish others extremely cruel, so I feel like on a constant 
 swing.
  
  The voice acting is just great, it is one of the best things of the game.
  
  The Music is also very nice, pleasant to hear and you wish you could have it on your PC.
  
 
  Graphics are also very good, even if I played now three years after the release I cannot complain 
 about them, almost cartoon like but in tone with the story.
  
  The difficulty is another flaw in the game, it is so easy to beat it, because you can get really 
 powerful with a right combination of upgrades.
  
  The game is easy and short I played exactly 14 hours an 8 and I finished I think 90% of the quests.
 
  
  Resume
  
  Graphics : 8
  Sound: 8
  Gameplay: 7
  Longevity: 6
  A. I.: 5
  Replay Value: 0
  
  A nice fairy tale, worth buying with a newspaper (like I did) that can be 
 very disappointing for RPG fans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masterbonus
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  wow, this game is one of the bests games I have played, its incredible because you do your life 
 
  The story: Simple but great, you are a kid and is your sisters birthdate, then you have to do good 
 or bad actions to have money then ,when you have the money then when you bought a box of chocolates 
 for your sister the bandits atack and you are saved by a rare man called "Maze" then he brings 
 you to the heroes guild where they teach you how to fight and dadadadadada dadada da dadada.
  Then you can do whatever you want by following the story you can:
  get married, buy a lot of clothes, weapons, you 
 can have your own house, you can decide if kill or save, steal or protect so you can decide if being 
 good or a bad guy, if you are a good boy all the women will be in love with you and your hair will 
 be blond if you are a bad guy your stomach will be strange and red your eyes will be red too and 
 you will have little horns, ohh I was forgetting anyboby will love you : ( thats bad but... its you 
 life so don waste it.
  The bad one is jack of blades if you want to know more about him, the story, your mother or your 
 sister just go to a store and buy it or tell a friend "Hey buddy lend me your fable" if that dont 
 work just steal it so you can be bad as your character 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  this is one of those games where you are thankful there's a pc version (heavily hinting at Fable 
 II....) . Fable was incredibly fun b/c of the oblivion-esque environment that it allowed. well.. actually, 
 that isn't the best comparison game, but it gets the general point across.
  
  Fable follows the life of a growing (yes growing as in he ages) young boy. Decisions regarding 
 morality begin promptly towards the start of the game, and never really seem to stop. This is fun 
 b/c Fable somehow creates a moral world where what you do affects the entire populace. Although 
 some can argue that it didn't do this as well as it could have, because of the sheer novelty (and 
 fun) that the level up system and morality system allows, I cannot regard Fable as any less than 
 a fantastic game.
  
  Probably the biggest flaw of this game is the previous notion: it wasn't really that hardcore, 
 and a little wishy-washy at times (for ex: the system wasn't really that complex like Oblivion, 
 though it made up for that with sheer charm which Oblivion more or less lacked) .
  
  In short, it was just a lot of fun. I really hope that Fable II allows a pc port like the original 
 Fable, because this is a series that should not be missed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior_Swan
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  To date I have spent roughly 14 hours playing, and have already finished the game, including maxing 
 out my stats at the Heroes Guild. Fable: TLC has a good amount of side quests, though I didn't 
 complete a whole lot of those. I assumed I had more time, considering I was expecting there to 
 be a lot more story missions to take up much more time, but that's neither here nor there.
  
  The game is incredibly fun, and presented in an enjoyable, and visually pleasing way. I found 
 the graphics and scenery to be among the best I've seen. The game play is easy to learn, and the 
 controls fit very well. Great (but silly) RPG. The customization of nearly every detail of your 
 character is in-depth and extremely broad. The alignment system was also fun to mess around with, 
 and the ability to do things you wouldn't normally do in an RPG (such as murdering an entire school 
 full of children) adds a bit of extra depth as well.
  
  All in all, an enjoyable, tongue-in-cheek adventure that will keep you hooked for hours at a time. 
 Highly recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Screamer201
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  Fable is a rpg game in wich you play the role of a young boy. The game has an interesting story 
 that keeps you in and a good system fight. As the story progress you will grow and you can change 
 the phisique of the hero in the story you hunt down a evil thuing named Jack of Blades. You start 
 as a young boy in a serene little hamlet, performing the usual training-wheel tasks designed to 
 familiarize you with the PC's keyboard/mouse interface. For the most part, it's an improvement 
 over the Xbox controller, and you can get to the map or your inventory a lot faster using the keyboard's 
 function keys. Movement is essentially a Zelda lift, right down to the no-jumping and target circle-strafing 
 bits. The camera, which sits just behind you, turns when you turn, so looking around while moving 
 is klutzy, but in combat that stubborn adherence always keeps your current target in view.
  
  The next thing you'll notice as you try to scare up money to buy your sister a birthday present, 
 is that The Lost Chapters is pretty darned stunning on the PC. My recomandation buy the game it 
 whorts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: External-Chaos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  If your looking for an addictive, fun and adventurous game you've found it, Fable The Lost Chapters 
 holds a good story line, and great characteristics. It's not a massively big game but it is quite 
 allot of fun to play, due to allot of small factors which make it unique. Fable's storyline goes 
 for around 10 hours at average, not including all the side quests you can do, however there isn't 
 allot of them. The main story line is about trying to stop The Famous Jack of Blades who was known 
 as a hero, but is really a villiain, the story has allot of twists and surprises, so i can't really 
 tell you anymore without ruining it for you, but it does hold a full-filling adventure. There isn't 
 a really advanced leveling system you collect orbs from where you kill enemies, and you go back 
 to a shrine which can grant you to put the orbs into a certain attribute. The main attributes are 
 Strength, Magic and Skill, each one of these attributes has there own personal skills attached 
 to them, for instance Strength is more heavier weapons and how much damage you do, Magic is spells 
 and how much Magicka you have, and Skill is like Blades and Bow skills. So you can build your character 
 to how you want him to be, and you can also have a mixture of all these, because even if you finish 
 the game you can still go out and level up. Another cool feature about this game is you can change 
 your hairstyles, get tattoos, get married etc, it really does how some interesting benefits within 
 it. Your character will, as you go along in the game age, which is quite cool but the problem with 
 this is it's actually rather annoying because your character ages way too fast, before no time 
 your at the age of 55 before you have finished the game, which is rather stupid because your 55 
 slaying monsters and doing things you should be at the age of 30-40, having your character age 
 is really unique in a game but they could have made it a little more accurate. However there are 
 ways you can decrease your age in the game but i recommend not bothering because within 1 hour 
 of playing the game your age will increase 7 years. The combat in the game is pretty fun even though 
 it's point and click he does different combos and moves, and this makes it feel like your abit 
 more involved in the game. Even though Fable's main storyline is quite short and could be abit 
 more immersive, after you finish the game you can still go wandering around looking for new armor 
 or trying to unlock chest or hidden items you havn't already got during the game. But on the topic 
 Fable does lack armor and weapon types theres really not allot to select from, and in the end everyone 
 will end up having the same type of armor everyone else does that plays the game. But despite Fable's 
 little lacks of depth, this is still a terrific and addictive game to play and if you enjoy a good 
 RPG, you will get your moneys worth by purchasing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2008 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Fable is an excellent game and it is easily one of Peter Molyneux's best works. The game is a work 
 of art and it's a blast to play. The story is engaging and there is a lot of incentive for you 
 to care about the plot. The characters are well crafted and there is excellent character customization 
 throughout the game. Sadly the game also has a lot of empty spots and there is some issues with 
 difficulty and some odd design choices.
  
  The story of Fable revolves around a nameless and silent hero. As a young boy his home is ransacked 
 by bandits. His father was killed by the bandits and his mother and sister were taken to be tortured 
 and eventually murdered. He is saved in the nick of time by the heroes guild when he is picked 
 up by the master mage Maze. He is trained by the guild master and helped along by his friend whisper. 
 He then grows up and thus begins the adventure of Fable's hero.
  
  The story is well done and it's one of the more engaging stories I've played in an RPG. The story 
 is well crafted and it has created many interesting characters who you will care about. The hero 
 is also given a variety of decisions throughout the story which gives the game more depth. Many 
 of these decisions effect your hero's status. For instance making an 'evil' choice will make you 
 more evil and making a 'good' choice will make you more good. This ties into the story and will 
 decide which ending you unlock.
  
  This good and evil system isn't as well implemented though as you'd like. Being good or evil changes 
 nothing but the ending of the game. The decisions you make are also quite shallow. It's always 
 really obvious which will make you evil and which will make you more good. Luckily Molyneux has 
 addressed this issue and he promises it will be fixed in Fable 2. With depth, this good and evil 
 system could have been quite good though and I can't wait to see it well implemented.
  
  The rest of the gameplay is quite good. The game is simple to play and the combat is ridiculously 
 easy. It's simply clicking, blocking, and power attacks. As you attack you get a battle multiplier 
 which gives you more damage and also gives you the ability to do a power attack which is unblockable. 
 This works well and despite it's simplicity there is a bit of depth. For instance you can stun 
 enemies and head them with a power attack. You also have to time blocks well though you can get 
 through the game without blocking for the most part. Your hero can also get spells which work well 
 and are a lot of fun to use. You buy them at the heroes guild and you can upgrade them as you go 
 along. Some of them are overpowered but it's not too important. 
  
  Sometimes though the game can be too easy. This is an issue throughout the whole game. I don't 
 believe I died once in the whole game. The boss battles are no different, they are quite easy and 
 usually involve a simple strategy to follow which you will pick up quite easily. Despite this the 
 game isn't about difficulty, it's about choice and story which is what it does best. The difficulty 
 isn't important but I still believe it could have been a bit more challenging. 
  
  The story also has some odd design choices. For instance your character ages throughout the game, 
 you go from being around eight years old to a ninety year old man if you want to. This is all find 
 and dandy and the evolution of your character is amazing to watch. The problem is no one else ages. 
 The same five year old girl you met when you were twenty will be five when you are sixty. This 
 is more of a nit pick, it doesn't change the game but it is an oddity and Fable has a lot of these. 
 They're all unimportant but they are still things that can have been ironed out.
  
  From a technical standpoint Fable 2 is pretty awesome. It looks great on the highest settings and 
 there are some beautiful lighting effects to be seen. The game has some bland areas especially 
 caves but for the most part it looks good. The animations and character models are also pretty 
 good but could have used some tuning to look less awkward. The scenery though can be awe inspiring 
 and it still looks great three years down the road. The game also sounds good. It has an awesome 
 original score and the voice acting for the most part is good. Sometimes though the voice acting 
 is overdone but this is a rarity. 
  
  From all my nitpicking you might think I only think this is a good game. Well no, Fable is a great 
 game with many minor flaws. This game could have been ironed out a bit more but because of it's 
 engaging story, interesting concept, fantastic presentation and easy going approach the RPG Fable 
 stands as a great game and is truly an epic adventure that needs to be experienced. I eagerly await 
 the second game coming out next month.
  
  Good: Excellent story, great presentation, some beautiful graphics, great characters
  
  Bad: 
 Odd design choices, a bit too easy, sometimes has bad voice acting, clunky animations, good and 
 evil system could have been better implemented
  
  Overall: Despite numerous nit picks Fable is a game well worth playing and is an excellent RPG.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragoness27
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  I'll start by saying I never followed the hype of Fable, only heard some things here and there, 
 mostly negative. But I hadn't played an RPG in ages, so I just decided to pick this one up one 
 day. The whole aspect of your characer's appearance changing by your actions seemed cool although 
 even though I heard it was overrated.
  
  Fable's presentation felt tidy and the game felt overall polished. Cartoony, WoW-like graphics, 
 decent music that isn't annoying, good animations, pretty day/night cycle. You might hate how all 
 the people's feet look huge, but its really a matter of taste. There's really no complaints in 
 these areas other then the world feeling so small.
  
  
  The story is bland, predictable and cliche to the max. It's definately its major weakness in my 
 book. Hero's Guild. Main character's village and family gets destroyed. Main character is a chosen 
 one. Couldn't they have come up with something just a tad less typical for God's sake? I was struggling 
 to get through the game every now and then because the story is just so boring and predictable. 
 I knew a certain character was going to betray at some point and pretty much anyone could guess 
 correctly. 
  
  Fable's characters are all flat and unmemorable. A few had potential, but they were never really 
 realized. The only character I mildly liked was Briar Rose, but even she felt underdeveloped.
 
  
  Fable's levelling system is a refreshing change, I did like how it felt natural... but it really 
 irked me how using Will (magic) powers rapidly aged your character... unless you fancy looking like 
 a 50 year old man at 21 you shouldn't use it too much, but at the same time, Will powers are so 
 unbelieviably useful and overpowered, there's really no point in not using them. Certain Will powers 
 are like I WIN buttons to an already easy game. The combat system is like a copu of Zelda and its 
 pretty fun at least. There's just one thing I thought was kinda stupid... those experience orbs.... like 
 what's the point really? Can't you just immediately get experience from killing something instead 
 of pressing left mouse button to suck in all those green orbs that pop out from a monster? Oh yeah 
 I'll mention I personally felt the final battle was anti-climatic and way too easy. It's just could 
 have been so much more epic but I felt it failed. 
  
  All those little side ventures like marriage, sex, flirting, getting drunk, brawling, farting at 
 people, owning a house... are all gimmicky and pointless, but can be fun for a while. It's just 
 dissappointing at how underdeveloped marriage especially felt. You can earn gifts from your partner 
 but its nothing terribly exciting. I married one girl, bought a house, did it once with her and 
 later felt it was a sheer waste of money so punched her until she divorced me and sold the house. 
 If you decide to skip it you're not missing much at all. 
  
  The character customization bit is decent with various tattoos, small selection of hairstyles, 
 give your hero titles, etc etc. It's also cool how you get scars from battle, and how your body 
 changes as you gain toughness points. Purely cosmetic, but its a nice touch. Being Good & Evil 
 makes very little difference really, only how people react to you; if you're good you get little 
 butterflies and angel thingy and people clap at you, call out your name and if you're super evil 
 you lose your hair, grow horns, get scary eyes and people flee from you. In the end it makes zero 
 difference, because the final decision in the game determines if you get the good or bad ending, 
 nothing else bofore it. 
  
  
  So to conclude... Fable: Lost Chapters is a mediocre RPG with a few nice gimmicks. Since the game 
 has been out for a while and its pretty cheap everywhere now it might be worth the buy if you're 
 really bored. It isn't horrible, but really overrated. I still can't figure out why some people 
 give it a 8 or 9 say its the best RPG ever? Do people have standards????? lol
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brexing06
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game three times through, and every time I have found or done something new. 
 The graphics are kind of mediocre, but that's okay because the story line is excellent in my personal 
 opinion, it isn't a broken or multi-angle story like some RPG games that I have played. It's free 
 roam/quest based, however you want to play, but you must do quests to advance. A few of the quests 
 can be rather tedious, bordering on boring, but then after completing them you can find a non-stop 
 highly interactive quest that takes you all over the world.. I love the fact that you aren't limited 
 to only doing the quests and nothing else, you always have the option to roam the world for a while, 
 after completing a couple of the bigger quests, to give you a world to roam. The two "boss battles" 
 can be intense, if not frustrating, but they are good. If you enjoy the RPG's and action-adventure 
 games, You will probably like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bricmpt
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 10, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I like the idea of the character development. Screenshots were nice. I liked the reviews... hated 
 the game's performance. 
  My system is roughly 3x the minimum specs and this particular game still performs very poorly. 
 Even with all visual settings at low. There are no patches available anywhere that I can find, 
 and neither the game's studio or Micro$oft will do anything except tell you to update drivers... 
 which doesn't work at all for some people. This game must be incompatible with some unknown piece 
 of hardware on some computer systems. 
  It has no redeeming value because it will not play. My suggestion is to return it to the point 
 of purchase if it does not play right, since there is no fixing it. I hope this saves you twenty 
 dollars and a lot of frustration. And I hope developers and professional reviewers do a better 
 job at system testing than they do hyping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wormri
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  Fable: The Lost Chapters is an amazing game, which feels like oblivion in third person and advanced 
 fighting mechanic, sure it's not as big and quest filled as Oblivion, but I can gaurentee Fable's 
 fun factor is much bigger.
  So you're playing that bo, let's call him Fred, and Fred has variety of stuff to do in the game, 
 from blowing random people up with a fire ball, to saving them from 'werewolves' attacks, from 
 deciding wether to steal or kill, to helping the ill- Fable gaurantees you can do whatever you 
 want (Well almost, but hey, you can Fart? where else can you do that in a game?) .
  Starting from the beggining you can see that the main objective in the game is to decide betwen 
 good or evil, your choices will affect the game's world in a major way, the way people will treat 
 to you, and the plot's ending as well (of course, since this is an expanded game, you have four 
 avilable endings, if I'm not wrong..) .
  Another great advantage of this game is it's unlimiting class choosing, you can focus your skills 
 on magic, of course, you can perhaps be a brave warrior, a skilled rouge, but hey, why can't you 
 be all of them together?! Thanks to a balanced stat rank up system you can decide how to rank up 
 your character based on the usage of your weapons, if you used Crossbow more than your sword, your 
 'SKILL' experience will probably be higher than your 'STRENGTH' experience, but don't worry, if 
 you do not use other skills often and you still want to rank them up, you can always use the general 
 experience which is obtained from experience orbs.
  The only problem I found withnin Fable is it's melee combat control- it's so very weird because 
 you will be fighting hordes of monsters, and even if you will block their melee hits you can't 
 be kept safe from the arrows or spells they will toss at you- a complete useless block if you ask 
 me, that is unless yo fight only against melee users, or one on one combat.
  My final score for Fable is 9.0, the game is really great, yet, it is short, and can be somewhat 
 annoying (You WILL need to get a lot of potions and revivals if you're not an addicted skilled 
 Fable player) , but overall, Fable was ahead of it's time and still is a superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CosmoKing7717
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  Fable is simply put an amazing game. Unlike other rpgs in the past, either with battle systems 
 that seem dated now, or awkward controls that take some getting use to, Fable seems to find a way 
 to give enough depth to feel like an rpg, while still letting the player do all his actions in 
 real time. The game amazingly captures your attention, with it's unique art style and relaxing 
 music that fits perfectly into playing it. Unfortunately, behind all of this there are many flaws 
 behind the game. 
  Peter Molyneux promised MANY things that never showed up in this game (probably will be in fable 
 2) and instead it leaves the game feeling somewhat empty. After doing the story (which isnt that 
 long considering it's an rpg) you have no urge to play AT ALL anymore. Almost no replayability 
 and the end just makes you overpowered with nothing to do. Also (more of a personal problem with 
 me) the experience system isn't the best ever. It... makes you old -_-. Now that isnt much of a 
 problem... but when you see your sister who looks like your daughter... it just takes away from the 
 immersiveness of the game. Albeit it contains these problems, the game is still amazingly ambitious 
 and just plain fun. At 20 dollars (or probably less) now, this game should be in everyone's household. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revliv
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Fable TLC is the PC version from Fable in XBOX. I heard in this PC version there's some additional 
 features, like more customizable character, storyline, etc. I acknowledge it as the best RPG beside 
 KotOR. 
  Before I played it, I also read it's review from one of PC Magz. It said "Become a human with characters". 
 When I play it, I'm really understand what it's mean. 
  The gameplay starts from the hero still child until adult. Great graphics, music, storyline, and 
 options to become good or evil, makes this game really AWESOME! But Fable not only that. It also 
 has many minigames, quest, from main quest to "Just for Fun" quest, many clothes set, from simple 
 villager to noble shiny knight.
  For combat system, it's really simple. Much like hack and slash, but not make my fingers hurts 
 when I played. The hero has three stats : Physical, Skill, and Magic. Physical will raise if used 
 melee attack, like from sword, mace, axe, etc. And eat certain food, like meat. Skill gonna high 
 if use range weapons, steal something from store, and get high profit from trading.
  Features that's also interesting is the NPC attitude, depends on hero's fame and alignment. Ex 
 : If we good, NPC will cheer us, and if we evil, NPC will run away from us.
  At least, this game is a masterpiece from Lionhead Studio and Microsoft Game Studio. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: v1tal93
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2008 3:10 am PT
Review:  great game with a very good storyline you can be a real hero or an evil hero and every choice you 
 make changes your look like when you make an evil choice your body gets all kind of scars and when 
 people see you they will be frightened and when you make only good choises and do good deeds you 
 will have butterfly's fly a round you when you stand still. I am done with my 1st character now 
 where i did a little good and a little bad deeds so now i am going 2 make 2 new chars 1 where i 
 am only going 2 do good deeds and with the other i am only going 2 do bad deeds and there are secret 
 doors 2 where you need 2 be a very evil person or a very good person. and you can get married 5 
 times in total but you can't have kids. the bad thing in the game is that the child hood and teen 
 years are very short in the story i think that that needed 2 be much longer. btw you can learn 
 many skills with will some skillz are even overpowered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xAngels_Assasin
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Well im going to be reviewing Fable the lost chapters. The thing that makes this game very interesting 
 is the good or bad system it has , much like a Mass Effect ,but here your appearance actually changes 
 with the choices you make. You can be a good hero with butterflies flying around you , and a halo 
 which everybody respects and cheers for , or an anti-hero if you will who people will fear. Another 
 thing is the age system , in the game you start out as a little boy but that only lasts like 30 
 mins , they could have expanded more the child stage. After a little time in the child stage and 
 even less in teenage age your thrown into adulthood where the game really begins. The game revolves 
 around doing quest for the Heroes guild which eventually leads to a story about your family ( don't 
 want to reveal any story detail) . The story will last about 13 hours but this game has a high replayability 
 since you will probably want to play again as the opposite type of character you where before ( 
 light , dark) . If you want to take a break from fighting and the main story you can do stuff like 
 get married ( cant have kids , but can have sex) , buy a house , rent the house. Like I said before 
 you can marry in this game , but it really isn't hard just flirt a little with a gir or guy, buy 
 a marital home , there is one in each house, buy a wedding ring and give it to her. The sex is 
 just flirting. You can have up 5 wives/husbands. One complain I have about the people in Fable 
 is that there is only a few character models people you encounter are almost all the same. Now 
 to the most important thing combat. In combat you can choose between Melee (swords , hammers etc) 
 Magic, and Bow and Arrow or a mixture of them. The bow and arrow in this game is bad I doubt people 
 will use it as a main weapon. This game has a wide selection of spells which some are too powerful 
 and make the game to easy, some spells can make the games hardest battle a piece of cake. The melee 
 system is good with no particular special move just normal attacks which is surprisingly fun. One 
 last thing I would like to mention is that this game has a narrator which tells the main points 
 in the story like a book. Which is a nice feature in the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 19, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  Fable is a game that does all the little things right but comes up short on the big things.
  
  In terms of little touches, Fable is quite fantastic. Day/night cycles, NPC schedules, variable 
 in-game economy, customization through haircuts and tattoos, stylish armor and weapon design ... 
 they've got all the bullet points you'd expect from a modern RPG. The game actually shares a lot 
 in common with World of Warcraft -- playful character design, lots of silly dances and expressions 
 and humor, colorful environments, a streamlined user interface, and mostly straight-forward questing.
 
  
  Like WoW, Fable is also easy to learn and get into. Quest objectives are clearly shown on your 
 mini-map, solutions are never too tough to figure out, and the game is generally easy to complete 
 from start to finish.
  
  On the downside, however, it means the game never really gets its hooks into you. The combat is 
 simple fun but repetitive -- even moreso when you consider you'll be facing the same half-dozen 
 variety of enemies throughout the entire game. There are a few boss battles that throw minor wrinkles 
 into the formula, but for the most part, the fights you see at the beginning of the game are basically 
 the fights you'll be dealing with for the next 10 to 15 hours.
  
  The story is also standard fantasy fare. While the voice-acting is quite good, the actual plot 
 doesn't stand out from anything you've played countless times before. The game world is also fairly 
 shallow. There's no real overarching mysteries or lore than will command your attention. There's 
 plenty of slightly clever quests and choices. Do you choose to run a bordello or turn it into a 
 women's shelter? Do you choose to save a kid being picked on, or pick on him yourself? Overall, 
 it's always a binary, saint-or-sinner, black-or-white morality system which gives the illusion 
 of "choice" but, like so many other developers that do this (cough Bioware cough) , your only choice 
 is to be total nice guy or a total jerk.
  
  At the end of Fable, you can look back on 15-some hours of generally pleasant RPG adventuring. 
 But you can't help but feel a little unsatisfied. There are far better games in this genre for 
 veteran gamers, but because Fable is so pretty and polished, it's easy to see why it's so popular. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesolateGraveX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  As one could easily tell by the game's title, Fable is a game that is told just like a story, and 
 the story remains full of surprises throughout the game. The storyline is one of many things that 
 sets Fable aside from other Action RPG's. When you first start off your adventure in Fable, you 
 will play as a boy that is trying to find a way to get his sister a present for her birthday. Your 
 father gives you a gold coin for each good deed you do, however, you may choose alternative ways 
 of getting the gold neccessary to buy your sister the present she wants. This alone helps introduce 
 what takes a big part in Fable, which is alignment. Your alignment adjusts according to the decisions 
 you make throughout the game, and even with the main quest, this works very well. Certain factors 
 that contribute to whether you become good or evil are saving or killing people. choosing whether 
 or not to steal things, what type of armor you decide to wear, and which side quests (if any) , 
 you decide to choose.
  
  Shortly after your first task, you find to discover that bandits have raided your town, killing 
 your family members. In the next cinematic, which comes shortly after, you find a man named Maize, 
 which is who ultimately guides you throughout the game. He then brings you to a guild, which is 
 from then on your home. The guild mainly introduces to you the different styles of combat offered, 
 and it also has a few side-quests you can choose to complete as well. However, your stay in the 
 guild is not a long one, and after you have completed all of your training, you can choose to either 
 progress directly to the years of adulthood, or remain a teenager for as long as you choose. However, 
 you do not progress any further in the game until you decide to progress to adulthood. When you 
 finally decide to give up your teenage years, you then carry on with the main quest, and you recieve 
 a guild crest, which allows you to teleport back to the guild, which is useful for using your experience 
 points to level up certain skills, as well as teleport other places as well.
  
  The combat system in Fable is for the most part, well-done. However there are a few spells that 
 have too much of an advantage over others, which makes it a little bit unbalanced. Despite this 
 minor flaw, it still keeps the game fun. Eventually in the game, you get a combat multiplier, which 
 increases as you hit enemies without getting hit. This combat multiplier unleashes a very powerful 
 and unblockable attack, which is absolutely neccessary in certain situations. Aside from this, 
 you can (obviously) , dodge and block. Blocking attacks is simple, and can be done by holding the 
 middle mouse button, and dodging is simply blocking while moving.
  
  For the most part, Fable is a pretty easy game to get through. However, you do run into some challenges. 
 The enemies each have their own strategies of attacking you and defending themselves, and each 
 of the different kinds of enemies attacks are basically a pattern, and finding out their patterns 
 whlie coming up with strategies of your own can be a big help, especially when you are fighting 
 bosses. I assume the real reason behind why the game is so easy, is the fact that you can use as 
 many potions as you can carry and afford, without having to worry about a cooldown of any sort. 
 Aside from this, Resurrection vials (which are fairly easy to obtain) make the game a bit too easy. 
 The biggest challenge in the game, as with most games, is the end. Unlike and of the other bosses, 
 the last boss requires you to use your bow or magic at a certain point, which can be a rather bad 
 thing for players who had never increased attributes of any of these skills. Nevertheless, he is 
 still beatable. And after you have beat the "final boss", there are luckily different options to 
 choose from, which will decide on how good or evil you really want to be. Aside from quests, there 
 are many other things to do in your adventure through Fable, and in order to get the full enjoyment 
 of the game, it is best just to take it slow. For one thing, Marriage is a new idea introduced 
 in this game. However, it is not particularly good for anything, and is mentioned once in the game, 
 but when participating in this, it doesn't make the game any different. You can also buy property, 
 which, like the marriage, does not progress you anywhere. One thing that does help you, is silver 
 keys you can find in various places you travel through in the game. These silver keys can unlock 
 certain chests, and when acquired a decent amount, they can give you some very nice rewards. One 
 very lackluster part of Fable, is its armor and weapon system. Although both the weapons and armor 
 are well balanced out, one could complain that there are simply not enough of them. You can choose 
 from Iron, Steel, and Obsidian (the most powerful kind available to buy) , as well as rewards you 
 have recieved. If you'd like to customize your weapon a bit, you can always imbue it with augumentations, 
 which can enhance your weapon and make it more powerful with certain elements.
  
  One of the very first things that many players will notice, is that Fable is graphically outstanding. 
 Perhaps it is the art that contributes to this, and while this isn't gameplay related, the beautiful 
 environments you venture through and spells you cast make the game more pleasing to look at. One 
 downfall with the graphics (probably the only one) would be that the shadows make a ridiculous 
 performance impact, and don't particularly make the game look much better. The game also sounds 
 great as well, and its atmospheric music and ambience can really draw you in. However, some of 
 the characters seem to repeat the same lines over and over again, which can be rather annoying 
 while you're travelling through a townsworth of people.
  
  When the game ends, there isn't much more to it. After defeating the last boss, you can choose 
 to continue completing any quests you have missed, or you can just experiment with some things 
 you may have not gotten to. Even with its rather short storyline and minor shortcomings, Fable 
 is definitely a game worth purchasing, and should be considered by anyone who is a fan of Action-RPG's. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meska2
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Fable: The Lost Chapters is one of the few games that have a great story line. From just the start 
 of the game, you feel as if you are the hero himself and everything that happends to him takes 
 a personal effect. As your playing through you start to notice that every action you do, plays 
 a course of your story. There are many memorable characters, such as Whisper and Maze. And many 
 other characters that play a big role in the story. The best thing about Fable is the story, from 
 just a little innocent boy, to a full grown legend, you feel that you have become a one of the 
 legendary heroes once heard about in story books. Just this feeling alone can leave you satisfied, 
 and wanting more. 
  
  The gameplay in its self isnt all that revolutionary, but it does do a goodjob of representing 
 the old in a new way. The weapons and armor are wonderful, in that the story behind each weapon, 
 tells a tale of amazing heroic deeds. And for you to be able wield such a weapon make you feel 
 like your earning your place in the world of Albion. On the down side, the story is bit short and 
 i wish it was abit more detailed and longer, even though The Lost Chapters adds to the story. Hopefully 
 the sequel, Fable 2, brings us more detail and a longer story. One that tells us the rest of the 
 story of how the young farm boy, became legend. :)
  
  Overall i give this game a 9.0 for that it has a wonderful story with lots or replay value and 
 leaves you amazingly stunned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteTigerX
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  This game has a quite nice storyline, altho a little old... Save your mother and sister bla bla... 
 But it has a great world to explore, the views are great, It has Action, Humor and Role Play something 
 lots games cannot achieve that.
  
  Graphics: This game has some outstanding graphics, and not only that, the World itself was made 
 really great and it fun to explore and find new stuff, to see the masterpiece of the modelers. 
 Great cinematics, make you watch it, and not in like some games you're trying to fin the key that 
 turns off cinematics.
  
  Sound: Nice sound effects and OST, enjoyable, fits the game. Nothing more to add.
  
  Gameplay: 
 The combat system is the same as all RPG games. Good Evil thing is nice altho gets bored after 
 a while.. Do this and youre good... Do that and youre evil, Choose! All the quests are like that 
 Good or Bad.
  You can buy a house and put your trophies, which is cool, you can also get a wife, 2 wives, or 
 even 4. There is also gay marriage but well... doesn't care.
  Every people in the city havea diffrent opinion about you, so it is very good.
  Love kicking 
 the chickens they fly around the world xD
  Your character gets older as the time goes, so one day eventually you die? never played that far 
 =\
  
  
  Some improvements on the main story, some more spells and skills, and it would be way better. And 
 by the way, it has some minor bugs, but most of the people don't even notice, and some overpowered 
 spells, also not noticided by most of people,
  Very good game indeed, but, i warn you, if you are a fckin Nerd who does only one thing which is 
 play Counter Strike for more than 20H a day, switching to a game like this would be very bad.
 
  RPG Fans who liked Oblivion and Morrowind, maybe Kotor , would like this, all other RPG Fans would 
 love this too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScorpionBlue
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Also, this game sets the bar for all roleplaying games. Fable lets you not only control your relations 
 to people, but your actual character features change due to either being evil or good. If evil 
 you have horns with flys around you and the ground burns around you, if good you have a halo and 
 light always shines around you, like your glowing. It isnt just that, it slowly progresses, like 
 you will start to see bumps on your head is slightly evil, this is the begining of your horns. 
 The most amazing thing to me is the scare affect, once you grow horns you will be scared for life... 
 literally.... The spots where your horns once was, no matter how good you become, will be scares 
 and your face looks asif it was once cut up a little, but healed up. The action is a little boring 
 at times, especially if you want to do magic (there is magic, sword, and archer) Magic can be cool, 
 but its best to just add it to your abilities UNDER archer or sword. But this game mainly consists 
 of button mashing. However the expansion finally adds some puzzles to complete, kinda like FF. 
 I give the game a 9.0 due to it setting the bar for all roleplaying games. And more than anything 
 i cant wait for fable2, which will probobly set the bar again! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sephiroth_311
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Fable is a very interesting game. The combat system is rather normal. I have no complaints, but 
 no major praises either. The plot is very interesting in its own right, but starts off very cliche 
 ( boy has his home town burned down by a mysterious bad guy) . The world that you can explore in 
 Fable is very elaborate as far as the dungeons, caves etc. are concerned, but the towns are almost 
 exactly the same. 
  
  The humor in Fable is actually good. Maybe its not the funniest material in the world, but it is 
 impressive to see that an attempt at humor in a video game (accept the Fallout series) actually 
 didn't fail for once. Fable provides many interesting to do in towns, from socializing to sex with 
 the locals. This game really isn't (well it shouldn't be) about the standard quest. It is about 
 all of the weird things you can do to amuse yourself. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedifisto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Fable is a game with a somewhat basic idea for a storyline but taken too a whole other level its 
 filled with fun adventures ideas and characters and really draws in the gamer into the world. Now 
 I've beaten the game 9 times all on different ideal people there are so many way to make your character. 
 You can be an evil or good mage, warrior, assassin, rouge, ranger ect. There is a suit type for 
 ever class you want to bee or even some others just for fun. The magic in this game is referred 
 as "will" and the spell rage from good or evil ones. they also have special spells from specific 
 classes like assassins rush for assassins or the famous berserk for any character who need a fast 
 boost of beastliness. There are little things called silver keys scattered around the world that 
 open special chest and sometimes contain legendary items, that addition gives an adventures feel 
 to the game. The freedom in the game isn't sand box but u are free to roam all specific areas whenever. 
 controls in the game are good and well thought out so its not complicated. Well fable is an AMAZING 
 game and its definitely worth the price and you should totally buy the first one if your planning 
 on getting the second one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ohmygod189
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Fable: The lost chapter is the one of the best games I've played. A cool graphic, the gothic cut-scene, 
 extremely good gameplay and music. In Fable, you can choose to become a God or an Devil, you can 
 marry, go fishing or join in an competition in some map if you win you'll have money and a trophy 
 and there are a lot of secret in Fable as Demon Door, Silver Key, Secret Treasure. But It's too 
 short. The main quest and sub-quest just about 12 hours to finish. If you're a fan of RPG-Action 
 game, Fable is the best choice. If you aren't a fan of RPG-Action game or hate RPG-Action game, 
 you should play Fable once and I sure that you have to think again. About me. I am playing Fable 
 again to make sure that I've found all of the secret in game.
  Have a good time with this game,
  Dear,
  Someone :D*
  
  
  * : ": D" is the Yahoo! Messenger 
 emoticon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prafz0r
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  Exellent Gameplay!! One of the best games I've ever played.
  I can't exactly say that Fable is the first to let character alignment influence appearance and 
 physical traits of the character, but they're gone about it pretty well. Your character won't suddenly 
 get old or seem evil, but the line between good and evil and it's effects comes and goes as far 
 as your character goes. 
  Beautifully rendered environment that looks realistic and even has a night and day phase that affects 
 the game. The graphics look bright and gorgeous. Very detailed in the surrounding that makes the 
 game look alive.
  Combat system is very simple but lots of strategy takes place, starting from basic types like attack 
 and block to dodging arrows and spectacular finishing moves.
  The game has a immense replay value, and though I still feel the story was a little short, there's 
 plenty of side-quests to still keep me occupied until I'm ready to play it all over again! Don't 
 miss this exciting Action RPG... most importantly, it offers a lot of addictive gameplay is the 
 best game to come out in the past year, and you should own a copy. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero2infinity
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 11:21 pm PT
Review:  I was searching for games similar to Starwars: Knights of the Old Republic and found this. This 
 was recommended by a lot people. All I can say is that this game is by far the best RPG I have 
 ever played. The freedom you have inside the game is extraordinary. The gameplay is somewhat the 
 same as KOTOR, but the storyline really stands out. You get to play a child who grows up to become 
 a hero. You meet lots of people and you have to complete missions for your guild. 
  
  I played this game twice in a row and never got a slightest bit of boredom. The graphics are stunning. 
 Though there are some minor glitches, they won't really affect your gaming experience. But the 
 only main downside is that the game is a bit short. All in all this game will leave asking for 
 more.
  
  Since people have different tastes in games, I'd personally recommend this to anyone who played 
 and loved KOTOR 1 and 2. Believe me, this would be a really great and unforgettable gaming experience.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniksdi
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  I always wondered how fantasy in final fantasy would be like since I never had any consoles . . 
 . . but Fable surely expressed the complete meaning of fantasy for me . . it's an action adventure 
 game packed with some solid entertaining materials. Anyone who is not annoyed by swords or fairy 
 tales will love this game for sure . . . lets get to review:
  
  Pros:
  01. Outstanding Graphics (closest thing to perfect)
  02. Outstanding Gameplay (the fun never 
 ends)
  03. Great monsters with cool spells accelerating the visual effects
  04. Great story that keeps you tied to the game
  05. Outstanding character development, you can 
 actually feel him grow
  06. Freelancing is fun doing side jobs and exploring
  07. Treasure chests!
  08. Fishing for treasure!
  09. Great allies and talking doors
  10. 
 Nice sound, background music gives theatrical feel to the game
  
  Cons:
  01. None!
  
  Best:
  - simple, addictive, entertaining
  
  Worst:
  - you can finish it
  
  For any 
 gamer, this game is most recommended from me
  
  -----------
  SDI 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nishh
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games you can pick up and get right into it! The learning curve is about half 
 an hour but this is a quick tutorial in the beginning of the game. 
  
  There are few bad point in this game which is to be rectified in fable 2 (i hope) . You can't jump 
 over fences making the surrondings limited to see but not to touch. Not enough interaction with 
 some of the AI as some RPG's. At times the choices being made just seem trivial and do not add 
 any value to the story or gameplay. The fighting system could've been more adaptable (such as prince 
 of persia two thrones etc.)
  
  This being said the game is very enjoyable and pleasantly addictive. There are various side quests 
 to complete as well as numerous mini games from playing cards (black-jack pairs etc.) to fighting 
 and fishing competitions. You can also take control by being evil or good in the game. For example 
 killing the locals, stealing, helping the towns people with their strugles. This open ended style 
 of play is partly why this game is so enjoyable. You can also chat up men or women, get married, 
 buy a house, do the business under the sheets etc. 
  
  The fighting system is some what custimisable, allowing you to choose how to develop your 'hero' 
 as an archer, swordsman, or spell caster... but ultimately you end wanting to spend your experience 
 on all three. 
  
  Graphically, the game is appealing, but the waiting or loading time between different areas of 
 the map can be a bit annoying. Doesn't seem to be any frame rate problems and runs quite smoothly.
 
  
  Audio, the guys at Lionhead have utilised the sound realising it plays a huge atmospheric role 
 in games. There efforts havent been unnoticed as the audio and sounds are great throughout. 
  
  The game can be quite short if you stick too the major quests alone, so too fully evolve in 
 the game it would be a good idea to participate in the side quests which some are short and others 
 seem too long to be thought of as a mini quest.
  
  Overall the game is playable by any age group (if you don't mind the blood) and is one which is 
 easily going to become a classic. There are very few games that are easily playable and provide 
 choices that determine the outset of your character. The life of the game is extended through the 
 ability to play your charcter as the opposite good or evil hero. However no online play only restricts 
 the game to enjoying single player.
  
  Hopefully the sequel will provide the extra back bone to make the fable universe even more playable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubleWeasel
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  Really enjoyed playing this and did the absolute lot. It was such a great and colourful environment 
 to move around in. The cartoonish graphics, weapons and magic, and quest system was refreshing; 
 I think they pitched this game just right, bit twee in parts, but on the flip-slide you get to 
 have a wife in every town, and personalise your character to be as daft or evil horned as you like.
 
  
  The messages from the guild-master may echo in your head for days after, but a excellent game with 
 plenty of quests to level up with and intricate child to old-man storyline, and you get to really 
 choose Good or Evil, or a bit of both.
  
  It was just really fun to play and it played on 1GB of ram with no hitch. I'd stopped playing games 
 after Metal gear solid, but this really got me back into gaming again  I think I wasn't expecting 
 anything, but this was a great buy for 7.99 and has hours of play.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhcpvisigoth
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  I recently played Fable TLC, though it came out long ago, and I think I haven't played a game like 
 this in ages. The duality of good and evil is handled very well, for once, and apart from flawless 
 character design and and a near-perfect class system (though we could've used with more melee upgrades) , 
 the game features am exceptional storyline. The inventory system, was, well, new, and weapons were 
 not so abundant, but MGS still managed to churn out a decent game.
  
  I can't exactly say that Fable is the first to let character alignment influence appearance and 
 physical traits of the character, but they're gone about it pretty well. Your character won't suddenly 
 get old or seem evil, but the line between good and evil and it's effects comes and goes as far 
 as your character goes. The game has a immense replay value, and though I still feel the story 
 was a little short, there's plenty of side-quests to still keep me occupied until I'm ready to 
 play it all over again! Don't miss this exciting Action RPG... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armaan8014
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  Fable : The Lost chapters is a highly addictive and enchanting game, which you will always remember 
 as a memorable experience after completing the game.
  The game allows you to choose your way, between good and evil, while giving separate side missions 
 for both. Your good and evil actions affect your appearance , with a halo above and butterflies 
 around you for good, and horns and dark eyes for evil.
  
  You live the life of the hero from his childhood and make moral decisions, big or small, throughout 
 your life. 
  The story of the game itself is great and big, and you will feel as if you are reading another 
 epic story such as the lord of the rings or eragon.
  There is a full history of the plot, and the cut scenes are both animated and dramatized with the 
 help of paintings.
  The graphics are great, and the game play is fun, with all the level ups making you strong enough 
 to kill any creature without much trouble.
  There is no battle which is tough enough to stop you from completing the game, but the fun and 
 the magic itself lie in the very "living" of the game. The orchestra music makes this an even more 
 great game, and the game will stay in your thoughts even after weeks of completing it. The game 
 is a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vortex_gw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  Anyone who has played Fable The Lost Chapters will agree with me that this action RPG is just mind 
 blowing. 
  Your character is a young boy who's trying to buy a present for his sister's birthday. Good thing 
 your father promised that he will give you gold for every good deed you do in the village. The 
 life is looking wonderful but soon everything changes and he is left alone in the burning village 
 looking for his parents and sister. The boy is saved by a wizard who takes you to a Guild in which 
 you will train to become a hero.
  I just love that your hero actually ages as you play. You are little boy in the beginning, teenager 
 in the Guild, man when you start being a real hero and an old man at the end of the game but be 
 aware the old man is a killing machine. You can get married and have kids. You can do many things 
 to make people like you or the opposite. You can buy your own house and you can spend more gold 
 to make it better looking. You can also buy the house and rent it to gain additional gold.
  The skills are interesting and they make the game fun to play. You've got cool moves like Assassin's 
 Rush, Battle Charge and many other cool moves. Ok they are not that many compared to other RPG 
 games but I thing they fit perfectly in the game. You can choose to be a warrior, mage or an archer.
 
  The graphics of the game is very good looking. Everything around you looks realistic and alive. 
 The sound of the game is great too. There are dungeons and forests with all kind of good looking 
 magical creatures. The champion's arena is just awesome. Another good thing of the game is that 
 as you are trying to help your mother you get caught and thrown in a prison. Of course you have 
 to make a "prison break" which I liked very much and it was so much fun. The game is all about 
 you being good or evil. There are some critical moments in which you should choose the good or 
 the evil like kill someone or let him live. You will dig graves to find important things that will 
 help you in your journey. The game offers excellent battles, good story line although when you 
 beat the game you can't start all over again on higher difficulty like most of the Action RPG. 
 In this game the items are not much and this is little disappointing. I only regret that I couldn't 
 put out "the sword in the stone" (and I beat the game two times with a warrior/mage and warrior 
 only) .
  In the end I will say that Fable The Lost Chapter isn't perfect and it's not like other RPG games 
 that you can play for many, many hours after you have beaten the game but it's a great game that 
 you will never forget.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yorro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 1:18 am PT
Review:  Fable: The Lost Chapters continuous after the conclusion of it's predecessor, but it is an entirely 
 new game that welcomes old and new players alike.
  
  Beautifully rendered environment that looks realistic and even has a night and day phase that affects 
 the game. The graphics look bright and gorgeous. Very detailed in the surrounding that makes the 
 game look alive.
  
  Combat system is very simple but lots of strategy takes place, starting from basic types like attack 
 and block to dodging arrows and spectacular finishing moves.
  
  There are also a lot of variety in weapons with it's own strength and weakness. A range weapon 
 that can be take out enemy from afar, a melee weapon that can either be light and fast but low 
 damage output or heavy and slow but can chop a man in half. These weapons can even be imbued with 
 special powers like fire to give more damage.
  
  Magics are the main attraction in combat as it creates a game exploit if used correctly because 
 of it's overpowered characteristics. Magics differ from buffs like berserk or energy shield to 
 slowtime and mind control. 
  
  The amount of freedom in this game is quite impressive as it offer players a variety of options 
 which includes moral decisions, that shape the player's character in either good or evil, which 
 later takes effect on the story, the style of adventure, and the reactions people around you.
 
  
  The appearance of the character changes as time goes by from boy to man. These parts of the appearance 
 include scars of battle, amount of hair, and so on. There are also parts that gives the player 
 freedom to change it's appearance like tattoos, hairstyle, and clothing which also creates different 
 reactions of the people towards you.
  
  The people in the gameworld can either become attracted and admired by you or fear you depending 
 on how you look and how you make choices that affects the entire game.
  
  The choices are fairly simple as in good or evil. Choose the good side by doing quest like protecting 
 people, performing rescue, or fighting badguys. Choose the evil side by joining the bandit raids, 
 kidnapping high priority civilians, and bullying peasants.
  
  There are also things to do aside from the story like side quests, playing games, trading products, 
 marrying peasants or the mayor, buy a house, and even go to your local hoar house but these things 
 are also affected by the choices you make.
  
  Fable: The Lost Chapters is a game recommended for those who want a non-linear and deep role playing 
 game with lots of side quest and mini games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMelissaxpopx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I for one love this game. It gives any player the chance to be an adventurer, and is full of choices 
 which change everything about the game from the way you look to how the characters react to you.
 
  
  The original Fable was too short and the lost chapters was definately a well-needed extension. 
 It probably gives you another 2-5 hours of main story. 
  
  Fable's side chapters are one of the best things about it. From saving a brothel to guiding some 
 helpless traders through the woods Fable gives you everything. You can even get married; to several 
 people at once and single sex marriages. You can even become an alcoholic if you desire.
  
  Also for the gamers who just like killing some monsters Fable is very good for this. In most non-town 
 areas there are creatures of some kind to fight, or if you feel like it, some innocent traders.
 
  
  There aren't many bad things about this game and if you like a lot of choice you'll love Fable! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  Fable seems quite distinctive in many aspects of a RPG: the skill systems, experience point, characters 
 interactions and even its combat. Each of this aspect can has its interesting effects on the game 
 play, but on second thought you might think they have certain drawbacks. Take the way you level 
 up, it's quite odd because you have up to 4 types of experience and can only spend them when you 
 return to the guild. While it seems a good idea that you have to use magic to gain magic experience 
 and so on, after you reach the limit of skill level, this amount of experience become abundant. 
 In combat, the multiplier which can be gained by dealing damage and dodge every attack is really 
 a nice point. But if you take time trying to learn a bit about all the skill and magic you can 
 gain, the enemies through out main campaign become pretty underpowered and doesn't require specific 
 tactics or great effort. And now, about interactions with NPCs, I feel it pretty poor at first 
 glance since you only have two choice for each situation which is assign to 2 mouse buttons. Basically 
 it's a moral decision that shifts you towards good or evil path. But after a while, the discovery 
 of the emotional gestures used in the game is quite interesting: The NPCs tends to react very funnily 
 to some specific gestures. 
  
  The last thing I want to say is the storyline and atmosphere in the game. While it seems like a 
 typical heroic story, the developers have added a lot of humorous dialogues and comic factors that 
 fade out your serious emotions. For example when you choose to collect souls in the arena, Jack 
 the Blade, your arch enemy, makes such funny speech that you can't help rolling on the floor laughing. 
 At this moment you may have felt horrible hatred otherwise, since this wicked guy actually killed 
 your parents and spoilt the life of your sister. All the mixtures between heroic and humourous 
 factors result in a hard-to-describe feeling, in fact.
  
  Although I know that there is some serious criticism on this game, I myself appreciate the effort 
 of producing something quite distinctive, quite new in the genre. In that Fable is really successful. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WASP-Phoenix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  If your looking for an addictive, fun and adventurous game you've found it, Fable The Lost Chapters 
 holds a good story line, and great characteristics. It's not a massively big game but it is quite 
 allot of fun to play, due to allot of small factors which make it unique. Fable's storyline goes 
 for around 10 hours at average, not including all the side quests you can do, however there isn't 
 allot of them. The main story line is about trying to stop The Famous Jack of Blades who was known 
 as a hero, but is really a villiain, the story has allot of twists and surprises, so i can't really 
 tell you anymore without ruining it for you, but it does hold a full-filling adventure. There isn't 
 a really advanced leveling system you collect orbs from where you kill enemies, and you go back 
 to a shrine which can grant you to put the orbs into a certain attribute. The main attributes are 
 Strength, Magic and Skill, each one of these attributes has there own personal skills attached 
 to them, for instance Strength is more heavier weapons and how much damage you do, Magic is spells 
 and how much Magicka you have, and Skill is like Blades and Bow skills. So you can build your character 
 to how you want him to be, and you can also have a mixture of all these, because even if you finish 
 the game you can still go out and level up. Another cool feature about this game is you can change 
 your hairstyles, get tattoos, get married etc, it really does how some interesting benefits within 
 it. Your character will, as you go along in the game age, which is quite cool but the problem with 
 this is it's actually rather annoying because your character ages way too fast, before no time 
 your at the age of 55 before you have finished the game, which is rather stupid because your 55 
 slaying monsters and doing things you should be at the age of 30-40, having your character age 
 is really unique in a game but they could have made it a little more accurate. However there are 
 ways you can decrease your age in the game but i recommend not bothering because within 1 hour 
 of playing the game your age will increase 7 years. The combat in the game is pretty fun even though 
 it's point and click he does different combos and moves, and this makes it feel like your abit 
 more involved in the game. Even though Fable's main storyline is quite short and could be abit 
 more immersive, after you finish the game you can still go wandering around looking for new armor 
 or trying to unlock chest or hidden items you havn't already got during the game. But on the topic 
 Fable does lack armor and weapon types theres really not allot to select from, and in the end everyone 
 will end up having the same type of armor everyone else does that plays the game. But despite Fable's 
 little lacks of depth, this is still a terrific and addictive game to play and if you enjoy a good 
 RPG, you will get your moneys worth by purchasing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drcondemned
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Finished the game around 15 times! In every way possible! I discovered every single glitch of the 
 game! I downloaded every patch (almost not the foolish ones..) , Heck.. I even made my own patches! 
 I ripped the game apart! There was nothing left for me not to know about this game..! With a little 
 more knowledge I could sit down and make my own Fable game! It does sound kind of dorky being so 
 obsessed with a game.. but Fable was like the game that it came to me at the right time, at the 
 right moment, exactly when I needed a game just like that! Of course it has plenty of stuff that 
 they could make this game even! better.. but when the game came out was a revolutionary moment 
 for me..! (I dont play anymore Im w8ing for the sequel..) . I won't sit and right another review 
 about the game.. I mean I know it SO well that I could talk about it for days and days! and couple 
 more days..! :P if one of you out there haven't tried it out.. well... u know what to do! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Portal_Gecko
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Now apperently there was a ton of hype for this game but I never heard any of it myself so ill 
 skip that part. anyway as you may know gimic to this game is choseing between good and evil. (example: hitting 
 small children is evil.) now the only problem with this feature is that you can be either the spawn 
 of satin or some kind of godly saint (parden the religus analagy) there is no middle ground what 
 so ever!!! also it hard to be a bad guy when killing normal monsters gets you good guy points. 
 as for the battle system it is slightly above the combat system in guild wars. to sum it up you 
 walk up to something mash the mouse button and thenwait for the bandit (or whatever the hell your 
 fighting) to die. the cutomazation options are prety nice. even though you start off as the same 
 charecter you can make him look prety wierd by the end of the game. the story is decent. were not 
 talking half life or anyrhing but its above some things. all in all i like this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hello_Kitty_Man
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Fable is a great game that allows you to do almost anything in the little world known as Albion. 
 The major selling point in this game is that you can choose the path to either good or evil. I 
 started out the game as a goody two shoes. Doing every nice quest, marrying about 10 times, helping 
 little old ladies across the street, etc. Well then I got to the end of the original game (before 
 the new story kicks in) and you are allowed to make a choice between happy bliss or evil power. 
 Well I actually sat there and thought about it. Yeah, i thought. I could keep my good record and 
 destroy the weapon. Or i could do a total 180 and never be angered again. So I thought for maybe 
 5 minutes (lolz) and then grabed the weapon, slaughtered my constantly deserting sister and strolled 
 about as an evil A-hole. I love the freedom in this game. Even though the line between good and 
 evil is pretty much in bold with arrows pointing to either side you still feel natural. 
  
  Now of course as much as i loved the game there were some obvious downsides i have to talk about. 
 For starters marrying people was kinda bland. You flirt, give them presents, get them a ring, get 
 a house in town, and then you get a little cutscene of a stainglass window. You get a dowry which 
 depends on how wealthy the person is that you married, and then they just hang out in town and 
 just say "I wuv u soooo much" . Really if you're an evil walking abomination and you can't get 
 a bar maid to love you then well... you're not really missing all too much.
  
  Also some story elements were totally absent. For example your child hood chum Whisper is with 
 you in maybe 2 quests then when you get to the Arena you can kill her or spare her. If you kill 
 her obviously she's gone and her brother swears revenge on you. If you spare her she still disappears 
 and her brother just really dislikes you. In both scenarios her brother doesn't get back at you 
 in any way. Later when you speak with some oracles one of them will tell you that Whisper took 
 a boat ride home, got ambushed by pirates, killed them all and lived happily ever after in her 
 home land. Kinda lazy if you ask me. Could have atleast threw her in for the big explosive finally.
 
  
  Well anyway after you finish the story (or just not do it actually which i found kind of refreshing 
 in a way) you can go about doing what you want. Buying shops (which the only way i found out how 
 to do so is to murder the shopkeeper and then but the building) killing dudes/dudets or reading 
 sex-ed books to little children in school.
  
  Fable is a great game that lets the player craft his own story... kinda.... yeah lets go with that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ronagen
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Brought to you by LION HEAD studios and MICROSOFT GAME studios, FABLE is a tale about a boy who 
 must live his life as a hero. Filled with creatures that have undoubtedly been the most creative 
 in its genre. Good or Evil, light or dark, you decide the heros fate.
  
  The warm, untouched place of Oakvale is brutally raided by bandits led by the notourious Jack of 
 Blades. Your father is savagely killed in the bandits search for a young boy that is prophecized 
 to become the hero of heros. your legend is born.
  
  Called "Hero" by all. you live your life saving the day as your guild gives you quests. You save 
 Albion from Evil everyday. killing off many Evil Heros, you become The most famous Hero to ever 
 live. 
  
  Fable is a gripping game with a plot that is bound to stuck in your head for a countless number 
 of days. Fable is a game that will garuntee satisfy your need for a game that will never truly 
 end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerX_242
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 3:46 am PT
Review:  though i was really impressed with things like gameplay and graphics, it fell short with the Lost 
 Chapters where length was its letdown.
  
  Gameplay- gameplay is simple and fun and simple, the upgrade system and evil good balance really 
 lets you customise the character to your desire, of course adding in things like hairstyles and 
 tattoos, but the way you choose to play, has a great effect on the environment and will have you 
 coming bak to the game to change your characters lifechoice, 
  
  Sound and Graphics- the graphics are really nice despite a few touches that seem a bit unfinished, 
 things like spells and attacks look great with all the lighing effects, the sound is good, great 
 music and sound effects
  
  value- its not a game that you HAVE to have but its quite entertaining nd maybe you should give 
 it a try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevoiscrunk132
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Fable: the lost chapters is basically the same game as Fable, with a few added hours of gameplay 
 and story. 
  
  
  
  Graphics: Beautiful and unique. The environment is rich and colorful. The armor and weapons all 
 have a unique design. Character animation changes over time depending on your behavior throughout 
 the game. The facial effects are very realistic.
  
  Sound: Epic. Top notch orchestral piece. Nature affects are dead on. Voice acting is incredible. 
 
  
  
  Story: Typical RPG. A boy gets recruited into a guild of heroes after bandits slaughter his family. 
 Boy gets released into the world as a teenager and spends his life struggling between the balance 
 of good and evil. 
  
  Gameplay: New and immersive. Typical magic, Sword, and bow weapons with your different armors. 
 Battle system is simple and fun. Character customization is basically the bulk of the game. Choosing 
 between the right and wrong thing is fun and over-time builds either a hero with a halo, or a villain 
 with horns. Ai interaction all depends on how your characer develops, if he is a hero then everyone 
 will love him, and vise versa. 
  
  
  Pros: Simple, New, and visually impressive elements all giving the player a very satisfying experience.
 
  
  Cons: Even with the new additions the game is short. Although the world is a desent size for an 
 RPG, the player will still recieve the feeling of lineality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NitayClouda
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 6:08 am PT
Review:  There is no need to talk about Fable it self, you should probably know a lot about this game. Generealy, 
 its one of the best RPG games to hit that year [2005-2004] , with a lot of new elements & stuff. 
 However, your probably want to hear about The Lost Chapters it self, the excpention edition, and 
 not about stuff you already know.
  
  Anyway, The Lost Chapters add's new items, tattos, places to explorer, and etc. However, the real 
 big change is a new chapter that begins when the original Fable ended. It tell the story of what 
 heppend one year after the last game vents, and takes you to the so-cold areas of north of albiion. 
 This chapter adds a few more hours to the game, and the quality is as good as the original. Ultimatly, 
 it is a very good excpention.
  
  So far so good, is it? Well, here comes what really bodders me, the story it self, feels kinda 
 "Cut" at the middle. Thu the main excpentions tory is good, its like you can feel a big black screen 
 at the middle, between the point where the original fable left, and where the new one start.
  
  What makes it more of a problem, is that its not like I actuality knew where the expcention 
 starts, because I didn't [at that point] playwed the original Fable yet, and the fact that I easily 
 recognized that, shows how bad the excpentions tarts. Aside from it, thu, its great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necbone
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  Going into this game I was in need of a good rpg. I had been playing alot of strategy games and 
 wanted some fresh air. I had really no idea what to expect out of this game. Some of my friends 
 were like it's seriously fun, but I was like, "Is it like NWN2, cuz it has to top that for me to 
 play!". Well, it's not NWN2, but it is its own thing! 
  
  The game is arcadey, but has MAD soul in it and it has its own style, it has its own humor, it 
 has heart break, and also love. The combat is alittle lacking during the end of the game, but I 
 had a blast killing everything! Everyone should just buckle up and enjoy this lil ride, it gets 
 bumpy here and fro. Also, the story and the events are great too. I don't wanna spoil anything, 
 but there's alot going on in this game. It's worth a play.
  
  Bottom line, the game doesn't take itself too seriously, it's just FUN, go and play it now if you 
 haven't! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erik1116
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  This game absolutely stunned me. 
  While I await for the upcoming games next month
  (Turning Point, Turok, Frontlines)
  I wanted to try something new, so first i got the witcher 
 demo which i have just completed downloading the real thing.
  Get that game. 
  Than, a friend suggested fable. 
  Oh my God. 
  First off, the game looks great. I knew i would 
 like an rpg game because i did like the old school super mario rpg and final fantasy. But this 
 was just awsome. 
  If your looking for a substitute for WoW just to have fun on a single player campaign, play this 
 game. It's amazing
  Everything just works. 
  The only negative i could say is that it's pretty short. 
  You'll complete it within a week if 
 you're even a busy guy. 
  Have fun with it. Hope the review makes you want to get it! 
  Just get it on Iso or Bt... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luiggi_DiMaggio
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  When i buy this game, i knew this going to be something great, maybe because im in a Rpg Era, and 
 1 week before, i was finished the great Sw: Kotor 2.
  
  When i start the game, and saw the medieval story, i think, "this is going to be like Lord of the 
 Rings, just another copy",, but no, yes, is a lot of reminescense of the great Medieval Story, 
 in The Swords or Mask Choices when you can drop to the fire or take it and make yourself a evil 
 guy, But the story Shine by his own Right, is maybe too short, (i have to said that, i finish the 
 game in about 10 hours) but have a lot of climax, I have to said, the Story is Wonderful.
  
  In the gameplay, is just perfect, you can do a lot of thinks, and you have moments when you 
 can choice the good or the evil way, just like i said before, you can enter houses and stolen, 
 you can marriadge whit anybody, be womans or be mens, maybe gets repetitive after some hours, but 
 the game finish in the right moment.
  
  The only bad of this game, is i going to have to buy a Xbox 360 to play Fable 2, or have the hope 
 of that some day F2 go to sell in to Pc,, maybe some day.
  
  p. d: sorry if i write like sh*t, but i really dont write to well english 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukiat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game, when i start to play it, i think, "what a boring stuff", but late, i was starting 
 to live a life, i was starting to be me in the guy, its a beautiful experience.
  In this game also you can give a side to your guy, you can be an angel, and white butterflyes are 
 flying around you, or simply be a bad guy and a red mist follows you and the people are very scared 
 with looking for you.
  You can also, buy weapons, potece it, and buy titles, do the missions of the creed, buy magic, 
 strenght, and force.
  
  In the point: 
  
  Gameplay: if you are a principiant are really hard to controle it, but then you can also get all 
 of memory.
  
  Graphics: really this game its not a game of super greaphics game like gears of war, but its so 
 fine...
  
  Sound: its reamarkjble because it has a great soundtrack and superb effects.
  
  Value: it is really big for microsoft and people whoul like to mix lineage and gta... EXPECTACULAR 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryguy35
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  When i do reviews i like to go for the positives to the... not so positives. First off this is a 
 really good game for its time. The graphics are beautiful and the world is fairly large for a one 
 player rpg. I love the fact that in this game you dont have to be a goody goody two shoes Ken doll 
 type of guy if you dont want to be. The good and evil point system in the game ensures that nearly 
 every choice you make will ether lead you down the path of light or dark. There are plenty of different 
 mobs (monsters for all you nubs out there) for you to destroy and good news they aren't repetitive, 
 and by that i mean they arent just the same monster thats slightly tweaked to create an illusion 
 of a new enemy. The bad news is the weapons are. There are various weapon skins like the katana, 
 great sword, mace and so on. The problem is that the higher level weapons look exactly the same 
 just a different shade of metal. So the only way your going to get some diversity is if you find 
 the numerous hidden weapons in the game, mostly behind select demon doors. Also the game isn't 
 as long as i would like it to be, if you really want to you can beat it in like a day or so. If 
 you have little free time on your hands though it should last you quite some time. All in all this 
 game is pretty great with an amazing story line so you owe it to your self ( if you haven't already) 
 to give it a try you wont be disappointed... much
  
  ,ryguy35 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesolateGrave
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  As one could easily tell by the game's title, Fable is a game that is told just like a story, and 
 the story remains full of surprises throughout the game. The storyline is one of many things that 
 sets Fable aside from other Action RPG's. When you first start off your adventure in Fable, you 
 will play as a boy that is trying to find a way to get his sister a present for her birthday. Your 
 father gives you a gold coin for each good deed you do, however, you may choose alternative ways 
 of getting the gold neccessary to buy your sister the present she wants. This alone helps introduce 
 what takes a big part in Fable, which is alignment. Your alignment adjusts according to the decisions 
 you make throughout the game, and even with the main quest, this works very well. Certain factors 
 that contribute to whether you become good or evil are saving or killing people. choosing whether 
 or not to steal things, what type of armor you decide to wear, and which side quests (if any) , 
 you decide to choose.
  
  Shortly after your first task, you find to discover that bandits have raided your town, killing 
 your family members. In the next cinematic, which comes shortly after, you find a man named Maize, 
 which is who ultimately guides you throughout the game. He then brings you to a guild, which is 
 from then on your home. The guild mainly introduces to you the different styles of combat offered, 
 and it also has a few side-quests you can choose to complete as well. However, your stay in the 
 guild is not a long one, and after you have completed all of your training, you can choose to either 
 progress directly to the years of adulthood, or remain a teenager for as long as you choose. However, 
 you do not progress any further in the game until you decide to progress to adulthood. When you 
 finally decide to give up your teenage years, you then carry on with the main quest, and you recieve 
 a guild crest, which allows you to teleport back to the guild, which is useful for using your experience 
 points to level up certain skills, as well as teleport other places as well.
  
  The combat system in Fable is for the most part, well-done. However there are a few spells that 
 have too much of an advantage over others, which makes it a little bit unbalanced. Despite this 
 minor flaw, it still keeps the game fun. Eventually in the game, you get a combat multiplier, which 
 increases as you hit enemies without getting hit. This combat multiplier unleashes a very powerful 
 and unblockable attack, which is absolutely neccessary in certain situations. Aside from this, 
 you can (obviously) , dodge and block. Blocking attacks is simple, and can be done by holding the 
 middle mouse button, and dodging is simply blocking while moving.
  
  For the most part, Fable is a pretty easy game to get through. However, you do run into some challenges. 
 The enemies each have their own strategies of attacking you and defending themselves, and each 
 of the different kinds of enemies attacks are basically a pattern, and finding out their patterns 
 whlie coming up with strategies of your own can be a big help, especially when you are fighting 
 bosses. I assume the real reason behind why the game is so easy, is the fact that you can use as 
 many potions as you can carry and afford, without having to worry about a cooldown of any sort. 
 Aside from this, Resurrection vials (which are fairly easy to obtain) make the game a bit too easy. 
 The biggest challenge in the game, as with most games, is the end. Unlike and of the other bosses, 
 the last boss requires you to use your bow or magic at a certain point, which can be a rather bad 
 thing for players who had never increased attributes of any of these skills. Nevertheless, he is 
 still beatable. And after you have beat the "final boss", there are luckily different options to 
 choose from, which will decide on how good or evil you really want to be. Aside from quests, there 
 are many other things to do in your adventure through Fable, and in order to get the full enjoyment 
 of the game, it is best just to take it slow. For one thing, Marriage is a new idea introduced 
 in this game. However, it is not particularly good for anything, and is mentioned once in the game, 
 but when participating in this, it doesn't make the game any different. You can also buy property, 
 which, like the marriage, does not progress you anywhere. One thing that does help you, is silver 
 keys you can find in various places you travel through in the game. These silver keys can unlock 
 certain chests, and when acquired a decent amount, they can give you some very nice rewards. One 
 very lackluster part of Fable, is its armor and weapon system. Although both the weapons and armor 
 are well balanced out, one could complain that there are simply not enough of them. You can choose 
 from Iron, Steel, and Obsidian (the most powerful kind available to buy) , as well as rewards you 
 have recieved. If you'd like to customize your weapon a bit, you can always imbue it with augumentations, 
 which can enhance your weapon and make it more powerful with certain elements.
  
  One of the very first things that many players will notice, is that Fable is graphically outstanding. 
 Perhaps it is the art that contributes to this, and while this isn't gameplay related, the beautiful 
 environments you venture through and spells you cast make the game more pleasing to look at. One 
 downfall with the graphics (probably the only one) would be that the shadows make a ridiculous 
 performance impact, and don't particularly make the game look much better. The game also sounds 
 great as well, and its atmospheric music and ambience can really draw you in. However, some of 
 the characters seem to repeat the same lines over and over again, which can be rather annoying 
 while you're travelling through a townsworth of people.
  
  When the game ends, there isn't much more to it. After defeating the last boss, you can choose 
 to continue completing any quests you have missed, or you can just experiment with some things 
 you may have not gotten to. Even with its rather short storyline and minor shortcomings, Fable 
 is definitely a game worth purchasing, and should be considered by anyone who is a fan of Action-RPG's. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cradleofbodom
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Fable: Lost chapters is a decent game. The game has some truely original ideas of how rpgs should 
 go, while building one some older ideas. Let me go into a little more detail.
  
  In this game you play as a person who looses his family and get stuck in a world were you must 
 decide to the right thing, or destroy and rule all. You have some very unique fighting abilitys 
 and entertaining quests to do. The game has a teleport ability that is quite usful, instead of 
 walking or having to use some kind of mana. The good or evil choice is rather funny in my opinion. 
 If your perfictly good you get a little angel teara and get tats all over you to look like nick's 
 avitar. If decide that good is for sissys, and go for the evil side, you become a red glowing person, 
 with ugly scars, red eyes and devil horns that grow as you grow deeper into darkness. The quests 
 arnt all that challanging, but still fun, with rewards usualy worth the time. There are some other 
 features in this game that you didn't normaly see around the time of it's release. You can get 
 married, and give your wife gifts and things, or beat the crap out of until she leaves you, kind 
 of stupid but hay, w/e. You can become a drunk, get discolored screens and puke. You can become 
 a big fatty if you eat to much, and you get REALLY old the longer you play. There are a few things 
 that arn't that good with this game. First off there arn't many kinds of armour or weapons, theres 
 not much in the way of melee combat area, and I didn't much like the idea of you owning your own 
 house of hooker which you can do things to, especially the old lady, BLAH! 
  
  Overrall the game was quite decent and deserves a decent rating, a game you should play in your 
 free time, many many things to do in this game that will entertain you for some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackwhite1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  well, what can you say? fable is an incredible game. at least, the lost chapters is. the original 
 fable was a pile of ****, much 2 short and 2 little weopens.
  
  the game starts you of typical RPG style, youre parents are massacred by the baddies, and you are 
 whipped of to learn magic and combat in some local hero acadamy. this part is the worst in the 
 game. it does a good job of introducing you to the controls, but its unecessarilly long. you then 
 finally get out of the "heros guild", and get to kick some ass. the game rotates of you going around 
 doing quests. after each quest you get the money. you may also just go out and kill some bandits, 
 gaurds, whatever you feel like killing. 
  
  the game gives you an enourmes sense of freedom, and you will spend hours just walking around, 
 discovering things. 
  
  one of the rare tedious things is that you have to constantly chose between good and evil. the 
 first few times, this is awesome, but then you will slowly get tired of it. there is no middle 
 ground, for most of the game you will be walking around with either big horns on your head, or 
 a halo and butterflies. this will suitibly piss you off. the NPCS will react o what you are. if 
 you are evil they will scream and run, if you are good they will clap and cheer. however much you 
 like this at the start, after about 4 hours it will annoy you beyond meussure. another thing that 
 makes you want to quit the effing game is the countless invisble walls you will encounter along 
 your way. there are countless worlds, however, these are all relativly small. having said that, 
 the game came out for xbox, so you cant really complain.
  
  enough moaning, lets get down to the positive things. the combat system is very good, its enourmous 
 fun killing things. from my perspective, it has just the right combination of button-bashing and 
 skill/tactic. you will need to collect some expeirience orbs with which you can power yourself 
 up in 3 ways (physic, will, skill) . the quests are all suitibely challenging, and its always nice 
 when you collect the money at the and see your money bag bulging. getting married is something 
 thats quite nice, its just a little weird that you can marry 20 people and noone seems to care, 
 not even one of your many wifes. treat them and they get you presents, but other than that there 
 really is no point in getting married. 
  the sense of homour in fable is ok most of the time, as long as you dont hate british accents. 
 
  
  oh, and it will take you ages to finish. most of the main bosses are insultingly easy, sometimes 
 even more of a  type job, not a this-is-loads-of-fun job. having 
 said that the side quests are loads of fun. 
  but the thing that makes fable last so long is that just when you think you have every suit, every 
 spell maxed out, every legandary weopen, something else that is missing in your collection will 
 pop up. there is always a demon-door to be opened, always a chest that you missed/havent got enough 
 keys to open. and its fun just going back to slit some bandits guts iopen.
  
  
  all in all, fable is a very good game, but its only flaw is the constant massive evil/massive good 
 desission. otherwise, great fun, i can only reccomend it to everyone that has ever liked RPG's. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikinikin
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  Fable is a great game. It's truly addictive. Its storyline is like in a fairy tale. It's near standard 
 but it's told in an exellent, fabulous way that it really sucks you in. It was promised to be the 
 greatest RPG of all time, and, while not-so-deep in roleplaying, it is a great mix of RPG and action. But 
 mostly, it's and RPG. You collect gold and experience but you don't level up. Instead, you spend the 
 experience points in various skills and spells who are divided into 3 categories-spells, skills 
 associated with speed, cunning and fighting with bow, and a category for those who love to fight 
 with melee weapons and like to have BIG health bar (and believe me, it can become really BIG) . You 
 gather experience by collecting experience orbs from fallen monsters but you also get a type of 
 experience when you fight-streng xp when fighting melee, dexterity xp when selling items or shooting 
 with the bow, and magic xp when you use spells. You can also increase your xp with special potions 
 who are rarely found in the land of Albion (the world in Fable) . You can buy potions from the shops 
 and you can buy weapons, armor or gifts, too.
  The combat is really simple and it's intuitive. You pump on the left mouse button and when your 
 weapon shines, you can make a really powerful hit when hitting the right mouse button. The spell 
 combat is a little more complex and it's mostly connected with the keyboard, but the hardest to 
 do combat is fighting with bow. I recommend fighting mostly with melee weapons and sometimes-with 
 spells (the Heal Life and Divine Wrath spells are extremely useful) .
  The storyline tells of a boy who loses his parents and his sister gets captured by bandits. The 
 boy trains in an academy and becomes a great hero, the begins to search for his lost sister. I won't 
 spoil the game after that, but believe me, the storyline is really charming and told in an exellent 
 way.
  You can even marry in this game! You will have to use your gestures to attract women and then, give 
 them gifts. Then they'll want a house to live in and when you give them it, you are married. There 
 is a way to get a rich woman with doing a quest. Her name is Lady Gray. But you'll encounter her 
 later in the game.
  The graphics are very stylish and really make you feel like in a fairy tale. They are bright and 
 colourful and the water is also very good for its time. It may be not technically impressive, but 
 in terms of style and feeling it's amazing. The sound is really good, the dialogues are greatly voiced 
 and the music is really fabulous. It's composed by Dany Elfman and I really love it.
  The game is too short for and RPG. You can beat her for 40 hours, and that's with the side quests. This 
 is the only negative point of the game.
  My conclusion is: find the game, play it, beat it! It doesn't matter if you're a fan of RPG or action 
 games, every real gamer should have played it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dustm17
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  After playing through many RPGS, many many Rpgs, I have to say I absolutely love Fable. It is so 
 open ended, it is a lush environment, and above all it is a ton of fun. The battle system isn't 
 all that intuitive (click, click, click) but when you throw in some bad ass spells at your fingertips 
 along with cooler and more powerful weapons, the battle system gets much more exciting.
  
  Your character can be customized in several ways: armor, haircut, tattoo, weaponry etc. You can 
 become good, evil whatever you wanted. It is a pretty open-ended world, which is loads of fun. 
 
  
  The story is well written as well. The expansion for the game (PC version) was quite a bit of fun. 
 The ending was a bit cliche'd (not going to spoil it) but enjoyable nonetheless. And what's better? 
 After you beat the game you can keep going around the world as the most evil or most good guy in 
 the land. I enjoy the evil side and cutting down guards with one slice. This game is definitely 
 worth checking out for any RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArturiusMaxwell
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  This was interesting, not really unique or new but a recycled and spruced up version of another 
 game which name evades my memory at this moment. 
  
  You start out as a plucky youth, you end up as.. well you end up as a hero or a villan but either 
 way unlike other games being evil can be entertaining. Its not like jedi academy where its more 
 interesting being the good guy, this has done what many moderators have feared, its made evil interesting. 
 Not bad boy not crude and overpoweringly nasty but raw evil. MWUAHAHAHAHA *Cough Hiccup* 
  
  I played this game like it was the dukes of hazzard theme song and I was riding down a louisiana 
 highway running away from the cops! Ahem that is to say alot. And although I never completed it 
 due to my computer exploding it was fun while it lasted and left me far to dainted by what I would 
 have to sit through to actualy do it all over again so I moved on and constantly wondered what 
 would those negative zone monsters have been like to fight? If you don't know what I'm on about 
 it occurs after Jack gets pummled into his grave.
  
  The characters you meet and even the quests you have to complete, though sometimes monotonous, 
 are fresh in this game. The environment seemed new and amazing including those mini dungeons that 
 you had to talk your way into lol
  
  All in all I played the first one hoping for entertainment and I got more than that so I recomend 
 you buy it even if you don't ever play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: migas_ermesinde
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  truly the best adventure rpg i've played in a long long time. sweet personalisation options. but 
 it is so short it hurts.. a game so grand and so epical should at least be twice or three times 
 longer that the actual fable+lost chapters...
  i just hope that for its sequel that minor let down gets resolved. when first news about the first 
 game sprouted, i decided that same that to buy a xbox..
  the features it promised: riding horses, scenario evolving as times passes, for example tres and 
 local people. those and many more astonishilgy great features were let out of the final version. 
 what a shame. but understandable.
  as for the new installment i just hope that all those marvellous things that were promised for 
 fable 1 make their way into the final version, alongside with a much bigger, epic, gripping storyline 
 and game plot.
  with people as peter moulineux (sorry if it is not right properly) it will be the new game of the 
 year for sure. and i think i talk for everyone when i say that i don't mind waiting another whole 
 year if it meas the game gets perfected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karl319
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 4:25 am PT
Review:  Fable The Lost Chapters... it's a great, albeit, very, short ride (I beat the thing in 10 hours, 
 and that was with "taking my time") .
  
  
  Graphics, the graphics are quite excellent. Most notably the water looks great, beautiful at spots 
 even, a lovely ripple and distortion effect when you stand in it and clear reflections. The other 
 graphics fit well with the kids book fantasy theme the game leaves off and there are not excessively 
 graphics intensive areas to worry about. Even tho it wouldn't be of much use, some bump or normal 
 maps could've made a world of wonder at some spots. Tho all in all the graphics do their job just 
 fine, character models look just right for the surrealistic theme. Armors and weapons, tho in very 
 very short supply, fit with the characters with their over sized nature. And the best part is, 
 you don't need a modern machine to enjoy the thrill of fighting a kraken or roaming thick woods.
 
  
  Gameplay, the gameplay is to an extent quite enjoyable but lacking in areas. The game gets very 
 easy around a quarter through, and especially if you purchase the slow-down-time spell. Then it 
 just gets ridiculously easy. Even against the later bosses. The fun thing is that the first time 
 you fight a certain type of enemy, it's like a miniature boss fight. But later on you face them 
 in the dozens without breaking a sweat. One of the main problems is that there isn't exactly a 
 lot to buy in the stores, you end up with the best stuff in no time and end up wanting more to 
 choose from. And since the game doesn't have any SDK and a limited amount of user content, it leaves 
 something to be desired for again. However, the hack, slash, block and dodge system of combat works 
 fairly well, tho using the auto-lock-on of bows and crossbows gets annoying. It's a bit hard to 
 get used to. 
  
  The game has a good and evil system in it, do bad, become bad, do good, become good, sounds logical 
 right. Now being the fanatic I am I had to get the good AND bad endings for the game, and I must 
 say I was rather let down with both. If you become evil... you can play the game on after the last 
 battle... but what's the point? It's insanely boring and NO one thought of the option of being 
 a good-villain, so no matter how much good you do people will hate you. If you beat the good way, 
 yay for you, you don't get to play on and take the credit, heck, I didn't even have time to get 
 married in the game, I thought I would. Being able to buy houses, show off trophies on your walls, 
 is unfortunately all in all not so useful, but more of one of the many "just there" features in 
 the game that could've been expanded on. It's a wonder how they dedicated years of their life to 
 making a 10 hour game. A good one, yes, but really, theres a lot of room for improvement. And was 
 adding actually attractive voiced women into the game so hard? Most women sound like nagging crows, 
 and the ones that don't, you can't marry... which is frustrating. 
  
  Enchanting weapons is a good idea for a feature but could've , yet again like so much else, been 
 expanded on... it just feels like, like, a demo, in a way... you want a lot more items and things 
 but you have to settle for so much less.
  
  Sound, the audio track is a bit short, but very memorable and fits well with the well done cut 
 scenes in the game. Other than that, slices, slashes, bashes and smashes sound fairly good, creatures 
 make their usual grunting noises and the villagers cheer on and on about you, or make jokes of 
 your name. I named my hero Reaper, and got jokes about "Reaper ey, any relation to Grim?".
  
  In general, a great, tho short game, leaves a lot to be desired for but for what it is, it 
 is a satisfying and at times exciting journey with lots of memorable moments and even a few people. 
 There are a few occasional glitches with the game, such as a crash here and there for me, but it's 
 not too bad if you've saved. 
  
  Worth playing, and worth a 8.5 of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tuky06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  This is how it goes: 
  (spoiler warning, althought the beginning part is kind of clich)
  You're a young boy who needs to find a present for your sister, after you give her the present 
 your village is raided by bandits and burnt down to ashes, you're family is killed and all you 
 know is gone and you're taken to the guild of heroes where you will study and train, after you 
 graduate it's up to you to forge your destiny.
  (spoilers end here)
  
  As you may know, Fable: The lost chapters is Fable for xbox with more armour, enemies, weapons, 
 and an extended story.
  The gameplay is divided (at least to me) into being a warrior, a wizard, or both.
  In this game 
 you don't level up when you gain experience, you just choose the attributes you want to forge, 
 such as strenght, skill, and will. 
  Combat is divided into melee weapon, bow/crossbow, and will (magic)
  It may sound complicated 
 but it all goes fine on it's own.
  
  My favorite feature in fable is the way you choose between good and evil, it all depends of your 
 behavior, some quests even have an oposite quest depending on the way you want to go.
  
  Another nice touch is that you can make your own tattoos using any image editing software.
  
 
  Final Score:
  
  The graphics are ok
  
  Sound is good
  
  Tilt is exelent
  
  Bosses are ok
  
  Plenty of quests and stuff to do are very good
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  
 
  Overall: You just can't miss this game, it's for you wether you're an crpg fan or if you just 
 want some action and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chezcherry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 3:10 am PT
Review:  For those of you whom have not either played or read the original Fable, i suggest that you read 
 a review for it before you read this review. the reason for this is i am going to write this assuming 
 that you have some prior knowledge of Fable, if not Fable: TLC.
  
  the original game Fable lasted from start to finish for me at least 10 hours of gameplay. keeping 
 in mind that i did not at any point simply rush throughthe game. Fable TLC for me lasted 13 hours, 
 while playing at the same rate. from this we can assume that Fable: TLC will last at least 33% 
 longer regardless of speed of gameplay.
  
  At the start of TLC, one could not have told the difference between it and the original. after 
 an hour or two, a couple of new side quest appeared. this was good but still not enough to warrant 
 the creation of a whole new game.
  
  Warning: NEXT PARAGRAPH CONTAINS POSSIBLE SPOILERS
  
  
  
  
  when you the hero, as you were known as in the game, finaly reached Jack of Blades 
 at the end of the original or my tenth hour of playing of either the original or TLC, and defeated 
 him (of course!) you continue to play the life of our hero as he travels to the hospitibal location 
 knoewn as the frozen wastes. this is the first time that we see completely new locations with the 
 game and adds some new weapons and armour and, lets not forget, enemies. 
  
  the final boss at the end of the game, i will not spoil it for you, but you will not regret the 
 previuos 13 hours of your life, i can assure you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterskywalker
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Fable is Rpg game where you take control of a man and go though his journey's. You can not customise 
 his appearance but you can change his action romance ect. 
  
  The graphics in fable are great. The characters, weapons and enviormetns look good, except for 
 the water.
  
  Sound:, almost everyone has a voice except you min character. Also the weapons have nice sound 
 effects while you are battling.
  
  gameplay: The game style is Rpg with a twist. You use the left mouse button to attack, right mous 
 button to do special attacks, shit + the mous button to do magic spells and the middle mous button 
 if for defending. Even though you can defend, you can still take damage from special attacks, and 
 back attacks with make it fun. Also the enemies can be tough when in greater numbers , so you can't 
 just except to aimlessy slash away. If you are not fighting, you can go to one of hte many towns 
 where you can buy a items, weapons, drinks, and even a house, witch you can further decorate by 
 paying more money. You can either live in the house, or rent if off and make money off it. Despite 
 buying stuff in the cities, you can do various competition such as the first fighting arena at 
 night, or donating books to the school people. You can even get a wife at the city. 
  
  
  The civilians in this game are great, and they act differently depending on how famous you are. 
 A guy sells titles, so you can be known as chicken chaser, arse face, avatar, and other titles. 
 However if you choose to be called avatar and you are not famous, the people in town will actulaly 
 say that you don't look much like an avatar. THe more famouse you are the more people love you 
 as well, and cheer for you.
  
  
  The main story may be short but there are side quests plus lost of other distraction.
  
  overall 
 this is a game worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etrnalconundrum
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:57 am PT
Review:  The thing that vexed me about the original was that, to have the most powerful weapon in the game, 
 you had to become evil. This made the game a bit one sided. In this newest installment you find 
 that there is life after what you have come to know as "Fable." You go through a lot more than 
 what you did before and find a weapon that matches the sword of Avoe's and lets you retain your 
 halo... so to speak. Beyond that, we see development in characters we only touched base with in 
 the previous game. It wasn't really that much different from the first but it was improved where 
 it mattered. All in all I don't think it gets as much credit it deserves and is underrated. If 
 you're a hard core RPGer and use them as an escape... you'll have plenty to escape to. I give it 
 four stars I really enjoyed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marty_Chonks
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty revolutionary, incredible game.
  Every game has the first few missions where you learn the ropes and find out what the game is all 
 about. One of the sins committed in the game is the beginning, when you're going around protecting 
 (or breaking into) boxes, finding teddy bears, and finding a cheating husband, then returning to 
 your father in between each to get some cash, then giving Theresa (your sister) a present. Then, 
 finally you get some action... why not just take that first part out? Why not just have an opening 
 cutscene where you're standing in a field next to your sister when bandits attack the town and 
 you're saved instead of wasting 10-45 minutes completing menial tasks? That is good time that you 
 could be using trying to learn how to fight! The only thing you get from this is that you get to 
 see the girl who got her Teddy back. Big deal.
  The first time I went through the game, I failed seven missions... comprised of two separate missions. 
 Rescuing the Archaeologist was difficult (failed four times) due to the time limit, but once you 
 figure out to just rush to the bottom and deal with everybody at once, no big toughy. Three came 
 from out killing the hobbes with Whisper. I commend her skills at the beginning. Jack of Blades? 
 Please... I beat him (in both forms; self and dragon) in one try... not your everyday final boss 
 battle... I don't mean to say that every final battle has to be a match against Tyson (shudders) , 
 but it can be... a little more difficult? So, looking back in retrospect, this game was easy... 
 too easy...
  Random system crashes FTW. Having to change compatibility mode to Windows 98/Me for compatibility 
 to run it (to those who apply) ? Random.
  Short, short game. I messed around (a lot) and it only took me 19 hours to beat. All well... it 
 was a good 19 hours.
  Enough with the cons now... pros...
  Excellent storyline, but it really doesn't kick in until mid-way through. Good soundtrack (apart 
 from Bowerstone... uggh...) Graphics are nice, and choosing between good and evil in-game is also 
 a plus... Chicken kicking! Instant classic.
  You may look at this review and say to yourself, "Look at the amount of cons compared to pros" 
 and wonder how I gave it a 9.0. Simple... the cons are minor (apart from length) and the pros (especially 
 the storyline) are simply understatements. I would recommend this game to anyone capable of playing 
 it.
  Best wishes, and have a nice day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wooglah
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  I remember when Fable was published. My roommate played it, and I had no computer that could run 
 it. Now, couple of years later, I played it at maximum, in 1680x1050 and I must say - it have that 
 specific fairy-tale look that is attractive even today, and even if level of details is made somewhat 
 obsolete by later games, like Oblivion, it has its charms.
  
  At the beginning, it would look like you (the player) have freedom of choice. You can be good or 
 evil, or play the middle path. You can focus on combat or magic, and even then you have further 
 branches to skill tree. Bow, or Sword? Mace or Axe? Fire or Silver augmentation that will give 
 your weapon even more power and special ability?
  
  There are also many mini games, like gambling in taverns, that make game even more free looking. 
 But it is not.
  
  After you realise that in one moment you have to follow quests that developers want you to solve, 
 and you can not even fail in process, you will give up of this rpg-like action adventure, and say 
 something like Hey, I could do this in Fallout or Arcanum, but I can not here... 
  
  Day are making sequel to this game. Will it give more freedom to player, in interaction, choosing 
 his own quests (not just couple of side-quests like this game) and his own path in the world...
 
  
  We will see... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legares
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing. From the graphics, the game play, the skills to the extremely interesting 
 storyline, epic battles and amazing environments Fable has it all. This game is able to combine 
 everything into an amazing game. Primarily what I liked about it is that the game emerges you into 
 it and you actually feel like the character playing. The graphics are amazing. Also the game play 
 is wonderful there is an abundance of items, quests, monsters and interesting features to expand 
 your character ( Ex. quest doors, buying houses, getting married) . The skills that you can get are 
 all unique and very fun to use.
  The only downside to this game is that it is rather short, the main questline takes about 10-15h 
 ; however, there are several side quests to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brycechua8
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  Fable is a great game in terms of its character creation and the things you can do with your character 
 to make him more attractive or scary to the townsfolk, and the choice between doing all the bad 
 stuff or good stuff is left largely to the player to decide. What's surprising is the way you can 
 customize your character's looks, down to his hair and tattoo, which is really cool IMO, doing 
 this modifies his attractiveness to others.
  
  Story wise, Fable could have done a better job seriously, it's too predictable. Furthermore, whether 
 you choose to become good or evil, ultimately you'll still be led down the same storyline. If the 
 story arced at a certain point due to your good/evil actions, it would have made for more re-playability. 
 Unfortunately, poor character interaction also mars Fable's innovative game play.
  
  One qualm I had was the spell system of using spells, having to press shift and scroll to the spell 
 I wanted was a waste of precious game time getting whacked around by the monsters. But the spells 
 were cool especially the assassin rush spell, however nearing the end if you didn't spread out 
 your spell levels too much, you will find it overpowered. I defeated the last boss in less than 
 5 minutes.
  
  Graphics for Fable were pretty good, with alot of attention paid to spell animations. While music 
 was pretty much the same throughout the towns, if the game had a different soundtrack for each 
 town, it would have made it much more memorable.
  
  Overall, Fable scores for an amazing character customization system, but lacks a solid story line 
 and challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowman290
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  Firstly we need to get one thing clear, the game isn't as open as they promised. Microsoft told 
 us the game would be open and free, we could make our own choices within the game wether they be 
 for good or for evil. However eventhough the total freedom we were promised did not arrive we are 
 still able to make chocies and do deeds both good and evil, and yes we do mean evil. But we will 
 get to that later. The basic plot sees you, a young boy, living in a village called Avalon. Then 
 one day while your out and about exposing the adultrers and breaking and old mans barrels for laughs 
 banditts invade the village and burn it to the ground. With your family believed to be lost in 
 the fire your are taken under the wing of a high member of a local guild. A society of heros where 
 you yourself are taught the ways of the hero to one day avenge the death of your family. The missions 
 within the game are supurb. They are compliations of the, dramatically outstanding and well put 
 together, main plot with many twists and turns along the way. Also there many sub missions used 
 mainly to boost your abbilities and experinceto aid you in the main missions. However these are 
 not just lazy side missions put together by a half assed writer, these are just as enjoyable as 
 the main missions and you dont ever see them as pointless fillers in joining the missions together. 
 Along with some very serious incentives these sub-missions include alot of humouress featuress. 
 Such as kicking chickens into a target and finding the deed to a broffel to help close it down. 
 This makes for one rememorable experience. The visuals are absolutely beautifull, along with the 
 absolutely seductive soundtrack they really help immerse you in the outstanding world and story 
 that the game features. Whether it be the beautifull landscape that is the subtle and sweet little 
 village town or the groosom, damp and law forbidden sest behind the prison walls.
  
  In between missions theres lots to do and explore. This ranges from buying a house, upsetting the 
 local guards by commiting the most evil of crimes and even getting married. Whilst in towns and 
 villages there are law men at hand and there are many things that can see you being fined or even 
 killed for your crimes. Burglary, Assault and even murder. You can stoop far lower in the game 
 but we'll leave that for you to find out on your own.
  
  Overall this game is gorgeous and put together with an essence of something that has been missing 
 from RPG's for a very long time. Ok there was an ere of dissapointment when the 'total' freedom 
 offered by microsoft never appeared and we were given a slightly linear storyline path. However 
 its one of the most gripping storyline paths ever implanted into a game. The game brings an epic 
 new ocmplection to the genre with lots of key old school features at the base and for this reason 
 it is a must own game for any fan of the genre. An outstanding 9.5 out of 10 Writer, Kevin Bowman 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smb333
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  fable the lost chapters is a good game that was released a few years ago after the original. there 
 is lots of things to do like side quests. the actual quests and endless fighting stabbing bandtis 
 and other little creatures.
  
  gameplay: the game can grow on you quite quickly as you soon want to upgrade yr strength, skills 
 and magic. it doesnt get repeative even after doing quite a lot of missions as they always end up 
 very different each time even up to the last quest.
  
  graphics: the graphics are good and you can really see the detail on the blood and the people whether 
 evil, good or plain ugly.
  
  sound: the sounds are fine good enough to understand clearly like anyother game you can hear the 
 cry of the people falling on the floor when they get a strong hit from yourself.
  
  time: the time you will spend on fable can vary because you can partly choose your own path in 
 it. but you may want to take yr time sometimes due to some missions will need good armor and you 
 need to get a lot of money for it.
  
  but overall fable the lost chapters is good thought out game bound to keep you entertained for 
 a while i you like a rpg where you can free roam killing people :D so i give it 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kroich
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  Fable: The lost chapters is an intense, fun and addictive Real-Time-RPG, but by the time you are 
 addict to it, it leaves you to the abstinence and agony of wanting more.
  
  The dialogs in Fable are very shallow, nearly a listen-and-shake-head dialog, so it is for the 
 game's main quest: short and linear as said by this game's Gamespot reviewer. The game handles 
 you incredible powers, scenarios and situations, but steals from you the very privilege of diversity, 
 meaning that the game is short in everything, since scenarios to weapons and armors, which is I 
 say again, not pleasant.
  
  To cut a long story short, it is a nice experience to play the game, but you must have patience 
 to not get angry with the short time you will have to play it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordakai
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Fable: The Lost Chapters
  
  This game starts off in a small villiage called Oakvale, your father wants you to do good for you 
 can achieve money for your sisters birthday. Complete all the tasks and you will achieve the money, 
 buying from the merchant chocolates, give it to your sister, BOOM!, bandits break in, raid your 
 villiage father dies, everyone is dead and your sister was captured. When you find your father 
 dead on the ground a bandit charges at you and out of nowhere a man name ''MAZE'' leader of the 
 heroes guild rescues you and brings you to the guild to seek revenge and bring justice to the world 
 or death. Becoming two paths of good and evil, depending on what task or question you choose. Or 
 just go around and raid towns w/e
  
  You will also be able to age, become strong, fat, skinny, getting wives, killing wives, robbing, 
 harrassing. Theirs so much to do in this game its unbelievably AMAZING.
  
  BAD- Nothing really, what really made me mad was that you werent able to carry a shield, and its 
 so hard to become good ( IN MY OPINION) you usually end up becoming little bit evil, dont know 
 why? and ''NO MULTIPLAYERRRRRRRRRRRRRRR'' not even PVP or something...
  
  anyways this game is good, the graphics are good everything is almost endless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigaman299
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  The first time I played Fable : The Lost Chapters, I got a bug (which I am unwilling to share) . 
 My first impression of this game was blurred, and I decided not to play it. However, recently, 
 I picked this game up again, and I gave it another chance. On my second swing, I breezed through 
 5 hours like it was nothing. Fable, as a game, isn't particularly anything special, although it 
 is definitely a game worth picking up for its price.
  
  First, let's talk about the gameplay. You start off as a little boy in a town called Oakvale. Your 
 father (I think he's your father?) asks you if you forgot your sisters birthday or not; and obviously 
 you have. He tells you that if you do good deeds, he'll give you money, which you can later use 
 to buy presents for your sister. The game starts now, and instantly, you are thrusted into a world 
 where you can be a good guy, or a bad guy. If you do good deeds, you will be rewarded well. In 
 turn, if you do bad deeds, you will be rewarded even better. It is tempting to do bad deeds, but 
 in turn, bad deeds are... bad. This game is a decent hack-and-slash, whereas the flaw with this 
 genre is that the game can get repetitive (which it sort of did) . The magic spells are cool, but 
 one of the bests parts of the game is aging (a new concept?) . In Fable, your character will become 
 older as you get more experience. Like the gamespot review said, your character will, in the end, 
 become a battle hardened warrior. This concept needs to be developed upon, but there aren't too 
 many flaws with it right now. The world is pretty big, and the story is great. As you progress, 
 your character will get more and more powerful. You have to spend your experience points on spells 
 and power. If you use melee attacks, your physical stat will go up, and you can use those stats 
 to spend on stats like physique or health. Same goes with ranged and magical attacks. If your character 
 goes melee and fights hand-to-hand a lot, he'll become bulky and strong-looking. If your character 
 is speedy or dexterous, he will sport a lean look. If your character is a mage, he'll have magical 
 power through his veins, and you'll see him have blue veins. Sorta nasty. Some more on physique, 
 your character should either block or evade often. If you get hit a lot, the blows leave permanent 
 scars on your character, and.... by the end of the game, they won't look so pretty.
  
  This game is focused on being good, or evil. Doing good deeds, or bad deeds. For example, in the 
 beginning of the game, you can choose to protect a farm, or raid the farm. Either one you do will 
 effect the way people look at you. It's nice to see the reactions that people get towards your 
 deeds (or misdeeds) . For example, you can steal; or buy. Obviously, stealing allows you to profit 
 more, but buying is more or less a good deed. Even with this, the character customization is pretty... 
 bad.
  
  The graphics in this game aren't bad, although they aren't great either. The PC version, in my 
 opinion, isn't optimized very well. It's still a great looking game, but there aren't enough settings. 
 The environments look brilliant (sometimes) , and you probably won't get old of the variation that 
 this world presents. However, some level designs are quite dull, and like the gameplay, can get 
 repetitive. The atmosphere doesn't fit the rating that the ESRB gave it, although they have added 
 certain touches. The character models aren't bad, but you'll see the same-looking people over and 
 over again.
  
  The sound isn't bad. The musical score is great, but there's limited use of the voice acting. There 
 could have been so many more voices, but everyone sounds THE SAME (except for the main story characters) . 
 They all sound the same, they always say the same things, and all in all; it gets annoying. The 
 music, like I said previously, isn't bad. In my opinion, it's actually great. However, the game 
 has much to develop in this area. I hope that Fable 2 addresses this problem. I know that they 
 can't satisfy every single person with different voices, but out of two gigabytes of storage, you 
 can at least add different voices for different character models.
  
  You'll probably be coming back to this game over and over again. It's not an adventure you'll forget. 
 You probably won't start a new game and develop your character all over again, but you'll probably 
 enjoy this game enough to come back and develop the one character you have some more. You'll find 
 that that way, it will be pretty rewarding.
  
  All in all, this is a decent game. I wouldn't give it an 8 +, but I wouldn't give it below a 7.5 
 either. It had a bad first impression on me, but made up with the depth of the game's storyline 
 and character development (not talking about hairstyle character development) . It's definitely 
 worth picking up for a measly $19.99 adventure, it's fun, and it's long. Don't worry about it, 
 it will last. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_moeha
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  I love this game because of its: great graphics, great game play, great of weapons, armour and 
 monsters, great everything! =)
  I did (and do) more enjoy the pc version (the lost chapters) because it has a lot more of weapons, 
 monsters, quests, etc its the ultimate game where you can choose whether you are good or evil 
 so youll never play the same game twice. If youre good it gives you a better feeling but if youre 
 evil the game is maybe more fun its up to you.
  Fable: the lost chapters is made by lionhead studios, makers of black and white (2) , and now theyre 
 making fable 2. Conclusion: its a great game and a MUST play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deepurple2004
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Fable is one of the best rpg i 've ever played. The storyline is very good and emotional, the music 
 and the graphics are really fantastic. One of the best spots of the game is that you have many options. Depending 
 on what you decide the future of your character is different. You can be a popular hero or a hated 
 evil guy. The choice is only yours. The pc edition is greater because it has more missions compared 
 to the xbox one. I highly recommend this game to all rpg die-hard fans. I am looking forward to playing 
 fable 2. But beware... jack of blades is somewhere out there... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoannaWeitzel
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  Fable the Lost Chapters should have a genre other than RPG. You do swing a sword and hit them all 
 with your bow, but there's little place to PLAY your character and shape it. The choices between 
 good and evil do not change much in people's behaviour and do not influence much
  
  Negatives :
  
  - terrible in-game menu (for inventory, spells etc.) - difficult to use and 
 navigate (it's a result of console conversion, but on PC it's a nightmare)
  - cannot customize your hero except for having a special hairstyle or tattoo and other stupid stuff 
 later in the game
  - too many cut-scenes shaping the story and too many people appearing suddenly and telling you 
 what to do next
  - extremely linear, choosing the order you execute the missions does not change much
  
  Positives 
 :
  
  - cute, colourful graphics (for some of the players this might not be positive...)
  - easy and instinctive fighting system
  - excellent game for younger players - little aggression 
 and absolutely no coarse language :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silent_Raven92
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  I got this game not long after it came out, and I came to it with high expectations from what friends 
 had said and from what I've seen, and I can tell you - it's all what it is cracked up to be.
  
  Graphics - The graphics for Fable : The Lost Chapters are fairly impressive. Sure, its two 
 years old so naturally the new games like Bioshock and Halo 3's graphics crush it under their mighty 
 boots, but its still a nicely presented game that could stand amongst others in its time.
  
  Sound - Fable has some nice audio clips and decent voice acting for the many characters that 
 are presented in this games extensive story. Your character will grunt in many different styles 
 depending on the weight of the weapon and how you have swung it. The wonderful game environments 
 set the atmosphere along with the great audio music tracks which ultimately do a good job at setting 
 the mood of the game. Gameplay - The best aspect of this game is of course, its game play. This 
 game is basically a choose your path rpg, allowing you to mould yourself into a sinister mage or 
 a holy warrior (obviously more possibilities) The path of good and evil you take will alter how 
 people react to you, your appearance and the availability of quests and the multiple outcomes that 
 can come from them. Fable, being an action RPG, allows you to level up, purchase and equip various 
 weapons and armor, and allows you to pit your skills against almost everything around you - whether 
 it be the town guards, bandits, or civilians. This game also has excellent replay value, allowing 
 you to go back and play the games missions again and again (you have to start a new game though...) 
 or alternatively, you could just go around wiping out various different kinds of enemies, from 
 Golems to wasps and bandits to the undead.
  
  This game is a must for any RPG fan, and in fact, i recommend this for any PC owner, especially 
 RPG fans and people that love choose your own action adventures. I have spent many hours on this 
 game, and I'm sure everyone that gives Fable The Lost Chapters a try, will find this two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basangicu
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  Many people said it's cool, awesome, wow, what a game ! etc. but why ? Well you just can't get 
 your answer until you'll play it but I'll try to show you in words why is it so cool. The first 
 cool thing in Fable is choosing your own destiny : Good or Evil. You can change the future with 
 any choice. There is also a bigger story than in Fable 1 and The Lost Chapters also brings lots 
 of new items, weapons, armors and also tattoos. And now you can even make your own tattoos. There 
 are lots of new emotions that you can use, and finishing the game gives you lots of them. So now 
 farting in the center of the city is not unusual but not good for your reputation. But probably 
 Fable is good because it's one of that games that allows you to do almost anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo_champion
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Fable is a fun game. Great storyline, good graphics, and even good graphics if your computer doesn't 
 have as good of graphics card or RAM.
  
  I think the best part of the game was that the way you got experience was that if you used a mele 
 attack you would get strength exp to go towards strength skills, or if you used magic attacks or 
 spells you would get magic experience.
  
  I also liked the look of the armor. All of the sets go very well together and look really awesome. 
 It doesn't necessarily give you that many options in armor for each class that you may choose to 
 use actions in (Mage, Archer, Fighter) . For example, if you choose to use a lot of mele attacks 
 then you would probably choose leather, mail, or plate armor to wear and there were only three 
 types of each armor. (Dark Leather, Light leather, Leather, ect)
  
  One things that I need to clarify; you do not choose classes. There are three areas to choose from 
 to use experience Strength, Skill, and Will. Every action that you do (cast magic, hit with a mele 
 attack, shoot a bow) will increase how much experience you get in that area. (you also get basic 
 experience that can be used for any of the three categories)
  
  A few of the things that I did not like about Fable was that it did not have as much variety of 
 armor and wepons. To sum it all up, I believe that Fable is a really good RPG (Role Playing Game) 
 with a good amount of replay-ability. Although it lacked variety in some areas, it made up for 
 it with a good variety of quests, spells, attacks, and skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy_the_pipe
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  Overall, this game is pretty sweet. The replay value dwindles the more times you play it, but on 
 average, people can play the entire game twice before getting bored. (Once for a good guy, and 
 once for a bad guy.) Of course, if you're into the game hardcore, you might play it a lot of times. 
 (Then you might also play as Magic-only, Archer-Only, Knight-Only, doing each of these once as 
 good, and once as evil.)
  
  Following along the lines of Black &amp; White, the user makes choices that are either good or 
 bad, and this reflects onto your character by turning him into a horny* devil or a holy angel. 
 While not all of the decisions are good/evil, most of them are. I can't really say what any of 
 the decisions are without spoiling the plot, but a few of them are interesting dilemnas. (Since 
 choosing Good usually ends with sappy results that don't help your character, I'd recommend Evil. 
 You'll get more interesting story.)
  *Horny; something that has horns.
  
  There are a couple of problems with this game: -It's very easy to finish. Both in difficulty and 
 hours spent playing.
  -Oh my god, what the hell kind-of Map system is this!? It's like trying to read a book while Jackie 
 Chan is trying to kick it out of your hands.
  -Some of the characters are downright annoying. (Get used to hearing Try and get your combat multiplier 
 up. a LOT of times. Or You've recieved a new quest card! )
  -I know there are a lot of sidequests, but it feels like there should've been more. At least 20 
 or 30 more.
  -The ending brought up more questions than answers.
  -Some of the cutscenes felt vague, and I figured it would all be explained later, but no.
  - (This 
 is a minor problem) , but every now and then the AI craps out and the enemy stands completely still 
 indefinitely, making the fight not very challenging.
  
  **Notes about the Expansion**
  It's alright for an expansion, even though I thought it was just part of the game. Most of the 
 enemies you fight are the same, only painted white because it's snowy. The terrain is also painted 
 white. The Quest where you have to kill or save some Prophets is fun, but the rest of the expansion 
 is basically the same as the rest of the game. I found the expansion last boss less of a challenge 
 than the regular last boss. I would've liked it if the zombie Scythe was fleshed-out* a bit; he 
 seemed like an interesting character, but he never got a chance to fight or do anything cool. Actually, 
 the first time I played he was the only character left standing. (See next paragraph for details.)
 
  *Figuratively.
  
  But hands-down, I like the 'kill everyone' scenario the expansion pack offers. You're given the 
 option to kill all 3 of the most annoying characters, one-by-one. Given the fact that you've already 
 killed Whisper, that's basically every jerk in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamingeagle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  this game i just completed recently and I had a fun time playing it. I got so into it sometimes 
 that it haunted my dreams although I am not complaining. I had fun playing this going on all the 
 hunts and altering the different choices. it was fun to save and than go back again and do the 
 opposite. and after i became an ultimate good it was fun trying to figure out a way to take it 
 back down to evil i got away with a bit. there was afew parts in it that i found amusing i mean 
 come on a contest on who can kick chickens furthest ow and it was also fun kicking the decapitated 
 head of the bandits. it's a fun game and i enjoyed the hunt to get everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noobberry
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Damn, when i started playing Fable, i got too addicted and didn't stop for about 4 hours. Fable 
 is a great game lets you explore and let you make your own story in the game.
  
  Graphics: Inpressive, and stylish. It quite blurry on the cut scenes but else, it still good
 
  
  Sounds: Darn man, killing people never been so good. Gameplay: HELL YEAHS go to anything you want, 
 mug people, kill children, do a girl. ANYTHING!!!
  
  Buy or Rent: Buy this game is outstanding great to play and you will get hooked on badly.
  
 
  What are you waiting for dammit, get the game already and play it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferraria
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  Fable is a game where you decide the outcome. For every action, there will be a consequence. You 
 can choose to become a noble hero, a treacherous villain, or anywhere in between. You may decide 
 to save villagers from evil bandits or work alongside them in wreak ing havoc on whomever you wish. 
 Weapons: You are given a wide variety of weapons to choose from for your unique character. To name 
 a few, there are swords, axes, bows, and hammers. The weapons that you use will either be heavy 
 or light. Of course, heavy weapons inflict more damage but are slow and light weapons are easier 
 to maneuver but cause less damage. Clothing: The armor that you equip is another crucial part of 
 the development of your character. This is another aspect of the game in which you are given room 
 to customize your specific character. You can mix and match the clothing that you wear or you can 
 wear special outfits designed for specifc jobs. For example, there are the bandit (which you'll 
 have to equip in a certain part of the game) , assassin, dark/light mage, and dark/bright metal 
 outfits, just to name a few. (I had fun customizing my character, who of course, was the noble 
 hero.) Magic: What kind of game would Fable be if there weren't any spells. Here, you can choose 
 the magic that befit your unique character. For example, my character had assassin's rush, slow 
 time, heal, multi arrow, ghost sword, divine fury, and I can't remember the rest. You are also 
 able to level up these spells to even greater powers. For those of you who would have rather chosen 
 the path of the treacherous villain, you might choose spells like drain life and infernal wrath. 
 Battles: The battle system is perfect. You can fight hand-to-hand combat, shoot arrows from afar, 
 or use devastating magic to finish you enemies. Once you master these skills, you will able to 
 fight characters like Twin Blade (leader of the bandits) , the White Balverine (a mysterious but 
 dangerous beast) , and Jack of Blades (whom you will find out about when you play the game) . Life 
 in Albion: Fable isn't only about fighting bandits, creatures, and dangerous foes. You can choose 
 to marry and buy a house for you and your wife. (And she is your WIFE so if you go to your house 
 and talk to her long enough, something is sure to happen. Don't worry, they won't show anything.) 
 And if its more wives you want, you can marry again. Although, be sure that they don't live near 
 each other because you might lose both of them. Other than marrying, you can buy houses and rent 
 them out for money, and also buy pubs and shops. Story: Don't think that I forgot the interesting 
 story that ties this beautiful game together. I'm not much for spoiling, but basically, you start 
 out as a young boy who loses his family and joins the Heroes Guild. There, you will learn how to 
 fight and when you graduate, your journey begins, as you set out on your own to carve your own 
 path. As you dive deeper within the story, great mysteries reveal themselves and you find yourself 
 unable to stop playing. (Well that's what happened to me at least.) If all of that didn't convince 
 you to play the game, then read this quote from the treacherous villain: ... That which I desire 
 I take. Those who would hinder me, I slay. Those who do not yet fear me will learn their mistake.... 
 You'd be lying if you didn't say that that was crazy. Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxCore117
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Fable is an amazingly fun RPG to play as it allows the player to decide whether they want to be 
 good or evil and level up their main attiributes accordingly. By making choices through the game, 
 earn you good or evil points. Choices such as deciding whether to help an innocent man when he 
 is getting attacked or to join in yourself. I played it twice to become aligned both ways as it 
 was so fun and addictive. Being a hero or a tyrant is definitely what this game is all about and 
 I thought how they did that was absolutely amazing. You start as a young boy in a quiet village, 
 when on his sister's birthday, the village gets attacked and she is taken away. Luckily you are 
 saved from the bandits and taken to the 'Hero's Guild' by the leader. It is there where you grow 
 up and train in the ways of melee, ranged and magic combat. When you're training is complete you 
 are set free into the world and allowed to accept missions from the guild such as escorting traders 
 and killing groups of monsters. Although the game follows quite a linear path you are granted some 
 freedom in your actions and choices you make end up changing what comes in the future. You can 
 buy a house, get married etc etc and even after game completion you can play on forever. Overall 
 a fun RPG with a pretty good story line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Fable: The Lost Chapters A game review by Simon a. k. a. The DevilDweller
  
  The questions you may ask is, Why the PC version, why not the XBOX version?
  Its simple. Im 
 not a fan of the XBOX, and I love PC games. Plus PC version is better.
  
  For every choice, a consequence. More quests. More weapons. More choices!
  
  Imagine a world 
 where every choice and action determines what you become. Where you evolve in real time based on 
 every little thing you do. Fable is an RPG action adventure unlike any youve ever dreamed of. 
 And now more than ever  with extra quests, additional customizing, and extended content  your 
 destiny is your to choose!
  
  Good Points: Changing the look of your character. The freedom to do as you please. Berserk mode. 
 Having the chose to ether be good, or evil.
  
  Bad Points: Sometimes combat can be a bit tricky if your surrounded by enemys. Voice acting can 
 sometimes sound quite funny and stupid. Fable: The Lost Chapters is a very good game. Exactly the 
 same as the original but with a few more extra new stuff. More quests, weapons, items, choices 
 and lots more. Basically you play a young boy who everybody calls Hero You dream to do great 
 things. To have great power for good, or evil. One morning the young boys village gets attacked 
 by bandits. The bandits burned the village down and left no one alive. But there was one survivor. 
 Yep, you guess it. The young boy. The young boy has now lost everything. More and more, his heart 
 fills with rage. After the attack on his village, the young boy was confronted by man called Maze. 
 Maze senses great power in you, so he decides to take you to the HeroesGuild. There you will train 
 the art of melee attack and will power. The graphics are very good. You should be able to play 
 this game with a good reasonable graphics card. The game-play in Fable is very good. Anything you 
 do will change the way people think about you, whether they hate you, or love you, and will change 
 your character as he evolves. There is so may things you can do in this game. You can use your 
 skill for good, or for evil. Both ways have the same equal powers. The further you get in the game, 
 the older your character becomes. The more hits you take from enemys the more scars you have on 
 your body. You can change the look of you characters completion. Hair styles, you can cover your 
 whole body with tattoos. You can work out you characters body to become strong, or you can eat 
 till you get fat. You can change your cloths as well, dress like a poor person to a thief or to 
 an evil or noble knight, whatever you fancy. You have a lot of different types of sword, bows and 
 will power to use as you proceed in the game. You can get married, bye a house and even run you 
 own business to get extra cash easier. The game-play is definitely the best thing about the game. 
 So worth experiencing.
  
  As for the lifespan and the sound effect. The sound effect is good. Just pretty much what you would 
 expect from an adventure game. There is so many things you can do in this game. It just depends 
 on you really. Are you the type of person the goes from A to B like that. If so it should take 
 you under a day to finish. But if your like me and like to explore and fine new items and quests, 
 then you could be playing for a few days.
  
  Score out of 10
  
  Graphics  8/10
  Game-Play  9/10
  Sound  7/10
  Lifespan  8/10
  
  Over-All  8.5/10 (Great) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K4ss3r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Fable is undoublty one of the greatest Roleplaying Games to ever grace upon PC gaming - Or Consoles, 
 for that matter.
  With it's outstanding story, which I'll get further into later, combined with unique and nearly 
 perfect gameplay, great character development and lots of places to explore, then there's nothing 
 that should hold you back from trying this game.
  
  Even though it's a few years old by now, it still matches the today standards quite nicely. The 
 game can also be found for merely $20, which is a steal at that price, as you probably won't find 
 any other Roleplaying game at this quality, at the same pricerange.
  
  In Fable, you start out as a kid. Through the entire game you'll be met by choices, and you'll 
 keep choosing whether to do the bad, or good deeds.
  If you choose to become a good person, people will worship you, adore you, and find you quite attractive. 
 You'll be loved by most, and be a hero to all. However, if you choose the other path to Evil, people 
 will be frightened by you, fear you and in some cases, their last moments will be just before your 
 sword hits them.
  
  You live in the small village of Oakvale. At first, it seems peaceful. You run around, and try 
 to earn money to buy your sister a birthday present! You can earn money by performing good, or 
 bad, deeds. Not long after you give her the present, the village will be attacked by bandits. Most 
 will be killed, some will live to encounter you later in the game - But what you notice is, your 
 father dies, your sister has gone missing, and neither have you seen your mother.
  A wizard, from The Guild, will save you in the last possible moment. (Typical, they always have 
 to show up just before you're about to be killed...)
  He will advise you to go with him, and so you do, because the Village is now no more than ruins 
 of a once peaceful place. Immidiately after you arrive at the Guild, your training will begin. 
 You'll learn to master each of the three ways to progress as a Hero. Combat, Skill and Will. Combat, 
 is simply formed by strenght, toughness and health. They'll make sure you do better in close fights. 
 You'll be able to hit your enemies harder, take more hits and gain more health. Skill will make 
 you better with the bow, and also a lot more stealthier and quicker. it will also make you a better 
 salesman too. And last, Will is what gives you magical powers. You'll start out with a single spell, 
 but there are over 20 spells to master, each with 4 different levels! There are spells for the 
 good heroes, and the bad ones, of course. To upgrade and become a stronger and more powerful Hero, 
 you gain experience points. Not only 'General' points, points that you simply gain for slaying 
 enemies, but you also gain experience in each field - Combat, Skill &amp; Will. So if you tend 
 to use Combat a lot, by killing your enemies with a sword, hammer, pickaxe or whatever you prefer, 
 then you'll gain Experience for Combat. You can only use these experience points to upgrade Health, 
 Toughness or Strenght, which are sub-menues of Combat. Same rules go for Will &amp; Skill.
  
  Once you finish Guild Training, the civilians of Albion (The Land in Fable) , will require your 
 help at once, to kill Wasps. The quest is not related to the story though, as it's simply one of 
 the many sidequests you'll be able to take on, through the entire time that you're playing Fable.
 
  The story though, is much more interesting. You'll go to jail, fight bosses, encounter other Heroes 
 and much, much more. Not to mention, meet with your lost sister and mother!
  
  There's tons of different armors, weapons and items to find and purchase in the land of Albion. 
 Wizard clothes, if you love magic. Dresses, if you feel a tad homosexual, or simply wish to express 
 yourself to the other civilians. Assassin Clothes, for those who wants to be stealthy. Platemail, 
 but bright and dark, for those mighty warriors. These are only a bit of the armors available for 
 you. In Weapons, you'll find swords, axes, pickaxes, hammers and much more! There's a wide number 
 of various weapons, with different damage they deal, speed, looks and other such things. Undoubtly, 
 there's a weapon for you that you'll enjoy using. Not only are there ordinary weapons, which you 
 can enhance with Augmentions of different kinds, but there are also mighty Legendary Weapons! No 
 matter what sort of weapon you prefer, there'll surely be one for you.
  
  Even though the game is getting old, then the graphics are still quite good. They do not seem to 
 require a High-End PC at all, so if you've got a 5 year old PC, then you should be able to play 
 the game just fine.
  That doesn't mean, that Fable is not a good looking game though. It's got a lot of details and 
 nice looking environment as well as characters, weapons and such are quite awesome looking as well. 
 There are tons of things to do outside the main story - Quests, secret doors that unlocks if you 
 do special things and has an item for you inside (Demon Doors) , fishing, Chicken Kickin' and lots 
 of other stuff.
  
  To be honest, Fable is probably the best Roleplaying Game I've tried for a very long time. I will 
 truly miss the unique gameplay it offers, when I'm playing other RPG's. Fable manages to create 
 an awesome gameplay experience, with funny characters, story and lots of awesome things that'll 
 keep you coming back and play some more. The replay value is almost endless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThereIsNoEscape
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2007 1:20 am PT
Review:  As one could easily tell by the game's title, Fable is a game that is told just like a story, and 
 the story remains full of surprises throughout the game. The storyline is one of many things that 
 sets Fable aside from other Action RPG's. When you first start off your adventure in Fable, you 
 will play as a boy that is trying to find a way to get his sister a present for her birthday. Your 
 father gives you a gold coin for each good deed you do, however, you may choose alternative ways 
 of getting the gold neccessary to buy your sister the present she wants. This alone helps introduce 
 what takes a big part in Fable, which is alignment. Your alignment adjusts according to the decisions 
 you make throughout the game, and even with the main quest, this works very well. Certain factors 
 that contribute to whether you become good or evil are saving or killing people. choosing whether 
 or not to steal things, what type of armor you decide to wear, and which side quests (if any) , 
 you decide to choose.
  
  Shortly after your first task, you find to discover that bandits have raided your town, killing 
 your family members. In the next cinematic, which comes shortly after, you find a man named Maize, 
 which is who ultimately guides you throughout the game. He then brings you to a guild, which is 
 from then on your home. The guild mainly introduces to you the different styles of combat offered, 
 and it also has a few side-quests you can choose to complete as well. However, your stay in the 
 guild is not a long one, and after you have completed all of your training, you can choose to either 
 progress directly to the years of adulthood, or remain a teenager for as long as you choose. However, 
 you do not progress any further in the game until you decide to progress to adulthood. When you 
 finally decide to give up your teenage years, you then carry on with the main quest, and you recieve 
 a guild crest, which allows you to teleport back to the guild, which is useful for using your experience 
 points to level up certain skills, as well as teleport other places as well.
  
  The combat system in Fable is for the most part, well-done. However there are a few spells that 
 have too much of an advantage over others, which makes it a little bit unbalanced. Despite this 
 minor flaw, it still keeps the game fun. Eventually in the game, you get a combat multiplier, which 
 increases as you hit enemies without getting hit. This combat multiplier unleashes a very powerful 
 and unblockable attack, which is absolutely neccessary in certain situations. Aside from this, 
 you can (obviously) , dodge and block. Blocking attacks is simple, and can be done by holding the 
 middle mouse button, and dodging is simply blocking while moving.
  
  For the most part, Fable is a pretty easy game to get through. However, you do run into some challenges. 
 The enemies each have their own strategies of attacking you and defending themselves, and each 
 of the different kinds of enemies attacks are basically a pattern, and finding out their patterns 
 whlie coming up with strategies of your own can be a big help, especially when you are fighting 
 bosses. I assume the real reason behind why the game is so easy, is the fact that you can use as 
 many potions as you can carry and afford, without having to worry about a cooldown of any sort. 
 Aside from this, Resurrection vials (which are fairly easy to obtain) make the game a bit too easy. 
 The biggest challenge in the game, as with most games, is the end. Unlike and of the other bosses, 
 the last boss requires you to use your bow or magic at a certain point, which can be a rather bad 
 thing for players who had never increased attributes of any of these skills. Nevertheless, he is 
 still beatable. And after you have beat the final boss , there are luckily different options to 
 choose from, which will decide on how good or evil you really want to be. Aside from quests, there 
 are many other things to do in your adventure through Fable, and in order to get the full enjoyment 
 of the game, it is best just to take it slow. For one thing, Marriage is a new idea introduced 
 in this game. However, it is not particularly good for anything, and is mentioned once in the game, 
 but when participating in this, it doesn't make the game any different. You can also buy property, 
 which, like the marriage, does not progress you anywhere. One thing that does help you, is silver 
 keys you can find in various places you travel through in the game. These silver keys can unlock 
 certain chests, and when acquired a decent amount, they can give you some very nice rewards. One 
 very lackluster part of Fable, is its armor and weapon system. Although both the weapons and armor 
 are well balanced out, one could complain that there are simply not enough of them. You can choose 
 from Iron, Steel, and Obsidian (the most powerful kind available to buy) , as well as rewards you 
 have recieved. If you'd like to customize your weapon a bit, you can always imbue it with augumentations, 
 which can enhance your weapon and make it more powerful with certain elements.
  
  One of the very first things that many players will notice, is that Fable is graphically outstanding. 
 Perhaps it is the art that contributes to this, and while this isn't gameplay related, the beautiful 
 environments you venture through and spells you cast make the game more pleasing to look at. One 
 downfall with the graphics (probably the only one) would be that the shadows make a ridiculous 
 performance impact, and don't particularly make the game look much better. The game also sounds 
 great as well, and its atmospheric music and ambience can really draw you in. However, some of 
 the characters seem to repeat the same lines over and over again, which can be rather annoying 
 while you're travelling through a townsworth of people.
  
  When the game ends, there isn't much more to it. After defeating the last boss, you can choose 
 to continue completing any quests you have missed, or you can just experiment with some things 
 you may have not gotten to. Even with its rather short storyline and minor shortcomings, Fable 
 is definitely a game worth purchasing, and should be considered by anyone who is a fan of Action-RPG's. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 11, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Almost the best RPG with very good and deep story. The graphic and the sound got perfect quality. You 
 begin the game as the young boy and then tru the game you get older and older. In the game you can 
 find more than thirty different weapons and armors (suits) . The story is so deep, that you can play 
 the game over an over again. The only bad thing in the game is, that your charter don&acute; t speak. The 
 map is very big and in the game you get a lot of missions and quests. Its like living the whole 
 life.
  
  Graphic: Beautiful forests, houses and ....
  
  Sound: Satisfying sound
  
  Gameplay: You live your own life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeanReuben
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  When I played this game it was fun at first because i got to train my character and customize how 
 he looks and who he has relationships with and what magic and weapons he got to use, so i think 
 this is more like an action game than anything else. the reason is because most of the options 
 there are only 60% useful and stuff like the fireball and the dashing ability are probably the 
 more useful abilities than invisibility or earthquake or summoning a ghost avatar. I progressed 
 through the game and thought stuff on the side like sidequests and other stuff like finding a partner 
 and engaging in a sexual relationship was interesting for such a quick fast-paced game. there isn't 
 much variety in the range of weapons, just the same stuff except in different colors. the lock-on 
 targeting when fighting enemies doesnt create much strategy and fighting a gang of enemies often 
 consists of just hitting them over and over again which is boring. there aren't much variety to 
 the setting but the world really sticks to its medieval theme. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shwow12
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 4, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  this game has so much, your character changes depending on whether your good or evil, there so 
 much armor and weapons plus you can get married buy a house, plus you can kill anything that strikes 
 your fancy. You also grow older through out the game and that makes it very interesting and keeps 
 the game fresh. I really do think that this game is the best lionhead game out there and as they 
 work on it, it will become phenomenal. This game is for anyone who likes to control the storyline 
 of the game and change there character however they please, i give it a 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Npaviour
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2007 4:45 am PT
Review:  fable lost chapters is the expansion to the original fable . with even more quests and weapons 
 and places to go, it makes the game even more interesting to play. the graphics for this games 
 are outstanding, there are great 3D graphics and great sound. with critical sound effects that 
 really bring the game into its world the music is nice as a background too. there's enough of the 
 technical bits, here is the games reveiw itself.
  Fable is a game where everything that you do within the game, creates the outcome of who you are 
 and the the outcome of the ending of the game. the stroyline goes that you are a boy who's town 
 is destroyed in a bandit raid, you're father is killed and you sister and mother are taken away, 
 you dont seen them again, you're taken to the Hero's Guild where only special gifted students go 
 to train and become heros of Albion (bit like the jedi order out of star wars) there you grow up 
 understanting everything about history and training, until you pass and go into the open world 
 to complete quests that people of albion set heros to acheive, as the game progresses, you meet 
 you're blind sister and discover what happened to her in the past and you re-unite with you're 
 mother and discover who's been using you to open the portals to open the worlds greatest sword 
 that can controll the world, and find out who's killed you're father and brought all of this story 
 to you. along the way you are brought to make choices that will effect the way the game is played 
 and you're exprenice within the game. the game has so many things to do and so many other things 
 you can do, like buy houses, pubs, shops and rent them and colect you're rent, go fishing, go make 
 a family, go kill the dead anything. it really is an amazing game, you really shud play it.
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prince_white
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 3, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  Fable : The Lost Chapters is great game with interesting story. Everything in this game is perfect 
 but it's TOO short.
  This is classic RPG. It's about boy who wants to become great hero. One day , in his village , 
 comes bandits and kill his father and take away his mother and sister.
  Your character could be good or bad hero. That's a good thing in this game.
  Bad things are few, 
 you have small choice of armors , weapons , haircut and things like that.
  Fable : The Lost Chapters is great RPG and it's worth playing, believe me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muffshroom
Rating: 5.2
Date: Aug 1, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  RIght, this game is worth playing... but not buying. If you own an Xbox you should probably wait 
 some time until the prices run down and reviews have been posted to get it.
  
  Fable is just cut out of features, and were not talking about something little there, were talking 
 plot line. Key stuff. Basically, you cant really interact with the world. Whatever illusions you 
 have, flush them.
  
  Its kinda similar to KotOR II. So my final words are:
  
  Good, but pretends to be so much more, and not really worth it. Little replay value, too short 
 and bare-boned gameplay. Like i said before, worth playing, but not if youre paying money to play 
 :p
  
  I just wanted to add that all those flashy moments you see on screens etc are just renders. They 
 happen perhaps once, or they made it happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PacoTaco
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 1, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  Essentially Fable tries a unique approach to RPGing, in that your choices in the game have more 
 of an effect than just on the outside world. Your quest choices all have moral implications, and 
 your interactions with the game world have physical implications. What that means of course, is 
 that if you stay out in the sun, you get a tan. If you get cut in battle, you may get a scar. If 
 you kill a townfolk, you can purchase their house (assuming you survive the possible guard assault) . 
 As you level, you get older. As you slide towards good or evil, you take on angelic or demonic 
 features. Its a lot like the Sims melded with Oblivion. Not a bad combination. There are some gripes 
 to be had with the game however. Firstly, the dreadfully rich English accents. If being called 
 gov'ner by someone who sounds like a Sussex whore is your cup of tea, the voice acting will be 
 perfect. Aside from that, the sounds and music are not terribly interesting or noteworthy. You 
 will not be buying the Fable Soundtrack CD. Unless you need a coaster for your beer. Secondly, 
 there is no real character variation. Sure you can choose to go mainly down the archery, sword 
 or magic paths. Since neither spells nor archery are very powerful however, you will find yourself 
 needing to melee quite a bit. Battles seem to wind up being the same every fight. Shoot a few arrows 
 or spells, bring out the sword when the enemy closes and hack away. Definitely need more than a 
 handful of spells to really make magic feel noteworthy, and this game does not provide them. You 
 also cannot create your own character. You start off as a little boy, the same little boy every 
 time. So in a sense, its hard to feel quite as attached to your fledgling hero or villain. Finally, 
 the main quest is very very short. There is not a whole lot of replay value, because you can take 
 the same character back and forth from good to evil almost at will. With the three attack classes 
 being so shallow, there's absolutely no reason to start it all anew. Overall though, the gameplay 
 is a ton of fun. Although I have been picky about the flaws, its because listing the virtues of 
 the game would take longer. The graphics are rich and vibrant, especially on a large flatpanel 
 monitor. The gameplay and combat flows quite smoothly and its very easy to become a sword wielding 
 juggernaut. The game's controls are quite easy to master, in a user-friendly interface that is 
 evidence of the XBox heritage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mlazaro
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 23, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this has to be the most colorful game out on the PC. This game looks awesome on a LCD montior. If 
 anyone just bought a new LCD, u should buy this game, to check out your purchase.. Obviously theres 
 more to a game than that. I think the gameplay is fun, and it keeps on going. I love the voice acting 
 and witty dialougue, i lol'd at a few drunks and traders a few times. I also enjoy the different 
 personalties of the characters in the game. I like the combat, its fast and furious,.. What i dont 
 like is the interface, and the inventory style and system... I also dont get why theres all these 
 emotes, some are very immature and are for 5 year olds, like the farts and such. Makes me scratch 
 my head.. Theres alot of loading, although its pretty quick, but often.. All quibbles aside, what matters 
 for me, is its fun. Definatly nothing groundbreaking here, but fun.. Any action RPG should definatly 
 pick this one up.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FSchafer3
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 16, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I followed this game long before it came out. When it finally did.......... well that was a sad 
 day. A lot of things are overhyped with this game. The graphics are OK, the storyline: so-so, and 
 I fail to see what's so spectacularly innovative about this game. Ooooh your character ages a bit. 
 I guess that was cool, but I consider that just a kind of cool side thing. The good side/ bad side 
 meter has already been done. You can get a ?tan? apparently...... I hardly noticed. I can site a 
 lot of things that I thought were just kinda cool , but that would take a while. Past these things 
 though, and if you just picked it up without knowing about how it was first presented, it's still 
 a pretty good buy. It's better than a rental (for XBOX users) . Fable is kind of a little novelty 
 in video games. It has some new concepts in gameplay, I'll admit. It's not typical. Heck, I hadn't 
 even heard of Lionhead or that other contributing company before this. You will get a different 
 gaming experience with this game. It's fun to play, but is it the greatest ever?......... hardly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psic0delica
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 10, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  It's like in my case, I don't really like rpg games, just chronno trigger (from snes ) , but when 
 I played Fable: The lost chapters the fist time, I just had to buy it, and play for a lot of hours.
 
  It's a simple game, with a lot of choices, including the choices you make for the future character 
 to be good or evil, warrior or archer or even a magician, be gay or not.
  But the most important choices will be the good or evil ones, you can always help people, like 
 in missions or out of them, submissions if you like to call that way, or you can choose in a mission 
 if you kill or save, steal or keep to the owrnes.
  It's a really good game, where you character desenvolves acording with your choices, and you can 
 complete every task even the little ones before finish the really great tasks of the game, and 
 you can have some fun around the world too.
  And with all that has a great history too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ognen
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 2, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  Fable The Lost Chapters is an rpg from Microsoft. It's fantastic world, and the milions ways of 
 playing that you chose by yourself makes it great. Though this game is too small, it's contents 
 are realy exciting and are worth to be played! You start as a child in Oakvale, with your family, 
 but suddenly some bandits rob the town and a magician takes you to the guild. There you learn some 
 cool new stuff, from melee weapons, to archery and magic skills. The graphic of the game is fantastic 
 and is very well optimized for every avarage configuration. The two main types of playing the game 
 are for you to be good or bad, though you can be the two in once, by playing a little as good and 
 a little as bad. Play this game, is my messege... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ptg2000
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 29, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Good or Evil? Both are open to explore and enjoy. This game is hack and slash action arcade style 
 with a little RPG thrown in. You gain general xp by slaying monsters and xp with what ever type 
 of weapon you choose to use. For instance if you like magic you gain xp towards better spells (same 
 goes for bows and swords) . The story line is a little on the short side but side quests and free 
 play are both helpful in enjoying the game. You can kill off a whole town and buy it for yourself 
 (and reap the cash money from the rent payed to you) . You can even marry either gender (and go 
 a little farther if you choose) . I'd recommend this to anyone who enjoys story line single player 
 games as well as hack and slashers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JappStarr
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  Well, I've completed this game 3 times so far and I can't get enough of it!
  This game has it all: great plot, magic, awesome graphics, great characters. And the main thing 
 is that you don't have to stick to the main plot, but you are free to go anywhere you like, do 
 whatever you like and you can do your quest whenever you're ready.
  I loved the idea of the character constantly growing, so it's like you're going through his whole 
 life.
  Apart from that, you can do a few extra things, like buying properties, getting married, have sex 
 etc. Things like that make this game more interesting. You can also do a few quests on the side 
 for extra gold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sargefan19
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best pc games i have ever played i love the new features on the game. The 
 original story line was good but short leaving u wanting more out of the game. Well in this game 
 there is more stuff and even better powers especialy the 2 new spells they added which i find the 
 coolest part of the game. The lighting and partical effects on this game are amazing but sometimes 
 can seem to make the frames drop when u are doing a spell that affects a lot of enemy like divine 
 fury in the arena. The game is pretty easy when u get ur skills maxed out because it seems to keep 
 throwing low level stuff at u from time to time but once u start fighting creature who are higher 
 in level (and thunder) the game test if u knwo how to use your spells right. Also a thing that 
 is good about this game is the replay value goign back as the other side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdohaney
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  Just the story line will keep you interested in the game, and that is aside form the graphics, 
 weapons, armor, and the freedom to set your stance towards others. Also, the game has enough side 
 quests to keep you active in more than just the major quest lines; but also the game doesn't send 
 you into the next universe to complete some small side quest like Oblivion, which i might add destroyed 
 that game for me. The only advice I would give as to gameplay would be to ensure that you finish 
 the side quests before you really progress into the major quest lines. Not only will this up your 
 XP, but some side quests disappear with the progression of the game.
  
  So don't overlook this title. But if you do find that you dislike this game it just means that 
 you suck and should probably give up gaming and go back to reading harlequin romance novels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ecilam
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jun 22, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I have played a lot of games. A lot. And after hearing all the hype and reading lots of reviews 
 I finally decided to give this a try. It was only $20, what could go wrong, right?
  
  The fundamental flaw of this game is that it could not decide what it wanted to be. The graphics 
 are cartoony and exaggerated, just what you'd expect from a KID's game. But then you can have sex, 
 buy houses, steal from shops, kill people, and all kinds of other mature elements that feel like 
 they simply do not belong in this game.
  
  Actually they WOULD belong if the game didn't feel like a Playstation 1 Final Fantasy throwback. 
 Every aspect of the game, the controls, the lack of saves during a mission, etc... all made the 
 game feel completely like a console game. In fact I was sorry I bought the PC version (well I was 
 sorry I bought it at all, actually) .
  
  For example, when I first started playing it, it seemed like something my kids could watch, and 
 they did enjoy watching me run around and do quests. Until we walked into a cutscene with a werewolf 
 eating a dead body with blood spurting everywhere. Oh yeah, that was just great for my kids to 
 see. My bad for assuming that the cartoonish graphics and simple gameplay would not suddenly abruptly 
 lead to a rated M scene.
  
  The developers made a huge mistake. They should have either kept the graphics and made it a rated 
 Teen game and stripped out all the mature stuff, or they should have given us graphics that fit 
 the game better, given the freedom you have for your behavior and actions.
  
  Don't get me wrong, there are some neat things with this game (having to actually aim to shoot 
 with your bow, for instance) . But none of them, even all of them put together, do not make up for 
 the fact that the game feels like a rated T console game that someone hacked rated M elements into. 
 On top of that, there are like only 4 different kinds of equipment to get, all of which I obtained 
 within the first 10 hours of play. The skill system is boring and uninspired. I could go on.
  
  Suffice it to say this went from the bargain bin to my trash bin. I despise it so much I won't 
 even sell it someone else on eBay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaiKai
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 18, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Owdy and welcome to my first review!
  
  Fable is a gr8 RPG, where u write ur own story
  When in the beginning ur vilage gets attacked and ur the only survivor, hooray :x
  so the Guild 
 catches you up and gives you training for your revenge
  
  After that the game takes you on a thrilling rollercoaster ride trough the story, with loads of 
 freedom inbetween the story sequences.
  
  The freedom in battle is what's most interesting. You can bind ur buttons to skills, potions etc 
 to make the battle go easier. Magic and weapons fit REALLY great together.
  
  The only remark I that's its amazingly short. But the sidequests catch up mostly of that.
  You 
 HAVE to try this 1 if ur in action or in RPG games.
  
  Meh kinda short review, but first can never be perfect.
  Regards, Kai 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zephyrwwong
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 16, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  This is the true game following Diablos. After playing Fable, I couldn't find any other RPG game 
 as good as it even the Never Winter Night II, which actually reminds me about Fable.
  
  Comparing Never Winter Night II (NWN2) , Fable is much much more lively. Really ~! Maybe NWN2's 
 player could reading or leading the same story, and the alike heroes. But Fable, you might not 
 playing Hero but a Villain. A true villain!!!!
  
  And the skins will be completely different as the times goes. A true RPG. I even try to fixed the 
 problem ahead I got the mission. That's seldom happens in another same games.
  
  But I still use my arch badly. It's hard to aimed. And personaly I was trapped in the prison for 
 quite a while and couldn't break it through for 40 years. After i reinstall my computer several 
 times, i miss the game. And I MISS IT as well.
  
  For a long while i was just playing Mount and Blade, which compare the Fable is much more plain.
 
  
  If you didn't play it yet, it's a must to try. Every times you play you may write down your own 
 Fable, a different Fable. Hunred Men Lead Thousand Fable~! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameGodDerek
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 30, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game, can't wait for the second, my only complaint is that i wish the areas were larger.
 
  
  Graphics: The art style is distinct, and flows well with the game.
  
  Sound: Well made voice overs that aren't only great in the cut scenes.
  
  Gameplay: Smooth, 
 love how when you attack it doesn't slide you into placeo r anything like that, makes it feel seamless.
 
  
  Interface: I believe it works better on the PC, considering its a lot easier to push 1 through 
 8. Also like how it automatically selects something when you need it with the F1 through F3 Keys 
 ( ( If your low on health it will select a health pot or food) ) .
  
  Genre: Something different than most RPGs.
  
  Replay Value: Medium-High
  
  Verdict: Buy 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piyush_371
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 13, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  This game must need no introduction by now. As soon as you enter the game, you are not flooded 
 by cut scene after cut scene. The option to allow you to toggle friendliness is so good cos its 
 so real like. The graphics may be better though but they're still pretty good. Some missions are 
 funny and there are no cut scenes which dont belong there as they all link into one another. And 
 right after you do a nice task for your sister, some evil bandits do their dirty business - it's 
 shockingly amazing this game! The balance in the game play allows the user to easily control their 
 character through unique missions. This is a must-have game filled with detail and realness to 
 the core. Buy it before stocks empty... I'm tellin ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcgecko
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 9, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is all about fun, from masacering towns to haveing multiple wives. But to much fun might 
 be a bad thing. like the fact that the games story took me 6 hours (not with other quests) , also 
 the last boss is so weak i beat him with a mage without using magic!!!!, another let down is how 
 button mashy it is (especialy for woriors.) But it deinetly hea its good qulaties like day-night 
 activities and realism like how people go in there houses at night, and how you get punished for 
 breaking laws. A great aspect of the game is your choice to be good or evil from the start. +`s
 
  * There is a lot to do after the story
  * How you can change your apperence (hair cuts, tattaues, clothes.)
  * The fact that you can 
 choose to be eather good or evil by your actions. -`s
  * The insainly easy gameplay
  * Its realy button mashy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheerbro
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 28, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  Awsome gameplay, decent Graphics and cheesy talking people. What more could ya want?
  The story line is highly accurate and well thought of and the way you interact with other people 
 is interesting and often funny. Music can get quite annoying to listen to after awhile and loading 
 times when entering a different area takes forever.
  
  However Microsoft have done an awsome job with this RPG becuase its jam packed with all sorts of 
 goodies n stuff =)
  Like cheating on your wife for example... Where else can you find that in a role playing game?! 
 Goodfun
  
  The price of the game for PC is annoying since it is an old classic but
  for original xbox standards this would have to be one of the most inspiring games of all time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hanseltroy
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 27, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  i seldom play and i've never finished playing anything till this game... i had no expectations 
 whatsoever... i'm not really saying that it's so great... but that i liked it and continued playing 
 it... after this game, i upgraded my PC so i could just try and play other games that the so called 
 hardcore gamers does... and i'm not really a gamer! for the simple player like me, this game should 
 be fun though it's from 2005... can't wait for FABLE 2.
  
  the graphics are good as well as the sounds and voice, gameplay is easy to learn and could be played 
 even by kids. imaginative, uncomplicated, and worth playing... even for starters. it's not the best 
 game out there but may be counted as one that didn't go down the garbage bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Quanstars
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 25, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Fable the Lost Chapters is a fun RPG that doesn't deliver like it said it would but still has aspects 
 that will redeem it. Pros
  Good voice work well written yet somewhat cliche story
  good graphics
  fun side aspects
  
  Cons
  completly unrealistic combat
  too short
  too 
 few items and customization
  
  All in all Fable is great. The story is good and even whenyou finish it there is some stuff to 
 do after you finish it. Many ofthe quirks like breaking into shops, buying and selling houses, 
 making your own tattoos and wooing fare maidens really add to the gameplay. The main story is fun 
 but gets easier and easier as time goes on and the lat boss is just a joke, bu i still enjoyed 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonnyboy1219
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 23, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  I've never been a huge fan of RPG's but Fable was a great game. The ability to see the reaction 
 from your choices was innovative, and really added to the game. However, once your character gut 
 to a certain level, the game lost its sense of challenge, but the compelling storyline pushed you 
 to move on. The game has a high replay value, and a great storyline.
  
  One problem however, is the length of the main storyline. The main quest can be done rather quickly, 
 and your character does not need to be that good to pass each quest with ease. Also, the side quests, 
 although fun, don't add much to the overall story. However, I'm really looking forward for the 
 the second installment, and had a great time playing Fable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_G_H
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 19, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  Now don't get me wrong, I enjoyed playing Fable, but really, there is absolutely no challenges 
 in this game, it's strait forward and simple. I had heard from many sources that this game really 
 let you do what you wanted, so, when I got it I thought I was going to be able to be some really 
 good guy, or an evil man, those kind of things. Well... I was deceived. The game is just so strait 
 forward, the choices you have to make don't change much, besides that a character will die and 
 wont be annoying you later, being bad just makes flies like you, nothing more.
  
  The graphics on one hand are very well done, though I don't find the land to be very big and diverse, 
 it's still very nice to look at. The characters do have a cartoonish touch to them that reminds 
 the player that this isn't really a serious game, don't let the rated M trick you.
  On game play, well it's not really what I call an RPG, just hack and slash with one or two spells 
 you wont really use, (besides the strongest that take forever to charge) , the whole experience 
 gaining isn't really well thought out and you really do kill anything since the start, it's kind 
 of disappointing, your character just doesn't get stronger, he is the strongest, no challenges.
 
  The music is also a little repetitive, I don't find it that great, with or without it it doesn't 
 matter really. The voices on the other hand are well done, I do like the accents they put on hehe.
 
  The story isn't that good either, your village gets destroyed, you become a hero to kill the one 
 who killed your friends and family, there's a traitor in your group, bla bla bla, it really isn't 
 that revolutionary. Now, here's the big problem the game has to face, choice. I really did believe 
 that, when I got this game, I'd have a bundle of choices, that they all influenced the story. They 
 really don't ! You may look evil or nice, and people will run away, but the story stays the same, 
 it's really disappointing. Sure, when you kill some one he'll be out of the story, but the plot 
 doesn't dramatically change.
  
  So all in all, Fable is a major let down, it's just a beta of what may be Fable 2, that I hope 
 will be much more promising than this...
  Now Fable does have its public, and it is enjoyable, but not lasting, after what, 5 hours of gaming 
 your done and you rule the world, so if your impatient to kick everyone's ass, this game is for 
 you, if you like to see your characters progress, don't even think about getting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leonhartt
Rating: 8
Date: May 16, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  Fable is one of those games where players can choose whether they want to side with the good or 
 be a representative of evil. It may seem like to be an open-ended rpg, but in reality, it isn't. 
 Side quests (sliver objectives) will pop up now and then along your main quest (gold objective) .
 
  
  Basically, the player proceeds to do good or evil quests depending on his own decisions and when 
 he does that, his character's appearance changes to either a fine-looking warrior or a creep with 
 horns all over his head, based on an alignment system.
  
  Character classes available in the game are the warrior, archer or the mage . Of course, you can 
 mix and match as you want. Eg. A warrior who can cast magic.
  
  The game itself is challenging at the start but the difficulty tends to go down as your character 
 grow in power. After getting legendary weapons and spending huge amount of time to level up your 
 character, the enemies themselves become easier and easier to defeat. It would have been better 
 if there are stronger monsters.
  
  The good:
  - Unrestrictive player growth
  - Alignment system forces decision making
  - NPCs react differently when you're good or bad
 
  - Many weapons to choose from, each with different designs
  - Able to buy your own houses and rent them out
  - An arena to test your character during late 
 game
  - Good voice acting
  
  The bad:
  - Game loses its challenge about 3/4 into the game
  - Story is a bit cliche 
  - Repetitive 
 hack and slash 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimjim245
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 10, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot like many other RPG's that are out there these days. It plays well enough, the 
 combat engine is top notch and the character development is probably on par with anything else 
 you'll find out there.
  
  There are better RPG's out there, such as Oblivion to name just one but Fable stands well on it's 
 own and even though the main storyline is short there are many other things to do so you'll probably 
 breeze through it in around 25-30 hours.
  
  All in all this is a game that isn't to serious, Oblivion is far darker than this but Fable is 
 lighthearted and fun. There are some downsides though.
  
  Character interaction is really shallow, you can't decide what to say like in other RPG's which 
 is a real let down because you never really get attached to any of the characters in the game, 
 even ones that you are married to!
  
  Also the combat engine is a little easy, once you reach a certain level its very unlikely that 
 you'll find an opponent as strong as you are, with the exception of bosses.
  
  If you like fantasy RPGs then I recommend this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  Fable: The Lost Chapters is a game that would take you out of this world literarily. Fable puts 
 together action, fantasy and affection that lacks in many games these days. Action in the sense 
 of great fights and action sequences, fantasy has been brought out through great story telling, 
 affection is brought out through the ability the game has to bond the player with the character 
 he plays.
  
  Fable is basically about you, in the game you play and unnamed character who you have to build 
 up as you advanced through the game, this is one of the most dynamic games that I have come across 
 which lets the player decide on the choices that he makes, which could be a good one, a bad one 
 or one that is balanced. The game starts you as a young boy giving you many quests to play along 
 with the main quest, all quest could be finished off in more than one way, giving you experience 
 as you grow old, yes the character ages as you progress through the game. The game is a mix of 
 Grand Theft Auto 3 and Oblivion combined.
  
  Some of the dynamics the game offers are as follows, it allows the player to modify the character 
 as the game progresses adding various hair styles, and various outfits, there is freedom when it 
 comes to where you want to explore and what quests you want to do like your normal RPG. The choices 
 you make affect things such as your appearance and how people react towards you, what you want 
 to become is totally up to you whether its an evil spell-caster or a good warrior. You need to 
 collect experience as you progress which allows you to increase your abilities such as your fighting 
 ability, skills such as guile, and finally magic. You never get bored in the game since every area 
 you visit has something interesting to discover, such as special silver keys you need to collect 
 to unlock treasures, solving riddles to open a demon door, searching for new weapons, buying good, 
 plying mini-games at the local bar, getting married and yes even laid. There is great detail paid 
 when constructing the story of Fable.
  
  The GOOD: You can play this on a reasonably ok machine, the graphics and sounds are just breathtaking. 
 Sound is done by Hollywood composer Danny Elfman, and the developers have paid great attention 
 to detail in graphics, from the leaves falling to the textures on a grave stone. The game has the 
 ability to bond the player with the character he\she is playing creating an affection towards the 
 character and the story. The dynamic environment and the dynamic style you can end a quest is superb. 
 The game is structured that you learn while you play learning new tricks as well as knowing your 
 environment is great. Many say that for an RPG this game is short, true you can finish the main 
 quest just under 10 hours of game play, but the game isnt fun without the aspect of exploring 
 and finishing off the side quests as well. The length of the game is perfect; if it was lengthier 
 people would be pretty annoyed.
  
  The BAD: Other than the fact there is no multiplayer play I do not have anything bad to say about 
 the game.
  
  Overall I can recommend this to any game lover; the game has the ability to capture any player 
 regardless of what genre of games you like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danmotan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 28, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  it is a god game nice graphics good game play lots of alternatives ,like you can be gay and it 
 has logics too , to buy a house you just have to kill the owner, it could use more armors and weapons, 
 but it has a large map and it allows you to go almost anywhere and another nice thing about it 
 is that you can choose to be good or bad depending on you'r decisions it has a lot of dungeons 
 that you can go but some are not for everyone, example: to get in one of them y had to be fat, 
 or be a knight etc., it has nice new things that you do not see at other games but it is to short 
 that is the only defect other than that it is a very good game and y would like you to try it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SinCreator
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 17, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  The original Fable that came out on Xbox was interesting. It offered you the chance to take part 
 in the world called Albion, placing you at the center of its events. Though a lot of interesting 
 ideas were placed at the table (Owning several homes, marriage, bartering between shops, side questing, 
 hero recognition) They had almost little to no value. Though in some instances it may still be 
 the case, with The Lost Chapters, side quests and hero recognition became much better. For the 
 title of my review, I think this game really shone on PC. On the Xbox, it's difficult, at least 
 for me, to dive into a game. Fable is meant to be played as a game you're immersed in, you're supposed 
 to be part of the world. However, the Xbox doesn't achieve that for me. But on PC, the character 
 moves much more smoothly, the environment is sharper, and because it's all closer to the senses 
 (wearing headsets and a monitor close to you) allows you to really delve into the world. Let me 
 just say that the Lost Chapters DOESN'T offer new ground breaking content. If you were unimpressed 
 with the Xbox version, this version won't be any better. If you liked the Xbox version, and you're 
 a PC gaming freak like me, you'll love the new PC version with the newer content. If you've never 
 tried Fable, I suggest giving the Lost Chapters a go, especially if you have a great computer to 
 run it. Since it's rather cheap, and a few mods have come out for the game, it's definitely an 
 interesting purchase to make. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thelock7
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Fable has come to the PC and it fits in with it. The Lost Chapters is the same fable as on the 
 XBox but, with about 2-3 hours added content. Just like on the XBox you start off as a young boy 
 in the town of Oakvale trying to get money to buy your older sister a birthday gift until your 
 town gets raided by bandits and kill everyone except you. You are taken to the Guild of Heroes to 
 train and become a hero. You are then free to explore the world of Albion on your own. You level 
 up your three main skill areas Strength, Skill, and Will. All of your actions shape your hero and 
 tilt his allignment. You can be a noble hero, an infamous villain, or something in between. By the 
 end of the game you'll be a 65 year old veteran with scars on your face and a HUGE weapon. There 
 is romance in this game you can flirt with girls and even marry them. And like GTA San Andreas 
 you can... have sex. You can go to a barber and change your hair into a style you enjoy. Also you 
 can get tattos. The combat is well built along with a good arsenal of eapons and spells. Fable 
 is a game that will not disappoint fans of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xeuton_Mojukai
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 12, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Fable, I was pretty much a wreck with the controls. They can be a bit sensitive, 
 and the use of the mouse wheel as such an important button (blocking attacks, of all things) made 
 it quite difficult to get the hang of the whole thing.
  
  Then, I started to really delve into the game. The story is, on the surface, quite typical, but 
 the difference is that the game is incredibly immersing. So much so that you'll find yourself actually 
 feeling love and loss for your family and friends. Unfortunately, the alignment system has almost 
 no effect on the path of the story.
  
  The real highlight of the game is the world it takes place in. Although it only shows in small, 
 bite-sized mini-levels, as opposed to a single sprawling world like in Oblivion, it is still incredibly 
 beautiful, detailed, and colorful. When you enter creepier areas, you really do feel creeped out, 
 no small thanks to the excellent score that perfectly accentuates the drama and fun of this game, 
 and always at the right time.
  
  Some of the monsters are downright annoying, and the lack of adjustable difficulty could be a problem 
 for some.
  
  Even so, the combat is not only fun, but capable of being played in a unique way. My personal favorite 
 way is mixing melee and spells that assist in melee, but it can just as easily be any combination 
 of archery, melee, and spellcasting (with three subtypes of spells: Attack, Surround, and Physical) . 
 While this may seem like a lot to handle, the joy is that you don't need to use spells that are 
 especially good against certain monsters.
  
  Yes, this means the combat is not as deep as it could be, but the honest truth is that the combat 
 is more addictive than it is complex. Because you play in your own style, the times that you die 
 feel like a real sting to your ego.
  
  Speaking of which, the most interesting aspect of the alignment system, by far, is similar to Black 
 &amp; White, where your alignment affects your own physical traits, as well as others' reaction 
 to you. Good characters are literally cheered wherever they go, and it can be quite fun to just 
 stand around as women fall in love with you where they stand. The game keeps count of how many 
 do, too!
  
  Should you decide that a certain lady/gentleman (or multiples) are particularly nice, you can purchase 
 a house in each town and move into it with one of the natives who you like best. If you satisfy 
 them enough, they'll actually give you some really valuable loot. If you have multiple spouses, 
 you'll be rewarded for your multiplied troubles wit multiplied gifts! Just make sure to give them 
 goodies too...
  
  There's a lot more to this game than just the above. You can dig for buried treasures in many places, 
 and in some parts of the game, you actually need to do so. On another note, the character interaction 
 might not be great, but there is very nice voice acting, which is unfortunately limited by a small 
 number of actual voice profiles, meaning you'll often hear a phrase repeated the same way in the 
 same voice multiple times as you run through a city.
  
  Anyway, that's just what I've discovered so far. I'm near the end of the main story, which is followed 
 by a completely new set of quests, so there's probably still more to this game than meets my eye.
 
  
  If you want to get away from the real world, and enjoy one where you are actually important, don't 
 miss this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 8, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  Because of my professional pressure, I avoid playing strategy and role playing games despite their 
 high review scores. Its because both strategy and role playing games demand a lot of time to get 
 started. Characters to choose, fighting technics to practice, spells to large and a host of things 
 to do. However there are some few exceptions. Diablo is one hell of RPG, Fable is another. Yes, 
 in Fable I had to undergo training like many RPGs -- but the training time did not kill my interest 
 (I am afraid a lot of training implies a put-off for me) . And soon I was inside the game, gaining 
 strength and magic spells, doing quests and all that. In most part of this well designed game, 
 my gaming interest was intense. But I must say -- like many other RPGs, sometimes I feel lost. When 
 the next day I would start from a saved game, I would often ponder -- what was that I was doing? 
 Minus this typical feature of RPGs (well in Diablo, I did not have this problem) , this game is 
 superb. The actions are at times quite tricky -- when it demands that you use both spells and hard 
 actions. Sometimes the game plays tough, sometimes its too easy.
  The graphics, the storyline and the characters of this game are all excellent. A highly recommended 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheC0m1ssar
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  Fable: The Lost Chapters is an add-on for the original Fable for the Xbox, and ported to the PC. 
 The new material is good, but it doesn't add any more depth to the game, and it still seems too 
 short.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  A generic RPG style gameplay, with blocks, attacks, and spells.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Very nice 
 looking, but too cartoony for my style.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  They get an 8 for trying, but the voices just sound too cheesy.
  
  Value: 9/10
  A very good 
 value around nows.
  
  Conclusion:
  Fable is a great game, with lots to offer and plenty to do, but the story is too short, and not 
 enough locations to explore around Albion. You only get to explore the north-west part of Albion, 
 which I hope they're going to change in Fable 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  FABLE The Lost Chapter's graphics are very good, but not outstanding. Beautiful colored, with nice 
 &amp; detailed textures &amp; specific fairy-tale atmosphere, they fit just right. The sound is 
 very good, funny voice acting, good ambiental &amp; combat sound effects, but the soundtrack is abysmal. 
 The gameplay is very vast. You'll get to explore many different regions, do a lot of quests, buy or 
 find thoulsands of items, etc. You'll start as a child &amp; grow your character, upgrade him with 
 skills ,atributes or magic,&amp; do a lot of things with him, beside  
 books, making friends, having a wife &amp; making sex with her, get trophies, get haircuts/beards, 
 tatoos, take unique weapons, eat, go to the bar, etc. But the fragmented regions &amp; the too high 
 creature respawn rate are not good at all.&amp; the combat is too complicated (magic) , it would have 
 been better an AD&amp; D one, like in KOTOR-s. The story is decent, but not really interesting. The 
 action happens in a strange Albion, with real &amp; fantastic elements. A superb RPG, but it cannot 
 beat SWKOTOR 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Forzin
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 16, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  What made me buy this game.. was the ideal of 'Choosing your Adventure'.
  
  All I really get to choose, is whether to be Good... Or Evil.
  The story is linear, theres no 
 escaping it. You'll soon run out of things to do and have to unlock more missions by doing some 
 puny thing you don't care about. Annoying? Try having your guy fret over his Mother despite the 
 fact you don't care. The only thing I found fun after smashing Jack to pieces (Twice) and wearing 
 his mask (Does it look good on me? Be honest...) was shredding my hometown to pieces... repeatedly. 
 I ended up owning almost every building, yet the Highly Expensive Item and Weapon Stores.. yielded 
 around 10 gold in rent... Hurrah?
  It Was a nice touch having them refer to me by my name (Being Hood) but I wish those kids would 
 stop saying: Look! Its Hood! Item of Clothing! OW! The hurts...
  
  In short
  
  It was disappointing, but killing all of Oakvale, Whisper, Thunder, Briar Rose, The Guildmaster, 
 Twin Blades, various innocents and Jack Of Blades (Twice...) was fun. Not for the Serious, more 
 for the casual
  
  And if your looking for open ended? Then go pick up an Elder Scrolls game. Now THATS open-ended. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxfoster75
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 16, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  There are two major ways to approach an RPG: the first, and most common that I've seen in Japanese 
 RPGs, is a story-driven game where the characters are pre-defined and the player takes on a role 
 similar to the audience of a film or reader of a book (i. e., we control the character (s) , but their 
 feelings, dreams, and beliefs are already pre-conceived) . The second, and more common in Western 
 RPGs, is a character-driven game where the player takes on the role of the hero (or anti-hero if 
 possible) . The character (s) is often as close as possible to a blank slate so the player can infuse 
 his or her own imagination into the story. The former example of RPG can be criticized for isolating 
 the player from the story in the game, making us too passively involved, while the latter can be 
 criticized for lacking a concrete story altogether, or making it so easy to diverge from the story 
 that the gameplay becomes the only real reason to keep playing. Obviously, Fable fits squarely 
 into the latter category of RPG, but Lionhead has done an admirable job of making a front-and-centre 
 storyline that is difficult to ignore.
  
  How does it do this? For one, Fable puts you in the driver's seat in terms of controlling the hero, 
 and from a pure gameplay standpoint does very, very well. Developers of the menu systems in the 
 Japanese RPGs that seem to dominate console gaming would do well to see what a Western developer 
 can offer. All your abilities are easily accessible without breaking the action, and give you a 
 feeling of actually being the hero of the tale. But this connection-through-gameplay is where feeling 
 like the hero stops.
  
  Despite the story-driven nature of Fable, if I'm going to feel like the hero I have to care about 
 what I'm doing, and this is where Fable really falls flat. The storyline is weak at best, and most 
 often just childish. I can accept missions and challenges that suit my impression of the hero I'm 
 trying to be, and the story is plastic enough to let me approach it in a fairly dualistic sense 
 (good/evil) as well as from a D&amp; D-esque class system (wizard/warrior/rogue) , albeit without 
 any real restrictions on what a class can and cannot develop. (Nevertheless, it would hurt my ability 
 to progress if I didn't at least focus a little on one class and alignment path rather than playing 
 the field of skills and ethics) .
  
  Fable is full of potential. I have potential to interact with townspeople, become a thief, a scoundrel, 
 a lover, a villain, a role model to children, and, to a large extent, maybe most of these at once. 
 I have potential to become a brutal bare-fisted barbarian, or a cunning archer, and again, perhaps 
 both. But regardless of where I choose to develop my character the story always seems secondary, 
 and never drives me onward. And if I ignore the story, there are really only so many things I can 
 do in this game before the novelty wears off. It takes very little time to become more powerful 
 than almost anything you'll ever encounter in the wilderness, and once that's been achieved the 
 only real challenge is to develop new skills, try them out to see what funky special effects they 
 have, then finally, with a sour taste still in your mouth, put the game back on the shelf and leave 
 it there.
  
  While Fable offers what seems the best of two worlds in RPG video games: the storylines of the 
 Japanese developers along with the open-ended, immersive hero-centric gameplay of the Westerners, 
 it only truly excels at one of these aspects. Lionhead may have noticed that storyline was the 
 other side of the coin that so many western games had left by the wayside, but it wasn't prepared, 
 it would seem, to compromise the open-endedness in exchange for a compelling and uplifting tale. 
 Too bad, really, because the Japanese format is limited too, and could use instruction on how to 
 infuse new ideas. Ironically, however, the aspect that became the title, the Fable itself, turned 
 out to be the weakest part of this RPG, and relegated this otherwise fun adventure to become yet 
 another of many D&amp; D-inspired action games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kooliomorn123
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 16, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  Fable the lost chapters is one of the best masterpeices i've played and is in my top 5 best games 
 ever played list. The game shows the good and evil side to all lifes decisions in this extremely 
 fun game. Every time you play, you can choose slight variations to your character that makes up 
 about 50 or more types of warriors, mages, archer's. etc. Looks, alignment, how scary you are, or 
 even sexuality. You can choose to never drink a beer, or be a raging alcholic. The choose is up 
 to you. For every action, there's a conciquence. I assure you that boredom will not be a factor 
 in the end because the reasoning behind this is that endless opportunities are available to choose 
 from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 15, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Fable: The Lost Chapers is the PC version of Lionhead Studios' RPG that originally was released 
 on the XBox. F: LC Adds a new area with a few more hours of gameplay and some new items. The starting 
 and first 15 hours is still the same Fable with the good and evil alignment system, your character 
 progressing in age and skills, buying a house, the main storyline, and all that fun stuff. After 
 you have beaten that you get a new area with some more quests and items which is fun but only lasts 
 less than a few hours. The total game is around will take you about 20 hours to complete which 
 on a RPG scale is fairly short. The graphics look nice for a 2005 game and they have a unique art 
 style. Your character progresses not only in skills but also age as you go on through the game. 
 The evil and alignment system works along side progression with adding to your appearence. (i. e. 
 if you're evil you grow horns and have a red aura, if you are good people love you, you have a 
 glowing blue aura) The world is large but feels confined with many loading screens and not too 
 much to do in the way of depth other than the main story. People also react to you according to 
 how renown you are and your appearance. Overall Fable: LC is a great add to the RPG genre but its 
 lack of depth and gameplay time leaves Gamers like me wanting more.
  
  PROS+ Lots of customization (looks, weapons, etc.) , fun combat and gameplay, the world reacts to 
 you, feel a connection with your hero
  
  CONS- Short, Nothing to do outside of Main Quest, Linear 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezzzis
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 14, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  I was searching for something much better in this game. Of course, first hour was quite fun in 
 case combat system is simple and enemies childish. But what I want to say is that this game has 
 too much bad points. Let's go straight:
  1. Too easy, and too simple as an RPG. I tried it on medium, maybe hard would be better, but I 
 wouldn't expect much.
  2. 95% of quests is like that: go where the quest symbol on your minimap flashes and kill everyone 
 who want to harm you . It gets really boring after several missions.
  3. The game is very short, especially if you do only main quests. It should take about two days 
 to complete it.
  4. Skill system, spells variety, dialogues and combat system are fair, especially when this game 
 calls itself RPG. It's a 5% real, good and deep RPG and 95% arcade for childrens. 5. Maps are awfull, 
 smallest I have ever seen and with one or two roads, and you can not almost walk aroud, just follow 
 a road, everything around is not walkable.
  6. Always respawning monsters when enter new area. Very annoying.
  7. Absolutely tragic money 
 system, you'll never else find a shop where you can buy multiple items cheaper than you sell them. 
 Of course bussiness here is simple, five minutes and you're millijonaire.
  8. Going to the end it becomes even more easier, I just don't want to think again about last boss 
 (dragon) which I killed with five shots with my bow and multiple arrow spell on it. It took me 
 about two minutes of hard work and intense action . :)
  9. Here are no races or classes, you can just be a superhero, but it's not as interesting as it 
 sounds, believe me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doriard
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 6, 2007 3:28 am PT
Review:  This game is best for ages 14 and under. More sophisticated gamers will want less cartoonish graphics 
 and better action. The save game implementaion is really annoying too, since you have to go through 
 a long menu system to save the game -- no quick save. There really is no sense of immersion in 
 the game. You are constantly aware that it is only a cartoon-graphics game. The action controls 
 are slow and awkward. Also, every time you re-enter an area, even if it's the room you just left, 
 the critters get re-populated. There should be a delay before respawning enemies in the same area. 
 The interface and controls, while useable, are slow and awkard, with a long menu system, which 
 also take away from any action feel of the game. For kids, it's okay. For action RPG gamers, look 
 elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denny33142
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 5, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Fable is like most RPG's and its fun in its own way you should have a good time with this game. 
 there are a few things i dont like about this game like the cartoonish graphics being one of them, 
 also you cant really have a conversation with ppl like you can in other rpg's like kotor. meaning 
 that you dont have a list of things you can say to the person your talking 2 which is whats good 
 in RPG games
  
  the game is not the best RPG around but if you do like RPG's then you should really try games like 
 KOTOR for your RPG needs :)
  
  The game is the same thing as the xbox version and overall a fairly decent game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrkScythe
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  Great game play I liked this game alot. I mean it has some down moments of the game but over all 
 it has good game play. The only thing is that there is little replay value unless you're going 
 to play on the opposite team. Than it's fun all over again. Being good than bad that only adds 
 to the game. I mean the story line is pretty much the same only with alternate endings which depends 
 on which side you choose to be on. The magic spells are both fun to pull off and to watch. In the 
 end its a great game and I would recommend everyone to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xwing89
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 26, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  The history of this game it's just like any fairy tale. You have heroes, bad guys and a big adventure 
 ahead.
  You start since you are a little boy until you die of age. As long as you're playing the time goes 
 by and you'll get older and older until your hair turns grey . And if you're not careful when you 
 eat you will get fat and your speed will start to slow down. In here you're the one who chose if 
 you wanna be good or evil and how the games is gonna end.
  The game is very complete since you can do all the kind of things like fishing, play mini-games, 
 cut your hair, have tattoos, have sex, marry, steal, kill who ever you want between other things.
 
  The graphics are just great and the sound suitable to the different scenes of the game.
  The gameplay is simple and addictive: you can fight over and over again that is never boring and 
 if by anyway you get bored you can always go fishing or play mini-games.
  
  I think everyone should try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthrax88
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 25, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  This is amongst the top 3 best games i have ever played in my whole life. It's even hard to describe 
 how good it is, it is just something you have to play for yourself! I am at the moment playing 
 for the third time as good and second time evil in this game. I have also played as somewhat neutral 
 no matter what way you take this game is great! You really can feel how your character evolve with 
 you in the game. For every good deed you go one step to making yourself a halo around the head 
 and for every bad deed you go one step closer to getting yourself a neat pair of horns. The graphics 
 are good even great, but could be improved to a more adult kind of graphics. The gameplay is awesome. 
 And as final words i can only say one thing, give me Fable 2 now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdavidb
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 24, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  One question for the developers: If you can choose to 'got to bed' with your spouse, and there's 
 a related sound track, why not go ahead and include a scene? HA-HA, YES!
  
  Anyway, this is a fun game to play. It's enjoyable without the nervous intensity of a FPS, but 
 still with lots of combat. Lots of options to do or not do things and play how you want. I like 
 that after the final battle you can continue living in Albion, even if there's not much more to 
 do. I did think the end was a bit anticlimatic. If you're on the good side, max out Divine Fury. 
 That's my favorite part of the whole game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PG213
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  though I see people comment it for being a console port to PC, I would not let bad comment scare 
 you.
  
  If yo read a bit you will see this is not a PC RPG type of game, and it does not claim to be either. 
 It is in no way similar to games like Neverwinter nights or Oblivion, but that doesn't mean it 
 is a bad game.
  
  Fable's gameplay resembles most to me as a mixture of Diablo meets the Sims . It offers hack and 
 slash combat in a picturesque world, where you evolve from a little boy up to an experienced and 
 skillful Hero. The game has a lot of Sims type of interaction with your environment, and often 
 is very funny to play. It is not a dark, oppressing setting, even if the storyline is about saving 
 the world from doom, and might not be pleasing for the mature gamers. But even if it is often filled 
 with clich&eacute; s and a not too complicated story that even kids would enjoy, I was certainly 
 pleased when playing this game. The option to choose between being a nice guy or bad guy, warrior, 
 mage or archer oriented character allows for decent replay abilty, even changing the quests you 
 take and what role your character takes in the world of Albion. The game looks good, is easy to 
 learn and fun to play. Being a game for all ages, it is not obscure or gore filled, but a heart 
 warming game that made me laugh out loud at several occasions and feel good most of the time. the 
 npc's and voice acting are pretty well done and make the world of Albion immersive enough to keep 
 you hooked till the end.
  
  If you are looking for a fantasy game that is light, relaxing and funny to play this is definitely 
 worth it's money. If you are looking for a serious, real PC RPG game you should look elsewhere. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Farscape1812
Rating: 3.6
Date: Feb 16, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Not anything I thought it was going to be. I was looking for something along the lines of NeverWinter 
 Nights or Oblivion, and Fable came nowhere close to either of these games. Fable reminded me more 
 of the old console style RPGs like Zelda. Could not believe how many people gave this game such 
 a high score. Do not believe the scores. If you like console RPGs this is a game for you, else 
 just go straight past this one. The way you get around the game is very one dimensional, only allowing 
 you to follow a particular path. If you want to fast travel you have to warp to specific location 
 on the map, so there is no way to travel to a specific location you have already been to. Saving 
 the game is not very good either. When you save it saves the level so when you reload you start 
 from the start of the mission, not to the last location you were on the mission. This game was 
 very, very, very disappointing. I will go back to Oblivion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pie69
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 16, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  Amazing this game provided so much entertainment and the story was well developed, plus the extra 
 content in the lost chapters was super fun. Anyone and everyone who likes a good RPG should add 
 this to their favorites list, not only were the graphics incredible but the gameplay just complemented 
 this revolutionary style of role playing game. Cons: this game requires some pretty hardware intensive 
 requirements, in order to play fable and have it look nice and run smoothly you will need a powerful 
 graphics card. I recommend the x800 series ati. I ran it on a x1950 and it was seemless so it should 
 be alright on a x800. I was getting 80 frames a second steadily with a pentium D clocked at 3.2 
 gigahertz 2 gigs of ram and a X1950XT 512 meg graphic card. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hate_Squad
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 13, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  Yes, it's been over-hyped ,some called it morrowind-killer .While it doesn't surpass Bethesda's 
 masterpiece, it's a very good game. One of the main negative aspects of the game is it's duration, it's 
 very short. At lest this means that you can complete it several times without getting bored. Also 
 magic users are not weaklings ,a fact in most crpgs. Spells like time stop can overwhelm you enemies 
 in seconds. But what truly remains from this game is the fairy tale atmosphere that it creates. The 
 world is filled with vivid, warm colors, even the abnormal character body structure adds to this. The 
 battle system allows you to truly battle your enemy, allowing you to make use of combos and special 
 attacks. It's one of the best you'll encounter out there. To sum up it's a very rewarding but short 
 experience. I hope that fable 2 will correct this major flaw 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwj007x
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 12, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  It was an interesting yet short game. The graphics were not too bad and the music was fitting to 
 what was happening at the moment. This game really was addicting. The choice between being good 
 or evil was an added bonus. I chose the good path, but just may replay with the evil path. Not 
 many games entice me to replay. The main quest could have been longer as it took me about 22 hours 
 total to finish the game as well as most if not all of the side quests. Overall I enjoyed the game 
 and would recommend it to others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabeticDood
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 10, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  I just bought this game today and I love it to death. It's a very cool game because it seems like 
 it will never end just like a GTA game. There's always something to do. In my eyes it reminds me 
 of a more dark Zelda. I think it's a very fun games. My walmart had one copy left and I happend 
 to have 20 dollars so I thought what the heck I know it got alot of awards and I agree with all 
 of them, so I bought it and when I got it the car installed it right on my laptop then. I've been 
 playing it ever since 11:00AM. It's the kinda game you can really just kick back and play. Wanna 
 do some quest's earn some money do a quest. Wanna look for stuff look for stuff. You can do anything. 
 The Gameplay in this game is incredible. The graphics are really good. The sounds blew me away. 
 I would spenp 50 bucks on this game but most stores now are selling it for 20 dollars which is 
 a steal at that price. I really enjoy this game would deffinatley go in my top five. So if you're 
 an RPG lover and want a good PC game for not to much Fable is your game then ;) Enjoy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matttru
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Once I loaded and started Fable, I couldnt stop playing. I really enjoyed this game for a number 
 of reasons. I first played it on XBOX at a friends place. After about 15minutes of playing, I 
 wanted to own it. I picked up the PC version, and was impressed by the looks of the game. The whole 
 environment looked clean, and well-designed. The characters were also very well detailed, from 
 their faces and facial-features to their walking and mannerisms. Items looked good too; the armor 
 doesnt all look basic and similar. There are real choices to be made when picking your characters 
 attire. You can go for a range of looks from dark-assassin to the brightly-clad knight look. And 
 the looks arent all there is to armor and clothing. You actually get to tailor your look to your 
 game play style. For a sword or ax wielding fighter, theres heavier armor. For the sneaky-type, 
 there is lighter, assassin robes, and for the magic-user, theres clothing to show your alignment, 
 whether dark or light. Fable offered a variety of enjoyable features in the missions, also. You 
 can accept most of the missions from an evil or good standpoint, depending on the alignment 
 of your character. At roughly 20.00, Fable is an easy game to recommend to role-players, though 
 I would have gladly paid the original retail price if I had known how good of a game it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellsKing
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 3, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I'll start of by saying... yes, this game is old and YES I'm NOW writting a review for it becasue 
 I've had it for so long and never had a chance to write one for it. This game reminds me of Zelda 
 sooo much. You have your special magic powers or your special swords and bows to choose from. The 
 greatest thing I see in the game is the fact that this game is soooo old, but the graphics are 
 just amazing for PC! Don't let the images up above fool you. Those were taken a LOOOONG time ago 
 when someone had a **** card or somthn. I have a Geforce 6800, probably somthn godly when this 
 game came out, and it plays everything on high with anti-aliasing x4. Makes this game look brand 
 new and armor and weapons as smooth as ever. It's a quick game, just like the Zelda games, and 
 it holds 3 different ways of beating it tho. You can be good, have Halo around ur head and crap, 
 you can be Evil, have horns stickn out ur head maken ya look bad ass, or you can be normal and 
 have nothing happen to ur appearance, thats just weak. So, if you've never played this game I recommend 
 trying it out. It's great for a time consumer and a lover of RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lostantix
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 4, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The hack-and-slash system of battling is quite fun. I personally like it better than 
 dice rolls, but hey thats just me. The battling system is quite easy to get into. You run up 
 to enemies and click. With this system, you are able to perform headshots with your ranged weapon 
 (a bow of some sort) . The levelling in this game is simply done by collecting experience orbs from 
 enemies after you kill them. You also get experience for the type of method you use to dispose 
 of the enemy (like Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivions levelling up system) in addition to the orbs you 
 find. When youve gained enough experience, you can purchase new skills at the guild (you home 
 base so-to-speak) . There are three areas you can level up in: Melee, magic and ranged. Even though 
 you might think youll need to choose a specific specialization and stick to it, unfortunately 
 (or fortunately for those who see it that way) , you will most likely max out all skills by the 
 end of the game (except for a few magic skills due to alignment opposition) . The magic skills you 
 can buy in this game unfortunately are kind of cheap and can really make gameplay exceptionally 
 easy, even for the most horrid player. This is all thanks to one skill that, I guess the developers 
 forgot to fully test and modify completely. This skill is known as Physical Shield. In other 
 hack-and-slash RPG games, you might recognize this as Mana Shield. This skill allows your mana 
 to suffer damage instead of your health. Once your mana is depleted, the Physical Shield is disabled 
 and damage is resumed normally. However, they decided to take it a step further. Whenever Physical 
 Shield is active, knock backs and any other thing that could stop you from just hacking away (except 
 for instant death) , are ineffective. So as long as you have a good amount of Mana Potions on hand, 
 youll never have to worry about death anytime soon. Finding yourself low on Mana Potions? No worries! 
 By exploiting the games half-finished marketing system you can pretty much get as much gold as 
 you want. They used a basic supply and demand system for the merchants. If the merchant has less 
 of a certain item in stock, he will pay more for it and if he has a high quantity of a certain 
 item in stock, he will pay less for it. Simple enough, right? Unfortunately, with the added buy 
 all and sell all options you are able to exploit this trading system. To keep it simple, if 
 you buy all for the normal price you can sell all and receive additional gold alongside the 
 gold it takes to cover for the initial purchase. There are limits on this however. You cant do 
 this with any items that you can only have one of in your inventory (ex. weapons/armour) Also the 
 developers implemented a Hero Save option for saving during missions. Even though you are unable 
 to fully save during missions (ex. your exact location on the map or progress) , you can save your 
 character. So any items, experience or gold you receive will stay with you next time you load. 
 Basically you can just keep doing a quest over and over again to get as much gold, fame, alignment 
 points and experience points you want. The plot in terms of length isnt that great. The main storyline 
 is quite short, even with the additions that come with The Lost Chapters. The storyline is progressed 
 through quest cards that you can pick up through the guild. The quests arent that unique and often 
 youll find yourself just having to search for some monster (s) and disposing of them. However, 
 the fun combat system does help keep the quests from getting bland. The good or evil alignment 
 choice that this game was marketed with, sadly failed to live up to expectations. Alignment points 
 have very little impact on the plot with only minor setbacks in gameplay if you are evil (ex. 
 additional costs from merchants) . Getting an evil rank however, should qualify as an achievement 
 in itself. Almost anything you do in the game will net you good alignment points. The only worthwhile 
 method of getting evil points is either by sacrificing a bunch of people at the Temple of Skorm 
 or going into a town and go on a killing rampage. Maintaining that evil alignment is hard work, 
 just because of the fact the game tries to stop you every step of the way. For an RPG, the items 
 werent as diverse as youd expect them. A lot of items were just random crap that you didnt really 
 need or use (ex. assorted food items) . By the way, you could become fatty or obese by eating 
 a lot of food. You can purchase a house in each town if you wish, it is not required however. You 
 can also rent out the houses if you want, but for the amount of gold you get in return (and the 
 trips back and forth youll be required to make to collect the gold) , its not worthwhile. You 
 might as well find the local beauty of the town, charm her/him with your scar-ridden face, and 
 marry her/him (you can be gay or bisexual if you wish) . Once you marry somebody, youll be able 
 to make some sexy time if you choose to do so. For all you horny gamers, you can stop getting 
 all giddy and such. The sexy time only consists of a black screen with your spouse making orgasm 
 sounds and saying small sexy time tidbits. Their pronunciation on some words during this period 
 will also annoy them hell out of you as well (ex. how they say naughty) .
  
  Graphics &amp; Sounds: The environments were beautiful. I particularly liked the water for some 
 unknown reason. The sounds in the game are nice. From the thud of an arrow going through an enemys 
 skull or the incredible voice acting, they all sound great.
  
  Replay Value: Honestly, I dont think Ill ever play this game again. I mean, there is little reason 
 to revisit the game. When youve maxed out your stats, gotten the best weapons in the game and 
 done everything there is to do, this game isnt the kind of RPG youd replay. Even by the end of 
 the game, I found myself rushing through just trying to beat the game because I was getting bored 
 of the linear gameplay.
  
  Overall: Fable: The Lost Chapters is a fun RPG while it lasts. It offers a one-time spur of entertainment 
 and nothing more. With a handful of glitches and exploits you can take advantage of, there is little 
 challenge to the game. What could have been an excellent game has unfortunately settled for good. 
 Seek it if you are an avid RPG gamer or really enjoy hack-and-slash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JerWroten
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 25, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  From what I'd read in reviews and from friends, I wasn't really looking forward to this game that 
 much. But lo and behold when I did get it installed: Voila! Beautiful graphics, I mean, half the 
 fun was just walking around looking at the sky and the trees. It was also cool to take little snapshots 
 as my character got older and developed more. The combat was a little too difficult and frantic 
 at first, but then I got the Slow Time spell, which made it alot of fun. Getting my combat multiplier 
 up was fun too, if a little difficult. Story was great! I guess it could have been a little longer, 
 but hey, I'd rather have a short kickass game than a long boring one.
  
  Definitely a must play for RPG gamers, and if you've played Black and White, you see the same art 
 and sense of humor in this game too. It's kindof a big sandbox in alot of ways, and maybe everything 
 wasn't executed as over the top as it could have been, but this is still a ground breaking, and 
 most importantly, fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link9876
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 23, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Fable the lost chapters is the second game in its series. You start off as a little boy in a small 
 town called Oakvale. You get sent to the Heros Guild and thats were the game really begins. As 
 you progress through the game, you learn new skills, spells, and increase your physical abilities. 
 You have the choice of either being an evil villian, or being a good hero. It is much easier beiing 
 good, because you dont have to fight the guards and the whole game is slightly easier, but you 
 don't get as good of weapons. Being evil gets you more weapon, potions, and money, but you will 
 have to fight guards and you have to kill the enemies anyway, so its much easier being good. People 
 will respond to you diferrently depending on if you are good or evil which depends soly on your 
 actions. If you kill an innocent villager, your evil rating will go up. If you save villagers or 
 kill evil guys, you get good rating will go up. Fable the lost chapters lets you play however you 
 want, in whatever style you want, which is what makes it a great RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aldaris1988
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 19, 2007 3:44 am PT
Review:  I was bored over the weekends so I went down to the rental shops to look for a pc game. So I searched 
 and found the console port of Fable: TLC which I heard was a good game. The game is slightly overrated 
 in my thoughts, plus the uninteresting hack and slash battle system, some flashy spells, stats 
 leveling system and almost no storyline game, I feel that I'm playing some sort of a 3D platformer 
 where I go around complete certain quest while hacking and slashing/spamming spells, quite mundane 
 to me. I must confess, if anyone who is going to play/try out this game, if you are an Japanese 
 RPG gamer, I would strongly recommend against it, just rent it first. As I'm a Japanese RPG gamer, 
 I must confess I'm not used to American RPGs (If truly, they can be counted in our standards) . The 
 game would be better if the story were deeper and interesting, especially if the character would 
 talk more, a more flexible stats/skill tree and a more interesting battle system (i. e. combo system, 
 etc) , rather than one hack-and-slash, or even hit-and-run system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mono
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 18, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Fable is a game that was sold on the premise you can be anything you want, but like almost every 
 game that claims things like this it falls short. The game itself is extremely solid and quite 
 a bit of fun if not quite a bit shorter than one would care for from an RPG.
  
  The story of Fable is pretty run of the mill for any console RPG of the last 10 years. Basically 
 the story goes young boy's family is killed and then he starts a quest to avenge his family. Along 
 the way there's some twists and soon enough the big villain emerges and you have to fight him. 
 Not a lot of originality or anything particularly riveting.
  
  The way the game's story progresses is via quests handed out at the guild which is basically the 
 tutorial area with a big map where you can occasionally pick up a quest to progress the main story 
 or 1 or 2 side quests. After you get your quests it's usually not very far to where it takes place 
 and most of the quests involve just killing monsters over and over sometimes ending in a boss fight 
 other times you have to escort an NPC or two and protect them. Not a lot of variety but it's still 
 pretty fun thanks to the tight controls coupled with three core play styles you can use.
  
  The first part of the game's touted customization is these three play styles. You can either be 
 a primarily melee fighter, a bow user, or a magic user. Usually some combination of the three although 
 pure use of any style is possible but mostly melee and bow styles will also use quite a bit of 
 magic.
  
  Experience is mostly gained by using any of the styles in combat along with some general experience 
 that can be spent on any of the three trees. The system also rewards skilled use of your character 
 through a multiplier system. Basically the longer you remain in combat without being hit the more 
 experience you'll gain.
  
  The combat is quite a bit of fun and fast-paced. Most of the time you can just draw your bow or 
 melee weapon and left-click till it's dead, but in order to get your multiplier really high you 
 need to use a bit of finesse as well. Magic is simple to use just hold shift and right or left 
 click to use a spell with the mouse wheel used to select other spells. It's pretty simple and very 
 useable by default but tinkering with the spell layout usually helps a great deal if you're going 
 to be using more than two or three spells.
  
  The technical aspects of the game are very solid. Very bright graphics with plenty of shadows and 
 other effects make the game quite good looking even two years after release. The sounds are solid 
 with plenty of amusing voice acting that has a distinctly British flavor. It's also been ported 
 well I had almost no issues running the game save for one crash and have played over an hour without 
 saving with total confidence. Technical issues definitely will not detract from your enjoyment 
 of this title.
  
  The real weakness of the game is in the customization it was sold on. Even the box claims you can 
 be good or evil, but just like any other game claming this the game fails to make evil very viable. 
 It's actually a considerable amount of work to remain evil in the game because just about anything 
 you kill rewards you with points that make you more good . So playing through as evil you'll either 
 find yourself being kicked out of towns and unable to buy potions without paying fines or constantly 
 making trips to the evil temple to sacrifice people to maintain your evil. It's far to big a pain.
 
  
  So if you just play the game even if you take every evil quest along the way most likely you'll 
 still be quite good by the end without quite a bit of extra legwork.
  
  It also fails by completely not letting you customize your avatar in the least. Every game you'll 
 look exactly the same at the beginning black haired and male. Sure you can choose from a few different 
 hairstyles along with beards and mustaches but all in all you're going to look pretty much the 
 same the entire time unless you become extremely good or extremely evil.
  
  There's also a disappointingly small amount of armor and weapons to choose from basically you get 
 to choose between mage, leather, chain, or plate armor and that's it for the rest of the game. 
 No huge upgrades are coming that's all there is it's pretty disappointing. Part of the blame is 
 due to the game's length, which is extremely short for an RPG approximately 8 hours.
  
  My final major complaint about the supposed high level of customization is that your character 
 is basically doomed to be an old man the entire game. There's not much you can do about it otherwise. 
 As you collect experience you must occasionally return to the guild and spend it and every time 
 you spend experience the game ages you a certain amount based upon how much you spent. So if you 
 spend 1,000 or so you only age a year but spend 20,000 and you'll age 15 or so. So almost every 
 player will be the maximum age well before the end of the game. This is probably the most aggravating 
 part of the customization process the game actually punishes you for leveling. Now older characters 
 don't suffer from any negative consequences beyond looking like a haggard bum but it's still extremely 
 frustrating being forced to be a nasty old man while everyone else in the game never ages a day. 
 Granted there are a couple opportunities to lower your age during the course of the game but it's 
 only 20 years at the most and will not stop you from being maximum age by the end. It would have 
 been a much better idea instead to include a fountain of youth or something so players could make 
 themselves younger whenever they wanted adding true customization instead of just forcing everyone 
 to either not level, exploit, or just be dirty old men.
  
  All in all the game is very fun to play. Solid controls and fast-paced action style combat ensure 
 you'll play through at least a couple of times. But the flimsy story and worst of all the extremely 
 weak customization the game touted take away from what could have been an all time great action-RPG. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seventh_reason
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 10, 2007 3:13 am PT
Review:  Fable, one of the most imagined and fantastic RPG's out there. The story line is not very long, 
 but has remarkable moments. Fables strongest points is the realism of the game.
  
  You can be a noble knight, or a dark wizard. This game does what it says on its tin - everything 
 you do changes you and the people around you. You can be adored by all the women and possibly the 
 men! Good points for being a goodie goodie:
  
  You get stuff!
  People adore you, and you can walk through town with women and men cheering at you.
  Good points 
 for being bad:
  
  People are scared of you.
  You get stuff - by stealing it!
  
  The game is so realistic to... side quests or 'personal' goals. You can get married - hell not once. 
 You can marry a woman in very town! You can buy a shop, rent a house, help kids by taking books 
 into the local school... thinking of local schools... you can teach them to be rude, even teach them 
 to fart!
  
  Overall, the story is original. Someone wants to rule the world by using dark powers. And, as from 
 the age of kid, you grow up training. :)
  
  The game is easy to use, great fun. The controls are really good for a XBOX to PC platform transfer. 
 Fable works really well on a computer. You dont really need a powerful computer - AGAIN 256MB RAM, 
 although will lok much better on 512MB. You only need a 64MB GPU, but it has to have pixel shading 
 - reccomended geforce Ti series or above. The graphics look really good overall, even on lower 
 spec machines.
  
  Overall, this game is good fun, you really can lead that second life as the dark wizard or noble 
 knight we have all dreamed to be once or twice in our lives! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riker_McCloud
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Fable is by far the most interesting yet exciting single player Action/RPG I've played so far. 
 The path between good and evil is very nice to have, since most games don't even have that feature 
 and you just do quests but get nothing except gold and/or some item. This kinda reminds me of D&amp; D 
 type of playing somewhat with the alignment system. The battle system is pretty good, only beef 
 I have is when your targeting something you sometimes wind up targeting someone 3 feet behind you 
 when moving your camera around. Other than that is pretty good and I like having no auto attack, 
 Thank Avo for that!
  
  The music is great, especially the theme of Fable, love it! Really no complaints about the music 
 or sound since they are great as it is.
  
  Graphics, very nice graphics, slightly cartoon-like but that just makes the game even sweeter ^_~. 
 Granted, wouldn't mind having a bigger great sword like... Gatsu's from Berserk for example but 
 I guess you gotta be realistic.
  
  Overall, this is by far one of my favorite games! This game has taken plenty of my hours of boredom 
 into hours of adventure each time I play. It's hard to say why I've become so addicted to this 
 game, I guess it's each to his own in this case. Another beef I have with the game, last one, is 
 the age system when using experience to improve abilities. You do age a bit fast and it's kinda 
 odd to be 65 years old and beating the crap out of anything with a few hits O. o;. But there are 
 ways to work around the age so not so bad after all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSephiroth
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 5, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  Fable is a game that unites many thinks I like: RPG, action like Devil May Cry and Onimusha, lots 
 of armors, great weapons, customization [hair, beard, tattoo] ...
  
  This game is easy to learn, not that dificult.... Is a game to have fun !!!
  
  And fun is something 
 you will have on this game... EVERY decision you take lead to Good and to the heart of people or 
 to Evil and been present on people's nightmare...
  
  You can save people, sacrifice them, hire mercenaries, learn fantastic spells
  
  The ONLY problem 
 with this game is that it's short, even been longer that Xbox version
  
  I strongly recomend this game... everyone should try it !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treunder
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  I can recommend this game for about everybody.
  The game play is wonderful and theres so many skills and spells so many things you can get so many 
 clothes... you understand my point?
  The history is also great and is giving the game it's charm and excitement.
  I would recommend 
 this game especially to those who love rpg games where you need to choose between dark and light!
 
  You could also go around in the world and unlock demon doors which contains small rooms with usually 
 a chest, but too open these doors you'll have to do something for them, and this is usually just 
 a lot of fun ^^
  
  The bad sides.
  In the game you usually almost only use strength and skill, will is rarely used.
  When you stress 
 around to get the sword at avo temple, it's not good at all.
  The final boss is just to easy.
  it's not that much armor to choose from.
  If you don't have 
 money for bright plate armor at arena you need to use a lot of time to find somewhere else that 
 they sell it.
  
  Overall.
  It's a fun game but gets a bit of boring after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightshadeBlack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  The pinnacle of game perfection is sought by so many, and reached by so few. Luckily for some, 
 Fable hits that pinnacle on so many occasions.
  
  With a fictitious world of near-endless possibility, Lionhead went all out on this game. From near 
 flawless cartoon-esque graphics, deep character development, and a multitude of climates, to attack 
 animation and enemy variation, this game hits it off on all levels.
  
  From the cinematic opening, through the storyline-fed tutorial stage, and on into the bulk of the 
 gameplay, your every action decides on the outcome of your life. Alignment points are given depending 
 on your actions (if you choose to be good or evil in a situation) , and appearance points are given 
 depending on your attire.
  This points system works in a way to make your character as believable as possible. Evil characters 
 are feared by NPCs, while good characters are respected and loved. Characters dressed in chainmail 
 are more likely to gain love from women (or men) than characters dressed in leather, etc.
  
  Thanks to The Lost Chapters, Fable is a pretty large game. There's always more to do than you 
 expect. You may complete the story, but there's still more to the game than that, in the form of 
 sidequests.
  
  All in all, Lionhead did a pretty fine job of this game. They managed to balance out gameplay, 
 storyline and graphics all perfectly.
  
  The only thing I can possibly bring it down on is the repetitive sound. You will end up travelling 
 a lot, so the soundtrack eventually gets rather overdone.
  
  This was a game that was totally worth it. Well worth the time to play, and well worth the money. 
 Lionhead have produced a near flawless game, that would suit fans of Roleplay and third person 
 swordfighting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonnybiz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 28, 2006 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Normally I do not play singleplayer games, and I always hate them, but fable got me hooked right 
 away.
  
  The only thing this game needs is multiplayer/co-op support to make it perfect, it was a blast 
 playing this game, I was addicted after the first hour of playing it!
  
  This game offers so many cool features that other games dont, it allows you to choose your own 
 path, whether you want to be good or evil, and you can kill ANYONE in the game! Of course, killing 
 innocent townfolk will help you work towards being evil, but thats really fun!
  
  You can kill shopkeepers, and purchase the homes/shops that they lived/worked in, you can kill 
 a whole village and purchase all the buildings there, and then rent them out for more money!
  
  You can do things like getting married, fish, gamble, boast, almost everything you could ask 
 for in a game
  
  Most everytime you think that the game is going to end, you discover that there is more, and when 
 you finally beat the game, youll wish you hadnt because it was so much fun to play it, and you'll 
 wish there was MORE to do
  
  Great game, I suggest even to those who dont like singleplayer games, to try it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drokens90
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 15, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing fable I thought it was pretty fun, I liked the whole growing up part 
 of the game. But when it came to going out into the world, thats when it got kind of boring. I 
 didnt really care for the settings much. Every setting looked the same and there were way too 
 many loading screens. I like the combat and the way you can interact with different people such 
 as getting married. Ive had more fun using a bow in this game than any other. The quests can be 
 fun, but sometimes it can feel like your playing a MMORPG that isnt online, which isnt very fun. 
 When it comes down to it fable could be worth your twenty dollars (current price) if your looking 
 for a hack and slash action game. But if youre looking for an open ended RPG like Oblivion or 
 hic Id just buy one of these. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Energenix
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 11, 2006 4:56 am PT
Review:  Fable: TLC is one of the few games that I knew would be great from the moment I began playing. 
 All RPG fans, and most likely those who frequent other genres, will most certainly find something 
 enjoyable in Fable that will keep them hooked from beginning to end. Like most games, it has its 
 slow-moving parts and some redundant aspects. However, overall it is a masterpiece and truly worthy 
 of consideration by all gamers, young and old alike.
  
  For starters, the opening cut scene and accompanying Main Theme, composed by Danny Elfman, do a 
 great job of establishing the mood for the game. As the story begins, you find yourself in the 
 shoes of a young man who resides with his family in the quaint village of Oakvale, a seemingly 
 ideal and pristine community with no worries of any sort. Immediately you get to experiment with 
 the different controls and adventure through town, and are also given your first of MANY quests 
 by your characters father, to buy a birthday gift for your characters sister (Fables story is 
 entirely quest-driven) . After this introductory quest, a kind of tutorial that teaches you how 
 to interact with people and find your way around town, the story finally kicks in a little. Oakvale 
 suddenly finds itself under attack, but there are no warriors in the community who could defend 
 against such an onslaught, so it is burned to the ground by the horde of bandits. The citizens 
 are ruthlessly murdered and your family is, as far as you know, slain along with the townspeople. 
 The cut scene to illustrate this attack contains many foreshadowing elements that begin to piece 
 together later in the game.
  
  Shortly thereafter, you are found and adopted by a strange-looking mage who calls himself Maze, 
 who takes you to a place called the Heroes Guild, where you are to be trained in the arts of combat 
 and magic, or in this case  Will, and serve the guild (headed by the nameless Guildmaster) as 
 a Hero. At this point, the story jumps ahead and you see your character evolve from a young child 
 to a promising adolescent, midway through the Guilds training program. You have a little more 
 freedom to explore and learn, dig through shops, learn archery, magic, and melee combat, and explore 
 the Guild in its entirety.
  
  [ [ I must stop here to say that every action you perform in this game, whether good or evil, is 
 counted towards you alignment meter. The more murderous, treacherous, and villainous you are, the 
 more evil and foreboding you will appear, and people in general will begin to fear you and run 
 away upon laying eyes on you. However, the opposite is true for being virtuous, kind, and noble. 
 Your appearance will be brighter, more inviting, and more people will find you attractive (perhaps 
 attractive enough to ask for a wedding ring) . Many other things can also affect your alignment, 
 such as new spells or different makes of armor and weaponry.] ]
  
  Once you have past the Guildmasters final test to graduate, you are given the title of Hero, and 
 freed to perform any tasks which are offered to you through the Guild, or quests you may discover 
 while adventuring. There are many side stories in Fable, but somehow they correlate wonderfully 
 with the main storyline and never interrupt to the point where you find yourself aimlessly wandering 
 (which you have the freedom to do if you so desire) . Almost every aspect of your character is customizable, 
 everything from equipment, spells, physique, skills, alignment, attractiveness, and finance. You 
 can be an evil tyrant who murders innocent villagers, steals from shops, specializes in ranged 
 weapons, is lewd in public and hits on the girls. On the other hand, you can be an admirable and 
 respected knight who saves traders from roving bandits, recovers stolen goods, specializes in close-quarters 
 melee weapons and magic, and is a great landlord. Yes, you can buy and rent out houses, or live 
 in them with as a single man or a husband, if you can discover what drives the village women mad 
 for you!
  
  Overall gameplay is very solid and enjoyable. For its time, the graphics are superb, from player 
 models, items, environments and lighting. The music is very well composed and fully orchestrated, 
 which is extremely flattering to the games impression and plot line, especially the main theme 
 by Elfman, which resurfaces in a few other tracks.
  
  At the center of this masterpiece title is the mysterious, world-renowned Hero, Jack of Blades. 
 The name is simplistic; the character anything but. Over the course of many quests through the 
 guild you will discover who this man is and his true motive, what actually happened to your family 
 after the Oakvale massacre, and who in the Guild is really on your side. In the battle between 
 Evil and Good, which is ever present, which side will you serve? Will you blindly adhere to the 
 whims of the Guildmaster and his band of noble heroes, or trade your soul to gain the power that 
 only comes from serving the darkness. After all, it is totally up to you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carroll-06
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 25, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - Fable : The Lost Chapters is a brilliant game which lets you choose what you want to 
 be if you want you can be completely evil or completely good. The combat system is easy to master 
 and they have included alot of relistic features such as getting old, being able to get married 
 and if you want to you can have sex.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are not the best in a game but still are quite good
  
  Sound - The 
 music in this game varies, it helps and makes you feel like you are in a mystical world
  
  Value - I think that if you buy this game you are really getting alot for your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir-Dark-Raiden
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2006 1:41 am PT
Review:  Even if some people can say that Molineaux made such a big fuss about Fable, i would say that may 
 he did just a little. Fable is quite an original game with great action, a very original story, 
 great, probably best graphics i have seen in a RPG game, pleasant music, and a gamep [lay that make 
 fable a special game with an atmosphere that most company want for their games. So if you are into 
 RPG games, you can't miss a game like Fable Lost Chapters. While you are playing, and i hope enjoying, 
 think that Molineaux is preparing a new Fable for us, and i hope it will be even more pleasant 
 then the first one. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZodiacMonkey
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very well-done and excellent Role Playing Game. Fable: The Lost Chapters starts 
 you out as young boy in the small village of Oakvale. That's one thing I really dig in RPGs: when 
 you start your character out as a child and grow him into a warrior. So anyway some evil comes 
 to your village and it is burned down and you find yourself in a Guild Of Heroes. You work here 
 for a while and learn basic techniques. After you graduate you have many many enjoyable and challenging 
 quest. During this you can choose to do good things or evil things... and as you slowly choose your 
 appearances changes with your choice. This game is just very entertaining and I truly recommend 
 it. It's not very long so I recommend you take all the side quest you can have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_hunger
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  I hesitated a good while before picking this game up at a bargain price. Based upon various reviews 
 and player feedback, I assumed that this game would be like 10 hours long, a bit buggy, and dumbed 
 down. Fortunately, none of this was the case. I had some good fun with this over a weekend (yes, 
 it can be finished over a weekend) and didn't come across a single bug. Fable is not in the same 
 league as Morrowind, Oblivion, Gothic 2, or some of the other great roleplaying games (RPG) out 
 there, but it does provide an enjoyable diversion. Gameplay: The controls are the typical WASD 
 keys and mouse commands found in most single-player RPGs. The game is fairly easy to learn and 
 navigate. The story traces the hero from childhood through adulthood, when he'll have to, you know, 
 save the world. There are no character classes per se, but you can roughly play as a warrior, magic-user, 
 or stealth/archer character, or some mixture of these. Much of the story centers around a main 
 quest line, but there are a number of side quests available. Unlike most RPGs, quests are assigned 
 by quest cards that you pick up at the Heroes Guild (lol! That's what it's actually called) . It's 
 a rather artificial-feeling system, but it's functional. Progression in the game is quite linear. 
 In most instances, you will not be able to even leave the beaten patch, since fences, rocks, and 
 invisible barriers won't allow it. Compared to more open-ended RPGs like the Elder Scrolls series, 
 Fable seems restrictive and light weight in this regard. Overall, it's a decent story, but it is 
 rather force-fed to you. The game includes several interesting touches. People react to you based 
 upon whether you've performed good or bad deeds. If you roleplay like a saint, you'll eventually 
 have a halo and butterflies floating around. Ladies (and guys) will worship you, and you do have 
 the option to buy a home and marry (multiple times if you'd like) . If you play as an evil character, 
 you'll eventually grow horns and fall out of favor with polite company. The nonplayer characters 
 in the game, at least in the towns, have jobs and schedules. They work during the day and sleep 
 at night, though only quest-related characters have anything to say of interest. Although you can 
 only play the game as the same guy, you can customize him with tattoos, facial hair, haircuts, 
 and a (small) assortment of armor. You can control how your character's skills develop, but not 
 as deeply as you can in a game like Morrowind or Baldur's Gate. There are other small things that 
 you can do, such as fish, play games of chance, and treasure hunt. Overall, this game takes about 
 20-25 hours to do everything it has to offer, so it is rather short for an RPG. The things that 
 I didn't much care for are not major, but simply underscore the light-weight nature of this particular 
 game. The game is certainly designed to appeal to the adolescent crowd, with hotkeys for burping, 
 farting, and so forth. The various tattoo styles and haircuts further highlight this point. There 
 is nothing really offensive in the game; it just feels a bit immature in places. Also, the save 
 system is based mostly on the checkpoint model. You can't save just anywhere (at least your quest 
 progress will not save) , but the game will autosave at important junctures. Graphics: The game 
 looks quite good. Character models are convincing (though a bit cartoonish and often repeated) , 
 and the natural environment is screenshot beautiful in some places. Since the pathing is fairly 
 restrictive, much of the scenary is noninteractive. It's not like Oblivion or Gothic 2, where if 
 you can see it then you can probably travel to it. Sounds: Voice acting is pretty good, with the 
 usual British accents that invariably seem to accompany such games. The music is particularly well 
 done and appropriate for the various atmospheres. Ambiant sounds are also decent. Replayability/Technical 
 Issues: The game is probably worth playing twice: once as a good guy and once as a bad guy. It 
 will play similarly either way, but there are different ways to perform certain quests depending 
 on your moral disposition. Technically, the game was perfectly stable on my computer -- no freezes, 
 crashes, or other problems. The manual is decent and explains much of the game, along with the 
 in-game tutorial. If you like RPG games and can get this one cheap, go for it. It's a well-polished, 
 though simple, rump through a fairly well rendered world. Don't expect the same character depth, 
 engrossing story, or exploring options that you'll find in some of the games that I mentioned above. 
 However, Fable: The Lost Chapters is good for several hours of entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malester
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Originally Fable: The Lost Chapters an xbox game has come to pc. Ive never heard of the game until 
 about a month ago, I love rpg's with an indepth story line and a world of possibilities throughout 
 the game. I just got Fable and finished the training part and its about a hero being brought into 
 the world and the choice of following a good or evil path. Pretty cool idea, produced or somethin 
 by lionhead studio's which also did black &amp; white with the whole good/evil idea. hopefuly this 
 game will be good, seems alright so far.... (6 months later) I enjoyed the game, only played the 
 1 path tho, the good way. Im definatly looking forward to the sequal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord-Nemesis
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 17, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is just FUN to play, you can learn the gameplay in 1 hour or less it is so easy to get 
 in, And the storyline, gameplay, graphics is just great.
  I think i have done the game 6 times 3 times Evil and 3 times Good and whatever u pick it turns 
 out just out awesome, the combat is just great it is fast and easy and some times it happens that 
 you just cut some enemy's heads off and it feels so cool. The storyline is good to it is existing 
 it put u in the story and u never fall out of the story ever you always just want to know more 
 what it going to happen to you and the great world that you are in.
  The only problem of the game is that it is a bit short and there are lots of other things to do 
 then to do the storyline like to get married and do fist fights with others and make trouble in 
 city and more so Lionhead have done a GREAT job with the game and i recommend it to you if u want 
 some humor, fun or just a great storyline! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocelotcougar
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 9, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  I love this game and have played it through several times through, sometimes playing as Evil, sometimes 
 playing as Good. There are many different choices you can pick for most quests. The only problem 
 I had with this game at all is the overhypage that Peter Molyneux placed on it. Had he simply stated 
 it would be a good game, I would have given it a 9.8 or even a 10. Anyways, the many different 
 ways you can change your character make playing through the game multiple times a lot more fun. 
 The marriage system was a little wierd to me, seeing as my wives never got jealous of each other 
 even when I had 2-3 living in the same house. I aslos didn't think that the guards in the town 
 did much good, if you were at a decent level in your physical strengths, you could take them out 
 with ease. Although that made ravaging towns a lot more fun, considering they would just respawn. 
 If 4-5 were attacking you at a time at a lower-level, you may have gotten in over your head. All-in-all, 
 great game except for the overhypage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ingwe657
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 8, 2006 1:18 am PT
Review:  Fable the lost chapters is one of the greatest RPG games i hve ever played on the PC. having played 
 once or twice this game on a friend's Xbox i really expected the PC game. it seems that it worth 
 the wait.
  the strongest aspect of the game is its gameplay. you have a great deal of freedom. you can roam 
 the world freely with many different places to visit, get extra quests apart from the main quests 
 that you must comlete that you can fulfil whenever you like, follow the good or the evil path an 
 element that many RPG games lacked and that defined at a great degree the evolution of the story, become 
 a warrior or a mage at any time you desireby using and learning more fighting abilities or greater 
 spells. the scenario is veeeery long and exciting and i played for many hours because i wanted to 
 know what was next in the tale. moreover the gameplay although it was quite easy to learn it had 
 a great variety of different skills and spells that never bored you. graphics had the signature 
 of the microsoft laboratories and were as i expected wonderful with great details on the characters, 
 weapons adn armor and landscapes that made the game very interesting. the only thing that i didn't 
 like much was that they were a little bit childish but that made the game even sweeter and in that 
 way it appealed to all ages. sound i can't that it was generally very good but in some parts was 
 quite stunning and created an exciting atmosphere.
  
  The game has a great value in the RPG game sector. it introduced the senses of choosing between 
 good and bad and freedom of action. moreover it is ne of the few games that can be played by all 
 ages since violent in the game is limited and there is little blood compared to other RPG games. 
 alhough i have completed it and removed from my pc i would gladly play it again. it is an essential 
 part in a RPG fan's collection or the best start for a new RPG gamer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FastrBlastr
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  OK this game is just fun. Its addicting i played it for hours and didnt get bored. I beat it 4 times 
 now and still im not bored. OK lets just say its so alsome. You can buy armor and houses weapons 
 and alot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot 
 lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot 
 lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot 
 lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot 
 lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot lot more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NervoZa
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2006 2:18 am PT
Review:  I played it I liked it but I was dissapointed because if you look deeper you will see that there 
 isn't a big variety of weapons and armor. The story is great kind of short but still great. I love 
 the feeling of being free and having the option of choosing your own way and making your own destiny 
 whether it is good or evil. It's just great to roam the roads only you and your best friend-the 
 sword, bow or staff. New games should take an example from Fable it really gives YOU the opportunity 
 of being free of really creating your character and of just being yourself in the game. The graphics 
 are also great but without much to wear the whole thing gets spoiled! Anyway it's still a great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gust600
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 27, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  Addictive game playing makes this game hard to quit.
  Boss fights are intensive and best game features.
  Exploring the world can get boring, but quests 
 make-up for all the running.
  There are many side quests that fill time between each major quest.
  Interactive game play allows 
 you to customize your warrior.
  There is a variety of weapons and armor to strengthen your warrior.
  Graphics are not the best, 
 but good enough.
  The game's music is very enjoyable.
  The story line lends itself for some interesting game play.
  Overall the game is good and anyone 
 interested on the game should get a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBlueSpirals
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 12, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  I am not easily impressed at all by games, in fact there have only been five or six memorable ones 
 in the past ten years in my opinion, but fable is certainly at the top of that list, undisputed 
 as my favorite game of all time.
  
  This game was mentioned to me by a friend when I told him I was just beginning to move over to 
 RPG from the FPS/RTS world. I wanted more substance to my gaming, and high end graphics just dont 
 make up for a heartless game. It only took me about five minutes to realize how truly epic Fable 
 would unfold into- the scene in the beginning when bandit pirates come and ruin your whole village, 
 and the story begins. The graphics were, at the time of release, amazing. If you've got a card 
 that can handle it, you can enjoy the breeze through the trees, the bending shadows dancing on 
 the ground in the early evening, or the sunlight piercing through the forest and illuminating dried 
 leaves as they drift slowly to the ground. The controls in this game take a slight bit of getting 
 used to, but I prefer them to any third-person RPG game I've EVER played. There is no sticky targetting, 
 you must dodge, block and attack your opponents weak spots, and speed is everything. Get 'em while 
 they're not facing you.
  
  The music in this game is AWE INSPIRING. This is, without a single doubt in my mind, the most incredible 
 game music I have ever heard- 3/4 time signature violins chirping and deep basses drifting with 
 you along through your lonesome journeys in caves and graves, and when you open the demon doors- 
 particularly the Arcane Sanctum in the Hero's Guild, the most soothing harp I have ever heard in 
 my life plays delicately.
  
  I ripped the music off of this game and burnt it onto a cd; I listen to it in my car all the time. 
 How nerdy is that?
  
  The voice acting is fine- it's cartoony a bit, just like the overall idea of the game- but it is 
 still incredible and immersive. I actually CRIED at the end of this game because of how inspiring 
 it was and how terrible I felt when I'd come to the realization that the adventure was over and 
 I had to go outside and deal with reality.
  
  If you have cancer and you only have two weeks to live and only one game to play, QUIT WASTING 
 YOUR TIME AND BUY FABLE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brhisawsome
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 2, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  fable lost chapters is pretty much the same as fable but with a couple added featers and a longer 
 ending. 
  basicly, ur this guy who, when he was younger, had his parents killed, and his sister kidnapped 
 by this evil thief dude, as u progress u find ouot more bout the evil plot to control the world 
 
  
  the gameplay is super fun, theres tons of clothing and stuff that u can get and special swords 
 and armor to get too. the quests are pretty cool too, because your either given a quest were you 
 have to do something related to the story, or you have a quest related to your consconce good or 
 bad. whats cool bout the later is that sometimes u may have a good quest and a bad quest that happen 
 at the same place at the same time and you have to descide to be good or bad. the sword play is 
 pretty straightfoward but pretty fun at the same time. 
 
  
  the graphics in the game are nothing out of the ordinary but are pretty sweet. it all comes down 
 to this, if u dont have the first oneand dont mind the short campain i highly recomend it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxgamemasterxx
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  i think the gameplay is really amazing cuz you get full control on your person (although you have 
 to follow the storyline) . Like choose your quests, become good or evil, looks, weapon and loads 
 more stuff! The storyline as great as some other games buti think its alright. You could do loads 
 more aswell as the ones i listed. So dont think this game has nothing, it has loads to do!
  Graphics
  ok, they look kinda hideous and thier axient isnt as great and all but i think its 
 good compared to some other games. Though i do think that the Graphics shud imprve though.
  Sound
  The sound can get really freaky sometimes but thats how it adds the effort on the scene 
 your on. So its cool. No fancy or funny music in this game though.
  In my opinion i think that this game is an amazing game and everone should go try it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afly727
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 29, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  yes the award winnig game is now for pc. your whole town pretty much gets burned down and destroyed 
 so your taken into the guild and you become a hero. The difference between this and the origanal 
 is not much. one thing that has changes is the controlls of corse. let me just say it these conrolls 
 are bad. theres 3 things that really hold this game back and that is controlls length and graphics.
 
  
  PROS good personalaty options
  good costimization
  good gameplay
  just a great all around game that can be ebjoyed by anyone
  
  CONS
  controlls can be a pain 
 in the neck
  graphics are not that great compared to the xbox version
  this game is super short
  not so hard Overall
  this game is great it has things holding back 
 but not so severe except the lenght. if you can replay a game over and over again you should get 
 this game if you can only play a game once i would think twice about getting this game since its 
 aboutt 9 hours long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrSteve99
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 27, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Before Fable's release, it's lead designer Peter Molyneux made a number of claims suggesting that 
 it would be revolutionary in scope and enormous in length. It was claimed that Fable would be capable 
 of simulating an entire life, with even greater freedom than that offered by Bethesda's wonderful 
 line of role-playing games (Morrowind, Oblivion) . This turned out to be entirely false, and Fable 
 is all the better for it. Fable is not competition for Oblivion, but this is not because it is 
 lesser in quality, but rather because it is of an entirely different genre. A more apt comparison 
 would be to the Zelda series. This is a classical action-adventure game, without the depth that 
 some may crave but with a consistent level of action that keeps the game fun from start to finish.
 
  Fable's gameplay consists primarily in completing quests of the sort found in many traditional 
 role playing games - killing monsters, guarding merchants, and retrieving odds and ends for townsfolk. 
 A compelling storyline pulls the narrative along at a brisk pace, and never does it feel as though 
 the sidequests are getting too much in the way of the main plot. The game is always focused, and 
 it is also appropriate in length - it is by no means a short game, but it has the virtue of ending 
 before it ever really gets boring.
  A number of peculiar elements of customization are found throughout the game - you can change your 
 character's hairstyle, clothing, and physique, as well as his skills and magical attributes. These 
 customization options generally have a minimal effect on gameplay, but they can be fun to play 
 around with.
  Fable's graphics and sound are superb. While the visuals are not quite on par technically with 
 some next-gen games (i. e. Oblivion) , they are well-crafted and convey a consistent feel that is 
 well-intoned by the game's title (i. e. the aesthetics are very much like that of a fable) . What's 
 more, the game runs quite well on a modest system, which is more than can be said of many other 
 recent releases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russianghost
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 27, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  Right off the bat the game starts out in a wave of originality... Your a kid? It's your sisters 
 birthday and you need to buy her a present. Now you can either be a bad kid and beat some money 
 out of a couple kids and keep your mouth shut when you catch a guy cheating on his wife, or you 
 can do vise-versa and do good deeds in which your father will reward you. These are not mere yes/no 
 options, they will all play their role through the whole game. Do a bad thing your alignment shifts 
 a little more to the evil side (and your appearance changes to show that) , if you do a good thing 
 your alaignment reflects that (appearance changes to show it as well) . Throughout the game you'll 
 get to mold your player from scratch, training in a guild your recruited into. The story is told 
 very well, and is interesting and will emmerse you instantly. This game is like a cross between 
 zelda and the elder scrolls, if you can imagine that.
  
  Graphics are also top notch, it's special render effects only show it off even more. You will see 
 the occasional jaggy edge, and the fact that shadows are strangely square. Everything is done through 
 dialogue, which enhances the experience quite a bit, but the actual sound effects aren't anything 
 too special. There is a huge array of armor, clothing, weaponry, skills, and spells at your disposal 
 if you have the necessary funds or experience to use them. The action is awesome, all physics are 
 very solid. Even targeting with archery is executed well in the game, and with the sword your bound 
 to get combo happy. Marriage is an option, with woman or man (if you swing that way) . And there 
 are plenty of side quests in addition to the main one. My only real complaint is that this game 
 is'nt much of an expansion to the original. A couple new weapons and around 3-4 extra hours of 
 gameplay total. Although it does make a nice conclusion, it's just not much gameplay for the extra 
 buck. This game really is awesome, but if you've already got the original fable for xbox, your 
 better off just waiting for fable 3. If this is your first dive into the fable universe though, 
 you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 17, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Fable: The Lost Chapters
  
  08-04-06
  
  Without a doubt Peter Molyneux is my all-time favorite game developer, having created Black &amp; 
 White, The Movies, and my favorite, Dungeon Keeper. Having been out for some time on the Xbox, 
 I knew it to be an extremely innovative RPG, allowing players to play the game through free will 
 and even go as far as to marry or purchase real estate. When I booted up F: TLC for PC (basically 
 the original Xbox title plus a few new quests) I was greeted with a game I will rank for all time 
 in my top three RPGs (Diablo II, obviously, will always hold the #1 honors) , and one of my favorites 
 for genres. My only problems with Fable are how the game couldve been done better and not what 
 is currently wrong with it.
  
  My biggest issue, as you should be aware, is the length of the game. I beat the original Fable 
 quests in a little over seven hours, with perhaps four or five optional quests remaining. After 
 I played around with the world for awhile, trying my hand as a real-estate broker (sometimes forcefully 
 evicting the owners into their next existence) , having some sex, and playing drinking games, I 
 went on to conquer The Lost Chapters in under two hours. Of course, these were the best nine hours 
 in recent memory, and I thoroughly enjoyed every minute, however, upon completion of the final 
 boss, I was left with a desire for at least double what was offered. I do plan to play through 
 the game again, this time making all the bad choices and going through Albion as an evil swordsman. 
 And I will play around for a few more hours, buying up the cities and mating with every girl I 
 fancy myself to. However, all said and done with replay included, I will have only gotten less 
 that twenty hours from the game. My next quibble is the lack of an extensive items suite. Fable 
 offers the perfect engine for a game with hundreds of obtainable items, weapons, armor, and goodies 
 which, unfortunately, presents players with only a handful of the aforementioned goods. If you 
 are the type of player who goes from town-to-town expecting to find new items of interest -like 
 me- expect to be disappointed. While I disapprove of developers taking ideas from one another, 
 and Peter Molyneux is certainly not this type of person, I think the Fable developers would have 
 done well to take hints from Morrowind and its mind-boggling attention to item whores. What Fable 
 does offer is a gorgeous and vibrant RPG full of character and charm which players from any background 
 will enjoy to the end. The graphics, especially the shadows, are amazing and fit well with the 
 gameplay and design. The music is rousing and accompanied by good sound effects. At the bottom 
 line, Fable has been one of my most enjoyable gaming experiences of the past few months.
  
  Highs: Glorious Peter Molyneux innovativeness; the ability of free will; in-game marriages; not 
 overly difficult
  Lows: Way too short; lack of items
  
  Scoring
  Time Value: 97% Graphics: 93% Overall: 93%
  Price Value: 95% Sound: 93%
  Performance: 87% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaOStreet
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 17, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  While Fable: The Lost Chapters was kinda hyped, it could of course not stand up the the expectations 
 of some people. But its still a pretty damn nice game and I had a lot of fun with it, so nothing 
 to regret here.
  
  It could have been even better, but which game could not be?
  And with the overall nice price now you cant do anything wrong, if you still dont got this.
  
 
  Now the playtime, was at least for me not that bad, I had heard it would end pretty quick, but 
 that was only true for the normal Fable... So I was kind of impressed when it continued, after 
 the end .
  
  Overall its with no doubt worth playing and I even believe some would like it more than Oblivion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusismyhomie
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 7, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Fable: A story of no other, A story of virtue and revenge, a story of one that you control that 
 needs help in the world. He needs to find revenge for the one who has broken apart his family. 
 The world looks up to you to find peace in the world.
  Now the most unique and interesting thing on this game is the Alignment. This great substance will 
 determine if you are good or evil. Fable has a great way of determining the good and the evil. 
 For example, when you punch a child: Evil and when you give money to the church: Good.
  Once you are fully Evil or fully good there are some characteristics that your person might have. 
 For instance, Being Fully good will make you have a Halo over your head and the townsfolk will 
 appreciate you being there. Now Being fully Evil will make you have horns on your head and there 
 will also be flies around you. The Townsfolk will be scared of you and will take precaution. But 
 the Advantage of being Evil is that you will carry more powerful and more weightless items.
  
  This Game is Wonderful and I will recommend it to anyone that loves and enjoys a game of wonders 
 and adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bilich
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 3, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  I just completed this game an hour ago, and let me tell you it grabbed ahold of me and never let 
 go. I heard about it from my xbox friends and seen it a few times being played by them. I tried 
 it for myself about 3 months ago but it seemed very sims like to me, so I kind of shrugged it off 
 and didn't play again. Then for some reason a week ago I was looking for an adventure game to play 
 (after beating the Dark Messiah demo for the 5th time) so I reinstalled Fable and jumped back in. 
 This time was different, I gave it a good 5 hours play time the first day and really got into the 
 story and side quests. I got hooked from that day forward and beat the thing in about 18 hours 
 total in-game play time (I am sure that isn't a record but I got all but 2 side quests done) . I 
 definately recomend this game to any fan of sword play with a mix of magic that doesn't come accross 
 as way out there. I pretty much lived by the Infernal wrath and combat charge. The game leads you 
 on pretty well, I only had to hit up the walk-through a handfull of times which is pretty good 
 for a game with so many forks in the road. I love the fact that there is a whole extra world area 
 and boss fight compared to the xbox version, cause it is something that I can hold over my xbox 
 lovin buddy's.
  
  I came out of this game wanting more yet very satisfied, and I hope that the game makers have part 
 2 available for us PC users. I may just have to play it again and go full out evil, just for the 
 fun of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_9898
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 3, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  you grow up in the guild, and become a hero, As you get EXP you learn or level up your skills, 
 as you get more know you will learn expressions which could insult or complement people. you can 
 trade between shop to make money; buy houses and rent them of to make money; you can get married 
 to a woman, man (never tried that mind you) or both all together a fantastic game but does not 
 take that long to do, it taken me 13:23 hours to do all together I rented it out for the week and 
 had it done by wednesday 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomp814
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  I have to say, Fable is that kind of game that seeing someone playing is better than playing it 
 at all...
  The c. g. s are so cool, and the game plays so smooth that, if they made a movie with the game, I 
 certainly would think better of it.
  What disappoints me most is the gameplay. Its so easy to kill everybody and the character gets 
 so strong by the end, that even the last boss isn't a challenge. Making money is easy, getting 
 experience is easy. The game lacks a true difficult quest, or a "free-end". The linear history 
 and the almost plain dumb plot made me sleepy sometimes.
  The length of the game is another bad choice. I could certainly continue playing the game after 
 the end, if there were some new quests, or some ultimate treasure to go after. The simple "you 
 saved the day!" ending just don't make it anymore.
  Finally, I DID like the game, it is pretty and really fun to play, but I think I wouldn't pay to 
 play for so little time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzysquash
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 1, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  Fable: The Lost Chapters has its flaws, but the overall rpg is an enjoyable experience.
  
  Review:
  
  For starters, Fable is a relatively pretty game. Although it doesn't push the massive 
 polygon counts of more recent PC games, Fable's art style really presents the world of Albion well, 
 and gives a real endearing quality. The world of Albion is quite restrictive, though, as you pass 
 from area to area a la Metal Gear Solid. I would have liked to see the world more open-ended.
 
  
  The sound of Fable has its qualities and shortfalls. Sometimes the background music is well-composed 
 and fitting, while other times it isn't as good, depending on where you are and what situation 
 you're in. The voice acting is well-done, but nothing spectacular. The area needing the most improvement 
 is combat sound, where contact with the enemy just doesn't convey the visceral feeling of battle.
 
  
  Fable's core gameplay is solid, but the gameplay difficulty is biased in the player's favor. It 
 is simply too easy to defeat enemies later on - you can use a variety of magic attacks to slow 
 down the enemy, then warp behind them, then attack them multiple times before they get a hit on 
 you. Not to mention that you can purchase resurrection phials that will save you from death. While 
 it's a great feeling when you attain these attacks, the gameplay difficulty imbalance makes bosses 
 a breeze. So if you're a gamer who likes to be challenged, just know that Fable doesn't provide 
 much.
  
  The story and characters of Fable are not very interesting, and this is a major impediment to the 
 game. The main unique aspect of Fable is the ability to be good or evil, but this mechanic proves 
 to be more of a gimmick, as you can quickly become evil by killing lots of innocents, or buy your 
 way out of evil at a certain point in the game.
  
  The main flaw of Fable: TLC is that it's too short. Although the original Fable is an even shorter 
 game, the additions to TLC still seem insufficient, and this depreciates its value in comparison 
 with other rpg's.
  
  Fable may be a flawed game, but what makes it worth a play-through is the combination of the world 
 it presents and the enjoyable aspects of the gameplay. The various quests that you can embark on 
 give this game a sense of variety and adventure. You can do everything from rescuing traders to 
 taking on villains, getting married to kicking chickens, flexing your archery skills to boxing 
 fellow townsmen. The sense of freedom to do so many different quests is really what makes Fable: 
 TLC a worthwhile experience.
  
  So if you're looking for an rpg with a good art style, a good sense of humor, and lots of quests 
 to offer, give Fable: The Lost Chapters a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gorgar21
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 27, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  As an avid PC gamer that somehow missed the pre-release Fable hype, I have only recently discovered 
 this game. From a Fable fan's perspective I may be the most irritating type of player, since I 
 was referred to this game after playing through Oblivion and searching for similar titles. With 
 that off my chest, I didn't know what to expect. Fable is a hard game to describe since its features 
 incredible visuals, that are noticeably tarnished by an overly-simplified role-playing system. 
 Given that its an Action-RPG, the focus is action and not role-playing, yet even classic hack & 
 slashes such as Diablo and the clones that followed were simple yet heavily stat reliant. Going 
 in, I expected a similar type of system and at least some open-endedness, yet by the time I was 
 about 8-10 hours into the game, I felt as if I was playing a platformer, such as Crash Bandicoot, 
 Sonic, or Psychonauts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aka-shi
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Well I enjoyed all the game had to offer. Nice surroundings, good sense of humor, pretty easy, 
 yet still interesting quests, it provides plenty of "freedom of play", and several playing choices. 
 BUT it has bugs.. and not one patch. I was just playing the final battle, when with my last shot 
 (killing... the beast) the game suddenly exists... it CRASHED. And that was the most annoying battle 
 too. I hate hit-and-runs! But don't let that deter you from playing the game... just... be careful. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 22, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Fable doesn't try to do too much. It's tight rather than over-reaching in design philosophy, yet 
 there's still a fist-full of detail touches and nuances as you'd expect from the "Molymeister". 
 The basic premise is that the player lives through the life of a single hero, from childhood wooden 
 swords and marbles through to grizzled plate-wearing veteran. Add a slaughtered family and quest 
 for vengeance for good measure, naturally.
  
  The world is alive and sort of open-ended; we'll come back to the latter point in a moment. By 
 alive, we mean the shops shut when night falls, villagers actually go to bed, when the weapon-smith 
 wakes in the morning he goes about the business of laying his swords out on display stands and 
 so on. He might even nip off for a pint at the local tavern at lunchtime. Village people (no, not 
 the band) react to your presence with various comments, depending on whether you're a good or evil 
 sort and how renowned you are.
  
  Your reputation is boosted by successfully completing quests and you're free to roam the world 
 attempting these and getting stuck into all sorts of other stuff. There are mini-games to play, 
 including cards, coin golf and chicken kicking (complaints to the Royal Society for the Protection 
 of Poultry, please) .
  
  There are hidden keys and chests to find, there's fishing to be done, treasure to be dug for, maidens 
 to flirt with and eventually marry, houses you can buy and furnish ornately if you have the money. 
 You can choose to be an evil git of a thief who breaks into people's houses and wipes his bottom 
 on their tablecloth, or a heroic fighter who donates all his money to the church and spends three 
 hours gazing at himself in the mirror every morning.
  
  While that's all very free ranging (especially the chickens bit) , Fable is only 'sort of' open-ended 
 because the quests you can take at any given time are limited and you are channelled down certain 
 routes to an extent. You're told when you need to return to the guild to pick up a new quest, for 
 example, and the level design feels somewhat straight-jacketed, with marked paths to take and areas 
 you can see but can't reach due to mysterious invisible barriers.
  
  And this linearity carries through into the quest tasks themselves on occasion. For example, in 
 one you have to infiltrate a bandit camp by finding five pieces of bandit armour to use as a disguise. 
 How does this play out? You reach a small group of bandits, beat them up, there's a chest, open 
 it, one piece of armour. Trot down the road a bit, there's another small group of bandits, take 
 them apart, guess what? There's a chest, open it, another piece of armour. Repeat a further three 
 times. Why not make one of the chests an exercise in stealth, another a puzzle mini-game, and so 
 on? Fable is overly simplistic at times.
  
  However, in the end this RPG won me over simply because it's damned good fun to play. That's the 
 bottom line: it has the Molyneux magic running through it. And compared to the Xbox version, the 
 PC incarnation has large chunks of extra content bolted on, so there's considerably more to do 
 and see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MronoC
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I can't think of a good opening so let's just jump right into the review
  
  gameplay: the combat is a fun, fast-paced, real-time, action-based system, in which spells bows 
 and magic can all be used with success as a primary means of defeating your foes, especially with 
 the use of mouse for aiming with the bow and spells, a lack of which hindered spellcasters and 
 archers in the xbox version, or so I've heard. Also with the experience system it's easy to develop 
 your character in any way you want. The only real downside is that it's a bit easy due to an overabundance 
 of healing items in your inventory.
  
  graphics: simply put, they're stunning. The lighting and the spell effects still look amazing even 
 on my slightly less than middling PC, and the environments were still lush and detailed. The only 
 possible flaw is that the somewhat animated style in conjunction with the level of gore may throw 
 some people off.
  
  sound: The voice acting and dialog are all very well done, and quite humorous at times, but it 
 can still give off an epic feel when it needs to. The combat sound effects from the crackle of 
 the fire balls to the clash of a successfully parried blow are all thoroughly satisfying. Lastly, 
 as for the soundtrack, two words, Danny Elfman enough said.
  
  value: The main quest is surprisingly short for an RPG, even with the extension from the xbox version, 
 but after finishing the game with one character, you can still get some satisfaction out of playing 
 with additional characters. The second time through you can not only play as a different alignment, 
 but you could also choose to focus on archery as opposed to melee, or vice-versa, or you could 
 make a more magic focused character, or you could focus on stealth and rob every shop owner blind. 
 So there's still a lot to do after the main quest if you're hungry for more.
  
  so in conclusion, it's awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 6, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Fable is an action role-playing game that can satisfy most RPG players but there's nothing particularly 
 special about it although there are some interesting game play mechanics that add to the interest 
 of the game.
  
  Fable opens in a fairly standard way with your village being attacked by bandits and shortly after 
 you find yourself a student in the local hero guild where you train to become a hero who eventually 
 ventures out into the world to join the ranks of other heroes and face that challenges that come 
 before the guild.
  
  One of those interesting mechanics is that as you progress through the game, you age, beginning 
 as a child in your village, working in the guild through you teenage years and eventually joining 
 the ranks of the well seasoned adventurers. There doesn't appear to be much affect on how the game 
 plays out, but your appearance does change over time.
  
  There is a morality axis to the game as well. From the very beginning, when you undertake quests, 
 you often make a choice between doing something that is good or doing the opposite which is evil. 
 You start off as a neutral character, but these decisions push your overall alignment in one direction 
 or another and this alignment affects how other people respond to you and can affect a small number 
 of skills and items that you can use.
  
  The role-playing aspect come into play through three disciplines known as strength (melee combat) , 
 skill (range and thief skills) and will (magic) . As you battle, you gain experience points in the 
 area of combat you are using plus (in greater number) general experience points. The points in 
 each area can be spent to improve skills in that area while the general points may be spent on 
 any area.
  
  As you move through the game, the heroes guild you belong to will offer you various quests that 
 you can take on. Some are optional and some are core to the main story of the game. You accept 
 a quest from the guild and then proceed to wherever it is you need to go and fulfill the quest.
 
  
  In addition to the guild quests, there are a number of long-term quests you can pick up that require 
 you to keep your eyes and inventory open. There are quests to collect a set of dolls or book or 
 one to find a sequence of clues to a hidden treasure. These quests tend to be rather difficult 
 to complete and most will take to near the end of the game if you can solve them at all. This adds 
 some replay value to the game as you'll be more willing to play again in order to satisfy all of 
 those quests.
  
  The graphics of the game are quite good but it's difficult to find any one game to compare them 
 to. As a matter of overall feeling of the environment, the closest game to look to is World of 
 Warcraft III. The game has a bit of a cartoonish feeling to it with exaggerated characters and 
 giant chests in the wilderness that open with a flourish. The game consists of small areas that 
 include relatively confined paths that you can move through that may feel a bit like Knights of 
 the Old Republic.
  
  Most of these areas are populated with monsters that you battle and each area re-spawns as soon 
 as you leave it which provides for an infinite amount of experience. It can also get tiring to 
 battle through an area over and over but generally you can just run through an area. The game is 
 also filled with teleportation points that allow you to jump around the various areas of the game 
 as you encounter them.
  
  In addition to the monsters, throughout the game are a number of "Demon Doors" that require certain 
 levels of skill or pose puzzles and problems to the player. Once a door has been satisfied, it 
 will open for you and you can claim whatever treasures lie inside. These doors do add an interesting 
 element to the game and you'll find yourself wanting to get through as many of them as possible.
 
  
  In addition to your decisions affecting your morality, there's also a fair amount of appearance 
 customization you can do that affect how others respond to you. You can decide what kind of haircut 
 you want, whether or not to have a mustache or you can apply all sorts of tattoos that can make 
 you look both silly and fearsome. You can also try out your romantic skills and find yourself a 
 wife (or a husband) , buy a house and even have sex.
  
  The interface to the game is overly complicated. There are an awful lot of menus to navigate and 
 it will take you a while to get the hang of getting to where you want to go. As an example, if 
 you wish to drink a healing potion, you would open the menus and select  
 Potion/Use. Of course, you can assign items and spells to hot keys to reduce this difficulty.
 
  
  There are a number of things about the game that I found notably annoying. One is that while your 
 moving, if you move the mouse to rotate your view, when you stop, the camera will bounce back in 
 the opposite direction a bit. I don't see a reason why it should do this, but in the beginning 
 it may tend to give you a headache as it makes for a bouncy ride.
  
  The last thing I want to note is a feature that in any other game would be considered an exploit 
 of a flaw in the game. Fable includes a "World Save" which saves the game in the typical manner 
 but in addition to this is a "Hero Save" which only saves the attributes and inventory of the hero, 
 but not your progress within a quest. When you load a Hero Save, the last World Save is loaded, 
 but the attributes of the hero are loaded from the Hero Save. Thus, you could begin a quest, gain 
 experience, special items and anything else you want in the quest then save and load a Hero Save 
 and you'll be back at the beginning but retaining all of your stats. You can load up on experience 
 or special items in the manner.
  
  You can only use a Hero Quest while in the middle of a quest and a World Save when you are not. 
 For the first part of the game when your in your village as a child and when you are training in 
 the guild, you cannot execute a World Save and for the first 30 minutes to a few hours (depending 
 on how thorough you are) you won't be able to save your game.
  
  Many players have commented that this game is too short but I must say that in my experience, this 
 was not the case. I suppose if you rushed through the main quests you might find the game on the 
 short side, but if you do all the side quests, work on the demon doors and try to finish some of 
 the collecting quests, you'll find a game that is as long as any typical RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BowlingBadger
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 5, 2006 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Fable: The Lost Chapters is a spin off of the Xbox version and a good one at that. Fable has all 
 the great stuff of RPGs, chests, leveling up, sex of course :) , and many other attributes. The 
 game looks good and plays good. The one big downfall is that it is so short. You can go through 
 it in under 10 hours. It has a nice selection of armors weapons and spells, but I would have liked 
 some more weapons and armor, you can never have enough, right? The combat multiplier was a nice 
 feature that allowed you to get extra experience points if you managed to hit your enemies without 
 getting hit. This could be exploited a little with the physical shield, though. You go from little 
 boy to old wrinkly man, not to mention a lot of scars. Fable, a good RPG for anyone looking for 
 one. Also the saving and loading times are really quick for a modern game. If you've followed me 
 this far, you might be convinced to get it. If not, then you better have a good excuse like your 
 computer sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asassinmario
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  I simply put this game as amazing. You can choose your path. Become a powerful wizard who helps the 
 people or a dark knight whoes corruption has killed many people. You interact and are given choices 
 of great mass of evil or good. You choose your path. Darkness and light are put in your hands as 
 your play thing. You choose the one you break and become. Fable lost chapters is a great game. If 
 you love killing with swords and powerful magic this game is for you!!!!!!!!!!!!! The spells are 
 very powerful and could kill many people all at once. You will love this game. LOVE IT!!!!! And trust 
 me I swear this game is superb. It is the original FABLE but once you beat the level that Fable 
 ended at there are cool new missions where you fight new creatures and all kinds of things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raskolnikov_usa
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 4, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  What can be said that has not already, I will make an attempt to expound upon some of the greatest 
 features of this game without sounding like a re-run. First of all great story and characters! 
 Awesome armor and weapons! Cool enemies and monsters to fight! Fast action gameplay! You can have 
 sex!
  
  This game really did alot of great things when it came to changing the style and feel of rpg's. 
 The enviroment reacts in accordance with your decisions, awesome addition in my opinion. However 
 perfection eludes us again because even though fable gave us so many new concepts to indulge in, 
 it also lacks in some basic areas. Honestly the game has kinda a linear feel and can get old at 
 times. They just need to open it up a little bit more and maybe add some character customization 
 at the begining. Maybe I wanted to be an evil guy with blonde hair and blue eyes, or a good guy 
 with dark hair and a poor disposition. Oh well it's still one of the best!
  
  
  PS cant wait for FABLE 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalflame_04
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 1, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  fable what can i say this is a mind blowing game with awesome graphics and addicting gameplay only 
 one problem? i beat the game in one day :S uh oh i was pretty damn frustrated with that they better 
 make that fable 2 longer or ill hurt somebody lol this game was the best game id ever played until 
 i completed every mission within less than 10 hours --- ouch anyways great game i hope fable 2 
 is longer lol even with the extra chapters that suited the game, it was still short compared to 
 what i excpected hopefully in fable 2 they will pay notice to your heroes in the first fable anyways 
 end of story great game not long enuff as we all know by now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vickfan44
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 26, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Man this game is the **** But anyways i love this game for its being being good and evil and how 
 that changes you looks. Also I hate it when you get a RPG and when you get new armor and weapons 
 they don't change but not in this game everything changes you when you put it on it even influences 
 you evil and good sides. But the story is good and the game length is a little short.
  One of my fav things to do in the game is fart and burp on people it is hilarious. But if you like 
 RPG's and great graphics get this game cause it is crazy good. It is also pretty cheap since it 
 has been out for awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom64
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 23, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  This game was great from start to finish, although the end came a bit to fast. That combined with 
 the fact there was no multiplayer is the only thing that keeps it from being one of the best rpgs 
 around. Although the story of the game was great and had alot of twists in the plot I wish they 
 would of added more Good/evil side quests and options. Playing the game as good or evil really 
 didnt change the game that much. If they would of added some type of multi-player or a longer campaign/ability 
 to effect the story in more ways while being evil or good it would of been allot better in my opinion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grim_Reaper007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 22, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  The PC version of Fable: Lost Chapters is lots of fun that can bring several hours of enjoyment. 
 The gamepla is absolutely amazing this game plays very well and has very few bugs or issues. The 
 targeting and fighting mechanics are very well laid out and never gets dull. The graphics are really 
 nice if you have a good computer to help back if up. The game has above average graphics that look 
 quite nice. The sound i also nice and has a nice variety of different sounds and musics. The game 
 is quite cheap now, so the value is really amazing. I recommend this title to all Action RPG fans.
 
  
  P. S. Replay value is very poor. After you beat the game you will feel very little reason to keep 
 playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stu1515
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 20, 2006 5:38 am PT
Review:  To start i wouldnt really say its an RPG, its more on the Devil May Cry side of Action Games. 
 
  
  (As i state in my Title a Fable Online MMO would be a nice change from other games, this hack and 
 slash action would make a nice change from current MMORPG's)
  
  Although, this game is Fantastic, you wont get another game that brings complete Fun into a game.
 
  
  The Hack and Slash action is great.
  
  The game is one great story, altough this game is verry short, you'll probably complete it in 1 
 week, or about 20 hours or less.
  
  The Word Fable means "Short folktale Story" so its what you expect, and what its ment to be, but 
 non the less a great story.
  
  One thing i found wrong with it, it was too easy, you get beaten up alot, but you can just use 
 a potion, a couple of the quests were hard where you had to do something with the help of gaurds, 
 they often died and made it a little harder.
  
  Just Like Lionheads other Game Black and White, you get to choose weather or not your Good or Evil, 
 Ying and Yang, You can choose to help the Innocent or join up with Bandits for rutheless killing, 
 some towns you can also take over, killing the shop keepers and buying there stalls to sell stuff 
 yourself. 
  
  You must also make decisions witch threaten the life of the people around you, you can either have 
 them help, or you can get something quicker by killing them, but of course killing them means they 
 cant help you later in the game.
  
  This game is a breath of fresh air for all games and RPG's, Lionhead makes the goodgames! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-mystiqu-one
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 4, 2007 5:24 am PT
Review:  when i first started to play i thought the game will be complacted with all the different kinds 
 of ores but i found it to be a simple game with a lot to offer.
  the graphics are amzing not perfect but still amazing there is always room for improvment. the gameplay 
 is great as well and Microsoft did a great work on it. as for the story line which is amazing i 
 just dont have the words in vocabulary to describe it every time the plot takes a turn and suprises 
 you and when you think thats it it is over you are surprised by the game once more and you find 
 out that it is far from over which is good because the game as i said is amazing but don't worry 
 the game has an ending.
  the sound is great and goes well with the graphics (i mean that the mouth of the person who is 
 speaking is moving) this kind of things always helps.
  i think i will play this game again sometime and i am sure i will enjoy it like it was my first 
 time.
  
  Matan Malka. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Distortion_Lane
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 15, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  While this is an xbox port, it does have enough features to make it feel like a pc game. 
  
  Gameplay:
  +fast paced
  +very little learning curve for everything in the game
  +nice 
 bosses
  +lot's of stuff to do
  +great spells
  -too great (makes the game a joke difficulty wise)
  -short
  -very, VERY easy
  -linear as 
 hell
  +nice story
  -but badly executed (lip synching is pretty bad)
  +replayable if you want to be evil or good
  -once your evil you can just donate and become good 
 all of a sudden
  -not enough side quests
  -not enough weapons
  
  Graphics:
  +forests baby!
  +colourfull and lively
  +nice shadows
  +HDR-like effect (maybe it is HDR 
 i dunno, but looks very similar)
  +some bump maps here and there
  +sharp textures
  +day/night system
  +lots of tweaks for a port
  +nice looking water
  +spells look great
 
  -not all that well optimized if you wanna run it at max settings 
  
  Sound:
  +very nice music 
  -not enough variety in music
  +battle sounds are convincing
  -annoying 
 people and their screams
  
  Value:
  +10-15 hours is good
  -but not for an RPG!
  -limited replayability
  -no multiplayer
  
  If you find this game for under $20, then by all 
 means check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SugarMoon
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 12, 2006 10:55 pm PT
Review:  This game offers all the elements you would want out of an RPG. Epic story, rich characters, customizable 
 features, and a unique gaming experience like no other. It may not be one of the most challenging 
 RPGs out there, but what it lacks in difficulty, it gains in pure entertainment. 
  
  There's no doubt you will have fun playing this game. With each new quest, a new and exciting event 
 takes you further down the path of righteousness or maniacal corruption. The option to choose your 
 character roles is what makes this game worthy of it's title; you are creating your own FABLE.
 
  
  The only draw back or complaint about this game is just the length of it. The story could have 
 been tooken further, and there were some optional quests that were more annoying then fun to complete. 
 I won't spoil it for you if have yet played it , but I will say this, hobbes are not cool. 
  
  Besides those minor dislikings, FABLE is a game that deserves to be in any RPGer's collection. 
 You will appreciate the stunning attention to detail, and the beautiful soundtrack as you journey 
 on in your story. You can't help but play quest after quest each time you finish one. This is a 
 game that entrances you into another world. A world that is very easy to get lost in. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathtok
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 22, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I really anticipated playing Fable for some time but never got myself and XBox because there just 
 weren't enough "must have" games for me to spend the cash. Microsoft's decision to bring this to 
 the PC was certainly a good one and I'm glad they did because this game is fun.
  
  Pre-release hype on Fable was huge. Like many games wild claims of changing the face of RPG's was 
 made, the usual, etc etc. While Fable makes some great strides in that direction it doesn't quite 
 do so.
  
  Graphically this game is incredible. With an equipped PC this version looks far better than the 
 XBox version. On my system I was able to put most settings on medium and a few on high and round 
 it off with 2x anti-aliasing. Visually incredible with very few graphical glitches throughout the 
 game. The detailed character design and environment created an atmosphere that all fantasy gamers 
 can enjoy.
  
  The sound in the game was certainly a big plus too. From the sounds of swords clashing, hobbes 
 grunting, to brilliant voice acting everything in this department was outstanding. Studios could 
 learn a lot from the efforts put into this game. For those that have surround setups, make sure 
 these are set properly in Windows and Fable will take full advantage.
  
  Story-wise, the game lived up to its title. It is a fable through and through. The story is told 
 through short segments and vague descriptions which lend themselves to the game well enough but 
 it still maintains a bit of a generic, almost impersonal feel. You are constantly referred to as 
 "Hero" and with this they could have done better.
  
  Of course this is an RPG so what would it be without battles. This is where my first complaint 
 is. In almost every RPG there is a battle that you can't do the first time around or you have to 
 work hard at. Not here. While the battle system in fable is good, the game is incredibly easy. 
 The few epic battles that appear didn't really provide a challenge and as such weren't so rewarding. 
 A couple of spells and the swing of a sword and it was over.
  
  Despite the fact that the game was easy it was still fun to play. There are a fair amount of side 
 quests to be done. These range from saving a hostage to finding the 30 silver keys throughout the 
 game. Without the side quests Fable is almost nothing because the main storyline can be completed 
 very quickly. In all of this you can also choose whether you're good or evil and this affects how 
 people interact with you, you're appearance, and a few other stats. The Lost Chapters iteration 
 of the game adds more side quests and extends the story which gave the game some more value but 
 ultimately one trip through is all you'll need. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rachadi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 4, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This is game is nearly perfect. i have enjoyed very much. the story lines are great, the game play 
 is wonderful, graphics and sounds rocks and the overall is AMAZING.
  
  You will like the game atmosphere so much, and you are going to spend a great time in playing. 
 The game starts with a child that is going to be a great Champion in the end of the game. The game 
 is full will quests, side quests and secrets. Also it will take you with it's planty details that 
 you are going to enjoy the most.
  
  However it is short a little, i know it's the bad thing... and also i hate that the second edition 
 of this game is not dedicated for pc. Anyway, give FABLE: THE LOST CHAPTERS a try and you are not 
 going to be sorry . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migaru
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 4, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  You start Fable as a young boy who has to get some gold pieces for a birthday present for your 
 sister, and right at the beginning of the game you're introduced to the Good Side-Dark Side flow 
 of gameplay, however you get those gold pieces is up to you.
  
  Gameplay:
  Fable's gameplay is from a third-person perspective camera which allows you to move around your 
 character to view every point of your surrounding area. Fable is also in real-time combat, (which 
 is somewhat of a standard to RPG's these days) so while your looking for a specific spell monsters 
 WILL attack you, but you can also pause the game, go through the menus, and activate the spell 
 or action from there. Fable has three different styles of combat that you can choose from, or balance 
 your character for all of them. They range from: Strength, which determines your Strength, Health, 
 and Toughness. Skill which determines your Accuracy, Guile, and Attack Speed. And last Will, which 
 determines what spells you use and how much Magic you can use. All three are important to a Hero 
 so distinguish them wisely.
  
  Graphics:
  If your computer can handle it, the graphics are simply amazing, from so much flora around the 
 environment and soft shadows makes Fable a very enjoyable piece of eyecandy. Even if your computer 
 isn't exactly an Xbox the graphics still look pretty good, you just may have to adjust a lot of 
 settings.
  
  Sound:
  Birds chirping, the busy streets of towns, and the impact of your sword against a bandit's chest. 
 The sound is all very well done, but there isn't much variety in music.
  
  Value:
  Waaaay too short of a single-player expeirence, it's also a bit too easy most of the time, very 
 rarely will you find your self dying unless you have no idea what you're doing or you're a casual 
 gamer. Very dissapointing, just way too short... (sigh) But there are some secrets you can go find, 
 but they feel more like a chore sometimes.
  
  Tilt:
  I freakin' love this game. No simpler way to say it. I have went through the game about 5 times 
 just to alter the story, or find every secret. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelboylove
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 29, 2006 11:28 pm PT
Review:  I loved the idea of playing with a child character who grows in time. It was just great. Your deeds 
 changes your appearance and the way everyone reacts to your presence in generally. 
  I loved the idea of buying a house, loved the interaction with almost every little living thing 
 around your character.
  I loved the idea of marriage, i loved the lack of discrimination your character being able to marry 
 both women and men. 
  Loved the sounds and actually i almost liked everything.
  The fishing thing i did not managed to learn it and from other user posts i saw that this was a 
 tricky thing for almost everyone. Maybe more control to this feature.
  
  Good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalnutter
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 17, 2006 2:29 am PT
Review:  Even Though this game took me a little while to get it isn't hard to get into. The Tutorial can 
 be turned off so if you are experienced in this game then you can turn it off and just play normally. 
 You start of as your character being young and you have to do a couple of quests as a little boy. 
 As the gameplay goes on a bunch of bandits come and raid your town that you live in and kill your 
 dad, you find your dad dead and a man from a guild comes to save you. You have a choise of being 
 good or evil in this game but it is better to be good because otherwise everyone will fear you 
 and hate you. There is a multitude of weapons for you to choose from when you are older but you 
 have to learn how to use them first. I would recommend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marius_thq
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 14, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  This game, i like to look at it as a moral booster if i may say so... i never played a game in which 
 i could taste the kind of experience i had in Fable Lost Chapters. The feeling, the way you could 
 move, the way you could swing your sword and i absolutely can not forget the way you could fight 
 in the arena, with a special combination of sorcery and special enchanted swords that glowed in 
 the most likable way, this game made you forget the rest of the world and just have the most amazing 
 experience that you can possibly find in a video game!
  The graphics were superb, the types of armor were great, i say great because there weren't to many 
 types, the part about you being able to choose if you want to grow up to be a cool looking and admired 
 guy that everyone would give they'r life for or to be a insulted and ugly goat, i find this to be 
 the best part of the game, another thing i enjoyed very much was the diversity of activities you 
 could get involved in, fist fighting with members of a disorientated fist fighting gang that was 
 always on the run and up to no good, fishing was a little "thumbs down" there wasn't to much in 
 it but since it's not a fishing simulator it doesn't matter too much, now kicking the chickens was 
 a great idea lots of fun, you could also be a trader if i remember right and earn some gold to spend 
 however you would have pleased, and much more, much much more, if you want to play a great game than 
 this is the game for you, i rated this game with a 10 not because it may have the ultimate graphics 
 cause it doesn't, it's because of the feeling you have throughout the whole game!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mustafa_snake
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 13, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  this game really got me moved from every detail possible i loved it and i wish fable 2 will come 
 out earlier
  
  GAmeplay- totally awesome, great, damn good, and outstanding, thats just it.. filled with many secrets 
 and stuff to do, i wont say much figure it out yourselfs you wont be dissapointed
  
  sound- sound is great, eventhough it repetitive it still capture the feel of the game..
  
  
 Graphics- graphics are good it really makes the adventure and game more fun
  
  Story- now the story is good, little short but good, the path choosing is cool which tempts you 
 at times what i hate though is when you upgrade your skills you get old.. whats up with that???
 
  
  all in all i recommend buying this game because this is one of the games that will make you feel 
 like a true hero and it will make you proud to be in the adventure.. a must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StonePirate
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 13, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  When I bought Fable I did so half heartedly, but now I have realised that this has been one of 
 the best buys for me, ever. 
  The game is made up really well, with side missions and a riveting plot line. The accents of the 
 NPCs are great, and the game has such a depth that other games are unable to supply, for example 
 the ability to be good or evil, thus changing the features of your character, also the tattoos 
 and different haircuts. There is just so much to choose from!
  This game doesn't really seem much like a role playing game for the people who love games like 
 EQ2 or WoW, but more for people who liked playing classic games like any game from the Bandicoot 
 or Jak and Daxter series.
  My one critic of the game must be the fact that it is too short, I completed the game in 3 days! 
 
  Never the less, this game is definately worth every penny/cent.
  BUY THIS GAME!
  oh and if you do, don't be good in it, being evil kicks ass, especially in the ending... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darksaw66699942
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 11, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  when i heard that everyone loved this game i wasn't an xbox fan. and still am not. but my friend 
 has xbox we were bored went to blockbuster and gave this game a shot. I was up for like two days 
 playing it. I skipped work everything. i loved it, then i bought the guide book to get everything 
 i missed get all the secret stuff. then it came out on PC the lost chapters and that one was better 
 of course since it had the longer story. also i can do computer graphics and all that crap create 
 my own hardware make things more powerful, and well cheat my ass off but the cheating just made 
 it more fun for me. I loving with and without cheats. purely amazing game just can't wait until 
 fable 2 comes out i just saw the trailer. so xbox you just sold yourself another xbox 360 because 
 i am getting the console for that game. i can't wait until it comes out for PC if it does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FECCheese
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 11, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  Fable : the lost chapters is the PC version of the Xbox smash "fable". 
  
  From the moment you take off the cellophane till the time you finish the game, The lost chapters 
 is sheer brillance. From the flowing Sceenary to the Oddly addictive side games, Fable will imerse 
 your soul. 
  
  The main story of the game imidiatly draws you in. From the humble begings in a small town to master 
 of the arena you follow your character through his life. The side quests are well thought out and 
 in some cases a little strange. here's a list of a few:
  
  -Dating
  -Marage
  -Fishing
  -Grave Digging
  -Weapon Modifying
  -Apearace Modifying
  
  Now we come to my 
 favourite part of the game: BEING EVIL!
  
  Fable give's you the choice to be good or bad! Myself chosing to slaughter as many villagers I 
 can, I have opted for evil, thus causing my characters apperanc to changr. First it was the face 
 It became more shadowed and then his hair turned black, then horns started apearing and his eye's 
 turning red!
  
  Now the bad. The disapointing and uninspired music and sound effects made some parts of the experiance 
 feel repetitive, Better mUsic and sound effects could have made this game 10 times better. Also 
 the charater customisation system was not as broad as i had originaly hoped; Im not expecting the 
 sims but I dont like to have to hunt for diferent mustach type's.
  
  All in all FAble the lost chapter's is an exquisite game that has neat features, some great side 
 quests, wacky customisation's and an enveloping story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arnavdesai
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 7, 2006 2:50 am PT
Review:  Nice game, I have been playing this game for about 8 hours now and am having a lot of fun. Some 
 of the quests were hard (I am a novice gamer so adjust your thoughts accordingly) and trying to 
 figure out the skills system is kinda difficult. Using the different skills is important but ranged 
 weapons are absolutely useless cause the enemies close the gaps between you and them pretty fast.
 
  The games has nice and beautiful graphics but the load times are really short but you have a lot 
 of them. Nice sound and good dreamy look in the whole game. 
  The game is fun and nice to enjoy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Fable is infamous for not living up to the hype that surrounded it before its release. I actually 
 didn't follow this hype, so when I went into Fable: The Lost Chapters I was fairly neutral on the 
 matter. Even so, I'm not very impressed with the final product.
  
  In Fable you play as a nameless boy who becomes a hero after his town is burned and family slaughtered\captured. 
 That's about the extent of the plot; it's a fairly generic story of saving your captured family 
 members, and seeking vengeance upon the ones who did you wrong. To me the storyline is vital in 
 an RPG, and Fable lacks both a decent story, and decent storytelling.
  
  Fable's gameplay is mostly hack and slash. You run around slaying monsters in all of the quests 
 you can get at the Hero's Guild; you can take on some minor sidequests in towns such as buying 
 a house, or fishing in a wilderness area, but those don't really effect anything of consequence, 
 and simply add to the illusion of freedom in a linear game. Another downside is the area sizes 
 are small, all outdoors areas are hardly any different than the indoors ones as they are simply 
 corridors with invisible walls preventing you from leaving the road.
  
  The graphics in Fable are excellent, characters and textures are detailed as are enemies. The backdrops 
 in outside areas are also very nice, and the lighting during all of the times of day is excellent 
 as well.
  
  The audio is so-so. The sound effects are fine since they do what they should, but the music is 
 fairly generic and nothing special, and the voice acting is hit and miss. I have no problem with 
 English voice acting, but some of the characters (especially the female ones) were just plain annoying.
 
  
  Fable is a decent game, it's hardly great. It has next to no freedom despite advertisement claims, 
 and has a lackluster story. It feels more like Diablo, except without the large variety of items 
 and equipment. If you're looking for a great RPG to pass time with, look elsewhere. Fable is hype, 
 and nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pbking
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 12:55 am PT
Review:  well to start off the story is quite decent. It tells a very good story that makes you wanna hear 
 more and more about what's going on and what you have to do. I went with going good so i dont know 
 what it was like to be evil don't think there is much of a difference thoe. But the fighting in 
 this game is top notch. When you progress into the game the opponents get harder and harder which 
 makes the game play even funner. There were some things that weren't to great thoe the game only 
 took me about 13 hours to beat which is short for an RPG. Another thing i was upset about what 
 the grapics sometimes would get a little messed up and were spikey. But other than that the game 
 was great can't wait to the the next in the line up of fable games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mx2-option
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 31, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  This game is a hoot to play and it never gets old. You can keep replayingm it over and over again 
 and it still stays interesting. Be able to chose between good and evil makes this a versatile game 
 fore all players. It is especially fun to hack away at townfolk in between quests. The average 
 amount of time it takes to beat this game is 14 hours. Be because it is replayable, you'll find 
 over 50 hours of enjoyment playing this game. There are so many quests and things you can do, it's 
 amazing. This new Fable, has a great addition of new quests and maps. It's definitly a game that 
 HAS TO HAVE a sequel. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: E-miX
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 30, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Only 12 hours of playing ??? This question I was asking all my friends that have played the Fable 
 : TLC. The game is too short and to easy. When I started to feel the taste and the action and the 
 power of the game and my character the game was over... and the final fight took 5 minutes... But 
 the graphics are superb, and I have seen no bugs, lots of advantages ! The effects are fantastic. 
 The story is very interesting but also very short as I already mentioned. The choise of weapons 
 is too small. And besides, while I was playing I could not even get my character to highest level. 
 Experience system could be better, You can`t upgrade a lot during the game... Because the prices 
 are very high. But I had a good time playing those 2 days :) ) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Almir_Kurtic
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 26, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  Ok it's me again. The first time it was the review about Oblivion, now it's about Fable :The Lost 
 Chapters. This game is fantastic! You are starting the game as a litle boy that is trying to earn 
 money for the birthday gift of his sister but bandits are atacking the town and the boy is saved 
 by a hero. That's where you journey begins. That's all what i'm saying about the story. The graphics 
 in the game is very good (but not beter than in Oblivion) . The story is almost the best thing ion 
 the game. There is also the good and the bad side. The player can change his look, his hairstyle and 
 everything that can be changed. The bad thing is that you can finish the game in a week but everything 
 other is ok. That's all about Fable: The Lost Chapters I hope you are going to enyoj it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkingmoon
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 24, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  Great game in graphics and can give you a chance to choose which side youd want to be on. It holds 
 up in gameplay just like the xbox version with added quests, weapons, armor, and story. It leaves you 
 wanting more thats the only problem. It would have been better if it had a big and harder storyline 
 and mayby some online play wouldn't hurt. The game did get the main storyline just right so you 
 can't say it turned out to bad but it could have been better. I am a fan of the original so I have 
 to it is a bit better then the original okay mayby a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoriNibori
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 23, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Fable- The lost chapters for pc, What game, It kept me hooked for awhile. Just beating it a few 
 minutes ago, It's time to review it.
  
  Game play: The Storyline of the main quests are very intense, Always making you think. Sadly, the 
 "Lost Chapters" part of the game was not that great in it's storyline, it was enjoyable, but it 
 was almost a repeat of the end of the Fable part. Good and Evil is a big part with this game, as 
 it is with other Lionhead games (Black & White) , The Npcs will react to you depending on your alignment, 
 from the citizens cheering and clapping for you, to running and screaming from you. Your model 
 will change as your alignment does, It will turn Demonic, or Angelic as you change. Many spells 
 are available to be purchased, with other skills with that, making it worth it to do all the mini 
 quests since doing just the main quest alone won't make you as strong as you can be. Also their 
 are many hidden weapons, items and armor, rewarding exploration. Another thing is the ability to 
 marry, you can buy a house, and woe a local women, and she will move in with you, with some easter 
 eggs if you do that. 
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are in a cartoon-ish form, Yet animations of your spells, sword fighting 
 and Archery. The day/Night cycles are smooth, The plants moving by means of wind looks great.
 
  
  Sounds: The Quest dialogs are well done, and the main quest cut scene narrations are very well 
 scripted. Spell sounds, like the fireball, lightning are not bad, they could have been a lot better. 
 Sword fighting has great sounds, from the ripping sound as your sword cuts clothing or leather, 
 to the clang where your attack is blocked.
  
  Value: I picked up this game for 40$ Canadian, For the price it was a great buy, the replay value 
 of playing good or evil the other time makes you come back for more.
  
  Well, The is Fable in a nutshell, but don't take my review as how the game is, pick it up, and 
 play it for yourself, you'll be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Green101
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 20, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I think this is my favorite single player computer game. the Battle system and gameplay were the 
 best out of all the other rpgs out there in my opinion. thats the thing i like most about this 
 game. Other good things were the graphics, story and how u get to pick which side u are on. i never 
 really pay attention to the sound to any game so i cant judge. The side quests were good but i 
 think i did the main quest a lil too fast to enjoy the side quests. The Downside - it is very very 
 short (at least for me) -- and if it were a lot longer, and online, then mabye it would be the BEST 
 game in the world in my opinion. Overall I say Awsome game but too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Behlazur
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 20, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I really liked Black & White when it came out fie years ago. It became a bit too repetitive after 
 a while, but it was a revolutionary game. The only thing it lacked was true action and a good storyline. 
 Now we have Fable, which is really Black & White in the form of an action RPG.
  
  The game is set in a pseudo-medieval world, where some young people are selected to become heroes. 
 Heroes are somewhat more free to do what they want than the usual townsfolk, and are respected 
 whether they are good or evil. So you're a little boy living in the town of Oakvale. The day of 
 your sister's birthday, your village is attacked by bandits and you're almost the only survivor 
 of the massacre. A mage called Maze brings you to the Heroes' Guild, where you'll be trained as 
 a hero.
  
  Your training will last about an hour of gameplay, and then the game truly begins: like in the 
 aforementioned Black & White, you can choose to be good, evil, or neutral (i. e. somwhere between 
 good and evil) . The game plays like any other action RPG (though this one is not shown in an annoying 
 isometric view like BGDA or Champions of Norrath) ; you can use mele weapons - swords, hammers, 
 maces..., ranged weapons - bows and crossbows, and lots of spells (though I don't use them that 
 much, I'm more of a mele player) . Almost every mission lets you the choice to carry them out according 
 to the two alignments ; good or evil. Some missions are mutually exclusive: you must choose between 
 the "good" mission and the "evil" mission. Some other missions are purely good or purely evil, 
 though these are almost always optional.
  
  The game's controls are extremely good; it controls even better on PC than it did on Xbox (didn't 
 play that much on Xbox, just enough to know it doesn't control as well) . You control the camera 
 with the mouse, and, at last, it works well, unlike most game that work with this system. The combat, 
 which is mainly done with the mouse too (and the arrow keys, of course) , can be performed in two 
 ways; with autoface and without it. Both ways work very well, though I prefer aiming the enemy 
 I want to hit myself with the mouse rather than fighting one enemy at a time.
  
  The graphics are also jaw-dropping for a console game ported to the computer; they haven't been 
 that improved since the Xbox iteration, but the Xbox Fable was awesome-looking too. The music, 
 voices and sound effects perfectly fit the game's mood, too.
  
  The game is pretty long, and took me twenty-five hours to complete as an evil character. I'm not 
 done yet with the good character, but it should, of course, take about as much time.
  
  In short, Fable is a must-buy for any action game fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rageaholic01
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  In an rpg, the main goal is to build up a character starting from a weak nobody who can get killed 
 by leeches to a powerhouse feared by all. Fable incorporates this like any rpg but with a twist. 
 Every decision you make, every move you make will ultimately affect how your character looks, progresses, 
 and strengthens.
  
  You start off as a kid wandering around in a village to get some money for your sis' present which 
 you 'forgot' to buy. Your father does nothing and won't even give you 4 gold coins. So you start 
 by doing tasks, from this 1st stage as a child you already start to progress. Will you save the 
 kid from the bully or will you aid the bully to beat the kid?
  
  Bandits come and raid the village killing everyone as you hide. Then a mysterious guy comes and 
 teleports you back to the Heroes guild. Here you spend your whole childhood training and practicing 
 to get vengeance on what happened. You take control of a young man now and must do tasks to become 
 a renowned hero using your new powers for good or for evil.
  
  Throughout the game you do lots of tasks deciding your fate and by the end of your game you will 
 barely recognise what your character has become. With great graphics, peaceful sound and great 
 action, this game is worth buying.
  
  The only problems i found was that it should not be played on a laptop as the screen will seem 
 very dark and characters unrecogniseable leaving you to waste many minutes tilting the screen until 
 it's just right until you have to do it again seconds later. Also the controls are a bit spread 
 open at first taking a while to adjust (unless you normally play pc games which i don't) .
  
  Great story, great sound, great graphics, cool story must buy game for rpg fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyugfu
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 14, 2006 4:19 am PT
Review:  This is something I really think needs to be emphasized above all: the game fails with its main 
 premise which is the ability to choose your own path to shape your character, whether he's good 
 or evil.
  
  The main reason I consider the game to be a failure in this aspect is because you can completely 
 change the nature of your character at a whim from a completely evil maniac to a saint. Just pay 
 a donation at the temple. Pay a reasonable sum and you'll atone for even the greatest sins without 
 a problem, and you'll have plenty of money in the endgame to do this. This sort of renders the 
 whole concept of shaping your character superficial, as you can easily choose an evil route throughout 
 the game and still end up a good guy. 
  
  The good/evil system also rather primitive compared to the likes of Fallout which is far more sophisticated 
 in its treatment of good/evil. 
  
  Nevertheless, despite failing on its selling point, the game delivers so much in all other areas 
 except the one area it's really supposed to excel in that I think it warrants a decent rating.
 
  
  The game features fairly nice graphics with the kind of look you'd find in Guild Wars and World 
 of Warcraft. They're not quite as lush as Guild Wars, but they definitely do the job.
  
  The sound is fantastic, especially with respect to the voice acting. The game has some of the best 
 overall voice acting quality I've seen with even the most trivial NPC dialogues being well acted. 
 The music is cute and sets the overall tone of the game quite nicely.
  
  The gameplay boils down to a simple hack-n-slash fest, but also combines stealth very nicely with 
 a mix of melee, ranged, and spell combat that is entertaining for many hours. The spell system 
 is unfortunately very poorly balanced. I found some spells to be absolutely fantastic (ex: slow 
 time and physical shield) , making the toughest battles ridiculously easy, yet also found some spells 
 to be nearly useless in comparison. Regardless, it's a fun experience to find out what spells are 
 worthwhile. Like any good hack-n-slash game, the main drive to spend countless hours fighting is 
 the drive to build up your character and find great equipment. The character-building aspect is 
 a bit simple in comparison to other games and the equipment is also very limited and hard-coded. 
 As such, it doesn't quite match up in this respect to the likes of Diablo or Dungeon Siege.
  
  The biggest strength of the game is probably its story and characters which are probably the 
 main driving point for most characters playing the game. It's exciting to see what happens next, 
 and also to try both a good and evil approach to certain things. There are also some fun things 
 you can do on the more social side like purchasing houses and getting married.
  
  There are some major nuisances I found in the game. For one, there's a very complete map system 
 of the world, but the interface is horrible. The window gets in the way of showing you where you 
 are relative to the entire world, and it's difficult to figure out how to get from one place to 
 the next. Another major complaint I have is that there's no way to cancel quests. I took one quest 
 by accident where I was supposed to help free an executioner, but it turned out to be one where 
 I had to fight guards to do it, hence it was a very evil quest. The game doesn't do a very good 
 job of telling you whether a quest is good or evil, but once you take it, there's no backing out, 
 and if the region in which the quest occurs is one you'll have to visit as in my case, then there's 
 no way around things except to take and finish the quest. That is extremely annoying, but the superficial 
 ability to atone for your sins makes it so you can do the most evil things and just pay a donation 
 right after.
  
  Bottom line: despite its superficial good/evil system which fails to deliver the kind of sophisticated 
 character-shaping one's bound to expect, it's a very solid, albeit simple action/RPG which delivers 
 in many other areas with a lot of amusing features and a fairly good storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atb100
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 12, 2006 3:37 am PT
Review:  You are small boy and you need to do some good things, then you can have some money from you dad. 
 After that, you can buy chocolate for your sisters, because he has birthday. Actually, what I love 
 about this game, you really don't have to do good deeds. For example, you see a man making love 
 with strange woman. Now you have two choices: Report to his wife or take some money from that man 
 and keep this stuff secret. If you do a lot of good deeds, people think good about you, if you 
 are cold person who only kills and slashes his way, then people will be scared. You can have a 
 wife too, you just need to give some gifts and then you can marry. After that, you can buy a Marriage 
 home and have sex with your woman. I think you can be gay too, but I have'nt tried "being gay". 
 Graphics are nice and I love painted cutscenes. Sound and music are a little boring but they are 
 not so bad. You can steal some stuff and cast flameballs. I don't wan't to write all details about 
 this game, so I make it short. Graphics are nice, sound is a little bit boring and gameplay is 
 simple. And one more thing, what I like. Aligment. One of the downsides is that this game is too 
 short, I completed this with 17 hours and I did all the side-quests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wii26
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 11, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  Fable is a really good game and it was the first of its kind to get a lot of hype. It was promised 
 that all the desicions you make within the game, effects how your game will turn out which is true 
 to a certain extent. I was hoping they would make more things that c ould change the complete outcome 
 of the game. The desicions you make don't really effect the game as a whole but just the towns 
 people mostly and maybe a weapon or so.
  I wasn't really disappointed about that part but I was disappointed at the lack of weapons and 
 the depth it should have. Most games you have multiple weapons which you can enchant and socket 
 with gems and so forth. This game had hardly any weapons and hardly any armor. It was all too easy 
 to get the best stuff in the game. Also, the game was incredible easy and short. It took me no 
 time at all to beat it.
  What I lked though was the graphics, surroundings, townspeople and how they reacted to you and 
 your actions, and the fighting system. All of that was really good and I loved the music in the 
 game too. It was pretty good. I have listed quite a bit of bads but the the good evens it out. 
 It had greatness at it's feet but just barely missed it. It still deserves an excellent mark but 
 its not a game you can play for a long time. It gets boring after you beat it 6-7 times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limewolf
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 10, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  This is a good RPG, decent graphics, decent story. Its still a bit short if you ask me (dispite 
 the extras in this release) . I didn't find it very hard going, but it was still worth playing. 
 I can across numerous bugs which they have yet to fix in a patch (no patch has been released so 
 far as I know) - I find it extremely annoying when bugs are not fixed (some are serious, such as 
 flickering or missing subtitles) . Lionhead has not been the greatest company in the past with patches 
 and some of the patches they have released (B+W 2) broke saved games, this does not make me want 
 to buy more games made by them! 
  
  Problems aside, I'd still recommend this to RPG fans, it will kill off a few hours in anycase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpio_1980
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2006 6:50 am PT
Review:  This game is something beautiful... Sound, graphics, history... it's simpe one of the most great 
 RPG ever made!
  x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
 x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
 x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
 x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doug_Rock
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 6, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Fable is an increadible game because it gives a different type of freedom.
  When you start playing, you cannot stop, but i think it is too short...
  Graphics are very good 
 and detailed this is the reason for the good mark on graphics.
  sound is great!!!
  The idea of good or evil seems to be copied from black and white, but creativity doesn't mind in 
 this case as this game have a little bit of combinations of all good parts of different games.
 
  If you're thinking in buyin' it or not, BUY IT!!!
  IT ACTUALLY REVOLUTIONIZED MY CONCEPTS OF RPG GAMES!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ribicaman
Rating: 4.2
Date: May 6, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  Ok. We start with a classic RPG - Hack and Slash model where we start as a little boy in a small 
 village, doing little stuff like saving little boys from bullies etc. and then bandits come to 
 the village and plunder it.
  You end up left and forgoten but then a wizzard named - uhh... Storm? Something like that - comes 
 and takes you to a academy. And Then the story begins ( Or ends because later it gets SO BORING! 
 ) . I mean, come on! The game has, like what - 10 weapons? All the levels are the same (woods) , 
 and the level up routine is lame. The thing that suprised me is the growing up sequence ( Allthough 
 you only get 3 stages - Kid, Teenager, Grown man )
  
  I can't ignore the good stuff about Fable, Like example the graphics that really look like something 
 ( Phew! ) and the sound that is normal ( Double phew!! )
  
  Last, but not least, THE GAME HAS ABSOLUTELY NO MULTIPLAYER!!!!
  Why? Why, Lord, Why? The only 
 thing I was expecting before I bought it is that it at least would have a LAN option, but noooo...
 
  
  Resolve, Fable offers a little bit of fun... but still... They should have made soemthing more impressive.
 
  
  
  MAYNARD JAMES KENNAN, YOU'R THE BEST!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devildweller98
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 3, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  Fable: The lost chapters.
  
  So Fable, what do i really think about Fable. I new a lot of people who think Fable is crap. Lets 
 leave what i think about the game till the end of this review.
  
  Story.
  Ok the story, is about a young boy who dreams of being a hero one day. Living with his mum and 
 dad, he had a good life. But one day, oh his sister birthday as it happens. His hometown get attacted. 
 The young boy was so scared, he hid behind a fens. Wishing he could help his hometown, he could 
 do anything really. Watching his friends and loved once die one by one. Now you've bin takin in 
 by the guildmaster, to train the arts of combat, skill and will power. Your mean mission is, to 
 get revenge.
  
  The Graphics.
  The graphics in Fable are really well done. Much better then the Xbox. Nice 3d modeling and great 
 animation.
  
  The Gameplay.
  The gameplay is really really good. Imagine a world where every choice and action determines what 
 you become. Where you evolve in real time based on every little thing you do. Fable is an RPG action 
 adventure unlike any i've ever dreamed of. And now more than ever. With extra quests, additional 
 customizing, and extended contents. Your destiny is yours to choose. Make you character to look 
 like the way you want him to look like. Be good or evil. Bye shops, houses and so on. Be a mage, 
 combat fighter, archer and so on. As you play on your character grows in age. Getting old, and 
 that i thought was very cool. Even when your in a fight, if you get hit you even get scars. On 
 you face and body, well cool. Fall in love, have a wife and even make then woohoo. Sleep eat, even 
 get drunk. New tattoos. More spells to master, new armor and weapons, and even new monsters.
  
  The sound.
  The sound is good. And good voice acting, and sometime funny.
  
  The lifespan.
 
  Much biger then on the Xbox. with more side quests as well as new optional missions.
  
  Overall.
  So yes i thought Fable was amazing. I dont understand how people think this game is 
 crap. I loved the gameplay. Based much like on the same line as the sims. Great game on the Xbox, 
 but even more amazing on the PC. Must get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slippers957
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 2, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Fable, is a great RPG game. If you played the original Fable, which I didnt, you would know that 
 by now. Fable: The Lost Chapters is a very highly addictive, immersive, top-of-the-line graphics 
 kind of game.
  
  Yet, it didnt do too much for me. Fable has a great story, dont get me wrong, and the game play 
 is incredible. Some of the things you can do in the game pretty much blew me away. The audio is 
 okay and the graphics are inconceivable but you have to make sure that you have a computer that 
 can handle the graphics to their full potential, otherwise it isnt as so fantastic.
  
  The story line for Fable: The Lost Chapters is as follows. You start off in a remote village and 
 then the fun ends. Well, not really, but thats what it seems like when you fulfill quests. You 
 end up having to kill the same things over and over again and that gets a little tiring. The game 
 is quite repetitive and actually makes you want to stop after a while but has a lot of great parts 
 too it.
  
  Fable: The Lost Chapters, is unique to any other RPG Ive played. It really kept me guessing and 
 a lot of that had to do with the quests. It was enjoyable for a while, but I didnt have too much 
 fun after playing it for hours on end.
  
  I cant compare this Fable to the original Fable because, like I said before, I havent played 
 the original. But, I can say, from people that I talked to, that its worth what you end up paying 
 for it. Some of my friends have beaten the first major quest and are now onto the next set of quests. 
 (If you are playing the game right now, you will understand what I mean by that)
  
  The learning curve isnt all that hard, but you learn a lot of things on the way that should have 
 been covered in the tutorial (meaning the first couple of quests) of the game. I would consider 
 renting it first before buying it, only because you have to know you like it before you really 
 get into it. All in all I give it 7.7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Manager
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2006 3:46 am PT
Review:  Really the most wonderful RPG Game ever i completed it in Less than three days ....... playing 
 this one day and night is a lot of joy. 
  END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END 
 END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END 
 END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END 
 END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END 
 END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END 
 END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END END 
 END END END END END END END END END END END END 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scratchin
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 1, 2006 3:39 am PT
Review:  What i loved about this game is when i first played it i was just gonna try it out ,cause i was 
 playin it on someone else's computer, but i just couldn't stop, i was hooked. so what happend was 
 i stayed on this guy's computer for two days straight till i beat the game, no explorin done though. 
 now i got it on my computer i'm doin more of explorin and side quests than core ones. i realize 
 i was missin some of the best features of the game. this is the best game i've ever played, straight 
 from the intro movie that sent me trippin till the i-can't-believe-it's-over (when u kill jack) 
 till the credits. i give two thumbs up and couple o more thumbs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zebkammerer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 30, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  "Simply Amazing"
  I cannot put this game down!! I love the morality system. It adds A LOT of depth to the game. Where 
 else can you have instant consequences for your actions? I haven't played many computer games, (just 
 got my comp.) , but a friend told me I had to pick this up. I instantly loved it (once I got my controller 
 configured) . Incidentally, it plays excellently on Saitek controller/FPS mode. The controls are 
 smooth and natural (mostly) . There are a few snags. Speaking of, has anyone else had a problem with 
 the subtitles/lettering? It seems to cut in and out on my game. I haven't played long enough to 
 give it a full review, but so far, I love it. Wow. What a game. 'Nuff Said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raiden_976
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 28, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  This is a very enteraining game. It puts you in the role of a boy who must grow up to avenged is 
 familys death , when is village burned down becuase of the onslaught bandits. As you advance is 
 the game you level up , obtain new weapons and magic. This game is very easdy and you should be 
 able to beat it in about 7-8 hours if you stick to the main plot. Even thou you cab custimize your 
 player there itsnt all that much you can do with him, beside changing from a few hairstyles and 
 tattoos. The creatots of this game put in a interesting morilty system. When you do bad deeds you 
 will gain evil points which will ultimatly give you horns, red glowing eyes and make bugs attracted 
 to you, on the flip side if your good you will have light blue eyes and a halo while butterflys 
 fly around you. ( note. this will only happen if you reach the two ends of the spectrum) I regret 
 the purchase of this game put it is really fun while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_asswhooper
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 21, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Fable: The Lost Chapters for the PC is by far the best RPG I have ever played. The graphics are 
 absolutely beautiful (in my opinion!) and can at some times be rather creepy. The thing that makes 
 Fable: The Lost Chapters stunning for me is the sound. It can scare you or make you feel warm towards 
 a person, it was amazing. I disagree with gamespot about the story line being short and linear, 
 over the past 4 days I have had 6 and a half hours of nothing but quests and I would say i am probably 
 40% done. I would highly recommend this to anyone who likes single player, plot based RPGs. On 
 amazon. com this costs 30 US Dollars new and about 14 US Dollars used. The only downside is that 
 you could probably finish it along with all of the demon gates and hidden chests and extra quests 
 and get a super kickbutt hero in about 20 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godsuki
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 19, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Fable is far the best RPG in the world close to Diablo 2. But Why?
  
  Simple, Fable is Unique because your action as a good or bad side to the universe. The story line 
 is good, is about a boy who have a dream to become the world greatest hero or villan. His town 
 was destroy by a largest group of bandits then a mage rescue the boy. He send a school of heroes 
 to help the world but the path of the boy is in your hands to be good or bad.
  
  The weapons are good similiar to Diablo 2 like the magic, bows, and swords. The bad guys are easy 
 but very smart so take precautions. This game look like a child game but you are wrong, this game 
 is rated M which means 17+ can play this game cause got a lot of blood and also some mature scenes. 
 
  
  Another thing, Time effecft you which means you are getting old each time you past a quest also, 
 The you can change the way you look when you are good and bad.
  
  Buy the game, you will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elothran
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 18, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  The Story and Setting Of The World was nearly the best I've seen (Not Including Faern and Baldur's 
 Gate 1-2) . Too much Hack and Slash and less intelligence for a RPG. 
  
  Graphics were perfect except one bug we had in Hero View Mod by pressing "H" button ( Everyone has 
 a Narsist Inside Of Them) . If you look at your chararacter's face from 3/4 quarter, you only see 
 an blue screen at background, like a bluebox in holywood. 
  
  I couldn't manage to buy a house, and I don't know any friends that who could till now... and I 
 don't really think that I can marry with all the girls in my hometown either. In Bowerstone (Or 
 Smthng Like That) , The Map says that there is a house for sale, I couldn't find that house... is 
 there really a house or the Bowerstone government is really dumb to think that I can live in a 
 wooden hut??
  
  Tell me... When the hell years started to pass that fast ?!?!?! And why no one is getting older 
 but me? I was a kid, I grew up, I became an adult, then a grown up, then an old man with a longer 
 beard than Gandalf... but why my sister haven't got old? Or why that guildmaster haven't died yet?!?! 
 Is there a curse spell on me that makes me get older at X16 speed? Has someone pushed the fast 
 forward button or what?? 
  
  BTW, why the main character is not speaking a word during the whole game? Has he lost his tongue?? 
 When I look at his face I feel guilty like I am the one who prevents him from speaking. 
  
  What kind of monsters were we fought at the arena?? a giant scorpion ?? Twin Earth Giants?? C'mon 
 now what kind of logic is that? I was expecting a partner with some more AI that joined us in last 
 rounds. Whisper was her name I think... When  was playing, only thing she did was to activate 
 all the possible traps in the arena and say "I nearly killed this one" when two rock giants, minions 
 and bandits were trying to crack my butt and I hardly kill an enemy. Too bad there wasn't a chance 
 of killing her so the world can get rid of another damn nerd.
  
  Guildmaster was really annoying, reminding me that my will energy or life energy is low everytime 
 Jack Of Blades places his sword in my skull. "Hero, Your Energy Is Low, Hero Your Will Energy Is 
 Low, Hero what time is it?, Hero how are you doing?, Hero I can't find my glasses can you help 
 me?, Hero I heard that wine prizes are low areound Bowerstone, can you grab me a bottle when you 
 come back to guild?" Is it planned that The Guildmaster being wise...... trying to be wise like 
 Master Yoda?? Why He is not green and small then???
  
  As a final word... Good Game but has a lot of PlotHoles in it... hope that they will fix it in the 
 next chapter (I'm not really sure if there will be a next chapter) . Anyway, have fun... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flashtek
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 17, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  Fantastic one of the best RPGs Ive ever played. Great story line with good tie-ins for the side 
 missions making it a complete package. The spell and power up system is easy to use and understand 
 with explanations for each item. Controls can be a little complicated and not enough room on the 
 short cut bar. You will enjoy the great voice work and soundtrack. The graphics a crisp are refreshing 
 with good FPS on even older video cards. The artist renderings of the characters and settings are 
 beautiful. Since I had never played the first Fable on XBOX, I thought I was going to be playing 
 catch up with the story. But not so, the story started with you being a small boy in the village, 
 and it goes from there. This is a must get if you love RPG games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwerewq
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 3:44 am PT
Review:  the game ended a little early than i expected 
  the games basically a mmorpg style rpg and whole of the time u expect that the game never ends 
 but u loose the fun urhavin when the games ends and shuts u down totaly and u cant play whit ur 
 good lookin character at all 
  "I feel that it if the concept develops as a mmorpg with little mods it wud turn out great"cause 
 i fell ul have great fun playn pvp with this kinda style and if the developers make the armout 
 and wepon stuff more hard to get , the fitin a little tougher and mage skils a little hard to gain 
 access upon then with a large community the game wud become marvelous with maps and stuf getting 
 updatd periodically ........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukaneus
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 15, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin....... its a good rpg with a little bit of morale choice BUT the main quest/ stroyline 
 isnt really effected by wheather you are good or evil but being evil or good makes alot of difference 
 like the way people behave towards you and what side you take e. g. barbarians which i wouldnt choose 
 even if you were evil because they killed your family or you can choose to help peasents. Aside 
 form the story line there is quite alot to do: you can become fat revealing humerious after effects 
 or you can even get married which is a fun little side game really. The combat is fun and very 
 exciting if you like just slugging it out and archery which i dont personelly use much is fun if 
 u like watching men fall at your feet before touching you. most quests are fun but some slightly 
 boring like kill a bug and stuff but overall the missions are detailed. Its worth buying but not 
 30 wait till it drops down
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario_man_12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 14, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Fable lost chapters.......... this game is good. But it also has flaws. The biggest one is its length. 
 This game took me less that hours to fully beat. And i got all the side quests done. Its a good 
 game but i would rent it. The presentation though by far is the best part of the game to me. Their 
 is very little text to read so its a engoyable game. The worlds are rich and textured.
  Although loading screens between each area can get very annoying. The combat is alright. The magic 
 i thought was the best part but archery was so pointless and the melee was right between good and 
 bad. The expeirience syatem was good. Overall if you played the original dont buy it rent it. But 
 if you do buy it your getting a bargain. Only twenty dollars!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 12, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Fable: The Lost Chapters is an expanded version of Fable, that was released on the Xbox last year. 
 The fundamental story is the same, while adding some extras for the PC audience. The game has a 
 vibrant feel and it a lot of fun to play. However, the game does have a few flaws that keep it 
 from being a great game.
  
  Fable starts you off as a young child where you live with your parents and your sister. You go 
 about your business until the villiage is attacked by a gang of Bandits that kidnap your sister 
 and mother and murder your father. From this, you join the guild where you start your quest to 
 become a hero of the realm, or the bringer of evil upon the world. As the story progresses, you 
 find out that you are involved with a bloodline of champions and that you are destined for greatness 
 or for ultimate evil. To say more would spoil the game.
  
  That is the first thing that you start to notice about Fable  that what you do in the world affects 
 how people interact with you. Help a poor mother trying to heal her child and you are look upon 
 as being kind and having a good feel around you when interacting with others. Or kill the family 
 and steal their money and you will be run out of some towns. It is a game of morals that keeps 
 you choosing your behavior throughout the game. Some have said that the mechanics do not bear this 
 out, but I did not get that.
  
  The game plays out with the standard WASD/Mouse interface, so you will be able to settle in and 
 play pretty quickly. Attacking and defending are all handled with the mouse and the combat itself 
 feels solid, if not a tad bit easy. You also get the option of spell casting if you so choose, 
 but the game lets you play to your strengths. Fight melee or ranged, with magic or without, or 
 even a combination of magic, melee and ranged, it is up to you to decide.
  
  The PC does add a new mission seqment to the end of the game and it adds a total of about a half 
 dozen missions. They play out the same way as the main game, but they feel a bit tacked on. It 
 was kind of like the developers had to think of a way to extend the Xbox version and came up with 
 a convoluted ending that was rushed and was far too easy with the final boss. I mean it was nice 
 to add more content to the world, but it did feel a bit tacked on.
  
  The world is always moving and there are day/night cycles. You can work on the missions you have 
 for the main quest or take on side missions. If you finish every mission in the game, you will 
 probably eek out an extra four or five hours of play time. And the missions are a bit varied and 
 give you the option again, of doing them nicely or as an evil person.
  
  Graphics are amazing in this game. Running the game at 1920x1200 with full detail was a feast for 
 the eyes. Environments felt alive and always had people going about here and there. Light effects 
 and so forth were just beautiful and the game definitely takes advantage if you have the horsepower 
 for it. The machine used for this review had two Nvidia 7800GT cards and a dual core AMD processor, 
 so it really took care of the graphics, but for the average system, you will probably have to turn 
 down some of the details and crank back the resolution.
  
  Sound was good, but I felt it was a bit repetitive at times. Voice overs start to get a a bit repetitive 
 and the main characters just seem to be a bit asleep. Maze and the Guildmaster seem to be the only 
 ones that got effort out of the people doing their voices. This was a disappointment, because the 
 game looks so good, but sounds rather average. The weapons sounded better and made up for the lackluster 
 voice overs, but I would of thought it would be the other way around in a game of this budget.
 
  
  The biggest knock against the game is that it becomes too easy towards the end. You just become 
 too powerful for the end of the game. With the right weapons and skill sets, you will kill major 
 bosses with five or six shots or swipes. That is appalling in my opinion. Boss battles are mean 
 to be tough and present you with a means to prove your talent and skill. But here your character 
 just has too much brute force by the middle of the main quest that you just overpower most, if 
 not everything in the game. Also, I had one or two graphical glitches that crashed me to the desktop. 
 They were not repeatable and were at three or four random points in the game. 
  
  So is Fable worth your time and money. Yes it is. The story that it tells is epic in nature and 
 really keeps you going. And even with the extra content being tacked on at the end, it is a decent 
 extension of the plot to some degree. The moral dilemmas and graphics also make it a good choice. 
 And I do have to say that its strengths tend to push it far past its weaknesses. It will give you 
 an entertaining story while being good or evil. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JabbasChef
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 10, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  (gameplay) Many people believed fable was going to be the best rpg ever created. is it? no but 
 that doesnt mean its not a fine game. You take control of a young boy as you go through the game 
 he grows up and you can deside if you want him to be good lor evil. as everyone pointed out the 
 game is very short u can beat the entire game in about 7 hours. but these 7 hours are a complete 
 blast. there is a newer version of fable called fable the lost chapters the lost chapters adds 
 about an hour of extra gameplay is you dont have fable at all buy lost chapters well i dont even 
 know if they sell just fable anymore but if you have fable there is really know point of rebuying 
 the game because there isnt much more gameplay
  (graphics) depending on what version you get xbox or pc the graphics differ as you might as guessed 
 the pc has better frame rate and well graphics period is better. (sound) the music is alright i 
 dout it will win any oscors or rewards but its decent. the enviroment sounds are alright also but 
 the acting is very good. (value) it all depends what version you get the xbox one at this time 
 is 10$ cheaper but the pc version is a bit better. no matter what version you get (xbox 20$) (pc 
 30$) its a good deal. (final thoughts) the pc version is a little bit better than the xbox one 
 such as you can make your own tattoes and there is user created mods. but no matter what version 
 you buy get ready to have a great gaming experience by entering the world of fable.....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nauman_97
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 10, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  This game has a good story and lots of fun gameplay. The story is told from a sort of fairy tale 
 style which is quite refreshing and fun. The story is very intriguing and turns into a book that 
 you just cant put down, However this brings us to the next point, very short game, I spent 14 hoursplaying 
 it and I completed every quest for the good guys and the game was over. Very short but very good. 
 One of the funniest rpgs since mario rpg. The game allows you to make decions on weather or not 
 to be good or bad, to kill of certain characters and what not, this will change the story drmatically, 
 however at the end of the game weather you been good or evil you can donate all your money to change 
 to good or evil. When you beat the game you can continue to play it which is fun. The game is incrdably 
 easy, You will always be MUCH MUCH MUCH stronger then your enemies, the experiance system is fun 
 and its not even needed to max any catagories in order to win the game. You age but you stop aging 
 at 65 years of age, You can buy hosuses and rent them go to a brothel and have sex and get married 
 more then once if you choose. ALl and all this is just one of those games you gotta play.
  
  Gameplay gets a 10: Because its super fun and addicting, great story
  Grahics get a 8: Although 
 they arent top of the line graphics anymore they still pull all the colors together well and enviroments 
 are great.
  Sound gets a 8: You always have nice little music playing in the background and always hear magical 
 effects, one cool thing is when you kill certain enemies the nouise they make.
  value gets a 5: Simply because this game is shorter then most FPS games let alone rpgs.
  Reviewr's 
 Tilt: Despite everything, this game is a great fun allround game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolflegresley
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 9, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  This game has a good story and lots of fun gameplay. The story is told from a sort of fairy tale 
 style which is quite refreshing and fun. The story is very intriguing and turns into a book that 
 you just cant put down, However this brings us to the next point, very short game, I spent 14 hoursplaying 
 it and I completed every quest for the good guys and the game was over. Very short but very good. 
 One of the funniest rpgs since mario rpg. The game allows you to make decions on weather or not 
 to be good or bad, to kill of certain characters and what not, this will change the story drmatically, 
 however at the end of the game weather you been good or evil you can donate all your money to change 
 to good or evil. When you beat the game you can continue to play it which is fun. The game is incrdably 
 easy, You will always be MUCH MUCH MUCH stronger then your enemies, the experiance system is fun 
 and its not even needed to max any catagories in order to win the game. You age but you stop aging 
 at 65 years of age, You can buy hosuses and rent them go to a brothel and have sex and get married 
 more then once if you choose. ALl and all this is just one of those games you gotta play.
  
  Gameplay gets a 10: Because its super fun and addicting, great story
  Grahics get a 8: Although 
 they arent top of the line graphics anymore they still pull all the colors together well and enviroments 
 are great.
  Sound gets a 8: You always have nice little music playing in the background and always hear magical 
 effects, one cool thing is when you kill certain enemies the nouise they make.
  value gets a 5: Simply because this game is shorter then most FPS games let alone rpgs.
  Reviewr's 
 Tilt: Despite everything, this game is a great fun allround game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gusmt66
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 7, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Graphics in Fable are good, gameplay is pretty nice but quite simple and sounds are really good, 
 i liked the music and scenario too... There was something that really disappointed me: The game 
 is too short for being an RPG game!, so, I couldn't gain all the experience doing every mission!, 
 I had to fight several times all around to get my skills at maximun levels!. So, the game took 
 me a little more time to finish it and that was the only way to keep me playing and enjoying this 
 nice-short game.
  There was something else that i disliked: The Hero doesn't speak!, why?, every character talk and 
 the principal heroe is mute?... naaahhh...
  Well, I think the rest of the game is ok, I hope next ones like this would be longer please!... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy27
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  Good Idea:
  Graphics look a load better than the Xbox version.
  Really terrific gameplay and loads of fun.
  Stealing your weapons and armor.
  
  Bad Idea:
 
  Feels more like a tweak.
  Can't continue gameplay after you finish playing.
  
  Overall:
  Well worth the purchase if you've never played the original. If you have the extra 
 cash though, you might want to wait since the new missions aren't really that impressive. Again, 
 you can't play after you beat the game. It's just an ending (which sucks) .
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Fable is 
 a well-written story of a kid who finds his family murdered by a bunch of thieves during his sister's 
 birthday. Fun stuff, huh? Your sister is kidnapped by a few of them and your only hope is to run 
 to your dead father. While watching your dad bleed on the ground and your house in flames, a mysterious 
 man comes to your side to tell you that your life can change for the better if you join his guild. 
 Upon joining, you'll learn the ways of weaponry and magic. Your goal is to be a great warrior and 
 avenge your father's death, find your sister, and become a great leader in the guild.
  
  The game plays like a third person hack-n-slash role playing game. You battle thieves, beast, skeleton 
 warriors, and all sorts of great baddies. The game actually has many different takes. For instance, 
 when you're a kid, you can beat up kids and become a bully. Later, that action will affect someone 
 when you grow up. The game revolves around how you act, do missions, handle situations, etc.. This 
 is where the true role playing comes into play. Do you want someone who is cheered on when he comes 
 into town or do you want someone who people fear when strolling around towns? It's all up to you 
 and how you play. The beauty of it is that the game reacts so well to how you treat others. The 
 only thing I wish you had more control over is being evil is played out. Take the Dungeon & Dragon's 
 style games. When you're a chaotic, unlawful evil villain, the towns you enter and the people who 
 recognize you in most every D&D game will end up calling guards to kill you and treat you like 
 the scum you chose to be. In Fable, you can run away after looting a shop, beating the crap out 
 of civilians and guards, go into a new town, and the town will not have any concern about your 
 murderous behavior besides "Look at that jerk.. I wish it were harder to enter a town while evil, 
 but I guess it would be more difficult for the average action player. I do like the fact that you 
 can kill someone in their house, hopefully not be seen, and purchase their house so you can rent 
 it out to the next sucker. It's a good way to make some extra cash.
  
  The graphics are a great improvement over the Xbox version. I didn't really dislike the Xbox graphics 
 and textures until I played the PC version. Now the Xbox version just looks like monkey poop. Or 
 mud. Whichever you prefer. The resolution max just makes this great looking game look even better. 
 If you have a good computer, I'd suggest skipping the Xbox version all together and getting the 
 PC version. The sounds are the same. They sound a lot more meshed on the Xbox. The PC explores 
 the world with plenty of sound variety unlike the Xbox version. Also, if you own an Xbox360 wired 
 controller, plug it into your PC and play the game that way. It's much easier.
  
  The biggest downfall of the game is the ending. The game, well, ends when you beat it. Especially 
 when you uncover the special cool "thing" at the end, you want to use it but you can't because 
 the game is over. It just bugged the mess out of me.
  
  I think if you've never experienced Fable, then get this copy for the PC. You won't be sad until 
 you actually beat the game. It's a well-written game with plenty to do and plenty to loot (if you're 
 that way) , and will keep you wanting more for a very long time. 
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Violence:
 
  Loads of blood but not much gore.
  
  Sexuality:
  Can have intercourse, but of course, it doesn't show one thing. You can just hear moaning.
  
 
  Language:
  The worst word I've heard was sh**. The only time I heard that was when my character did it from 
 being evil.
  
  Substance Use:
  You can drink enough to actually have your character throw up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yossimitsu
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 5, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  Let me sum up before I start - Fable is a fun game and I enjoyed playing it.
  Now for the details:
  Graphics - The graphics in Fable are pretty good, Although not extraordinary. 
 The character animation is a bit robotic and there is not much of physics in the game either, although 
 it doesn't spoil the fun from the game.
  Gameplay - The combat is quite simple and easy to learn, although it would be nice to be able to 
 do some extra moves and even develop combat techniques. magic is also very simple, but the fact 
 that you have only 2 slots at a time to use is annoying and you find yourself scrolling through 
 your spells all the time while creatures hit you for damage.
  The interface is not complicated at all, although the accessability to your inventory is not strait 
 forward. To equip yourself you need to go to your inventory and burrow down several menus. Once 
 you get a good weapon, though, you will not change it often.
  It is nice to see the advancement of your character through the years from a young boy to a middle-aged 
 hero. Also you will travel by day and night, which gives some life to the world. 
  Some things are annoying - if you want to travel by day you need to sleep for the night, but you 
 cannot sleep almost anywhere without buying the place first. even if you turn mayor in a town you 
 still cannot use any bed that is left outside without becoming a criminal. kind of silly...
  bottom line, the gameplay is rather fluent and easy although sometime inconvenient.
  Sound - 
 nice music and atmosphere, but I found the music sometimes overwhelms the voice of the character 
 to the extend that you cannot hear what they are saying. Something else that bothered me is the 
 fact that your character is actually a mute and never speaks (although the characters in the game 
 don't have trouble understading him) .
  
  It is not the ultmiate RPG game, but it is fun and enjoyable. the story is nice, although short 
 and you have many side games to play. the game is easy enough and sometimes too easy (I found out 
 that using 3-4 spells and one weapon is enough to bit most of the encounters) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjj2kl2d
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 3, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  I am much more pleased with the new fable the extra content is great fun mini games like chicken 
 kicking new items weapons and armor and it dident leave you wanting as more as much as the first 
 did for an expanson it was verry good and added many new quests the only problems i have with it 
 is that it was really too easy and you still age way too fast for my likeing i mean you dont get 
 some of the better looing tatoos untill later in the game n then your too old for them to look 
 good but still over all a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pimmeh
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  When the game was released i anticipated till i could get it.
  The idea of being an "Evil Hero" reminded me of Dungeon Keeper and clearly interested me to the 
 concept.
  After a while i had it and, after a installation process, started up the game.
  Selecting my ever trusty nickname i was immediatly pulled in the pre-story in which i could punch 
 a little boy right at his head.
  It really made me laugh and i noticed the Devil Rating a little later.
  Progressing in the game 
 i found out that i could kill some guy and buy his house!
  Oh joy!
  Soon i started whacking all of Oakvale with my hammer and fending off the guards. Suddenly i was 
 owner of the entire town!
  
  The gameplay itself was perfect. Except for some spells to make every boss killable in less then 
 five minutes.
  Graphically it was.... astounding. Although it was disturbing i could not customize my char's face 
 it made of for that with the develish attributes.
  
  The story was gripping, involving, fast-paced but really really short.
  Really too short.
  
 
  As i notice i have a rating for sound as well....
  i only can say that i did not notice anything bad to the sound. The cries of villagers and the 
 hilarious alignment commands you can do as you get more evil (or good) was a good addition and 
 it put to the laughter.
  
  I really found this game a disappointment to the original idea.
  I also was very disturbed by 
 the lack of destructible enviroment.
  A good game to mess around but not to play it more then 4 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marsp
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  I played the game a couple of weeks ago and I can say that it was enough satisfying. 
  The good : Graphics, compat mode, sound, general story
  The bad: Very very short game. I finished 
 it in 20 hours measured by the system as game playing hours.
  First I have to say that is a satisfying playing game. The idea that you start your character from 
 childhood and you raise him to bee a legendary warrior (good or bad doesn't matter) is very nice 
 and that was the thing that made want to play the game. Furthermore the main story is very good. 
 So I thought that with the above option of growing up your character it will be a huge game or 
 at least a long lasting.. I was wrong.. My character reached his 68 years old but I grow up about 
 48 hours. I played and finished the game in two days!!! And I thing that I did everything. 
  Except of the lasting of the game the other think that made feel tired was the many videos that 
 telling you the story and the option that you don't have the opportunity to raise your character 
 as you want. Don't buy the idea that you can make him good or evil... In the end you will kill the 
 bad dragon....
  The second thing is something that is similar to the games of MS studios as Dungeon Siege I and 
 II. You always go straight ahead, you can't get out of the road and climb a mountain for example. 
 This is ridiculous for me.
  However if you are going to stay home for the weekend and you don't have something better to do 
 load it up and enjoy having a relaxing time playing a game...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: protossdragoon
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 29, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  When i first bought this game, i expected a good solid gameplay and realstic actions but it ended 
 up to be like a rpg in cartoon world. that's not bad though because fable is a great game with 
 beautiful graphics and lets you choose you your lighter or your darker side. when i saw the first 
 previews, the graphics looked good and it seemed to be like a realsitc game. it was ok to see "cartoonish"~ 
 characters but did not really make you feel like you are interacting with real people. but the 
 most dissapointing part was the combat system. sure there were lots of spells and attacks but melee 
 combat feels like you are not doing much than taking turns blocking or getting hit by each other. 
 the bow also takes long to shoot but is rewarding when you get a headshot to an enemy far away. 
 smae with magic but i think that when you get more experence, it will be faster. lastly, i would 
 like to talk about the maps. they are all well detalied but are very small and it feels like you 
 are just going around in circles. it is also hard to keep track of the places in the quests because 
 of the maps but this is where the "flashing yellow icon comes up" whichi is helpful enough. also 
 in the game, you hero ages of course buy characters like the guild master just looks as old as 
 the furst time you met him. The good-fabel lets you play as a young boy who's village was burned 
 down by bandits. later on Maze a migician from the hero's guild takes you to the school and lets 
 you train your skills there. you can become a powerful migician, or warrior. you can choose the 
 light or dark paths whch will greatly effect you and the reactions of people around you. if you 
 are a sweet nice young gentlemen,-try to be one or a mean barbaric rouge, its up to you. remember 
 that this also effects how your character looks and behaves. there are lots of things to do and 
 you are basicly free but there will always be a main quest for you if you get tired of other quests. 
 there are many things to explore and ladies to flirt with but th main part of the game is to make 
 your character be known and this could be in a good way or bad. it is worth playing with great 
 graphics but not so great combat system but all in all, it is quite allro\ight. i would recommend 
 this to gamers who want to learn the basics or an rpg game and for advanced gamers just to simply 
 admire the graphics and good gameplay. thats it for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gun-Unit
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 25, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  1. Easy to pick up in play
  2. Graphics and Sound
  3. Being Good or Evil opinion
  4. Living world
  5. Story
  
  Cons:
  1. Too Short
  2. Too Easy
  
  
  While Fable does 
 alot right, it comes short of being a classic RPG. The game is easy to pick up and play, learning 
 the combat system is easy and well done, but with that being said the game is also overall easy, leaving 
 you hanging wondering how much better this game could have been if it was harder, and longer. Fable 
 is a overall short game which in the end what kills it from being that classic rpg.
  
  The graphics while not the best graphics for its time is really good and well done and same can 
 be said for the sound, and voice acting. The biggest pro of Fable through would be that you can be 
 good, evil or anything in between. The world your in is a living world, when the day hits, the NPCs 
 go to work and at night lock up and go home.
  
  The story to Fable is nothing short of good. While Fable is short the story somewhat makes up for 
 the game being short, but at the same time there could have been alot more to the story, and a little 
 bit more work into it through its still a good story either way. If your looking for a easy to pick 
 up and play rpg, then Fable is a good choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetruekilla69
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  What is there to say about Fable. be good. be bad. do what you want! wipe out whole towns the rent 
 them out or get ur gold the good way you can play this game over and over and never play it the 
 same way twice so meany things to do but so little time! what do i do! ill tell you! BUY THIS GAME! 
 its well worth it dont take off work/school to play it some some people i know did but dont wast 
 ur free time with the other wana be games! get and play Fable today! Thanx -Shane- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pawns186
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  The game is very linear, could of been longer, graphics is pretty decent , the sound could of been 
 better, overall I will wait for this game to become cheaper instead of buying it for 30$. The problem 
 about this game is that there are too many video games done like this but better for example. NWN, 
 SWK, AND GW. Compared to the games that I listed the game was made too linear. What I mean about 
 ellaborating your side, if for example you choose to become evil there isnt too much resourses, 
 and story to full fill your experience what kind of situation the chracter gets in to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  This game in a way reminds me of Zelda. The graphics are very good. Nice colors, and characters 
 are unique. The lighting, and scenery is well thought up. I haven't played it throughout, but so 
 far i'm impressed. The game handles nice. I like the mini games (In a way) that you have to do 
 in order to train yourself in the different arts you learn as you go. My hefty Vid card helps the 
 way the game looks. Not much of a review on this one yet. I haven't played that much of it so far, 
 but wanted to post my opinion so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelkimble2k4
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 18, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  The fact that Fable has been in development for the last four years (then referred to as Project: 
 Ego) gives it the overwhelming disadvantage of being a game that has a lot to live up to. Regardless 
 of the fact that there isnt a game out there quite like it (and therefore has minimal competition) , 
 Fable is a game that has to excel in any and every way it possibly can if its going to live up 
 to the tsunami of hype that the initial title and concept has generated over the last four years. 
 So of course, in terms of facing the hype, Fable isnt the game it was originally touted as being. 
 If you expected the same game that was bragged up a few years ago, youll be sorely disappointed.
 
  
  What Fable does do though, is create a world that is believable. Fable creates an interesting story. 
 Fable is chock full of unique characters. Fable contains a battle element that isnt decided by 
 hidden dice rolls. And perhaps most importantly, Fable is a game where the main character is perceived 
 by the world (and the player) according to the choices he makes throughout the adventure.
  
  Obviously, the world that Big Blue Box attempts to have players believe is actually among the 
 biggest of Fables gameplay mechanics. Though the game consists primarily of hack and slash-style 
 combat, Fable is what you make of it. In short, players who find more to do than kill things will 
 find that the game doesnt actually revolve around combat at all. Technically, you can blow through 
 the games main quest in less than ten hours; hardly the epic RPG youd expect.
  
  But therein lies the beauty of Fable, which consists of plenty of things to do besides endlessly 
 hacking away at creatures and following one heavily-scripted path. There are a bevy of side quests 
 that you can take on, and you actually dont have to take any of them at all. You can tackle them 
 any way you like, and if you feel like macking on the ladies, youll find that itll take you time 
 and a bit of effort to find a wife (assuming that you want to go in that direction) . With enough 
 gold, you can buy property and spend more gold to decorate the home. Or if you want, rent it out 
 to someone else and collect the extra money. You can get a different hairstyle or tattoos, which 
 alter your attractiveness. You can try to gain renown, which determines how the locals feel about 
 you, and there are dozens of ways to do that. You can complete some quests, or do favors for some 
 of the denizens of the villages. You can show off trophies (the heads of your kills) to those around 
 you, and much, much more (which basically includes any of the above options) . It can even come 
 down to simple things, such as buying a round of drinks for the local bar flys.
  
  
  However, the world can see you in a bad light too, and they will react accordingly. Instead of 
 taking a quest to help prevent a raid, you can take the alternate quest that makes you one of the 
 raiders. Kill the townspeople, and youll find that its almost impossible to woo the ladies (theyre 
 all afraid of you) . People in town will drop their crates just to get away from you, and youll 
 find that fair prices on equipment will become harder and harder to find. Even the taverns are 
 reluctant to welcome an evil soul. As you gain different kinds of experience, youll even gain 
 new gestures that accompany your behavior, like flirting, burping, farting, shooting the finger, 
 and more advanced commands like telling others to follow you (which come in handy at certain points 
 in the game) .
  
  In terms of trades to take up, you can build your characters attributes as you see fit. By building 
 up your characters thieving abilities, for example, stealing and lock-picking become simpler, 
 which is good for an unwelcome visitor who will otherwise have a hard time in towns. But mastering 
 combat and magic is important too, especially since the combat controls arent nearly as refined 
 as a game thats been in development for so long should be. While not unplayable, the combat system 
 is clunky, especially when concerning the use of the bow. The lock-on targeting system helps out 
 in this area, but the whole combat element needs more polish. The amount of weapons and armor are 
 fairly meager too. Rather than having the broad selection of equipment like in other action/RPGs, 
 Fable contains only a modest armory that, at best, is merely adequate. You can slightly alter the 
 way the equipment performs by adding gems to it, but again, Fables system only touches down on 
 the idea, as if the developers wanted to include as much as they could, but didnt have the time 
 to truly execute the idea to the fullest.
  
  Where it does work though is how the combat system comes together with how you are perceived. If 
 you turn out to be an evil fellow who cant travel to any town without killing one of the locals, 
 your thieving abilities will come far more in handy, since you wont be able to get any deals when 
 bartering. In short, no matter how you act, the game has a way for you to get around any potential 
 pitfalls. How you are perceived wont kill the game for you. Fable tracks a ridiculous amount of 
 statistics, ranging from how many times youve had sex to how far youve kicked a chicken. Much 
 of it may be nonsense, but it nevertheless is entertaining. Some is even proves to be useful if 
 you know what to watch for. Needless to say though, Fable is not a difficult game by any means.
 
  
  One of the games most touted features is that how you act will determine what you look like, as 
 the game makes changes to your characters appearance as you do good or evil deeds. The idea is 
 that upon completion, every players character could look completely different from one another. 
 The only trouble is, you could likely end up with a look that you arent satisfied with, or you 
 may gain some sort of appearance detail that you have no idea how you got. If you do gain an undesired 
 look about you, there may actually be no way to undo it.
  
  What Fable gets better than most games is its enriching atmosphere. Instead of the lifelessness 
 you get from other games that place inhabitants in the world but does nothing with it, Fable is 
 chock full of creatures and people who actually serve to be more than a mere prop. When evening 
 comes, guards and town denizens can be seen walking throughout the village, illuminating street 
 lamps one-by-one. The same can be said about your wife, should you have one. Shell light the table 
 lamps inside your home, or turn them off as day breaks. Shell also leave your home and mingle 
 about the village, engaging in conversation with other folks. Bar maids will respond to customers 
 asking for a refill on their drinks, actually walking to their table and pouring liquid into the 
 customers glass. Its as though each character in Fable would have a story to tell if you were 
 able to ask.
  
  
  Graphically, Fable looks better as the game progresses, but doesnt have the initial knockout beauty 
 one might expect. Textures are fairly muddy, and in terms of special effects, they are nothing 
 special. A glowing aura surrounds light sources and certain characters (and you too, depending 
 on the conditions) , which add an enormous amount of beauty to what could otherwise be considered 
 bland. Character models are very detailed, with the majority of the detail being in the main characters 
 of the game.
  
  The world itself is where the game begins to show its graphical prowess. Individual blades of grass 
 (and not just a few. there are hundreds of them) and tall weeds will sway in the wind. Bushes 
 have actual moving parts of each bush, not two simple bush textures meshed together. The world 
 actually seems livelier because of it, and the art style of Fable certainly contributes to the 
 beauty too, which creates an atmosphere and ambience all its own.
  
  The problem is that the game moves at a framerate that, while always playable, is fairly unstable. 
 Combat especially, can be quite choppy depending on the conditions, and though there are some neat 
 effects going on at times, there isnt enough happening onscreen to justify a framerate any lower 
 than 60fps. This would be more acceptable if the game world were on the epic scale of games like 
 Morrowind, where the entire game world unfolded before your eyes without any level-like pauses 
 in the action. But sadly, this isnt the case. Fable instead, is largely made up of small chunks 
 of land that are set up like corridors, and each chunk is separated by a significant load time. 
 You are limited to where in these chunks of land you can travel, so many of these areas feel exactly 
 like moving along corridors, even though it first appears that you can move around anywhere, thanks 
 to invisible walls.
  
  Fable succeeds beautifully in the audio department, offering outstanding musical scores and excellent 
 voice acting. While the sound effects themselves are pretty standard, the rest of the audio more 
 than makes up for it with atmospheric music that fits the setting like a glove. The voice-overs, 
 while clichd in their heavy English accents, nevertheless get the point across that youre living 
 in an epic fantasy world. There are a lot of repeated voices for particular characters, but as 
 chatty as they are, for as many as you encounter, it doesnt dampen the ambience.
  
  With a little extra polish, Fable couldve been one of the greatest action/RPGs out there, and 
 even with its flaws, the game is still a fantastic trip through a memorable land that reacts to 
 your choices, which few games do. The title is clearly ambitious, and though it doesnt deliver 
 what was originally promised, it is an engrossing game nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123625
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 18, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Fable where to start it is a great game i guess that will have to do for a start.
  well fable is an excellent game it's graphic presentation and sound are excellent though i would 
 agree with Gamespot that the story is a bit short but neither the less it is still a great game.
 
  
  The game is set in the world of Albion which is a big world believe me.
  There are plenty of monster and secrets around the world like talking doors, treasure cave's with 
 an endless amount of monster's and the graphics based around the world are just stunning and it's 
 citizens are kinda annoying but if that's the case just take em out i mean kill them and thats 
 a good feature that you can do any thing you like in this world if you think you're good enough.
 
  
  Lets talk about it's evolution as you go through the game.
  because it's one of the most important part in the game i think, you start as a child and by the 
 end of the game you will be an old man but it's kinda weird because some people will be twenty 
 years of age throughout the game and you'll be an old man which is strange in way's but it's a 
 neat feature in the game. The way you grow in the game depends on how you level up and acquire spells 
 and strengths so when you graduate from the guild which i'll explain later what that is so yeah.
 
  
  Another feature is the good and evil system because you can choose if your good or evil and there 
 are good and evil missions which are good .
  The way to choose what you'll be is by stealing, killing villagers, and sacrificing people to a 
 fake god of evil and you'll be evil.
  A way to be good is to save people from monster's, give people presents and doing good missions.
 
  There's another good feature if your evil you'll look evil say glowing red eyes, pale skin, villager's 
 will fear you and a strange evil aura.
  If your good you'll look dashing people will love you, you'll have hair and your more likely to 
 have a wife.
  
  Now about the guild the guild is a school of combat. magic and skill this will be the first place 
 you go to to learn skills the head of this prestigious school is the guild master he's supposedly 
 very powerful that's what every one say's in the guild anyway.
  Well the main reason your here is because of a man named Maze who is a part of the guild.
  So 
 in the guild you will train to be a powerful wizard or perhaps an archer and you have a choice 
 to be a famed Knight so i'ts all up to you that's what i like about this game most and when you 
 graduate the guild you are free to do what you want basically saying. 
  The guild is also a place where you level up and warp to places you've already been to with warp 
 point's which are just short cuts to place's and here's were you will find missions to do so you 
 will come here a lot. 
  
  The overall story is pretty short but there are plenty of side missions to do.
  you start the 
 game as a kid as i mentioned earlier and you have to get a present for your sister by doing good 
 deed's or bad one's to earn money to buy chocolates for here but when you get to your sister the 
 town get's over run by bandit's. Soon your hiding and when they leave the only you are left your 
 dad is dead and your family is gone then you get taken to the guild by maze the wizard actually 
 i don't know what he is sorry and any way you begin training for the guild to forge your destiny 
 or something like that.
  
  So it's basically a amazing and addicting keep you playing for hours.
  
  It's a great game 
 altogether. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 18, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  A ton better looking than the Xbox version with sharper textures and better resolutions. The sounds 
 have been worked on tremendously. Great gameplay and easy to pick up and play. Tattoo creation 
 is fun.
  
  Cons:
  The "Lost Chapters" add something to the game but makes it feel more like a tweak. 
  
  Overall:
 
  Well worth the purchase if you've never played the original. If you have the extra cash though, 
 you might want to wait since the new missions aren't really that impressive. Again, you can't play 
 after you beat the game. It's just an ending (which sucks) .
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Fable is a well-written 
 story of a kid who find his family murdered by a bunch of thieves during his sister's birthday. 
 Fun stuff, huh? Your sister is kidnapped by a few of them and your only hope is to run to your 
 dead father. While watching your dad bleed on the ground and your house in flames, a mysterious 
 man comes to your side to tell you that your life can change for the better if you join his guild. 
 Upon joining, you'll learn the ways of weaponry and magic. Your goal is to be a great warrior and 
 avenge your father's death, find your sister, and become a great leader in the guild.
  
  The game plays like a third person hack-n-slash role playing game. You battle thieves, beast, skeleton 
 warriors, and all sorts of great baddies. The game actually has many different takes. For instance, 
 when you're a kid, you can beat up kids and become a bully. Later, that action will effect someone 
 when you grow up. The game revolves around how you act, do missions, handle situations, etc.. This 
 is where the true role playing comes into play. Do you want someone who is cheered on when he comes 
 into town or do you want someone who people fear when strolling around towns? It's all up to you 
 and how you play. The beauty of it is that the game reacts so well to how you treat others. The 
 only thing I wish you had more control over is being evil is played out. Take the Dungeon & Dragon's 
 style games. When you're a chaotic, unlawful evil villian, the towns you enter and the people who 
 recognize you in most every D&D game will end up calling guards to kill you and treat you like 
 the scum you chose to be. In Fable, you can run away after looting a shop, beating the crap out 
 of civilians and guards, go into a new town, and the town will not have any concern about your 
 murderous behavior besides "Look at that jerk.". I wish it were harder to enter a town while evil, 
 but I guess it would be more difficult for the average action player. I do like the fact that you 
 can kill someone in their house, hopefully not be seen, and purchase their house so you can rent 
 it out to the next sucker. It's a good way to make some extra cash.
  
  The graphics are a great improvement over the Xbox version. I didn't really dislike the Xbox graphics 
 and textures until I played the PC version. Now the Xbox version just looks like monkey poop. Or 
 mud. Whichever you prefer. The resolution max just makes this great looking game look even better. 
 If you have a good computer, I'd suggest skipping the Xbox version all together and getting the 
 PC version. The sounds are the same. They sound a lot more mushed on the Xbox. The PC explores 
 the world with plenty of sound variety unlike the Xbox version. Also, if you own an Xbox360 wired 
 conroller, plug it into your PC and play the game that way. It's much easier.
  
  The biggest downfall of the game is the ending. The game, well, ends when you beat it. Especially 
 when you uncover the special cool "thing" at the end, you want to use it but you can't because 
 the game is over. It just bugged the mess out of me.
  
  I think if you've never experienced Fable, then get this copy for the PC. You won't be sad until 
 you actually beat the game. It's a well-written game with plenty to do and plenty to loot (if you're 
 that way) , and will keep you wanting more for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegetto200313
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 14, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Fable : the lost chapers what more can i say apart from one of the best rpgs ever i know its short 
 but its great its good for a laugh 
  
  In this verison you get to see alot more of albion which was cool and finally rid the world of 
 the evil jack of blades 
  
  Ive clocked this game 3 time the original 2 times i still cant get enough of them i think im right 
 in saying this deserves a 9.5 
  
  Still a good game but well have to wait and see if fable 2 delevers its promisses now wont we
 
  
  Time spent was quite a while come on 3 times does take a little while because each time you back 
 and look for things you might have missed i only wish there were more clothers armor weapons 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper0993
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 12, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  The beginning of this game is quite slow. Once you get started it starts going quick, but too quick. 
 Once you beat the story in less than a week, theres no more use for it. Its fun when you beat it 
 and you can do whatever you want, but that fun only lasts for a short time. Then its only job is 
 to sit on the shelf collecting dust. This really isn't as big a game as it can be. I admit it is 
 hard to make a game like this last a long time. Games with no multi-player are starting to decrease 
 in popularity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chronus
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 11, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  When it debuted on the Xbox last year, Fable was a smash hit due to its open-ended nature and in-depth 
 character customization. Now, Fable: The Lost Chapters is making its way to the computer, allowing 
 PC gamers to finally discover what all the fuss is about. As the game progresses, your character 
 will evolve based upon every decision you make, making the experience feel fresh no matter how 
 many times you play it. Expanding on the Xbox version with more quests, new weapons and a load 
 of new decisions to be made, Fable: The Lost Chapters is an excellent addition to any RPG fans 
 collection. 
  
  The most notable feature about Fable: The Lost Chapters revolves around the choices you make and 
 the impact they have on your character. Like most RPGs, your character will gain experience points 
 through quests and become stronger, learn new skills, and gain new weaponry. In addition, specialized 
 experience points will be awarded based on how you attack. If you prefer melee attacks, then your 
 character will obtain a muscular physique and inflict more damage in hand to hand combat, while 
 spell casters can use their special experience points to learn new abilities. 
  
  Your characters physical appearance will also change based on various factors. Depending on your 
 alignment, a heroic character will carry a bright aura with a welcoming face, while evil characters 
 tend to look like vicious barbarians. As a result, peoples opinions of your hero will change based 
 on how he looks. A stealth assassin clad in a black uniform will put fear into the townsfolk, while 
 a gentle warrior with a tunic and boots will comfort the citizens. Other components that affect 
 the heros appearance include tattoos (if any) , scars received during battle, and even your weight, 
 which can be gained or lost depending on your diet. While your complexion doesnt affect the gameplay 
 considerably, its still easy to appreciate the detail Lionhead Studios put into the character 
 development.
  
  The quest interface system in The Lost Chapters further stresses your characters individuality. 
 Whether you choose to be good or evil is entirely up to you, and as a result your objectives will 
 slightly differ based on the mission you select. For instance, one mission might have you protect 
 traveling merchants if youre a noble hero, but the same quest could tell you to rob those merchants 
 if you take the rogue route. Before you perform a quest, youll have the option to gamble on 
 your quests outcome. The hero can brag about his skill which will unlock special challenges, requiring 
 him to do things like beating the entire quest without any armor or without using any health potions. 
 If you manage to succeed youll be rewarded handsomely, but youll lost both respect and some gold 
 if you cant live up to your boasts. 
  
  In addition, certain characters with icons over their heads can deliver special optional quests 
 that can reward you with gold or simply affect your alignment. Over time, your hero will gain a 
 reputation based on his actions, and the people around him will clearly respond to this. Context-specific 
 actions can be used in certain scenarios, ranging from blowing a kiss to a lovely maiden or even 
 farting on a homeless person. As your reputation builds up more of these actions will become available, 
 and if you play your cards right youll even be able to do something drastic like get married! 
 Choosing an alignment and sticking to it truly displays the consequences for how you act, and the 
 people you encounter do a great job telling you this. 
  
  One of the biggest challenges the developers faced was to successfully convert the controls from 
 the Xbox controller to work effectively on the PC. Luckily, a few tutorial levels early on do a 
 great job of introducing the combat system, and although using a keyboard can be a little tricky 
 at first for a game with so many commands, after practicing a bit you should feel right at home. 
 Fable uses the standard WSAD control layout for movement and the mouse for looking around. Left 
 mouse click is your attack button while the right mouse button is used to block, and by holding 
 down shift the left and right clicks cast two predetermined spells. Some keys have two actions 
 bound to them, and while this can easily be changed in the settings, its still bothersome to begin 
 running and accidentally cast a spell, draining your energy. Moving about the world is simplistic, 
 but the camera has a tendency to jump around the screen a lot. Instead of staying in a fixed position 
 behind the character, the view will constantly shake back and forth, which can make you a little 
 dizzy if you play for too long. Aside from this, the PC control scheme for The Lost Chapters is 
 easy to get a grasp of. 
  
  As far as the actual combat goes, Fable uses a lock-on system to select specific enemies, allowing 
 your character to accurately cast spells, shoot arrows, and slash up your chosen target with ease. 
 Occasionally the lock-on system will target a friendly unit in the midst of battle, which can be 
 quite costly if you accidentally rip apart an ally. The variety of enemies you encounter helps 
 add depth to the battle system; at one point in the game youll have to face massive trolls who 
 send a shockwave through the ground, while later on you might have to face hordes of flying insects. 
 Youll constantly have to devise new battle tactics for each type of foe simply because each type 
 of enemy has their own strengths and weaknesses. While its relatively easy to run up to a lethargic 
 creature and slash it to pieces, itll most likely be easier to cast spells on the more nimble 
 opponents. 
  
  On the down side, failing a quest or being killed in combat has hardly any outcome on the game 
 at all. While one could expect that failing a quest could upset certain people and set off a terrible 
 chain of events, any quest can be restarted until you finally get everything right. In addition, 
 theres a proliferation of resurrection vials throughout the world, so dying will have a minor 
 outcome on the rest of the game. Still, youre bound to come across some intense fight scenes every 
 step of the way, and although there arent any major consequences if you fail, the whole experience 
 is rather enthralling. 
  
  One of the greatest features about The Lost Chapters is its astounding presentation value. The 
 environments are simply beautiful; the textures are highly detailed and the worlds are overflowing 
 with beautiful colors. From the lush green forests on a warm spring day to the stifling cold days 
 in a winter setting, everywhere you travel possesses its own unique feel that will really make 
 you appreciate your surroundings. Cities are full of life as well, and although some of the same 
 bartenders and shopkeepers will appear over and over again, you still cant help but appreciate 
 the level of detail that went into the making of each character model. The audio is also right 
 on the track with the visuals in helping create a memorable experience. The burning flames of an 
 inferno spell, the traditional unsheathing of a sword and even the character dialogues all sound 
 so natural and unscripted. The soundtrack is truly epic as well, effectively adding drama to the 
 game where appropriate. Overall, Fable profoundly creates an illusion of real life through its 
 audio and visuals, something every game should strive to accomplish.
  
  In conclusion, Fable: The Lost Chapters is not only a great buy for PC gamers without an Xbox, 
 but even if you have played the console version its still entertaining to explore new worlds and 
 take on new quests. While we wouldve loved to seen a stronger emphasis on the whole actions have 
 consequences premise, Fable still allows the gamer to develop a strong bond with their hero. A 
 few control bugs and a somewhat linear storyline slightly take away from the experience, but Fable: 
 The Lost Chapters delivers a captivating adventure that shouldnt be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ellrodt49
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  What a nice game!
  
  This game has a litte something for RPGers of all sorts - excellent story line and character development, 
 entertaining combat, varied and interesting quests, lively NPC interaction, even the possibility 
 of romance and marriage. Not to mention the hilarious chicken-kicking contest! It truly has something 
 for everyone. It's a very immersive game that pulls you in and lets you really identify with your 
 character (the goal of any good role-playing game, by definition) .
  
  The graphics are good. So is the sound, especially the excellent voice-acting (all done by English 
 actors, I believe) . But the real strength of this game is the depth and immersive quality of the 
 story line and the richness of the fantasy world. There is a serious undertone to the game involving 
 the main story line and your character's moral choices, but there is lots of creative humor and 
 charm mixed in (the kids in the schoolhouse being a good example, and of course there is that chicken-kicking 
 contest) . In addition to the main quest, there are numerous imaginative side quests - everything 
 from treasure hunts to archery contests to fist-fighting contests to the possibility of romance 
 and marriage to a nice mixture of "games within games" like blackjack, matching games, memory games, 
 penny pool, etc. You can own property and collect rent if you like, you can become a mayor, you 
 can even acquire the title to a brothel and turn it into a woman's shelter (I kid you not) . I keep 
 coming back to my catch-phrase for this game - it has something for everyone!
  
  Some have complained that the game is too short. Maybe that's because good times seem to go by 
 quickly. It actually took me over fifty hours to complete the game. Admittedly, I tried to complete 
 every quest in the game (except those which were clearly contrary to the chosen moral alignment 
 of my character) and I also spent a lot of time playing the mini-games etc. I also tried to get 
 past all the Demon Doors in the game. I thought the length of the game was reasonable, and the 
 replay value is fairly good since you can choose to play with either a "good" or "evil" character. 
 Which brings up another unusual and fascinating aspect of the game - your character's appearance 
 changes as the game progresses, with a face that "evolves" to reflect your moral choices, aging 
 effects, battle scars, different hairstyles, tatoos, etc. This is a very nicely-done aspect of 
 the game that makes it even easier to put yourself into the "role" of your character.
  
  In summary, Fable TLC is definitely a worthy addition to the RPG genre. I strongly recommend it 
 to players who are looking for a deeper, more immersive game than the many "action RPG" Diablo 
 clones out there. You won't be disappointed. I've played a LOT of CRPGs (over two decades worth) , 
 and this is one of the better ones I've played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amstrup00
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  A new Fable!? And now is on PC too! Thats the best thing that ever could happen!!
  
  No, it is'int. The is actully not really cool, or yes, it is, but it's verey boring. But is you 
 want a OK RPG, then buy Fable: The Lost Chapters! The grafics is ok, and the sound too..
  
  
  FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL 
 FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL 
 FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL 
 FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL FILL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cawscorp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Wow. This game is visually stunning. Fable The Lost Chapters gets the highest marks for the graphics, 
 soundtrack, and voice acting! The world of Albion is easy to get lost in. From carnival type games, 
 to good old fashion chase down the bad guys and hack em up, every gamer will find a little something 
 they like.
  
  But I can't help but point out some glaring problems that prevent this game from receiving perfect 
 scores:
  1) Character Customization: is lacking in this game: though you can buy several types of armor/clothing, 
 tattoos, haircuts, and beards to customize your hero-You do not get to really pick the look of 
 your hero beyond these little details. AND WORST OF ALL FOR A FEMALE GAMER: WHY OH WHY can't you 
 be a FEMALE HERO???? At first, I thought this game was just catering to it's MAIN TARGET group, 
 and being sexist. But part of the MAIN story line has FEMALE heroes!!!!! SO why can't the player 
 choose to play as a female????? ADD INSULT TO INJURY: Your MALE player character can get married: 
 to a MAN OR WOMAN!!!!! So the hero can be straight, bi-sexual, or gay!??!! That is great! VERY 
 PROGRESSIVE OF THE DEVELOPERS!!! THEN WHY DON'T WE HAVE THE OPTION TO PLAY A FEMALE HERO????? I'm 
 just sayin!!!!!!!!
  
  2) WHY OH WHY is the ONLY BLACK FEMALE CHARACTER the character OUR MAIN CHARACTER GET'S TO BEAT 
 UP ON????????? Nice. Is there really room for social commentary in gaming? I know, this is escapism. 
 I'm taking this too seriously. But I would rather they not have ANY Black characters at all, then 
 the "whipping girl" character they put in the game. THANKS FOR THE REPRESENTATION. And then, it 
 wouldn't be offensive, IF THERE WERE ANY OTHER BLACK FEMALE CHARACTERS IN THE GAME. Do it right, 
 or don't do it at all.
  
  3) The voice acting was well done, but after awhile, repetitive, as all the characters are pretty 
 much the same voice, w/ some variation for the MAIN STORY characters. All the villagers have the 
 same dialect, and dialogue. Tiring.
  
  4) Quests become somewhat easy and repetative early on..... but luckily, the story line is so intriguing, 
 that it keeps you hooked to the end.
  
  5) THE MAIN PLAYER CHARACTER AGES WAY TOO QUICKLY: Come on now, after a few days, your HERO is 
 40!!!! and has the wrinkles of a 70 year old???? WHAT UP WITH THAT??? Since I'm an older gamer, 
 I may be the only one this bothers... but come on..... YOU DO NOT LOOK LIKE THAT AT 40!!!!!!!!!! 
 
  I agree with the others that LOVED this game, that ONE big positive is the varying recognition 
 your HERO gets as he goes from town to town, after doing several quests. He goes from unknown, 
 to legendary, depending on how you play the game. 
  
  OVER ALL, a very fun game to play while I wait to be able to play Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oroeovo
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 8, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Great graphics, you can really see everything in the world more clearly than you could on the xbox. 
 The sound is a little funny when you are talking to people. It seems to jump from speaker to speaker 
 even when the person you are talking to is right in front of you. Also, and i never thought i'd 
 say this.... I miss the xbox controller and this game offers NO GAMEPAD OR JOYSTICK SUPPORT. I 
 was really looking forward to trying out the xbox 360 controller on it. 
  
  Here is why I'm not diggin' the mouse. I thought the mouse would be ultra responsive in moving 
 the camera, like it in in Guild Wars or the Splinter Cell games or a FPS. Well... It's not. Even 
 when set to a max the mouse has to make quite a trek to get your hero to do a 180. I don't like 
 how lock on targeting system is toggle based, so is "creeping" or walking slowly. The mouse is 
 nicer for aiming the bow and arrow or crossbow but I just really don't do that. I think I may go 
 sell this and get the xbox redux of the lost chapters, but who am i kidding. I should just wait 
 for oblivion to come out. I'll tell you, I expected gamepad support since an article I read from 
 microsoft some months back they were saying they didn't want there to be a difference between playing 
 xbox, xbox 360 games and pc games and when i saw the 360 controller was pc compatable I thought 
 hey they're doing it! Nope. Guess not. 
  
  Also, the game is on 4 cds... why are games even on cd anymore? Also, I can't be entirely sure 
 but I don't think the game lets you select where on your computer you want to install to. That 
 bothers me. I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebornJeremiah
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 6, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for a game kind of like Diablo combined with like Prince of Persia then this 
 is a good game for you. The combat system is really good and there is a good balance between good 
 and evil magics. The problem about the game is that it is too short. I finish playing this game 
 in about 10 hours and I finish all the optional quests too. Other thing is the moral making or 
 decision is so shallow. One example is that, if you kill an assassin then you get a positive moral 
 alignment no matter what the situation is. So, sometimes when you think some decisions that you 
 do are right, it can actually be wrong. 
  
  The graphic is pretty good and in the end it is pretty good game although I find the game itself 
 is pretty easy somehow. Also , the game seemed to give you freedom but in the end the story itself 
 is pretty linear.
  
  If you like kind of hack and slash game where you can build up a character and their moral alignment 
 and battle your way through then this is one perfect game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viruszero0
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 4, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Fable was fun. The X-Box version was amazing. But I feel that the PC Fable is better. 
  The begining can be a little slow, but you learn the basics. Like how the good and evil system 
 works. The real fun starts after all your training in the hero academy. You can explore the land 
 from there on. Its after a few missions that the real game begins.
  The story is ok, nothin to get excited over. The characters are ok too, not the greatest. Its the 
 actual game play and that gets you addicted. Going to town to town exploring and pillaging. You 
 can become mayor of a town or destroy everyone in it with your supreme power. 
  Choosing Good or Evil is up to you. Some missions revolve around moral choices that you must make. 
 The choices you make will determine the fate of the world. 
  The weapons and armor are fin to mess around with, plus they look amazing. You can change the elements 
 of weapons to fit the enemys your fighting. You can weild swords, clubs, axes, bows, crossbows, 
 and some relay awsome Legendary Weapons.
  Leveling up is fun. You can center around you strength, so you can become a feirce warrior. You 
 may want to focus on being a stealthy assasin. From a Wizard to a Bowman, the system is great.
 
  An last, there are some good missions. From saving a chiken kicking contest from a ghost, to fighting 
 a huge troll. There are also fun mini games. You can even join a fight club!
  Overall, I enjoyed this game. Give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarvis100
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Fable The Lost Chapters is incredible. I have loved this game from the start, and I'm not stopping. 
 I love The Sims feel to as getting married, buying shops, and houses. But, unlike The Sims, you 
 can kill creatures, and slaughter everyone in your line of sight.
  Now this game is kind of like Grand Theft Auto. You don't have to exactly follow the storyline 
 all the time. Some times you can go and do some secondary quests, or you can slaughter everything 
 and everyone you see.
  The best thing about this game is the choice of being good or evil. Instead of having to be the 
 good guy, you can be the most feared murder in all the land, but that way it is hard to get a wife, 
 or a quest for that matter. 
  The graphics and sound do not dissapoint. I loved it! Incredible.
  I would like to see in the 
 future, a better customization mode to your charcter. I would love to see that. Then the game would 
 be perfect. But this one, is pretty much perfect.
  You can't go wrong buying Fable The Lost Chapters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azrainthegamer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 3, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  I'm not the fan of RPG's game but this one can add to my favorite list. I've enver thought to play 
 this game at first but I'm curious to play it. I don't like much of RPG's game because it's too 
 complicated game for me. It is really woth my time playing this game.
  
  Firstly, I'm really satisfied with the graphics shown in the game. My Geforce4 Ti4200 still can 
 run the game smoothly and lagging at certain parts but still playable. What I really like the game 
 is good camera control and I can enjoy watching my hero casting magics, fighting bandits and creatures. 
 
  
  What makes this game unique is you can flirting around the town you visits and also can buy house. 
 The town peoples sometimes gather around you and applause to you which makes you famous. You also 
 can take quest and boast to increase your reward.
  
  One thing that makes me enjoy is using the magics. All the magics are really cool and you must 
 have suitable magic for certain mission. If not, it will make your mission more difficult although 
 it looks easy. If you want to become powerful hero before doing some mission, you can creeping 
 by attacking the creatures all around the map. You will gain experience which can make you learn 
 new spell. So, you can level up first before doing the missions.
  
  As for my conclusion, this game is really awesome to me and one of my best RPG game I have played. 
 I recommend you to play this game and it's worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tordinn
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 2, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  Or a mighty wizard? Evil rogue? Actually this game can offer mostly everything you have ever wanted 
 to be in video game - you can marry, you can get drunk and loose all of your money, or you can 
 spend your pleasant time in fighting, archery or even chicken kicking contests! Otherwise, most 
 of these time sinks have nothing more than a background, but this is another topic.
  
  You can find this game very fun, because you can end it in two different ways - either good or 
 evil. The bad thing is, when doing quests and other tasks around the world, you won't be given 
 more than two choices - be good or evil. Offering a bit more choices would be a significant addition 
 to the game.
  
  As a big fan of Diablo series and World of Warcraft, I'm quite disappointed about the available 
 selection of armors and weapons - having major impact on our character, we can choose armor only 
 from 5-7 sets, including the best, epic armor, found when hitting the end of game. The same goes 
 for weapons too.
  
  This game is quite linear, this is because of former XBox platform perhaps. Yes, we can't jump, 
 prepare for this! You will face a lot of unpassable objects - starting from grass, ending with 
 roots. Be ready, he-he.
  
  I can name even more cons of this game and I could continue, but... You will find this game very 
 pleasant and attractive spending of your free time after job or school - it really helps to relax 
 and enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazon
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 25, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  The official remake of the original Fable game. It has some new add'ons but the core of the game 
 is the same: you are the young hero fighting for the name of Good or Evil. Your parents had been 
 killed in the attack of the bandits and your sister had been kidnapped! The main idea of the game 
 is fully free way of turning your hero into Great hero who is fighting for the terms of Light or 
 Dark. The interesting part of the game is that the scar system is now active! That means that the 
 scars that you will get through endless battles against anemies will stay with you till death! 
 yes, yes now you will die want you die don't want you to die the time or enemis will make their 
 work! As you understand: your character will be growing up becoming older and older till one day 
 he will turn out into the oldman who is still holding the sword in his hand strongly enough to 
 kill some throlls!
  The minus of the game is that you don't have the free travelling system through the world of Albion! 
 If you are waiting for something like free travelling through the countryside like in Morrowind 
 or some other RPG games then forget about it!! The whole map is devided into areas from wich you 
 can go to the other area only without visiting some forest or desert!
  But looking at all pluses and minuses - the game is worth of playing! If you like RPG games or 
 Action - Adventure or Platformer (!) this game will be interesting for you.
  Tillyaev "Yazon" Tahir. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warmack1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 24, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Fable is good game with a lot of promise. The game just comes up a little short. In Fable you start 
 of as a little boy whose town gets destroyed by evil men and you get taken in by priest's who train 
 you to be a hero. Once done you can choose to be a wonderful and magnificent hero or and evil ruthless 
 monster. That being said there is not as much open endedness that we were told it would have. You 
 can choose to get married or not, and you can choose between man or woman. Fable in the scope of 
 things delivers a quality product and a nice story with beautiful graphics (much improved from 
 the XBOX version) and an almost open ended game play style that will give you pleasure playing 
 at least on time through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satanmar
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 24, 2006 4:34 am PT
Review:  Fable: The Lost Chapters trully is a beacon for all single player adventure games, sadly the single-player 
 adventure game genre sees less and less games each year and it seems that we have to wait until 
 the next installment in the Elder Scrolls series to have a nice single player adventure. This is 
 why I originally had great hopes for Fable and in all, most were met. UK-based Lionheart studios 
 continue to provide gamers around the world with unique features and ideas with every game they 
 produce, Fable is no different with some nice concepts that in the long run add some extra depth 
 to the overall gameplay. Features such as the social interactions with the folk of Albion makes 
 you feel that you are in fact part of the world that Lionheart created, even if it is mostly for 
 visual effect or slight enjoyment. Other features that deserve noting is the combat system (often 
 a problem for many other adventure games) which can be great fun and you block your opponents strikes 
 or blast arraows from a great distance at your enemys. Sadly though after sometime you will feel 
 that the combat system (however fun it is) can become to easy. One of y personal favourite features 
 is the feeling that you are in-fact a hero within the Fable world as kids and adults a like follow 
 you and cheer for you in any of the towns within the world or they might even hate you for the 
 bad deeds you commited on th townsfolk. They all had to the experience,
  Visually the game is fantastic, everything from the grass on the grown to the changing from day 
 to night, there all so nice. Weapons and armour also looks brilliant as the sun flickers of the 
 metal plates. In full the visuals are the most pleasing aspect of the game. As for the story, it 
 can be enjoyable but still feels slightly short for those that played the game on the X-BOX, But 
 if you have waited for the game to visit the PC then you will find it enjoyable, There are many 
 more small features that I could speak about, such as the ability to buy shops and houses, the 
 abilty to get married within the game and many more. But I wanted to finish off speaking about 
 the Good/Evil concept that is key to the games enjoyment. Basically as you go on your travels you 
 will slowly change and your character will be affected by the choices you make. For instance, if 
 you decide to help a bully beat up a kid then you will recieve evil counts which will eventually 
 change the look of your character and the way folk see and talk to you. The new items and regions 
 they have added to the game provide some more hours of gameplay, but won't blow you away. The new 
 spells are much more interesting! As for the voiceovers in the game, for those that live in the 
 UK theres a good chance you will love them, but some will find them annoying at times!
  Basically any adventure fan, even those that just play mmorpg's will find a lot to like. If your 
 a single-player who wishes to play a great adventure game then its a must buy my friends......
 
  
  Thanks for reading!
  SaitanMar!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilchophe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 23, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Something missing from most games today are re-playability. Multi-player games have the advantage 
 of being played by many players and in most cases
  the scenarios are different. So with single player games its that much harder to create a game 
 that makes the experience different each time you play it.
  
  Fable might just have accomplished this.
  You know the story ig you've read the Gamespot review, 
 but in terms of pure
  game-play this is my opinion is one of those gems you want everyone to know about.
  
  Surprisingly 
 for a real-time combat system Fable was less irritating than most
  and apart from a few non-compliant NPCs.
  A journey that takes ona roller-coaster ride and a 
 story that you never want to end. The only grievances I have is a short story and maybe some repetitive
 
  quests.
  
  This must surely be a taste of things to come so far Lionhead Studios have excelled themselves 
 with The Movies, not so much with Black and White
  but with Fable it looks like they have a cult classic on their hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killerjoe17
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 23, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  The world of Fable can be overwhelming at times and even when you master the basics there are plenty 
 of secrets to boggle the minds of the most experienced adventurers. With so many options you may 
 not know where to start. There are people to talk to, women to flirt with, chickens to kick, and 
 tats to have inked. 
  
  We start you off with the basics and then delve into the many options you have in Fable. We have 
 also included a detailed guide to wooing lovely ladies, robbing a town blind, dominating the pub 
 games and completing every side quest in the world of Albion. But thats not all, we give more love 
 with: 
  
  Fable Walkthrough for Good or evil: Which path will you take? 
  Fable's Silver Keys: Every key location detailed. 
  Demon Doors: Every item and weapon. 
  Secret 
 Weapons: Wield the deadliest sword in the land 
  Just when you thought everything that could be done was done, that's when The Lost Chapters kicks 
 in. We've updated one of our most popular guides to bring you all of the help you'll need to seek 
 out and complete the added content from the Lost Chapters. What are you waiting for? Go save Albion.
 
  
  Get the Fable: The Lost Chapters Guide.
  
  Hint: Real Estate Exploitation
  Buy a home and insure it is the type that holds the wooden frames on the walls where you can place 
 trophies. Next, mount two trophies on those frames. (The better the trophy, the faster you will 
 become rich.) . Once you've mounted your trophies, go back outside to the sign, and sell your house. 
 
  
  By placing trophies in the house, the sale value is greater than the house's construction cost, 
 thus the profit. But the trophies are still in the house. Simply break down the doorway (hence 
 the reason for choosing the design with the wood doors) and simply grab the trophies to devalue 
 the house. Buy the house afterwards and re-install the trophies. As long as your character does 
 not leave town, the broken down door remains and you may repeat this process and profit from the 
 buy/sell difference to gain money.
  Submitted by Nintendoman_766
  Hint: Duplicate Sword Of Aeons
  When given the choice to keep the Sword of Aeons you have the 
 choice of throwing it away (this first choice denies you the weapon permanently) and remaining 
 good or stabbing your only sister to death (this second choice is considered evil in most cultures) 
 and keep the sword as a memento of your adventuring career. Instead, you can duplicate the Sword 
 of Aeons (a third choice perferred by game rapists) by doing the following: 
  
  Save your game at the Heroes' Guild before fighting Jack of Blades. Go ahead and defeat Jack of 
 Blades afterwards and when you win, don't make a choice about the Sword of Aeons. Instead, do a 
 "hero save" then opt to reload your "world save". You will discover to your sick delight that the 
 Sword of Aeons is in your inventory but you'll be right in front of Jack of Blades. Go and whack 
 him again and you'll gain another Sword of Aeons. 
  
  If you're greedy and want some money, do the "hero save" again and reload the "world save" as many 
 times as you desire. When you finally tire of this exploitation, you can make a choice about the 
 Sword of Aeons. Should you decide to remain good, sacrifice one of the Swords of Aeons and keep 
 the rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3abden
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 21, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  The game looks cool and the game-play is awesome but this game is really really short.. I was like 
Ok boss killed, whats next ?" and then I found the credits !
  Finished the game in less than 3 days and more than that no Multiplayer option which makes the 
 game sucks. 
  Game doesnt worth paying 40 bucks for only 3 days of playing, rather get a multiplayer game this 
 is an investment..
  the graphics were not as good as expected and the combat style is really easy to figure out, for 
 me I didnt enjoy this game as I enjoyed playing any other game...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerBiH
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  I played Final Fantasy all my life and i have not played RPG game like this it
  beats Final Fanatasy. This game delivers some nice graphics and gameplay. In the game the levels 
 are realy interesting, for example more armor, swords, women , enemies, spells for attacks fire/ 
 snow attacks. When you get to the end and when you expect the end its just the beginning. For example 
 when you fight jack of blades you continue on beating the game. That there is more reagions to 
 explore . Basiclly this is the best RPG . You are going to love it . This game is addictive . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoolMemberName
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 17, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Fun to play through again but still it only added about 2 or 3 hours to the game. They added new 
 side quests but still there wasn't too much new. Controls are still the same but thats a good thing. 
 There are new spells and some are quite fun to use. There are more graphical issues than before 
 though. There seems to be alot more laggs and if you fun too far ahead you will see the land scape 
 before it has the time needed to fully load. Issues aside it is still fun and not much so I would 
 recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drizzt13
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 16, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Fable: The Lost Chapter's is one of the more impressive RPG's that have comeout. It is filled with 
 great content and alot of variety. It is a great improvement over the first Fable, which in my 
 opinion was way to short. It adds alot of bonus content which makes the game more open ended. The 
 skills and magic you get to use really add variety to the combat system and can really change how 
 you play the game. Very few complaints about this game, however I have noted is that sometimes 
 the enviroment is not fully load even after the load screen and you have to walk around for a while 
 to get all the detail. But this game offers alot and even if you just have passing interest in 
 RPG's besure to pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 16, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Lionhead Studios claimed that Fable would be the greatest RPG of all time because of the way it 
 utilized the Good/Evil mechanic, the way it incorporated action/adventure-style combat, and other 
 various gameplay mechanics. It was a good game, but not quite the best RPG of all time. Fable: 
 The Lost Chapters hoped to improve upon the first Fable game. It does add many interesting moments, 
 but it still is not what Lionhead Studios was shooting for.
  
  GAMEPLAY -- Fable utilized many interesting gameplay mechanics. Some worked, and some didn't, while 
 some were merely for show. First off, the game's combat system isn't like the usual RPG; it's more 
 of an action/adventure type of system -- mostly hack and slash. This may not appeal to some die 
 hard RPG fans, but I like it. The magic system is very easy to use and looks quite nice. All the 
 spells have some sort of value and you'll probably find yourself using spells quite a lot. The 
 most talked-about gameplay mechanic is the way you evolve in real time, gaining age, getting weak/fat/strong, 
 and becoming increasingly good or evil. All of these aspects are neat, but they're mostly for show, 
 because although citizens in cities will treat you differently if you're evil as opposed to good, 
 the main storyline will not change... at all. There are also many things you can do that don't really 
 have any purpose at all, such as getting married, kicking chickens, and having sex. Of course, 
 since this is The Lost Chapters, there are extra quests. The new additions are fun, but unfortunately 
 they only add about another hour or two of gameplay. This means that the game is still too short. 
 But aside from these fairly minor flaws, Fable: The Lost Chapters can be a lot of fun.
  
  GRAPHICS -- The move from Xbox to PC went swimmingly for Fable. The graphics have greatly improved. 
 Character models aren't spectacular, but they look good. The environments are very colorful and 
 very nice to look at. The lighting is great, with no strange shadows or bugs. Luckily, the frame 
 rate has not suffered at all. Some graphical features are quite funny. You can attack a stunned 
 enemy and send his body flying to the ground, while his head still spins around in the air, squirting 
 out blood. The graphics aren't superb, but they look very good.
  
  SOUND -- The audio in Fable is very good. The voice acting is perfect and quite often very funny. 
 The music is good, but there's not enough of it, so you may want to tear your ears off at times, 
 but this is pretty rare (only once in my case) . Sound effects are quite satisfying, especially 
 the chopping sound made when your sword cuts the flesh of an enemy. Overall, the audio is one of 
 the best features of Fable.
  
  VALUE -- Value is one of Fable's weak points. Of course, this game is a blast during your first 
 run through, but it ends too quickly. Lionhead Studios probably could've squeezed two more hours 
 into the game, even with the extra content. Also, the replay value is relatively low, since there 
 isn't much variety in the story or gameplay. However, the game will stay entertaining for one or 
 two run throughs.
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS -- Fable: The Lost Chapters is an impressive RPG with some great gameplay, but instead 
 of focusing on improving on its great qualities, Lionhead Studios tried to put in as much stuff 
 as possible, and some of it doesn't work too well. Still, it's worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Nelson
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  This is a wonderful game. I'm capable of 1440x900 res., so the graphics were amazing (especially 
 the magic) . I also really liked the music, I typically just turn off the game music and turn on 
 i-tunes in the background, but not this one.
  
  One of the biggest problems with PC RPGs is that they are almost all massively multiplayer with 
 some heafty subscription fees. Fable has to be the second best single player PC RPG that I've ever 
 played (sorry, I've still got to hold out on Elder Scrolls: Morrowind) .
  
  The story is really good, with some pretty good plot turns.
  
  The only thing I would really 
 wish for to be changed is the limited weapon/magic selection. Also, it was so great, I wish it 
 had been longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afsaad
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2006 1:11 am PT
Review:  Its not fare to say only its a perfect game because its perfect in every thing music, graphics, 
 sounds, story or playing.
  The music is wonderful & giving a very nice feeling within the quests or the areas you are playing 
 combined with a full perfect sounds & effects during walking, running & fighting.
  The graphics is unbelievable with its full details combined with colorful pictures & surround effects 
 within the time changing between day & night which giving you the best reality that Ive ever seen.
 
  The story is amazing & it could be made as a big shot movie & while you are playing the game you 
 will find that you are an editor, director & an actor.
  You can play the game many times & each time you can change the story to find many different endings.
 
  While you play the game you will find that you made a living legendry hero who you will feel sympathy 
 with him & you will look for a bride, a house & a live for him & even more you can chose a hair 
 cut, mustache, beard & a tattoo for him.
  In one ward its perfect & the best of the best games, I hope that there will be Fable 2 as soon 
 as possible. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Something3k
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 12, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  The detail in this game is amazing, the gameplay is great, the way you can choose to be good or 
 evil is awesome, and the storyline is brill! I made two different characters, one to be evil and 
 one to be good, and i found it is alot easier (and in some parts, more fun) being good. With about 
 20-30 normal quests and roughly 50 optional quests, this game is good value for money, although 
 once its finished, you wish there was more.
  
  The controls take about 15 minutes to learn, and a further 15 minutes to master. If there is anything 
 wrong with this game, its that your 'teenage years' fly by too quick, and by the age of about 20 
 you have grey hair! The way that you can buy (or steal) better weapons as you progress, and buy 
 you own style of clothing is great, but making money is too easy. I got hinted to by the shopkeeper 
 that a good way to make money is to buy potions from one shop, and sell to another to make money, 
 and then i (as everyone else does) found that it is possible to make a profit from a single shop, 
 buying and selling its own potions.
  
  If you havnt got this game and are thinking about it, buy it! Although check that you have a good 
 enough graphics card, as some scenes may slow down even a decent computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaostryder
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 10, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  This game was one of the most fun RPG's i have ever played. This game is huge, and there is an 
 unlimited number of different features. Firstly, the main character must train and grow strong 
 and avenge the death of all the people you love. There are numerous features, and a huge replay 
 value. You can choose to be a good hero, or an evil guy, completing tasks and making decisions 
 that affect your goodness or badness. There are many quests for you to do, but the game itself 
 it really short. *cough, microsoft, cough* I highly reconmend this game to anyone, because it is 
 not only a RPG, it is also a action adventure game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: primalmaster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 10, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  In my opinion it certainly couldve have been better. As the second instalment it adds extra side-quests, 
 equipment, areas and adds more too the original storyline. Even though these extras make the game 
 more fun and last longer, they dont change the fact that the story is pretty short, linear and 
 easy too beat, because of overpowered spells and combat skills.
  
  As you play through the game youll be able to make choices based on good or evil, though these 
 choices affect the world around you (appearance, civilian reactions,) they do not affect the storyline 
 at all, which in my opinion is one of the biggest mistakes in this game because it couldve added 
 a lot of replay value.
  
  Fable: the lost chapters does have enough side quests, secrets, etc. too keep you busy for at 
 least 5-10 hours (20-30 hours overall) . Being able to buy a house and/or shop which you can then 
 rent or live in your self makes the game more realistic. Mix this up with your character turning 
 older during the course of the game, being able too change your appearance and being able to get 
 Married. Probably makes this game one of the most realistic games there is at the time.
  
  As for the battle system (which has a standard A. I.) , it actually gets easier the further you get 
 in the game due to overpowered skills and spells. Though the spells and skills make it easier too 
 win battles, they still stay fun and at some times challenging. So if you like a challenge youd 
 best stay away from the higher level skills.
  
  Though the game has some flaws the graphics make up for most of them. Something you should look 
 out for is that there might be glitches in the sound or dialogue, which is easily fixed by changing 
 your sound settings in windows to 2.1 speakers.
  
  Overall this game definitely worth playing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crispichikon
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 7, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  When the first Fable came out on XBOX in 04 everyone was dissapointed about how short the story 
 was. In Fable: The Lost Chapters Lionhead studios gives the fans what they wanted and then some. 
 They added everything that was great about the first Fable and added on. The graphics are pretty 
 good and they made the story longer and even added more towns. I've completed the game once and 
 already I want to go back and start from the beginning. There are so many things that you can do 
 and lots of side quests. I said the graphics were pretty good and I meant it, when you step from 
 a dark area into a light area it looks amazing. It is a must have PC game if you like fantasy, 
 RPG's, and actions games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantomstrider
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 7, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Fable is both enjoyable and detailed but it has the minor factors that relate somewhat to Morrowind. 
 It is far too easy to become overly powerful so that the game is too easy. Even if you obsessively 
 play through a game without using exploits there are alot of glitches to the game that will make 
 the game far too easy. One of the major flaws is the economy system. It will allow you to exploit 
 as much money as you want regardless of what level or how much money you have.
  
  As mentioned, the game can be a little bit too easy, however Fable makes up for this in its constantly 
 moving storyline and "the little" details. Its combat system is easily adaptable to, enjoyable 
 and requires little to no patience. The storyline is, although somewhat typical, fun and easy to 
 get involved in.
  
  The graphics are another achievement. If you have a decent NVIDIA video card you can get the full 
 performance out of this game running perfectly smoothly regardless of whether you have a slow CPU 
 speed. This is good because the graphics are one of the better features of Fable. The scenery is 
 beautiful and you may often find times where you decide to run to an area simply to take a joy 
 ride.
  
  Another good feature of the game is the npc's. As you progressively get more popular through quests 
 you will go from titleslike arseface to avatar or whatever you choose. You can of course be things 
 like "The Legendary Arseface" and be respected with whatever title you choose.
  
  Fable gets its ratings on having good graphics, fair AI on enemies, interactive and personalisable 
 to a great extent, good combat system, however its constant glitches take away considerably from 
 its marks. If the game had been tested for glitches better or cheap tricks then it would've had 
 better replay value, more of a challenge and been longer.
  
  Overall, an excellent game to play once through regardless of the glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainpoursaway
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Doesnt it always?
  Sure there are games that you like the concept of but the games just horrible.
  Much like most 
 of the movie games, however Fable isnt like that. My friend played it at my house once and he was 
 in love with it but I wouldnt let myself agree with him because it was one of those mystical looking 
 rpg games that I would have nothing to do with, but then another one of my friends who plays games 
 much like what I like was playing it so i thought I'd watch a little and the more I watched the 
 better the game came to be. 
  
  At first I rented Fable and everything about it grew to get better and better. You start off as 
 a no-body and people just ignore you but over time, people will recognize you as good or bad depending 
 on your actions. I once went into a bar, and every person, female and male, had hearts over their 
 heads! You also get customizable armor which helps add to being who you want to be and you can 
 choose which skills you aquire whether you be a fighter, battlemage or just plain mage. The game 
 is pretty fun for the most part as it kept me goin for about a week. Me and my friend even would 
 make the guild seal noise and say you've received a new quest card, but that doesnt have anything 
 to do with this. I would definitly say that this game is worth the 20$ you put into it if not more 
 (its always nice to put the extra money in the tip jar) . But its really up to what you like and 
 if your sure this is not the game for you dont get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAaronOToole
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I say not so good. It has generally good game play and you have a good amount of freedom, but no 
 matter what you do you can't be pure evil due to the fact you have to complete quests. The part 
 that made it not so good is the end, WTF, it was too easy and boring; I, as I assume others as 
 well, want a game with a little more challenge a game that takes skill and strategy, not one that 
 you randomly swing a sword a few times and beat. Thats all I have to say for now. PEACE, IM OUT 
 OF HERE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neverness
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Fable received a grotesque amount of hype. I waited for it to come out on PC and when nobody was 
 looking, I deftly purchased it. It did install well and seems to be very stable and suffered only 
 minimal slowdown on my system when I was hacking up too many townsfolk at once.
  
  There are a lot of parts to Fable that I really enjoy -- the Chicken-Kicking Contest, the Fight 
 Clubs in the towns, that I can run a whore house, that I can beat my barmaind wife and cure her 
 distraught with some well-placed gifts (ah, just like real life -- which is the simulacrum I ask!) , 
 and that I people clap when I put arrows through random bandit and monster heads. That being said, 
 Fable is missing something that makes me not truly enjoy it.
  
  The story is a little hackneyed, the main character very wooden, and the plot had way too big of 
 a carrot being dangled in front of me. Still, doing a game that allows you such freedom in character 
 design is hard to do well. Every game cannot be Fallout... alas. The game reacts well to your character's 
 actions and appearance, people will flock to you and be giddy to be in your presence or might run 
 in terror because you are probably going to oil your blade in their innocent blood. You can buy 
 houses, becomes a muscle-bound fighter, a thin archer, or a mage crackling with power. Your options 
 are wide but, when the day is all said and done, you always end up at the same point. I kept getting 
 the impression that I was in a sandbox that would talk back to me.
  
  Visually, Fable has a cartoon/comic book appeal to it. It took me a little bit to accept this but 
 I eventually found it to fit the game's theme very well. The often over-the-top British accents 
 are similarly fitting. You do need a fairly beefy computer with a good graphics card if you want 
 to play the game in anything approaching real-time, but Fable is not enough reason in and of itself 
 to buy a computer capable of running it.
  
  All in all, the game was good but not great. It displayed innovation and was very witty but also 
 suffered from some painfully obvious plot turns. The money glitch can really brake the game wide 
 open and deplete your enjoyment so be aware of that. Also, once you get enough ranks in fighting 
 and get some of the legendary weapons, your enemies quickly degenerate into annoying flies that 
 need to be swatted and cease being legitimate adversaries. Fable is roleplaying-light, diet roleplaying, 
 something a munchkin would adore. Enjoyable and I can appreciate the work that went into making 
 the game but I would not spend $50 for it (again) . It will probably find its way into a cult-classic 
 niche that people will fondly remember and will be worth some genuine amusement and anecdotes down 
 the line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed_devil
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 3, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  The game is a revolution on rpg's! It has so many things to discover that even if you finish thegame 
 you'll continue playing!
  First of all you can choose a goog path or a dark path! Then, depend on you choise, your character 
 will start changing rapidly, reflectings your actions, good or evil! You have a fully customizable 
 character which you can change the haircut, the facial hair, you can aplly tattoos on the hero 
 and you can even make him fat!!!
  The quests are very attractive and you have to choose wich quests you'll finish depend on the path 
 that you have chosen! There are many side quests and the main quests that you must finish in order 
 to advance through the story!
  The gameplay is so nice and smooth and you have full control of your character without any bugs 
 or problems! Easily accesible spells and inventory!
  The sound is very addictive, especially if you have a 5.1 sound system!
  So don't miss this game 
 at all costs!!! It's one of the best games i have ever played!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroCool333
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 2, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  
  The best point of the game is that fable is one of the few games that exists that you can do it 
 a lot of things when you play the game or when you end the game. Is an optional game.
  
  The art direction is very strong and stylied. Like everywhere else everything is extremely deitaled. 
 Grass, butterfiles, bugs, gleam of light on window panes, chicken feathers. And this game have 
 a point of view of the old england.
  
  The game is rather short though so you get quality over quantity. It does have some replay value 
 but it can get a tad repetitive after a while since there is a finite amount of things to do.
 
  
  The music is excellent, voice acting is terrific, abiment sounds are very good and the music producer 
 have a lot of experience because some of them work in some films.
  
  The story is quite conventional yet the ability for it to mold to your decisions makes it interesting 
 enaugh.
  
  This game is the best virtual hero simulator you will find. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonnieMitchell
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 2, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  This game has an intersting premise. Your appearance literally changes during the course of the 
 game. While all the elements and ideas used in this game are not unique, they are blended in a 
 somewhat new way. The game allows you to take the role of an orphaned boy who is rescued from the 
 slaughter of his village and taken to the Guild where hero's are trained. The important thing to 
 remember in this game is Hero is more of a reflection of how well known a person is, and not of 
 whether they are good or evil. You can choose to kill and plunder one moment and be merciful and 
 helpful to people the next. While to fully experience all you can to one extreme or another you 
 can not flip flop back and forth all day long. You must choose to work toward either good or evil 
 to get the full experience of one side or the other. This game is worth a play, but may not be 
 the one you go back to time and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xmater
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  This is just a cool game because you are the hero and you can go to the good site or the evil site. 
 If you not have the game you should go out and buy it, it is a completed game. But i think it is 
 a bad thing that the game end completely after defeating Jack of Blades as dragon, because you 
 can not complete all the game 100% if you not have done all quest before the last battle. And if 
 you not have so you can load the game after you have won the last battle but you will not have 
 completed the last battle. But the game is good and the music is also. I can only hope for a Fable 
 2 to pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostMemorie
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 30, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  Fable was in my first opinion a fantastic game. But now I have my doubts.... serious doubts. In 
 the beginning of the game I was enjoying the game, thought there was a huge world out there to 
 explore (World of Warcraft kind) . But befoer I knew it, the game was over!
  
  In this game I was very dissappointed because there were so few of different items, armor, weapons. 
 And the story was actually great, only it didn't last for long. I was hoping I could spend at least 
 50 hours on the game. I did every quest, everything, but still it took me like 20 hours or less 
 to complete it. 
  
  There's a good and evil system in the game but I think it wasn't affecting the story at all!
 
  
  The graphics were actually good but the sounds could've been better.
  
  I don't reccommend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexfurax
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 27, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  Well I had to admit that I was heated upon initial install, getting 99% through the install (we're 
 talking like less than 50MB left to install on the 4th and last CD) and the file was corrupted. 
 Best Buy in my local area will NEVER return an open game, knowing this I had to copy the CD to 
 a BIN file, open it, extract just the last 2 smaller files with Alcohol 120%, create a new image 
 and then finish installing it... which believe it, worked. 
  
  The game play thus far has been exciting and I am looking forward to getting off my day job and 
 putting a few hours into it tonight. There are some noticeable issues that I have contacted Microsoft 
 about. First of these is that the NPC's and all characters for that matter mouth words as if in 
 some strange 1997 graphically limited fashion. Rather jagged IMHO since this game came from the 
 richest company in the world. Also, the 7.1 audio setup that I have running with a Creative X-Fi 
 Fatality card is an issue for me. I'll be facing a NPC in the game to have their voice projected 
 behind me and to the right or left. I have also noticed some level of clicking and other minor 
 audio imperfections, and am searching out the internet for fixes (and yes I always have the latest 
 drivers.) . I will finish this review in a few weeks when I finish the game, it's a DEFINITE pick 
 up from the store seeing that you can find it for $20.00 - $35.00. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tazbb22
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 26, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Este juego es de los mejores que mis manos han tocado, simplemente de lo mejor, su historia envolvente 
 asi como las opciones que tienes, es genial.
  La historia es bastante envolvente, aunque predecible, es de lo mas interesante y sencillo de comprender.
 
  La version de espaa tiene un buen doblaje que no deja nada al aire.
  Nunca se partiran la cabeza en este juego, solo disfrutaran de pasear y completar todas las misiones 
 y submisiones.
  Si eres un jugador que no le gusta pasear en un juego ni exprimirlo, quiza se te haga muy corto, 
 pero todos deben de darle la opurtunidad para que los envuelva.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbloholic
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 26, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  this one added only about 2-3 hours onto the original (which was very fun by the way) but its to 
 easy and needs more side quests or more monsters to fight. they took out almost all the gltiches 
 (except for the money cheat) and it made it less fun, not beacuse it was hard, just because it 
 was fun to play around with it, like stop time and stuff. anyways..... the game overall was pretty 
 good i think, but not as good as lionhead said it would be. they said that if you could put a piece 
 of string on a stick and go fishing with it and you could grab a chicken and fry it over a fire 
 that you started and all that.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgalt
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jan 25, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  If you're 12 or younger (no offense to kids with more sophisticated game taste) or love simple 
 console games, you'll probably enjoy this game. That group (kids and console junkies) are my explanation 
 for all the high scores for this game. I cannot imagine any adult (or sophisticated kid) who has 
 played good CRPG with some depth on a PC giving this game more than a rating of 6.0. 
  
  The game is devoid of any meaningful content and easy almost to the point of being silly. The graphics 
 aren't bad, and the cut scenes are ok, but the game play, combat, and quests are a big disappointment. 
 
  
  If you want a game with console like qualities (i. e. easy-ish, arcade style combat and a simple 
 RPG system) , try the new Bard's Tale game, which is a much better game than this one. It's longer, 
 has a much better story and characters, and has a great tongue-in-cheek sense of humor.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vergil2007
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 24, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  This game is good for the people like games of the charapter use armor, shilds, swors, and others. 
 This game is good because is realistic, will not much becuase have magic but is realistic in some 
 things. This is all i think about this good game :) :) :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xzavier77
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 23, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  The first two times that one plays the game, it is imperative that you try both good and evil character 
 paths. After this, you can experiment with magic, thievery, archery, and melee combat skills. However, 
 the storyline is not affected much by what ever way you chose to go. Both evil and good players 
 have generally the same quests with two ways to complete them. However, the core quests (represented 
 in gold in the game) are always played the same way. Also, if you chose to be somewhat of an assassin/burglar, 
 there is not much that you can do that is different from others. There are not many benefits to 
 killing innocents in the towns, and there are not many things that you cannot buy that you can 
 steal. There are exceptions, however, with some items that can only be stolen. However, even if 
 you are a good guy, stealing these few items once in a while does not affect your overall morals. 
 All in all, this game is good for a dozen or so plays (possible because of the short length of 
 gameplay) , the sklills are diverse, and the graphics are a sight to behold (most likely the cause 
 for the high price of the game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HrMarsh
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2006 5:22 am PT
Review:  If you want to rest from World Of Warcraft, and you want to keep good gameplay and graphics??? 
 Play Fable!!! Fable is a good combination of RPG and good fantasy story. It is not so addictive 
 as WoW, but it is actually a good game. Graphic is good, well it`s need to be because of the environment 
 and characters from the game. Sound is also good, actually if you don`t remember the sound then 
 you can know that it is good. In the game you have skill what you can develop trough the game, 
 collecting experience trough game.
  
  So if you liked WoW, then you will fancy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chipnut
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 20, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Fable: TLC is a good game and the experience of playing for me was pretty fun. The problem is the 
 game only lasts 15 hours at the most and after that the game gets dull, having already beaten it 
 you find little to do with your "Uber" hero, that virtually cannot be killed by anything on the 
 remaining world. Sure you could go back and make different choices, but all they warrant are different 
 cutscences due to the linear story line. The only result of being good or evil is how the people 
 react to you in town.
  
  As for the new content; it really doesn't add anything, it gives you 2 new spells which is the 
 same spell with different colors, new weapons and armor all at the end of the game which won't 
 be replacing the gear you already have by then, and the missions are sort and extremely easy.
 
  
  Fable: TLC is like silver; looks good at first but it quickly loses it luster. The gameplay is 
 decent but nothing revolutionary. In my opinion it's worth playing once. If you really want to 
 play it, rent it, borrow it for while. Just don't buy it, especially if you already own a copy 
 and want the new content.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Turnzy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 19, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  The prequal was a really great game until I finished it and ran out of things to do. This game 
 kept me occupied for that bit longer with all new quests and expressions. Once you've played the 
 first game your not really going to be amazed as its still the same graphics and sound. The only 
 thing different is the gameplay. As I mentioned earlier, more quests to keep you occupied for longer. 
 There is also more 'expressions' to keep you amused. In my opinion the best new expression is the 
 'air guitar'. Its also fun to run around in chicken suits at halloween. Which is another point. 
 The game evolves in real time. Like when its halloween in real-life, its halloween in the game. 
 
  
  If you were a really big fan of fable, then I reccomend that you get it. If you've never heard 
 of fable or fable tlc, then I reccomend that you get it even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Renegadesnake
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 18, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Seeing as I don't own an x-box, I missed out an incredible game that I knew was something special. 
 Lucky for me, The Lost Chapters was released on the pc, giving me the chance to play this engrossing 
 and charming RPG.
  
  Graphically, the game is superb, making you truly part of the experience. The game world is lush 
 and full of little details that will keep you interested throughout. The water reflection effects 
 are nice, the character models are well designed, and the environments are all top-notch.
  
  The gameplay is always fun, whether you're taking up a side quest of a main story quest. Combat 
 is fast and fun, and a nice refreshing change from what you're probably used to from other RPG 
 combat systems. Towards the end of the game, you're character can become quite powerful, with spells 
 and attacks that just make combat a chore of locking on and clicking. It doesn't hurt the game 
 that much, but you do lose some of that initial excitement when you're skills aren't being tested 
 very much. 
  
  The sound is excellent, featuring great music and superb voice-overs. Whether you're speaking to 
 a merchant along a deserted path or hearing you're wife's praises as you flex, the voice acting 
 is always impressive, drawing you even more into the game world.
  
  The game isn't particularily long if you only partake in the main quests. If, on the other hand, 
 you truly explore this game and all it's little details, it'll last you a good while. And nothing 
 beats playing through the game again and changing your morale ways to see how it affects the game.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  When I played Fable 1 for the X-Box a year ago, I thought it was one of the best RPGs ever. However, 
 A lot of other RPGs heve come out now that are better than it was now they try to make it better 
 for the PC. But any how, I guess you want to hear about the game it self now... They made A Smart 
 and incredably Stupid move by relecing it for the PC. 
  
  First off, Ill start with rhe good reasons: 1st, Relecing fable for the PC allows a lot people 
 to play it without a X-Box, Good... 
  
  Okay, now for all the bad reasons... 1st: If your going to remake a good game for the PC, dont 
 just add a few dinky things that take a half-an-hour more to beat... Do much more, like more storyline, 
 more side quests, more aromor and arms than just one set, and More levels... more then that Stupid 
 snow coverd wast land, yea you know what im taking about. 2nd, the Whole reason you bring a Platform 
 game to the PC, is to give it an online feture.. Throughout the whole game that one evil thought 
 ran in the back of my head..."You Know mitchell, you are never going to be able so show off your 
 chariter to other people, or fight a real person." Gawd, what kind of stupid ass does that? 3rd... 
 Along with giving you a few things, they also take away a few fetures, like the cool final battle 
 with jack is different... he is %200 percent easier to beat, and he never uses that cool engulfing 
 fire move. also as you can probably notice, the graphics are a lot crappier, and its not my video 
 card either, and a lot of other noticeable things. 
  
  IM not saying its a bad game... but well....... maybe i am. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muhammadsaad44
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 15, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  Before this game I had Played lion head game called THE MOVIES which was really bad so I decided 
 not buy lion head games any more ,but I got a chance to play FABLE at my freinds home and I decided 
 to buy it,
  The games looks very good and it has all the content for me ,the idea of dual quest is some thing 
 what should be appreciated but the game did, nt score in aging system like age of a player for instance 
 (I had a quest to cure a child of age of some thing like B/W 10 and 12 at this stage my current 
 age was 45 ,this quest is an optional so I decided to completed lately ,but when I completed it 
 ,my age was 65 but the child age was still 10 ) beside this the whole game looks marvellous ,graphics 
 and sound are good ,if u like role playing game this is for u 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucasgarsha
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 13, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  I wasn't overly impressed with the screenshots or reviews of Fable, but I decided to pick it up 
 anyway and give it a try. I haven't stopped playing since, much to the chagrin of my loving wife.
 
  
  I have been fully taken-in by the Fable world. When I play this game, it feels like I'm playing 
 the lost King's Quest title, albeit with modern technology. Campy jokes, subplots, minigames - 
 this game has great depth if you care to seek it out.
  
  If you're the type that loves rushing to the end of a game, you probably won't get much from Fable. 
 The graphics and textures are good enough, but in a ho-hum kind of way. Visually, the design is 
 not so different from Guild Wars. Having played that title extensively, I can say Fable is not 
 really in the same league when it comes to sensory beauty.
  
  Fable shines in other areas where Guild Wars feels flat, however. The quests are rewarding and 
 very enjoyable in Fable. The story is very rich. Fable offers mental diversions with a light airy 
 feel that are very entertaining and fun. To my pleasant surprise, the fighting system for Fable 
 is fantastic. The controls are easy to master, and before long I felt like Bruce Lee with swords 
 and spells dancing around and slashing large bands of enemies. At times, its a bit of a hack-and-slash 
 clickfest, but I love this type of action, providing the satisfaction I last felt playing Diablo 
 II. I only wish there was more of this action, and a less-linear wilderness to explore.
  
  This game is single player. If Fable had multiplayer, I think it would be in contention for Game 
 of the Year, but it doesn't, and the replayability doesn't look too promising. Also, the exposition 
 of the Fable is ripe with cutscenes, and I'd guess many players will be turned off before Fable 
 ever gets underway.
  
  Nevertheless, Fable is a great diversion, and I'll certainly be playing this one to the final scene. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainDaccat
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 21, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  Ahoy, crew members!
  Grab yourself a mug of ron and let's have a talk about this game I've played...
  
  Well, it's 
 really cool that someone took a step further into this alignment system in the world of RPG's. 
 I've seen some try this before, like Neverwinter Nights, Temple of Elemental Evil and some other 
 games, but this is the first time that someone makes it changes the way that the plot of the game 
 is told to you.
  
  Fable is a really fun game to play. Microsoft has crafted a solid title here, and even thought 
 it was made initially for the Xbox, Fable: The Lost Chapters for the PC feels just like a PC game 
 should be.
  
  The game starts with you being an infant, and then, fate has you joining the heroes guild to receive 
 combat training. That's when you'll be introduced to the gameplay, which is a basic hack'n slash 
 system, what leaves you free to move during battles and use spells or items. The way you shoot 
 with your bow, or crossbow is the best system up to date I've ever seen in a game. The crossbow 
 is even slower than the bow, as it is supposed to be... (Bow users take about 3 sec between the 
 arrow shoots, and crossbow users about 12 sec.) He does more damage, thought, and probally more 
 range than the bow too. Such detail really had me amazed. 
  
  If you ever felt like playing a medieval RPG game, this is the most emersive so far, and simple 
 too. 
  
  You can play the good guy or just be the devil on earth. Some of the quests allow you to choose 
 which side you wanna fight on: Participate in an attack to a village alongside with some bandits, 
 or join the city guards and help defending it. Your actions will be rewarded with aligment points 
 and fame points, and based on that, the reaction of the NPC's to your character will change as 
 you progress. But be warned, if you get too evil, your appearance will be equally evil.
  
  Your character will also age along the game, as you expend experience points to get skills. There 
 are barber shops and tattooists so that you can customize your appearance, and if you want even 
 more customization, you can eat some pies and become obese, your design your own tattoos and insert 
 them in the game.
  
  There's little to complain about it, the story maybe be cheesy, but it's okay. Most of the deficiences 
 are in the interface of the game... Like the few room for the spells in the quick bar, and the 
 spell rotation system in the mouse is a bit ackward, but nothing that can ruin the game. A redesignin 
 the menus and tradings screens would've been a good thing too, it's a little too much "windowesque".
 
  
  All in All, Fable: The Lost Chapters is a great game. It has some flaws here and there, but it 
 has the potential to become a great franchise. It's inovative both in customization, with it's 
 alignment system, and in the gameplay, and I wouldn't doubt that someday in a near future microsoft 
 promotes it to a MMORPG. That would be really sweet.
  
  Arrr, I guess that's all...
  
  If you are still in doubt about this game, I'll gladly answer any question.
  
  Cheers,
  Cap'n 
 Daccat 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fable_fodder
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  This game is a hoot to play and it never gets old. You can keep replayingm it over and over again 
 and it still stays interesting. Be able to chose between good and evil makes this a versatile game 
 fore all players. It is especially fun to hack away at townfolk in between quests. The average 
 amount of time it takes to beat this game is 14 hours. Be because it is replayable, you'll find 
 over 50 hours of enjoyment playing this game. There are so many quests and things you can do, it's 
 amazing. This new Fable, has a great addition of new quests and maps. It's definitly a game that 
 HAS TO HAVE a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamesofdempsy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 9, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  hey hi gamerz how u all r 
  about fable well this game is excellent quite vast and advance game play which leads u to a quest 
 where u can be good or bad itz up to u
  but there is one dissapointing in this game that dis guy doesnt talk jus say hi and hey all thats 
 it and rest of all he stands like a dum guy ... oh whatever itz gud game but not better than gta 
 got it :)
  so grafcialy itz better than gta 
  and game play wise both r same
  but sound and music wise gta is better
  this game as gud music but not worth hearing it
  and 
 over all this game is koool
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenscott14
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 7, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  Peter Molyneux is a bit of a character, mostly known for biting off more than he can chew, and 
 opening his big mouth before he's actually confirmed some of the game elements he comes out with. 
 For a lot of people, the stunner Xbox game Fable was a bit of a letdown, nevertheless still being 
 probably the finest action RPG on the console. And one of the bad things about Fable: Lost Chapters 
 is that it's not much different than the jawdropping Xbox version, but it is still one mighty fine 
 game that is worth a purchase even if you played the Xbox version to death, which I definitely 
 did. 
  
  Fable's story isn't exactly a standout, but still, it's a solid tale with some minor twists and 
 some clever moments. The idea is that everything in your world is taken away when your town is 
 raided by villainous Bandits with swords and torches, they burn everything they see regardless 
 of its purpose. Luckily you like hiding, and in the end a Hero called Maze rescues you and takes 
 you to the training ground of all Heroes, the Guild - it's here you will learn basic combat skills 
 and other useful attributes that you'll no doubt use on your quest. 
  
  And what a quest it is. Fable isn't as deep as other RPG's such as Morrowind, and it definitely 
 appeals to action-hungry gamers. It has a heavy focus on combat, and the controls on the PC have 
 made it comfortably from its Xbox counterpart. The standard layout is the WASD keys used in most 
 FPS games, Q to draw sword and E to wield bow, Left-Click to attack, Shift to toggle magical abilities, 
 Tab to talk to people, and other keys that are quite self-explanatory, like M to enlarge the map, 
 H to look at your Hero, and G to use your Guild Seal, which is a handy teleportation device. All 
 in all, it has a very intuitive system that is easy to use in Fable's intense battles and skirmishes 
 with its impressive wealth of enemies, from midget Hobbes to lowlife Bandits. 
  
  Fable boasts a lot about its choice system and how every little thing you do affects what you become 
 and how you shape into a personalized aligned Hero who is the talk in every town of Albion. It 
 has a pretty good alignment system and plenty of ways to influence it; heal, help, be generous, 
 and mind your own business around townsfolk to become good, and murder, steal, lie, vandalize, 
 and assassinate to become evil. Unfortunately, it doesn't really influence the path of the game; 
 most of the quests don't take any notice of your alignment and take you through it anyway. 
  
  So all in all, Fable's gameplay is slick and polished, a great interface and decent alignment 
 system, and fluid fighting [fortunately, there's a lot of fighting in it as well] so the gameplay 
 score tolls up to a solid 9. It is an undeniably satisfying game to play, with its meaty fighting 
 and exploration. 
  
  The graphics in Fable: Lost Chapters are technically excellent and Albion [the game world] positively 
 pours with character and uniqueness. From the swampy, hellish Darkwood to the old-fashioned light-hearted 
 towns, the wasp-infected Greatwood to the icy harbours of Hook Coast, everything is done with aplomb 
 and Albion is one memorable world. Character models are great, and there are barely any glitches 
 that were noted in the Xbox version. Well done Lionhead. 
  
  The sound is almost perfect. Stirring violin music and excellent voice-overs give this department 
 a gigantic tick. It adds a sense of immersion to the gameplay that seems to suck you in to the 
 PC monitor... and you will never leave. 
  
  The only major problem with Fable Lost Chapters is its length. Compared to some RPG's you get a 
 paltry lifespan, but I found the game really comes into its own when you do all the side-quests 
 that it provides, way more than the Xbox version and there's quite a bit to do after the game finishes, 
 if you watch all the credits. It doesn't take long to race through, but you will be going for more 
 long after you have completed it and I would quite happily do it again with a different alignment. 
 
  
  Even if you got through the Xbox version, Lost Chapters is still one hell of a game. I slogged 
 through the Box version and played this right through as well. There are a lot of improvements 
 and a lot of additions to the game, quite a bit of new content is here to be found. This is without 
 a doubt one of the finest RPG's on PC. Buy it if you know what's good for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WieldsTokijin
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 6, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Let me start this off saying that I am reviewing this as a totally new game. Not as a continuation 
 of the one for the X-Box. So, if you haven't played the original then you should read this.
  
  Fable: The Lost Chapters is a fun action RPG by Lionhead Studios (known for the Black and White 
 series) . In it, you play as a hero who's town is burned, and whole family is murdered by bandits. 
 At the beginning, you start off as a kid, and the story begins to unfold. The beginning can get 
 a little boring, as you play in the town, and then the guild. But, after you grow up and quit fighting 
 insects, and using wooden sticks, this game becomes very good. 
  
  The idea of your actions deciding what you look like is a pretty cool concept. Becoming evil leads 
 to your character going bald, and horns forming on him. Being good has you get butterflies floating 
 around you, and other good things. Also in the game there is a Sims like feel to it. You can purchase 
 a house, get married, and other just regular things. It can be fun just playing around your home 
 with a wife. But, when you get to the fighting part of the game it can become a bit repetitious. 
 Also, the storyline starts to get boring more towards the ending. 
  
  Graphically, the game world is beautiful. Most of the people in the towns look real, and the outdoor 
 settings like trees, and bushes are nicely done. But, the hero can look a little sloppy at times, 
 and the people all look the same. Also, some animations are odd. Like, the characters do the same 
 motions with their arms and their faces so it doesn't always feel real. 
  
  Sound wise, the VA's are done well. Although most of the townspeople have the same voice, and the 
 hero never speaks, characters like Thunder and the Guild master have VA's perfectly suited for 
 their character. Musically, the game is pretty good. Even though compared to some of the great 
 classic RPG's it is sub par. 
  
  How long will you play this game? That can be hard to say depending on who you are. I went through 
 the main storyline fairly quickly, and the game will last around 15 hours if you do so. But, there 
 are many optional quests that you can complete that will add on plenty more hours. Also, just playing 
 around in towns can take even more hours. But, sadly there is no online. I'm not saying a game 
 needs multiplayer to be successful, but this game seems like it would have been perfect to be able 
 to play with other people. Overall, Fable is a very fun game. If you have nothing to do, then just 
 kick back and play it the entire day. It could have improved a bit, but that doesn't stop this 
 from being a truly enjoyable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krisbl
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 6, 2006 4:06 am PT
Review:  Fable: Lost Chapters was better than I supposed it would be. You'll get use to the controls very 
 fast and it won't take long until you get a feeling for the game. It's very much alike World of 
 Warcraft, where you travel around the world, doing quests, collecting armour and weapon and fight 
 monsters.
  It may sound boring in the long run, but since this game follows a a very substance story, the 
 game only gets better throughout the game.
  It was a little disapointing that there wasn't a muliplayer, but the solid single-player-part countered 
 for that.
  This game was worth playing, and can give you hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clouddy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 5, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for christmas and WOW is it better than the first one when i start playing it i 
 never want to stop because of the EXTRA ending which was another good part in the game like WOW 
 the game is kinda easy though i mean i never die once and you get like 20 reserection phials It 
 could have been a little harder but over all on that it was still fun, VERY addictive I never thought 
 that the X box / PC could make such fun RPG games but i was wrong WOW I wish that the 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 5, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  The expectations for Fable were huge. During development, Lionhead set the bar so high that it 
 couldnt possibly live up to them all. Despite this, Fable turned out to be one of the best RPGs 
 of the last 5 years. While it doesnt quite live up to the epic good vs. evil format that it was 
 made out to be, its still quite enjoyable. But you might have to look into the details to see 
 a lot of the finer elements of the game.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Lionhead did a great job converting the controls from the Xbox to the PC. It feels very natural, 
 and gives you the ability to custom your toolbar. Some elements, like the lock-on ability, could 
 have been done better. It tends to be difficult to switch targets in the middle of a large battle. 
 Some of the good vs. evil choices arent as fleshed out as they could have been, and usually defaults 
 to a yes or no choice. A more open-ended mission structure would have been nice too.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Stunning. Absolutely stunning. The level of detail is amazing. Especially when using 
 the up-close hero view. Shadows can be a little pixilated, but I cant find anything else wrong 
 with the graphics. Really helps draw you into the game, and looks like a fantasy world come to 
 life.
  
  SOUND
  Voice acting is well done, and the British accents help you feel like youre in Albion. The music 
 is epic and flows well, as you would expect from a legendary composer. The only downside to this 
 is the sound effects could have been a little better. Ambient sounds could be more noticeable, 
 and the combat effects are weak as well.
  
  VALUE
  Fables biggest problem on the Xbox is still here on the PC: its over too quick. Even the additional 
 areas only add on a few extra hours, and they feel a little tacked on. Some of the new missions 
 do add a lot more depth to the story, but dont add a lot more over the original game.
  
  The original game for the Xbox was greatly over-hyped, but still turned out to be a great game 
 worthy of any RPG fans time and money. Now its even better on the PC. The best improvements come 
 in the form of graphics upgrades if you have a high-end PC. The extra content isnt enough to warrant 
 buying the game if you already played it on the Xbox.
  
  The story, while not the greatest, is still enjoyable. Being able to fully customize your character 
 based on how you play is a great feature, and sure to be cloned in other RPGs to come. Many other 
 smaller elements, like how NPCs react to you based on your alignment are fun and enjoyable to watch.
 
  
  Overall, if youre willing to forgive its high expectations, youll find an enjoyable an original 
 RPG. Elements introduced here first, are sure to be cloned in weaker RPGs. Fable also paves the 
 way for an even better sequel that hopefully has more down-to-Earth goals.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yencaray
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 4, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  It's a way fun game don't get me wrong the ability to influence so much that impacts you threw 
 out the story, the out come is different each time you play it so you get a different effect if 
 you play it more then once threw but i found it rather short and not challenging at all it was 
 a steady paced game with just spectacular graphics and a over all feel of the game like none other! 
 The quests are very repetative and lack any and all veriety. The continous slashing and hacking 
 all threw out the game well made me think it lacked in the area. But it brought much to the table 
 i've not played before such as... the ability to marry... man or woman,,,, and as many of each. You 
 can get drunk and practically threw a party at the tavern handing out beer. It's also kinda of 
 fun to play the villan and trash the city and break into houses. This part of the game i'd give 
 a 10. It's partiallly linear but on the sided it gives you many choices to go and do what you want 
 when you want quite literally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Msnger
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 4, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  The story starts When you are a little kid and lives at home.
  Then something happens (I wont tell you) and you start a new chapter in the Guild. 
  But you 
 will sooner or later run out from the guild to discover the world with quests to do. 
  This game have so much, all the places to visit, all the speaking people
  and funny quests.
 
  
  A negative thing that I announce is when the people yells good and sometimes bad things about you.
 
  When they called me chicken chaser at the beginning of the game it was irritating and I just wanted 
 to slize all of them into pieces
  
  The graphic is just so nice!
  you cant imagine how complicate builded that game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allendar
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  This renewal version of Fable doesn't really satisfy very more then its predecessor. Let's treat 
 some possitive aspect first:
  
  - The Environment and Designs (Graphics)
  The magical lands of Fable are really of high quallity. Everything looks great and gives you that 
 great fantasy world feeling.
  About the designs there is also nothing to complain. NPC's and your own character (including the 
 cloth/armor/items) really look nice and really deserve some repsect.
  
  - Sound/Music
  The sounds and music in the game satisfy to the higher average. But not more than that..
  
 
  - The Story (substantive)
  The story substantive really is nice. A typical "there once was a.." story that always hits everyone 
 again somehow.
  
  Now, this is really something we didn't wish, but still got it.. The negative aspects:
  
  - 
 The Story (the length)
  This is one of the things that really makes games go down the hill, a short story.. Altough the 
 story has a great amount of content, it still doesn't really meet that "what a great story" comment. 
 A great story is not only the content. Short stories fail often..
  
  - The Items (the arsenal)
  For some people it looked like the game had lots of items. Well, to 
 me it didn't really look like a great amount of them. The main focus was on the weapons and armor. 
 But still it was a bit of a lack in my opinion.
  
  - The Skills (the amount)
  This, is next to the storylength, one of the biggest mistakes that have been made. Altough the 
 skills take long in their progress, a good RPG does not meet its requirements with such a lack 
 in skills..
  
  Now please don't think I'm here to push this game into the ground. I really enjoyed playing it. 
 The quests were nice and all, it was nice to be in the world of Fable, but it was just to hasty.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtl68170
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  Bought PC Lost Chapters for my son for Xmas. I didnt have much expecations for the game, thought 
 it looked like a pre-teen fantasy/Zelda kinda game (must be the kid hero on the box) . That lasted 
 until I lopped off my first enemy head.
  
  Im a hard core RPGer and I have to say, this is one of the best RPG's ever produced. Its by no 
 means a hard core RPG like Morrowind, etc, but this game was just downright A BLAST! The main quests 
 are so well done with so much creativity and imagination, it overwhelmed any missing RPG elements 
 for my hard core rpg brain. When I was standing in attack position in the Arena with my double 
 augmented greatsword and dark plate outfit waiting for my next challenge, the crowd cheering, I 
 was giddy with excitement. Witchwood, the Graveyard, Circle of the Dead, you guys just nailed it 
 lionhead. And give your sound guy a hefty raise.
  
  The only disappointment is that it's over. Hurry Lionhead and put out another Fable, youve got 
 me hooked!!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anotonio_204
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2006 1:39 am PT
Review:  the game is worth it... but it would of been much more better... adding a little more addition 
 choices on character selection... example like choose a male or female for the storie... and need 
 a multiplayer MUST have... hope there well be a better one coming out... O yea, it would been even 
 better if there were a horse in the game... so, you could ride it and do combat on the back if 
 it, and travel on ships or buy one. just some little more work
  much little more work... but well it's a good enough game now... but need a better effect on working 
 with a little more real game play... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flak-1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is fantastic, I cant understand how anyone would find it lacking anything. I Haven't 
 liked a game this much in years! A definite great buy, Great story, graphics, gameplay is very 
 smooth, controls work easily, and the soundtrack for this game is downright perfect.
  Definitly not over for this title either, I Cant wait for the next addition to this great title. 
 I couldnt stop playing this game til it was over, and Im not through witht his game yet either. 
 I played out the story as a good guy, and now im god wreak havoc amog the peaceful lands killing 
 and robbing everything in sight muahahaha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodootree
Rating: 5.9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Pluses: Excellent environment, play, etc.
  Minuses: Not at all customizable - so it lacks what RPG gamers are looking for the most. I played 
 as good (got a halo) and evil (grew horns) and found that (aside from halo v. horns) it was essentially 
 the same. By the end of the game - regardless of what you do - you will have mastered all the skills 
 that there are - so no playing as a magic-user and then as a fighter... Eventually you will end 
 up as a fighting will-use of good or evil dent, with the only real difference being that when you 
 play evil, you will only attract homosexual partners - which is about the most exciting part of 
 the good v evil part of the game: It is very non-P. C. in that respect. 
  
  On the whole - if you only play one RPG this year - make sure this IS NOT it... but if (like me) 
 you want to give every RPG the old College try (and wont be struck with poverty over $50 + tax) 
 - go ahead and play this game.
  
  Special Note: I did VERY much like the controlls and the "perspective" of the game. More RPGs should 
 LOOK and PLAY like this - but a total failure in the category of character development. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mong115
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 8:00 pm PT
Review:  I liked the overall story line. i'm sure that most PC gamers thought it was a little short. The 
 game control's could have been better. During the end game when you were fighting the dragon it 
 was hard to track a flying object and move use magic ranged and melee combat skills. I Think this 
 area could be improved. Last thing is the story line while keeping you from loosing track of the 
 main story line, there was little chance to just go out and explore the world, as you can do say 
 with morrowind or the Gothic series. I'm a RPG gamer from the days of the original BardsTale and 
 i enjoy the concept of a massive game word to get lost in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uglaman_shakibe
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Good or evil you decide! Every decision a meaning, every step a purpose. Fable lets you rescue 
 the world or make it submit to your overwhelming desire to obliterate all who stand in your way, 
 using a fantastic selection of bone crushing melee weapons and decapitating ranged weapons that 
 you find to use in your arsenal.
  Even after finishing this game you can carry on playing Good or Evil or you can have a go at doing 
 both. During your quest through Albion you can worship God, Satin or no one at all! No game that 
 I know of that has so many superb, unique features such as Marriage, Divorce, Property tycoon and 
 the good old pub life for all the drunks out there and many more! This is a great game for anyone 
 who enjoys a comedy packed, adventured filled fantasy world, ready to delve into at any time and 
 playable over and over again. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RIC
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:20 am PT
Review:  Finally finished Fable: TLC. It took me 16 hours of play. I have mixed feelings with this one because 
 while there are some good spots, this game doesnt feel like a polished game. It has some nice 
 game mechanics (like the fall in love and the trade systems) , but the control scheme was weird 
 (not difficult but I never did get used to it, even at the end) .
  
  The departure from RPG standards was a good thing. The most fun was making women fall in love with 
 me, then marry, then kill them, then look for another. BUT, the limited supply of women models 
 killed that joy after a while... plus they were not pretty by any means with one or two models 
 looking passably good (Lady Grey for example) .
  
  Graphics. Fable had its good moments but for the most part I found the models crude and repetitive 
 (except for your hero and a few of the characters) . Also, lot's of clipping, muddy textures, poor 
 or repeated models.
  
  Interfase. The screen is nice looking but too busy. The min-map is not mini and sometimes it would 
 hide monsters or items. The camera didnt help that much because the range from close up to faraway 
 was too narrow. I had enemies hitting me from outside the screen and sometimes when I wanted to 
 see the woman I was wooing I had to get really close to get a look good at the model.
  
  Sometime it was hard to see that you could interact with an object because the screen is so busy 
 with maps, icons, etc. I realized that I left moneybags or items on the floor after a battle because 
 I didnt see them when they dropped or where embedded in bodies. Some potions or food on the ground 
 didnt get the blue glow of interaction when you where near them.
  
  Gameplay. The main story is short but entertaining. Never did finish the side quests... they were 
 boring.
  
  Random. Never quite got the feeling for the ranged weapons, it was too complicated and slow for 
 the game. The menus were not fast enough, by the time you reached the item you wanted you had already 
 taken a couple of hits, this was somewhat remedied by the shortcuts Disliked the ending the small 
 panel with the voiceover was a disappointment.
  
  Overall I was pleased with the game but not blown away. Did the good outweigh the bad? Yes. Would 
 I play it a second time? Only time will tell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordOfDark19
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 4:06 am PT
Review:  Fable: The Lost Chapters is refered to the Fable that was for the XBOX with new fetures and side 
 quests but with not a difference in the main story. The game is on a person that in his childhood 
 his town was burn by ruthless bandits and they killed his father and kidnapped his sister. Along 
 the story you can be bad or good person, you can help people and you can kill them. In the middle 
 of the assault in his town a magician save his life and take him to a place that is called heroes 
 guild and he grow there from innocent kid to a skilled hero- hero don't mean in this game to good 
 guy. You can choose between being a skilled magician, a skilled robber or skilled warrior in close 
 combat, it is depending in what you prefer and what you use the most time. With anyone you kill 
 you gain experience which can be used for gaining new skills or to improve something, like strength. 
 The combat system is comfortable and the controls too. You can always change the look of you by 
 changing the hair style or adding tattoos and a lot of things more. The thing that was real great 
 is that the people you encounter will react by the things you do and what kind of guy you are. 
 As you develop your character your look and things that you can do will expand. The story is great 
 and the the sounds are good. There is a lot of things to do and there will always be something 
 new that you can do, but it doesn't gloss over of the story- Its too short!!!! You can finish the 
 game in 10 hours if you skip the side quests and the things that is not must be done. But anyway 
 this game is satisfying and you can take from it quite of fun, so if you love RPG games this one 
 is great, and there is not a lot of RPGs to the PC.
  
  Reviewer: Lord Of Darkness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blibs_ug
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 29, 2005 4:28 pm PT
Review:  For me, this game is amazing as you can play it over and over again being good or evil, doing this 
 or that or you can just perfect one game learning all the vast spells and owning all the towns. 
 A unique feature of Fable is the free roaming option of just going along the storyline at your 
 own pace while saving the little boy or marrying the mayor or even destroying whole town communitys.. it's 
 up to you! There are loads of hidden features concealed in this game such as marrying, secret side-quests, 
 heroic doors, differnt paths and much more which makes this game an epic upon epic of titles. Some 
 dissapointing aspects of this game are the graphics that keep disapearing and re-apperaing, normally 
 the grass in Oakvale and the annoying aging problem you get of being 65 and having to falk out 
 your money to get yourself younger. But these tend to not pull this fantastic game down toomuch 
 to stop it being one of the all time greats of RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor_25
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 28, 2005 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Trying to make an innovative and unique game is not as easy as it once was. Fable was billed as 
 a vastly different and new action RPG experience during the months leading up to its release on 
 X-Box. Unfortunately, the game did not quite live up to those loft expectations. However, Fable 
 the Lost Chapters certainly helps to bridge the gap that the original could not. The expanded content 
 provides a richer and more satisfying experience. With additional story lines, missions, and a 
 chance to further develop your character the extra content helps to make this an average game to 
 a good one.
  
  Fable's key gameplay element is the ability to shape your character however you want as you play 
 the game. Do you want to be good or evil? Fable allows you to make this decision many times as 
 you explore the land of Albion in search of your mother, sister and the answers that have eluded 
 you since your early childhood when bandits took all you knew from you.
  
  The game begins with your character at an early age training at the Guild under the tutelage of 
 the Guildmaster. This part of the game offers an integrated way to learn the controls of the game. 
 There are three basic manners of attack: melee, ranged, and magic. Mastering the use of these three 
 attacks is vital to your success throughout the game.
  
  As typical of RPG's, Fable allows you to develop your characters skills, weapons, and magic abilities. 
 You earn both money and XP from completing quests and killing enemies. Nothing much new with this. 
 It is a tried and true system that doesnt need much tweeking. The variety of weapons and magic 
 is good enough to allow the gamer to make their character their own. Add tatoos, haircuts, clothing 
 choices and one's character can be as different as you desire. The game also contains social aspects 
 such as interacting with townsfolk, drinking at the bar, wooing young lasses, and playing games. 
 Heck even buying a house and getting married arent out of the question in this game. You are as 
 free as a bird to live your character's life the way you choose.
  
  Complete as many or as few missions as you like. There are missions that are critical to the story 
 that must be complete, but many of the sidequests are interesting and will gain you valuable items 
 and XP that will come in handy later in the game. Although the game is not overly difficult, the 
 fighting is intuitive and fun. Using the block feauture makes fighting perhaps to easy, but enemies 
 later in the game will adjust and force your hand. Powering up your weapons and magic will help 
 to make the slaying easier. There are a number of items to assist you in doing so. Some can be 
 bought, others earned.
  
  The graphics are pretty good and the port over to the PC did nothing to diminish them. They are 
 slightly cartoonish, but this plays into the feel of the game. Bright colors and good effects help 
 to immerse you in the world of Albion. The audio is well done, although at times simplistic and 
 repetitive.
  
  Some of the shortcomings of the game include the following: not enough story and side quests for 
 an RPG, a little to easy, ending doesnt stack up with the rest of the story, not quite enough weapon 
 choices and upgrades, magic is very basic and unnecessary for the most part, and finally your character 
 ages way to fast. These shortcomings prevent the game from being great.
  
  Although the game strives to be great, it falls way short. Overall the game is fun and story interesting. 
 Developing your character is addictive and just this element alone allows for replayability. The 
 social aspects of the game help to make your time away from fighting interesting. However, this 
 game is meant to be an RPG and therefore should provide an epic story to play. This does not happen. 
 The story seems simple and short, even with the expanded content. The ending falls short of a great 
 RPG ending. The game fails to build as it goes along bringing the gamer to a climactic ending. 
 Perhaps a sequel will address these issues and Fable will become what it set out to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razipagazi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2005 12:33 pm PT
Review:  This is A GREAT game that let you choose between good and evil! 
  
  graphics: 9
  the water, the humans and monsters in fable world, plants, buildings! 
  
  Sound track: 9 
 
  GREAT sound track, fits to the game! 
  
  voice acting: 9
  awesome! 
  
  game play: 10 
  the best thing on the game!
  you choose between good and evil... its affect 
 you.... how people in the fable world act to you.... you are almost free.
  in the game there is alwys a main mission and a lot of side mission like: diliver things, escorts 
 missions. gethring missions...
  you can buy your self an f---- house! decrate it... sell it.... rent it... get marry!!!
  (think 
 about that!!) :D 
  
  in conclusion this game have to be yours! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamthe1ne
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 2:20 am PT
Review:  the verdict...
  short because i finished it under 24 hours in normal difficulty
  but sweet because nurturing your hero, watching it grow and slay (a lot) of baddies are very satisfying.. 
 but i have a little problem with the game though, sometimes there's this annoying lag (mouse lag 
 i think) and it annoys me because when i hit alt+tab and go back again to the game the lag disappears, 
 and with my not so bad PC (P4 3.0ghz,1.5gig RAM, Geforce 6600) it troubles me that i have this lag, 
 it must be the coding i think. but still this game is still a must for adverture/rpg fans
  so.... it's safe to say that this game is worth your gaming dollar s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoavbd123
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 12:04 am PT
Review:  this game is just amazing.
  the graphics are really good the sound and i really liked the gameplay.
  the storyline is really 
 good so i got into this game really easy.
  I don't think i need to say more this game is really good i believe it isnt so expensive now anyway 
 if u havent played it on the xbox and u love rpgs then thats a game u dont wanna miss.
  the only bad thing is that its short ! only 20 hours but u know what those 20 hours were really 
 fun and its not that expensive so its worth it, again if you like rpgs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: croydcrenson
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 26, 2005 11:11 am PT
Review:  But me, I expect to play an RPG for weeks or months. Even if you milk it for every possible side-quest 
 you will finish this game in under 20 hours which for my fifty bucks is a waste of money. It is 
 a fun game and has some great graphics but it is also pretty easy and offers little for replayability. 
 Even some of the unique aspects of the game, like picking up women and fishing, become tedious 
 and annoying in a short time. Based on the mostly stellar reviews I've seen of the game, I was 
 very disappointed. If you are independently wealthy or can pick it up for twenty bucks, I would 
 say go for it but if not, there are better games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faam
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 25, 2005 9:31 am PT
Review:  the sound is great the hystory is exellent and you can change it... the graphics are great too, 
 everything it's great...
  
  it's like a zelda but maye better...
  
  you can do a lot of things the city is big and it has a lot of thing, you can be a wizard a thieft 
 a bad person a good person a hero... you can do everything you can be a simply family man with 
 a wife and a house and nothing more, you can rent house and you win money or you can kill people 
 and win money too... 
  
  you can buy items, food, weapons, clothes, you win experience by fighting and with the experience 
 you win you can get magic, or strenght or health, and a lot more of things....
  
  i really like this game, it has adventure, strategy, rol, fighting, action...
  
  i think you 
 should buy...
  the A. I it's really good... there aren't many games like this... 
  
  in conclusion: graphics great, you can do and be a lot of things, the map it's big, it's realystic, 
 sound great, AI great, one of the best game of this year...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Re_Das_7
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 24, 2005 6:33 am PT
Review:  it is too easy and short game took from me 16Hr to fnish it
  but i faced a lot of problems in sound dialogue
  like i didnot hear a damm word when the view 
 camera changed
  other than that it coud be playable
  cool clothes , wepons , story 
  i liked the choice to take the eviel or good path
  oh.. another bad thing after finshing the 
 game alot of unfinshed quistes and submissions can't be playable 
  and the age of my hero damm he went to old 59 years old it is too old why he didn't stayed young 
 of there is a potion or a spell for youth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmX
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 24, 2005 4:27 am PT
Review:  perfect idea spoiled... to easy, to short and the storyline- well its annoying. it so easy, u can 
 finish the game in one day- one day and you are a hero, i love the idea, but for perfect game play 
 the game must lose its storyline and have a lot more free play options, i just hate the fact that 
 after final battle i cant continue playing free play, but idea itself is great.
  
  its the midleages (or at list i think so) but theres no horses, the idea about shops is great but 
 the suplay is pafetic, the deamon gates - well i hate them, the ageing could be done diferent, 
 not from exp points but for exapley days, then it would be more intresting, becouse then players 
 character could be like 20 yeras old but with max strainght, like it is in real life, not like 
 in the game 50 years OLD-timer with almoust all stats max, disapointing is fact that women wants 
 to have sex only after marige.. like come on- the game needs a little bit more real-life aditude, 
 not some fantasy about midlleages 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chargers3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 23, 2005 11:10 pm PT
Review:  The best, buy it. The best, buy it. The best, buy itThe best, buy it. The best, buy it. The best, 
 buy it. The best, buy it.. The best, The best, buy it. The best, buy it. The best, buy it. The best, 
 buy it. buy it. The best, buy it. The best, buy it. The best, buy it. The best, buy it. The best, 
 buy it. The best, buy it. The best, buy it. The best, buy it. The best, buy it. The best, buy it. 
 The best, buy it. The best, buy it. The best, buy it. The best, buy it. The best, buy it. The best, 
 buy it. The best, buy it. The best, buyThe best, buy it. The best, buy it. The best, buy it. The 
 best, buy it. it. The best, bThe best, buy it. The best, buy it. The best, buy it. The best, buy 
 it. The best, buy it. The best, buy it. The best, buy it. The best, buy it. uy it. The best, buThe 
 best, buy it. The best, buy it. The best, buy it. The best, buy it. y it. The best, buy it. The best, 
 buy it. The best, buy it. The best, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nunez12
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2005 12:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great game, i read the reviews on the here, because i was thinking about buying 
 the game, most of the reviews gave it a very high feedback, well, i saw one or two reviews saying 
 that it was horrible and that it was a very short game and hated it. I definitly think that they 
 are wrong, i got the game and it is a pretty long, though i dont know if this is because it is 
 dcently long, or i just stink at these type of games. It reminded me of Zelda, prince of persia 
 and just pretty nice games, i read that you feel like you are in the game, and that it gives you 
 a great home feeling, when i read this i thought that, this was stupid because who wants to play 
 a game that stinks on gameplay but makes you feel like your there, well this game has great gameplay 
 and it does make you feel like your there, and it makes the game a whole lot better. I also like 
 games that you get magic stats and all that, but i dont like when you just cant use it, like when 
 he hits you, then you have a turn, its not like that at all, it is a very good, game you should 
 check it out, i rated it a ten because it just that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minhhieu1989
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 20, 2005 10:44 pm PT
Review:  A child's life has been irrevocably changed. Will he grow up bitter and twisted from this incident 
 or become a shining example of good? What about neither? Those decisions, and many others, are 
 in the hands of the player. A plethora of choices await those who play out the life of this boy. 
 Originally released on the Xbox, the game was remade and released on both the Xbox and PC as Fable: 
 The Lost Chapters, with new content not included in the original Fable game. This review is based 
 off of the PC version of Lost Chapters, which takes a solid base and builds upon it until the game's 
 quality stands out amongst the crowd of mediocre PC RPGs. 
  
  It is time to gear up for battle. The player has quite a few choices as to where they'd like to 
 focus. Experience is gained in a variety of ways, through actions such as eating specific foods, 
 or by the usual case of beating up enemies. A combat modifier increases how much experience a player 
 gains, which rises as successive strikes on the enemy land without the character taking damage. 
 This experience could be one of four varieties: strength, skill, will, or general. It can then 
 be spent to level up different skills within the first three categories. Strength dictates how 
 strong and healthy a character is, skill determines how fast and accurate a character is, and will 
 is used to purchase or improve magical abilities. When upgrading a specific trait experience from 
 that category is used first, and then the general experience pool is drained. For example, when 
 increasing Guile, first skill experience is drained, then whatever cost is left over is subtracted 
 from general.
  
  Fighting enemies themselves requires a lot of pointing, clicking, and hotbar mashing. First, a 
 player can lock onto an enemy if they so choose. While this is good for aiming a bow and one on 
 one fighting, this tends to be less effective when fighting groups. The Hero can equip both a melee 
 and ranged weapon, but only one can be used at once; bare fists are also an acceptable weapon. 
 Clicking the left mouse button allows the weapon to swing, or fire, and holding down the button 
 will charge up a ranged weapon. Magic can be activated by holding down the shift button and clicking 
 the left or right mouse button, or can be placed on the hotbar. The hotbar, activated by the number 
 keys 1-9, are actions which can be activated quickly. This is especially important for potions, 
 or area-effect magics such as Enflame. The mouse, aside from dictating attacks, also controls the 
 camera angle. Looking up or down or a quick spin backwards is all accomplished using the mouse. 
 The movement buttons can either be set to the arrow keys, or the WASD block. When enemies are defeated, 
 experience and items pop out, and while the Hero needs to touch the items, experience can be sucked 
 closer by holding down the shift key. While it may seem a little complicated through explanation, 
 there is a tutorial at the beginning of the storyline which allows the player to practice these 
 different forms of attacking. The battle system is straightforward and allows a great deal of customization, 
 making the game a pleasure to play.
  
  The Famous Balverine 
  
  The visuals are another novel facet of Lost Chapters, because a character is always changing. Like 
 many PCs, how smooth the visuals will be depends upon the power of the computer, but there are 
 options to change how intense the graphics are. Committing evil acts will make the character's 
 skin turn sallow, and they will hunch over; those truly evil will gain large horns, a buzzing cadre 
 of insects, deformed hands and feet, and cloud of red dust. Characters that are strongly moral 
 stand taller, their skin glows; when they become truly angelic, they will gain a double-ring halo, 
 small ethereal butterflies, and a bright overall glow. Magic users will find that they do not bulk 
 up as much as physical characters. As the character ages, his hair begins to turn grey and they 
 wrinkle. For those who mix it up in melee, they will come away with a few scars, whose size and 
 shape will depend upon which creature inflicted it. Balverines, for example, always give a scar 
 that is three parallell lines, which can be on the face, chest, or back. Haircuts, beards, mustaches, 
 and tattoos can further customize a character. Attractiveness and Scariness are two stats which 
 all of these physical changes will affect, and change how NPCs relate to the Hero. The rest of 
 the game is equally entertaining and does change over time. If townspeople are killed, they don't 
 get immediately replaced but over the years the area will repopulate. There is a variety of different 
 environments to explore and a decent selection of enemies to pound in these areas. The music certainly 
 helps set the mood in these different scenes, but outside of their specific context don't stand 
 out particularly. Fable, if nothing else, is able to set the mood, quickly sucking the player into 
 the game and keeping them entertained for the whole ride.
  
  How difficult Lost Chapters will end up being depends upon the path the character takes when it 
 comes to skills. Archers will have a tougher time with levels that involve hordes of enemies, which 
 will users will laugh their way through. Strong melee characters will blast through one-on-one 
 combat but may find it frustrating to fight fast, moving, or ranged enemies. It may seem that a 
 balanced character may do best, but they often end up falling behind those who specialize and then 
 plow through the tougher areas. This, not surprisingly, ties directly into the completion time 
 of the game. Those who skip all the storyline scenes, know exactly where to specialize, and race 
 through the game could be done the main storyline in less than 10 hours. Those who experiment, 
 take time to complete the side quests, or get stuck for whatever reason will find that their clock 
 can tick as high as 20 hours. Most players will fall between that number, and subsequent playthroughs 
 will naturally come faster than any initial foray.
  
  The interface is a breeze to navigate and fits well with the game. Items can often be used straight 
 from the menu, or their icon can be dragged onto the hotbar where they can be activated whenever 
 needed. This is especially handy for healing items and expressions. As a handy bonus, there are 
 three extra hot buttons - F1, F2, F3 - which change as the need arises, with a special emphasis 
 on the useful F1. For example, whenever the character comes to a location where an item can be 
 fished up, the F1 will automatically change to a fishing pole, or a spade where digging is available, 
 providing the Hero is carrying these tools. The menus also include important information like a 
 Hero stat sheet, experience levels in the various skills, various video and audio options, and 
 other important information, all divided in a very clear and logical manner. Information is always 
 easy to find, and the interface helps move along the game at a quick pace.
  
  An Ice Troll 
  
  Few people could suggest that Lost Chapters is not very original. The battle 
 system, while using some traditional ideas, allows the player to customize to a large extent, meaning 
 every playthrough is different. The story also stands up to repeated playthroughs, despite the 
 fact that after the first playthrough the surprise is gone. Many players will find that they will 
 often look forward to seeing these plot twists, if nothing else, a second time. While the main 
 storyline itself is short, the sidequests expand a lot on both the character's alignment and his 
 motives for being a hero. What choices the character takes will affect the storyline in minute 
 ways; whether or not they choose to kill a character or let them live may affect the rest of the 
 Hero's life. The story supports the originality and vice versa, and the solid meshing of the two 
 is something few games accomplish.
  
  Though quite short, those who pick up Fable: The Lost Chapters will not be disappointed - unless, 
 of course, they were expecting a long and epic game. With so many ways to play the game and customize 
 a character, the short completion time works to the advantage of those who want to try out different 
 characters or alternative storyline choices. Coupled with the ability to change many video options, 
 many will be able to pick up this game and enjoy it to the fullest. Even those who already played 
 the original Xbox version may find themselves wanting to pick up the new version to see how the 
 additional storyline and little changes add to the game. For those who haven't tried it yet, welcome 
 to a truly impressive game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhuy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 19, 2005 4:28 am PT
Review:  Fable is one of the few games that can be compared to life.
  Were we can marry, had sex, help people, kill people, kick chickens, improve our powers as we want 
 (not like in some games that the powers have to be gained to pass the game) , and even be homosexual.
 
  The best part of the game is that you can chose if you are good or bad. The good guy gets a blue 
 aura, blue eyes, butterflies around him and gets more will power (magic) .
  The bad guy gets a red aura, red eyes, horns, flies around him and gets more body power.
  Personally 
 i like the bad guy, he is cool and looks really like the son of Lucifer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trakan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2005 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Yes, yes, I know I over rated it, but I really really loved this game. I don't own it, but I played 
 it for a long time at a friend's house, probably around thirty hours. The story was good, the combat 
 was amazing, and the morality/getting thin and fat, etc. system really made the game more interesting 
 for me, as did the fact that I could be good or evil, how I got horns (yes, I was evil. Surprised?) , 
 and how, being evil, I could kill anybody to get Exp. It was truly amazing, and I hope to buy it 
 just as soon as I have enough money. I recommend it , but a word of caution: I didn't see any sexual 
 themes (never figured out how to buy a house :P) , but I've heard tell they're pretty bad and not 
 appropriate for young eyes, like mine. Just thought you'd like to know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nassos81
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2005 11:08 am PT
Review:  Fable: The Lost Chapters is one of the most highly addictive and one of the best games of Lionhead 
 Studios, that takes you to a whole new level. Many aspects of the game have been upgraded from 
 it's transfer to the PC, such as it's graphics.
  When you start the game, you're a kid in a town called Oakvale. It's the day when your sister has 
 her birthday and you must find her a gift. Your father (Brom) can give you gold for every good 
 deed or you can find gold by performing mischievous and evil acts. When you finally find a gift 
 to give to your sister, there's a bandit raid... The rest is for you to find out....
  This game is a must have for every fan of the genre, since you can be the Hero you want to be; 
 benevolent and good, helping every person or you can be an evil Hero doing mischievous acts. For 
 example if you're good you can give gold and gifts to every person you meet but if you're evil 
 you can kill every person in sight and take his gold and riches.. kill everyone in cities, buy 
 their homes and rent them, so you will have a standard source of income.
  Your character can be changed to whatever you want him to be, such as giving him a youngster style 
 haircut, apply tattoos on your body. Depending on your evilness or your benevolence, haircuts and 
 tattoos will be a great factor on how people greet you. If you're good, everyone will cheer and 
 shout happily. On the other hand, if you're evil, then everyone will cower and run away from you. 
 Every action can change the behavior of the people around you.
  In conclusion, this game is worth the money and the time someone can spend for it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sammo1b777
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 15, 2005 11:24 am PT
Review:  Finally!!! The made it how it should have been made the first time. If you played the old one take 
 it back and get this one. It wond disappoint you. This one has more quest more weapons more armor 
 and more choices. Its not just a good short game anymore. It has became the great long role playing 
 game that it was cracked up to be and should have been the first time. If you like games to where 
 you can make every choice that you could imagine to make this is the game for you. You can become 
 good or evil or somewhere in between, keeping the scares and getting tattos. The choice will be 
 yours. You can kill single person through the whole game if you want, or steal what you can't afford, 
 or kill the people that live in a house or business and buy it and make someone pay rent. And once 
 you beat you can play it all again and it will be like a totally different game. Plus its only 
 $19.99 or less. A great value too. Its Fable done right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ilyon
Rating: 2.8
Date: Dec 14, 2005 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Fable: The Lost Chapters was somewhat enjoyable at the start. I wasn't keeping my expectations 
 too high, from what some of my friends had said and I somewhat enjoyed the experience right from 
 the moment I installed those four CDs (Hooray! Another long RPG!) and settled in to play til the 
 moment I hit the maximum strength level for my char. I checked my clock. It couldn't be right. 
 I'd only been playing this game for a few hours... It still felt like the start of the game. I 
 felt I was still in the 'newbie' or 'kiddy' area of the game. A few hours later, I'd beaten Jack 
 and it was all over. I had beat the game in just under 8 hours, doing every possible side-quest 
 and using all the neat little extra features, like getting married (something that was completely 
 pointless, like most of the extras this game advertises) . I felt sick. I'd just dropped 60 bucks 
 on an RPG that played shorter than most shooters. The world wasn't expansive, like most RPGs. It 
 was tiny, with very few items and almost no variation in monsters. It was incredibly easy as well... 
 The game is rated M, wouldn't it be really easy to make it seem a little less like a game for your 
 kids instead of yourself? Like... Making it harder, for example... Or longer. Maybe making a storyline 
 that wasn't completely stereotypical in every way. This game was chock-full of absolutely useless 
 little extras and had almost nothing going for it in any other way... Oh wait... Sorry. The graphics 
 were good. You can't make a superficial game sell without graphics, can you? I'm ashamed to have 
 fallen for the trap set by Microsoft with this game. It was very expensive, overhyped eye-candy. 
 I definitely won't be fooled again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicolas1171
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 13, 2005 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Well, I think this game deserves a 9 cause the style rpg and action are one of the most interesting 
 styles of games and if you mix them the result is an excellent game. It also have a great story 
 because it takes you to a new magical world that offers you lots of possibilities to play with, 
 also gives you the chance of decide de way you want, evil or good. 
  
  To sum up, this is an excellent game and I think it's no waste of time on playing it...
  I really 
 hope this king of game continue because I really enjoy them... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jack162
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2005 10:11 pm PT
Review:  What really defines an RPG is its storyline, background, and graphics. Fable has all of this and 
 everything is well done. Although some people complain that its too easy or that its too short, 
 half the game is limiting yourself to make it harder and setting "self-goals" which is what a true 
 RPG gamer would do. All of those games where u can "Pick" a difficulty are very unrealistic. Suddenly, 
 emenies do twice their normal damage and you have half the hp??? not fun at all.
  
  Another really important element of Fable is its vast amount of non-quest related material. There 
 are many things you can try to achieve that stride far away from quests (real estate for one) . 
 And there is a nice touch of realism with how u can get scars or age or basically how your character 
 can change in general.
  
  Fable also has excellent combat which combines smooth gameplay with the sort of "combo" system 
 you would find in arena style dueling games (If you havent noticed, differerent swings of the sword 
 can hit multiple emenies, take longer, stuns or falls, etc. and they are constant - My favorite 
 is block, roll, hit, hit, hit, flourish, then block) . Because of these reasons, Fable is perhaps 
 the best RPG out there right now (Baldurs Gate 2 is also very good) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonphoenix123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 12, 2005 12:24 pm PT
Review:  awesome single player
  
  no multi player!
  
  how can you have a pc game without multiplayer?
  
  boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 12, 2005 6:36 am PT
Review:  I am glad that I didnt really follow the development of this game closely, and that I had reasonable 
 expectations going into it. It would be easy to focus on this games flaws and ignore everything 
 that makes it great, but that would be a big mistake. Dont be put off by the naysayers. Fable 
 is a great RPG with a lot of great ideas and a lot of content. Its story isnt much, and it has 
 a couple of rough edges born of its porting from the X-Box, but those are minor flaws on an otherwise 
 great game.
  
  Perhaps the greatest compliment that you can pay to an RPG, or any game for that matter, is that 
 you really feel like that person on the screen. Very few games have managed to do this as well 
 as Fable. The most special parts of this game are what it has on the sides. Fable is somewhat 
 light on storyline and quest material, but it is superb when it comes to all of the things that 
 you can do on the side. Can you complete the storyline quests in 10 hours? Probably. But thats 
 not what this game is all about. This isnt like Diablo, where all there is to do is hack, slash, 
 kill, sell loot, and then repeat. The best part of the game is just experiencing the rich world 
 and interacting with dozens of NPCs. You get to live vicariously through your avatar, flirting 
 with women (or sleeping with them) , and drinking. Bards write songs about your triumphs and townspeople 
 greet you by your title. You buy titles ranging from arseface to avatar from title vendors, 
 which is one of the many humorous aspects of the game.
  
  The experience is greatly enhanced by a great role playing system that allows you to develop your 
 character and fight in a lot of different ways. Fable has a skill point system like Deus Ex, where 
 you earn skill points and then assign them. The amount of skill points that you need to raise a 
 skill increases as you get further along, which means that you will have to spread your points 
 out some instead of just maxing out a few abilities. When you combine a great spellbook with a 
 nice variety of enemies, you have a lot of different ways to fight in Fable. I chose to be a melee 
 specialist that was heavily specialized in the Force Push spell, which knocks enemies back from 
 you in a circle. I could have just as easily made a bow specialist who used the Time Slow spell 
 to pick off his enemies, or an expert fireball thrower. The different abilities that you can use, 
 combined with the ability to make good/evil choices in the game and complete some quests in different 
 ways, gives this game some replayability.
  
  When I started playing this game, I was pleasantly surprised by the graphics. This game has some 
 of the finest graphics I have ever seen in a console port, second only, perhaps, to the Splinter 
 Cell games. The lighting is beautiful and the world is full of detail and bright colors. Your characters 
 look changes throughout the game, and he changes depending upon how you play. Some of the spell 
 effects are very impressive and powerful-looking. Combat animations for both your character and 
 your enemies are highly impressive, from the way that the undead slowly lumber at you to the powerful 
 spinning attack that you can do on your enemies. The game is full of rich and vibrant colors, and 
 it has all sorts of other subtleties, like the beautiful day and night cycle.
  
  The audio for this game is just as good as the graphics. The soundtrack is appropriately cartoony. 
 It gets foreboding in the games darker areas and it gets more lighthearted in the towns. 
  
  Fables problems stem largely from its origins on the X-Box. It is full of layered menus that 
 make even the most simple task, like eating an apple, a pain that requires five or six mouse clicks. 
 Whats worse is that your special combat move and run are bound to the same key or button. This 
 can be extremely annoying in combat, when youre trying to run from an enemy or across the battlefield, 
 and your character executes his special move instead. 
  
  The game also has a lot of escort missions, which wouldnt be all that annoying, except that enemies 
 always aggressively charge right after the defenseless character that you are trying to defend, 
 usually running right by you. This can make escort missions incredibly annoying, and when you combine 
 that problem with the games checkpoint save system, you can be in for a lot of frustration. Other 
 than those missions though, the game is pretty easy.
  
  Perhaps this games greatest flaw though, is that its main storyline is very weak and quite short. 
 For a game that is so innovative on the edges, its core mission sequence is very bland. Typical 
 Defeat the great evil bent on ruling the world stuff. Quite a disappointment.
  
  Fable has been much maligned for its short length. This criticism is unfair, because although the 
 story missions may not account for much material, the game is very densely packed with stuff to 
 do. There's tons to explore, and if you want, you can easily spend 20 hours with the core game 
 experiencing what it has to offer. Thats before you get to the extra content provided with this 
 updated version. If you want to experience everything, and theres lots to do, then you wont be 
 finishing this game in a weekend.
  
  Fable: The Lost Chapters has come along at a time when we PC gamers are desperate for a good RPG. 
 This game wont satisfy your longing for another Baldurs Gate 2, but it is very special in its 
 own way. The best days for Fable might be in the future, when some of the ideas from this game 
 can be further refined and developed. You will play games better than this in your lifetime, but 
 you will play lots that are not as good, and you will never play one exactly like it. If you like 
 RPGs, then you should own Fable: The Lost Chapters. Dont deprive yourself of the experience because 
 of some of the bad word of mouth that it has gotten. This is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: algrebraisfun
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 10, 2005 2:54 pm PT
Review:  This game blew my mind. I was looking for a really good rpg and asked a game store employee to 
 steer me to a good one. He recommended this and he sure was right. I love the good/evil effect. 
 i like choosing my own path and creating multiple accounts to vary the path chosen. There is enough 
 freedom to do what you want to do but enough guidance so you don't get completely lost and bored. 
 I would have liked to see a multiplayer mode so you can interact with fellow gamers but the game 
 is still excellent without it I definitely recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tamirganbaatar
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 9, 2005 8:32 am PT
Review:  This game is great because you can improve your heroes and choose the path to take for them. So 
 you get to choose between evil hero or a holy hero. The things that make this game NOT great are:
 
  -When it comes to saving during your quest or almost at the end of your quest, it sucks. You have 
 to do all the things all over again.
  -Passing from one place to another. It's really a bug to wait for that.
  -Aging is too fast. 
 When you become a legendary hero, you're already an old dude.
  -Guards never finish coming out. When you commit a crime, and fight with the guard, other guards 
 will come at you non-stop 24/7.
  Well, but all in all, it is an inspiring game for people who dreams of becoming a real hero or 
 true evil. The power is at your hands... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgentSmith34
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 8, 2005 8:58 pm PT
Review:  GRAPHICS: 8/10
  Almost every game on the Xbox has fantastic graphics, and this game is no exception. But, like 
 almost every game on the Xbox, hands get messed up. If you're holding a sword, it's more like it's 
 levitating in your hand. If you're scratching your head, you're more likely to be scratching a 
 few inches above your head. Also, if your sword is sheathed, sometimes it goes into you, and it 
 does the same with walls if you walk to close. Other than these things, fantastic graphics.
  
  STORY: 10/10
  It's basically the same Fable plus some. The plot can always change depending 
 on what path you take during the game, but the story is always a great one. One great new thing 
 is the Chicken Kicking competition in Oakvale. Everyone loved to kick chickens in the original, 
 and it's back with a vengeance! Overall, the plot is amazing and with an all new plot it's two 
 times as amazing.
  
  GAME PLAY: 10/10
  The thing everyone loves is that it's never the same story, and you can always change your character 
 halfway through the game. The controls are great, and it's a fun game to play, because there are 
 many places to explore and many people to talk to. You can make people love you, envy you, want 
 to kill you, or even be terrified of you, and the choice is always yours.
  
  SOUND: 6/10
  This is probably the only thing I dislike out of the game. The music is repetitive. If you're fighting, 
 it's one tune, then when you're done fighting, it's always the same tune. It's an easy to to get 
 stuck in your head, so I just tend to turn my sound off. The sound effects are good while fighting 
 and kicking chickens and such, but the music is annoying and very, very repetitive.
  
  GAME LENGTH: 8/10
  If you're a power player, which I'm sure some of you are, you'll disagree 
 with me on this. The game is about fifteen hours if you do every quest and explore everything, 
 and if you don't, you could probably beat it in less than ten hours. No game is too long, and this 
 about the average length for most games, so it gets an average score.
  
  Overall Score: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlmcgraw
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 8, 2005 5:10 pm PT
Review:  The thing I like about this game is, like Black and White, I have a choice to be who I want to 
 be. Games that immerse you into the game, adding the ability to do good or to prompt evil, adds 
 dramatically to my ability to become one -- with the game. 
  
  The game itself is pretty, "Do this, Do that", but the quest system alone is an interesting way 
 to boost the experience. For example. You could submit to do a quest and you can select to do things 
 like, "Do this Quest Naked", or "Dont get hit". These will add to the bonus that you will get once 
 the quest is completed. The combat spell system is _VERY_ powerfull and if you focus your energy 
 into a specific line of spells, your experience with that set will greatly improve and you will 
 become a VERY powerfull individual.
  
  All in all, this is a Great RPG for those RPG'ers out there that is looking to expand their library. 
 The Graphics, Sounds, and all around immersion in the game is not to be overlooked. A very impressive 
 job by team Lionhead and they are simply becoming known for their power at developing some awsome 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortimer47
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 7, 2005 8:18 am PT
Review:  well i found this game thouroughly enjoyable. A lot of people are saying its too short. Well i 
 look at the game as being more of an action game anyways and for an action game its huge in comparision. 
 the Graphics
  are awesome-the controls are very good and the quests were fun-
  all in all a very good game that ill probably play over and over as it just so much dang FUN!
 
  The one thing that takes away from it is the sound- if i turn around while next to an NPC and 
 they were talking there voice practically disappears-
  same with cutscenes- the sound vanishes sometimes becuz of the angle
  i approached the objective-that 
 is overlooked becuz of subtitles to help 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aco211985
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 6, 2005 7:26 am PT
Review:  Fable is a type of game I gladly accept, and the fact that Peter Molineaux is the main designer 
 of the game just make it more interesting. This theme of a fantasy world saved/ or ruined by a 
 hero is nothing new, but Molineaux told in so interesting way that I finished this game two times 
 and still play it. Almost every aspect of the game is great, graphics and sound is superb, plot 
 and gameplay interesting enough, combat and interaction brilliant, but too easy. Most quests are 
 too easy, and the movement is too limited. Besides that , the game is close to perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gabi_gg
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 5, 2005 7:25 am PT
Review:  pppppp p ppppppp ppp ppppppppppp pppppppp ppppp pppp ppppp ppppp
  pppp pp ppppp pppp ppppp pppppppppppppppppppppppppppp ppppppppppp ppp pppp pppppppp ppppp pppppppp 
 ppppppp ppppp ppppp pppppppppppppppppp ppp ppppppppp ppppp ppp ppp ppp ppppppp ppppppppp pppp ppppp 
 pppppp pppppppp pppppp ppppppppppppppppp pppppppp ppppppppppppp ppppppppppppppppppppp ppppppppppppppp 
 pppppp ppppp p pppppppppp pppppppp ppppppppp ppppp pp ppppp ppppp pppppppppppp ppppp ppppppp pppp 
 ppp pppppppppppppppppppppppp pppppp ppppp ppppp pppp pppppp ppppppp pppppp pppppp ppp pppp ppppp 
 pppppppppppppp pppppppppppppppppp pppppppppppppppppp  
  ppppppppppppppppppppppppp pppppp ppppppppppppppppppppppppp 
 pppppp pppppppppppppppppppppppp pppppppppppp pppppppp pppppp ppppppp ppppppppppppppp  
 pppppp ppppppppppppppppp ppppppppppppppppppppppp ppp ppppppppppppppppp  
 ppppppppppppppppppp pp ppppp pppppppppppppp ppppppppppppppp pppppppppppppp pppppppppppppppp pppppppppppppppppppppp 
 ppppppppppppp ppppppppppppppppp pppppppppppppppppppppp ppppp pppppppppp pppp ppppppppppppppppppppppppp 
 ppppppppppppppp pppppppppp p pppppppppppppppppppp  
 ppppppp pppppp ppppp pppp  ppp pp pppppp ppppp pp pppppppppp 
 ppppp ppppppp pppppppppp ppp ppppppp pppppp ppppppp ppppppp pppppp pppppp ppppppp ppppppp ppppppp 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-Dogg
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2005 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Something I'm really starting to miss is a good single player RPG for the PC. It seems like everyone 
 is jumping on the MMP band wagon. They are enjoyable, but wear thin quickly. Fable promised to 
 be an RPG that would offer diverse gameplay and a flexible story. It is that.... kind of.
  
  The main problem is it's not as expansive and diverse as, say, Elder Scrolls 3. Which is, in my 
 opinion, the most open ended, single player RPG ever made. Don't get me wrong, this game is a fun 
 game and worth spending time exploring it. Once you get into it and get a taste of the games style, 
 you want more and you want it to go farther. That's where the game's biggest fault is. Like so 
 many role playing games before it, the game is just to short. It's not as confined as most, but 
 you end up wishing that it would just take that extra step that it could have taken.
  
  The graphics are very well done. Fable has a very bright, vibrant feel. The environments and landscapes 
 are very lush and have a very nice feel to them. Overall, I was impressed with the details. There 
 are some strange shadowing issues, and at times, texture issues. Most of the character models are 
 very well done. The only bad thing is, most of the people in the world of Fable have very busted 
 looking faces. But, not everyone in the world is pretty, so it's not really that bad of a design 
 choice.
  
  The sound effects and music are also very good. Fable's music is a very typical RPG score. Voices 
 are all British and common British slang is used throughout the game. Some people might not like 
 that, but I enjoy it. I didn't come across any sound bugs, that's not to say they aren't there.
 
  
  Fable has a nice array of quests and other content to explore. The quests are there, but the difficulty 
 is not. This game surprised me with how easy it was. The one thing that the designers should have 
 added was an option to up the AI difficulty to give the poor bad guys a chance. You will notice, 
 especially near the end of the game, you are dramatically more powerful than pretty much anyone 
 who faces you. If you play the game for more than a couple of hours, you will master the combat 
 system and be almost unstoppable.
  
  Fable is a good RPG title, but still there is room here for some much more. That too is something 
 else RPG's like this leave you with : a feeling of "This game is good, but I hope the come out 
 with sequel that expands on it." More times than not, however, they don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolferyn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2005 6:39 am PT
Review:  Fast, Easily understood, bright, atractive, perfect gameplay.
  
  This is for now one of my favoured games in the year 2005 apart from the other games i've played. 
 Lovely characters that were were designed along with calm and catchy music, addictive characters 
 and gameplay, apart from that, a lovely storyline and beautiful background that gives you the feel 
 of the game and GREAT character movements! A must play game! ^___^
  
  The only small downfall to this are the controls. A little hard to control your character and can 
 give you a slight dizzyness if you pay attention to the game too much~ Haha. =P Maybe we just need 
 a good controller. Lol. Either that or, the brightness. All the shiny scenery~ XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jernas
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 3, 2005 1:01 pm PT
Review:  The best in this game is, that you can be bad or good. And Its quite simple to become bat, you 
 just have to kill everyone in your way. But becoming a good and respected person is much harder, 
 so I decided to be bad. Killing enemy's is quite easy and sometimes really boring. Actually Its 
 much more fun walking from village to village and talking to the people. You can change weapons 
 and clothes or wear some other stuff like amulets,... Visually game looks pretty bad and old. First 
 few hours are very interesting, but then it becomes boring. And it loads all the time, when changing 
 maps. And these maps are very small. Sound is seriously boring, there is no great symphonies or 
 similar. That means this game is just solid and nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwilson32
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 3, 2005 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Greg basically states that the game is shallow and that the elements such as marriage, trading, 
 and gambling is just "window dressing". Well, since the executive producer of the game doesn't 
 think much of it, I don't think I will buy it. I think that Greg just shot himself in the foot 
 with regard to potential buyers who will watch his video. He truly shows us the idiotic knuckleheads 
 who are creating our games these days. When you start creating games just to get something on the 
 market, you end up with something like Fable. Gee, I can't wait for Fable 2....*yawns* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malad
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 3, 2005 1:20 am PT
Review:  Fable is the kind of game that you will want to come back to only to uncover all the secrets and 
 sidequests. Too bad it was a little short and too easy. Hardcore gamers may want to look elsewhere.
 
  
  The thing about Fable I really liked is the way it beckons you to unlock all the nooks and crannies. 
 I play a lot of PS2 RPGs like Final Fantasy and I can't help but feel like I'm playing one with 
 Fable. Being a console port this may be one reason why it is. What's lacking though is, unlike 
 Final Fantasy, Fable is very short and once finished, there is little reason to replay apart from 
 uncovering the secrets and mop up all the sidequests. Some sidequests are funny and some are just 
 bizarre, like the chicken kicking tournament. There were also a few hidden sidequests that I uncovered 
 after I finished the main story. But these are very few indeed and you kind of hope that there 
 would have been more.
  
  Graphics are spot on and sound is detailed and familiar. Yep, some audio effects are quite similar 
 to Black and White. Gameplay is simplistic and its just a case of frantic mouse clicking and requires 
 very little strategy if any. You can finish the game over the weekend and replay value is just 
 to check out the different story line depending whether your character is evil or good.
  
  Overall this is a great game with a great story and a cool main character.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aifo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 1, 2005 3:03 pm PT
Review:  If you own a good new gaming PC and you haven't played the Xbox version of the game, then you should 
 probably stop reading and go buy tye game right now. This game includes everything you'd ever want. 
 It's actually like 3 or for kinds of games put together to give you this one gigantic game.
  The first thing i noticed from the xbox verion was the BIG difference in the graphics. i mean , 
 this game has some of the most beautiful graphics you'd ever find in any game available right now. 
 and i'm talking about NOW the year 2005. so if you have a 6600gt or higher graphics card, my advice 
 is to shut down ur PC and gett a copy, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warp_2567
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 28, 2005 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Fable: The Lost Chapters is an extension of the original, which add more side quests and features 
 for you to explore and have fun with. If you've played the original Fable before, you might want 
 to wait for the price tag to drop.
  
  Gameplay- same decent combat system. Some deadly moves or spells are way too overpowered, which 
 spoils the whole battle system. Veterans of Fable have to go through the whole story and all the 
 old quests to enjoy the new ones.
  
  Graphics- Nothing has changed much here. Although, I think the framerate is a little better when 
 compared to the original. I can't confirm this though.
  
  Sound- Same great style of music, voice acting, and sound effects. Overall the sound doesn't get 
 in the way of the gameplay and it doesn't seem cheesy at all.
  
  Value- The Fable world is big, and there is much to discover and unlock. The Lost Chapter adds 
 even more to that. However, once you complete the story and unlock some weapons, the fun factor 
 drops to zero, and you will find yourself wanting more than what it has to offer.
  
  Overall, this game is worth the buy, but if you have already played the original, you might want 
 to wait for a price drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33tBudDha
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 28, 2005 8:18 am PT
Review:  The Good
  
  1 - Fun factor: The overall fun factor in Fable rivals that of a StarWars KoTOR series game. If 
 you haven't played KoTOR then you're missing out. Anyways back to the review. You choose from being 
 good or evil or both in this game killing or saving whomever you darn well feel like. You can dupe 
 people into falling in love with you (female OR male) and sacrifice them to the evil god or just 
 kill them for their ph4t l3wt. You get to kick chickens also, that's a winner every time. I don't 
 want to give away everything but the fun you will have is top of the line.
  
  2 - Performance: Fable is not all that much of a system hog. This game will play at its highest 
 settings on a good gaming box with zero issues. Fable runs smooth and allows you the ability to 
 tab in and out of windows without crashing the game.
  
  3 - Combat: Combat in Fable is fun but not very challenging to an experienced gamer. The trick 
 to Fable's combat is creating a character who will be up against a great number of enemies at one 
 time. If you do this properly then 90% of the fights in Fable will be easily won by you. This ease 
 of victory is offset by the fun factor. The combat is smooth and not overly heady. You get to smash 
 lots of nasties and get a very wide selection of ways to do it. You can mold your character into 
 any combination of fighting styles from the several types of melee and ranged weapons and the spell 
 classes.
  
  4 - Story: The main story line is good but not great, it's the smaller stories surrounding the 
 main plot that makes Fable a high-end RPG. If you attack the main storyline only you will defeat 
 Fable in roughly 8-10 hours. If you take advantage of all the other aspects and stories in the 
 game you're looking at 20. I highly suggest going the 20 route you won't be disappointed. Nothing 
 brightens up your day like running into town and having 13 women (and a dude, don't ask he just 
 did) fall in love with you and follow you to a temple where you sacrifice them all. Bwa hahahaha.
 
  
  5 - Scenes: There are many moments in this game where it feels great to be playing the game because 
 the scenery is done right. Examples would be a scene where you are in a holding cell and you're 
 actually waiting for the guard to come back. Everything feels right there's nothing out of place 
 and it's real time. A battle in the Arena with a crowd that actually moves, talks, and reacts instead 
 of a painted background. The details of the moment were well done.
  
  6 - Replay Value: This is a strong point because there is almost an endless amount of things you 
 can do in this game. You can get married to many women and the relationships with them can take 
 on their own story, reputations, owning houses, pubs, shops, and much more.
  
  The Bad
  
  1 - Windows: Fable doesn't offer a windowed form view which is a let down. You do have the 
 ability to alt-tab your way in and out of the game but a windowed view is pretty much becoming 
 a standard these days.
  
  2 - The camera can be a pain but not a big negative just a small gripe.
  
  3 - The controls 
 are not exactly what you'd expect. The options seem to be outdated or just don't give you enough 
 options to customize your gaming experience.
  
  The Ugly
  
  1 - Installation: I had an issue after the installation of Fable where the games resolution didn't 
 play nice with my system. Once I began the actual game the resolution would change to 640/whatever. 
 This made it so the menu was so large I couldn't adjust the resolution to what it should be. I 
 had to offset my monitor a great deal just to be able to change the setting in the game. After 
 that it was fine.
  
  2 - Bugs: There were a few bugs in the game, mostly just getting stuck somewhere. These were found 
 using some extreme steps to cause them but they were caused none-the-less. Nothing major.
  
  Is it worth $49.00?: Yes. If you can wait until the game drops in price be my guest but if 
 you do the little things in this game as well as the major story you will get 20 hours of gaming 
 fun and you won't want to stop. Worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arseonist
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 26, 2005 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I came into this game after skipping the Xbox version entirely, so I was a complete noob when starting 
 the game. After playing through twice, I can safely say that Fable: TLC is an excellent, beatiful 
 game that is only hurt by the game engine itself.
  If you don't know, the premise behind the whole Fable universe is that you make your character 
 what you want him to be, and he changes due to your actions. If you prefer melee combat, (which 
 the characters seem to mispronounce) , then your character will become the knight in shining armor 
 you've always had those special dreams about. If you use a bow and steal, your character will become 
 lean, tall, and quiet on his feet. This also affects gameplay, as NPCs will respond to you in different 
 ways, depending on what type of character you have. 
  One slight downfall of the game is the lenght. While it's not the shortest game ever, there is 
 defiinitley room for more. The graphics are cute and vibrant, and really are a joy to look at. 
 Controls work perfectly on the keyboard, and the sound quality is excellent, especially during 
 fighting. 
  Overall, if you like RPGs, and don't mind a rather short ride, pick up Fable, you'll be better 
 of for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jopani79
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 26, 2005 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game not knowing what to expect, but I found it was a very entertaining (and addictive) 
 endeavor. The graphics are beautiful and it has a nice fantasy atmosphere. Your character in highly 
 customizable, and throughout the game you'll be able to change his hair, facial hair, and give 
 him tattoos if you desire. He'll also age as he develops, tans or grows pale depending on much 
 time you spend in the sunlight, and his body will change accoding to how you develop stats and 
 alignment. It all adds to the fun of progressing through the game. I enjoyed the non-linear progression 
 as well - you complete "gold" quests to advance the plot of the game, and "silver" quests to take 
 part in varoius sub-plots. The story is well done, but I thought it was a little cliched; if you've 
 ever played an RPG before you should pretty much see the plot twists coming. However, it is well 
 told and there are enough sub-plots with the side quests to keep your attention. 
  
  The only other complaint I can think of is though everything's well-done, there are parts where 
 it seems as if things well not as developed as they could of been. I liked the way your character 
 develops based on whether you defeat enemies with melee, bow, or spell. However, the game is skewed 
 heavily towards melee, and you'll have a much more difficult time if you try to go the caster route. 
 When I replayed the game as a melee-emphasis, I found that by the end I was getting enough "general" 
 exp that I was also able to almost fully develop my skill (bow) and will (magic) stats anyway. 
 The alignment system is fun to make you character look like a bad-ass devil-warrior, but if go 
 for a good alignment, all that happens is your hair turns lighter and you get light halo eventually 
 (though it becomes easier to get a spouse as they'll fall in love with you much easier) . Fortunately, 
 alignment doesn't affect the plotline, so I'd suggest going the evil route, since it's was much 
 more fun.
  
  Overall, this is a very fun game, and you'll probably want to play through twice to play out all 
 the possible choices you'll get to make. While the flaws don't take away from anything, it is disappointing 
 since with a little more time and effort, a great game could have been truely outstanding. Still, 
 with the amount of time I spent glued to my computer screen, I'd say this game is well worth the 
 time and effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seph1R
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 1:40 am PT
Review:  Well, this game was quite warmly accepted by the online gaming community, and since it WAS an action 
 RPG, and I've not played one since Sacred, I decided to try it out. And... it's a good game, but 
 with the 'Molyneux curse' all over it.
  
  What is the 'Molyneux curse'? It's the curse of a man who has tons of brilliant ideas but who doesn't 
 know how or when to stop when incorporating them into games making most of their features more 
 of a show-off than something actually useful and playable. This game has plenty of that, but let's 
 start off with the technicalities.
  
  The graphics in this game are beautiful. The areas are well-designed, the textures are clean, and 
 all has a fantasy feel about it. Some times you'll just stop to look around and say 'wow'... which 
 is quite remarkable for a game that's not origilally for PC... However, one gets a feeling that 
 the game has too much 'dark' areas, and that in a more sunny environment the game's engine would 
 shine even more.
  
  The sound is... well for the most part not really noticable. The music blends nicely into the game, 
 and voice-overs are nothing special, but they're also not bad. You'll however quickly get irritated 
 by townsfolk shouting your 'hero title' as you go on along through the game.
  
  Now onto the gameplay... the game is fun. But one gets the feeling that so many features were put 
 in the game just for the record, not for any real use. But let's start off with the first thing 
 I didn't like - the character development system. It's a system that's appeared in a few games, 
 but never really stuck... the system that advances your attributes by the frequency you use them. 
 So, if you kill your enemies by sword, your physical attributes will go up. If you kill them with 
 bow, your agility (or whatever it's called) will go up... and if you kill them with magic, your 
 will power will go up. I think that's a generally flawed system because it kills any D&D-esque 
 character planning, but in this game it was especially useless because of the mechanics of the 
 game. You'll, want it or not, end up killing most of your enemies with a melee weapon. Of course, 
 there are parts in the game where firing a spell or your bow will make your life hell of a lot 
 more easy, but such parts are pretty rare. Also, the spells in the game range from those you'll 
 use on a regular basis to the ones that are pretty useless in most of the situations... 
  
  And just to mention something else that can some times get irritating - fighting certain enemies. 
 The fight itself has an arcade feeling to it, harder enemies moving and attacking in certain patterns 
 and you having to avoid those patterns to stay alive... it just gets a bit boring after a while... 
 and also some of the 'harder' fights are dissapointingly easy, which kind of destroys the challenge. 
 Contrary to that, some of the 'normal' fights are often enough irritatingly exhausting. But they 
 all have a certain arcade feel to them...
  
  And now, the 'Molyneux' curse. So many features in the game. So many features that are in theory 
 good, fun, and deepen the game experience. So many features that are essentialy useless. You can 
 change your haircut, you can change the type of your beard, you can change your 'hero title', you 
 can seduce women, you can seduce men, you can have sex, you can buy a house, you can have a tatoo, 
 you can get drunk, you can eat yourself to being obese, you age as the game goes along... but it's 
 all essentially useless. There are a few quests in which you can use some of those features, but 
 they are extremly rare, and not really important for the main plot. Even the good/evil choice for 
 your character is kind of screwed up because later in the game you can donate money to good or 
 evil temples to fix up your allignment.
  
  So, is this game worth playing? Yes. It's fun, and at certain moments really good. It has wonderful 
 graphics, nice music, a lot of hack-n-slash... and it's bound to keep you occupied for a week or 
 so. But don't expect too much because you just won't get it. Action RPGs still answer to Diablo. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deitri
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 22, 2005 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Fable: The Lost Chapters is Cool.
  But, with Ten Hours of Play, you can already finished it, and did all things in game.
  When you 
 start to play it, you will think that is the Best Game Eva!
  But no.
  You can kill some Villagers, Traders on your Roads, and etc... But, doing it all time, will make 
 it very Annoying.
  When you have 65 Years Old, you cant Grow Up anymore, and when you Finish the game, it will be 
 very very very Annoying!
  You cant do anything cool after Beating the game.
  In the Final Battle, if you have the Max on all your Attributes, you will kill him in 3 Hits in 
 a Bow.
  Well... You can Try It!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andy_matthew
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2005 4:07 am PT
Review:  i really enjoyed playing through this game as an eviiil chap, but this made seducing the ladies 
 more difficult. the exp system works well, and it's nice that there are enough herds of good and 
 bad npc's to slaughter to acquire good/bad exp. buy it! although there's the promise of playing 
 through as a nice bloke, i can't be arsed. the game suddenly got better when i worked out how to 
 teleport properly! some features were a bit off, such as the fishing/digging feature- i thought 
 that the rod and spade should have been introduced earlier (maybe i just missed them!) , as this 
 prevented me from progressing in the game for a while. thank f**k for the forums! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red-dead
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 5:38 am PT
Review:  Here it is the ultimate PRG game, first game you can get married and have houses, rent em out and 
 stuff like that. This is a game worth buying if you want to have a blast for 10-20 houers. It even 
 comes whit a free roam when you get throug the game but then you have to wait for the credits.
 
  
  well whit all that said BUY THIS GAME!!! and i almost forgot the sound is totaly awsome grapfichs 
 too ermm gameplay it's so awsome and i can't seem to find any thing wrong whit the game. At start 
 the game can be a bit wierd whit the controls but you will learn and a cool part is that you grow 
 in the game like from toddler to adult. You age get battle scars and alot of amazing things like 
 that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mana_of_sword
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Its AMAZING how you can take such a great idea, and do this to it. The whole idea behind fable 
 was that you could chose to be good or evil, a noble idea for a game, could have been done better. 
 Seeing how after compleating my training it was so easy to become evil. I just killed guild members 
 and avoided the guards. When everyone was dead, I left, did a few easy quests, got some exp, discovered 
 new towns, and repeated the cycle, and only being maby 1/8 of the way through the game and have 
 horns. Also, I found it ironic how easy this game was. Final boss, that Jack of Blades dragon thing, 
 Killed him in a few hits. Maxed out multi strike can kill anything assuming you got the Sword of 
 Aeons or something almost as good - or better. Moving onto the bugs, there were ALOT of bugs. E. X. 
 the quest to become mayor of bowerstone. I picked up the journal, The quest was gone, not in compleated 
 or current quests, and the item was gone. Its creepy how many times that happened. And the fact 
 I beat it in I think three days playing after getting home. It has "Replay value" but the second 
 time is boring considering 85% of the quests are still the same.
  
  Final words -
  Buy it, play it, sell it, find something better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notlin-san
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 19, 2005 1:10 pm PT
Review:  ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds 
 ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds 
 ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds 
 ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds 
 ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds 
 ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds 
 ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds 
 ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds 
 ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds 
 ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds 
 ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds 
 ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds ds 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loiola
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 7:24 am PT
Review:  Come on, whats it with calling this babysitter "superb"? Amazing graphics and sound, but lame 
 and short story, errand-boy quests, and all that retarded townsfolk clapping all the way. 
  
  Why make us waste time with hairstyles, weddings, carousing etc. when these things change absolutely 
 nothing in the story or ending? Lots of nice ideas thrown out the window by poor implementation.
 
  
  As Chuck D always said, "dont believe the hype!". Cant wait for Oblivion!
  
  iadaidaiaiaiaiaiaiaiiaiaai aiaia ai aia ai ai ai aia iaia ia ia ia ia ia ia ia ai ai ai ai ai aiaia 
 ia ia ia ai ia ai ai ia ai ia ai ai ai ai ai aia iiai aii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchtropico
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 15, 2005 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Fable the lost chapters is a PC port of a amazing XBOX game. Now with a third more gameplay! 
 
  
  If you played the XBOX game and found it a good game but found it way to short then this may be 
 your answer. With better graphics, More content, more land to explore and more story, the lost 
 chapters is the best version to play. 
  
  The keyboard layout is a very good change, But it may take a little getting use to if you dont 
 play meny PC RPGs. But once you play for an hour or so its a whole lot easier then the xbox controller.
 
  
  The game is a great port but you mite if you like playing with top graphics and game speed you 
 will wont a better computer then the ones on the box.
  
  All in all if you have the xbox version and played it so much the disk worped then maybe you wont 
 wont to play this as most of the new content is at the end of the game, But if you have not played 
 fable before then its well worth picking up Fable The Lost Chapters!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: manchild99
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 15, 2005 9:55 am PT
Review:  I really loved the first Fable for Xbox, even if it didn't meet my expectations, and this game 
 is a big improvment over that one. First lets talk about the controls. I really disliked them on 
 Xbox. Trying to pickup an item, fight, cast magic, and heal yourslef at teh same time got very 
 confussing. Infact the four face buttons are recycled like three or four times each having a different 
 function depending on which other button is held down. One of the best improvments in this game 
 is the controls. They map out nicely on your keyboard, and are much easier than the Xbox.
  The Graphics were also much better in this game. Even though you need a fairly high end PC to max 
 out the settings, they were a bit nicer, and more touched up thatn the Xbox. The sound is also 
 great. The weapon sounds, as well as the voice overs and music are top notch. 
  My absolute favorite paert of Fable is the world of Albion that the developers have managed to 
 create. I felt like i was really in a fantasy world, with all the different things that i could 
 do. There are many side quests, but the originalk story is rather short. The lost Chapters part 
 doesn't begin untill you beat the original game again, which can be annoying for players who have 
 completed the Xbox version. But even with the expansion, the game is a little short. And after 
 you finish teh main quest all you can do is complete the side quests. 
  Another thing that I liked about this was the combat system. No matter what type of skill ( Strength, 
 Will, or Skill) upgrading really showed improvements. Upgrading your strength made your character 
 change from a weak young man to a hulking beast of muscle. Which also really showed in combat by 
 increasing your damage significantly. Upgrading will, and skill also showed real results.
  Another big part of this game is the choice between good and evil. Normally in games like this 
 gamers complain because being good is to hard, usually giving you less money, or haveing a weaker 
 character.) But in fable this is not an issue. They balanced the rewards for good and evil fairly 
 well. They even added a new sword, as good as the sword of Aeons for charcter who want a stronger 
 weapon, but don't want all the evil points. Also your phwsical apperance changes depending on weather 
 you are good or evil. Seeing ladies ( or men) fall in love with a good character, and run away screeming 
 from a bad character is a cool part of the game.
  Another thing i liked is character customization, This game takes it much further than most other 
 games. You can turn your character into a tatooed freak who wears no clothes, or a clean shaven 
 proper gentlemn.
  All in all i think that this is a big improvement over the Xbox verison, and it should be bought 
 by anyone who likes Fable or RPG games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derektkchan
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 14, 2005 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Overall a very satisfying game with lots to do. I particularly enjoyed all the different side quests 
 available and the many opportunities for leveling up. The weapons and powers were great with the 
 added twist of being able to switch between good and evil... what more can you ask for. The subtitling 
 was a bit funky for me though. The sub-titling would sometimes go off and I woul dhave to change 
 the video options to restore the text. It was a minor annoyance once I realized how to fix it but 
 initially it was very fustrating. The length of the game was also good for me. I'm a casual gamer 
 so spending about 20hrs to fully complete the game with all its side quests was very reasonable 
 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KnowledgeOrCred
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 11, 2005 4:57 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe how extraordinaryily complicated and variable this game is, while i have yet to 
 finish it i have tasted the spoils of what is a solid and well contrived game. 
  The gameplay is fun, easy to use while being strategic and solid in the core, my only complaint 
 being is that it provides little strategic options and leans towards the easy and the hack and 
 slash. 
  The graphics are truly amazing to behold but lack that certain wow power that games like Far Cry 
 and halflife 2 hold. 
  The sound is solid, and since most notifications are purely sound (the shops are now open) and 
 the reactions to your stunts fully voiced, this is the first game since KotOR to make my ears drool. 
 
  What swings this game so much for me is it's ability to combine the traditions of previous RPGs 
 with new and amazingly ambitious features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CerpinTaxt85
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 11, 2005 1:26 am PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing. The one on the Xbox blew me away and played for days straight. The 
 only thing i was disappointed to find out was that not much extra was added. Of course, the graphics 
 were a major improvement from that of the Xbox and the combat system is easier to control on the 
 PC. 
  
  I spent less time playing this version than the one on the Xbox!! And they said they added more 
 side quests and a whole new part to the game...
  
  While 85% of the game is the exact same, the 15% or so they added is not worth the extra money 
 if you have already played it on Xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJanGSanGY
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 11, 2005 12:54 am PT
Review:  Time aspect of the game was way too fast paced. It didn't let you enjoy the fruits of your labor, 
 as you would grow old to a pile of dust. Being able to see yourself progressively age was nice, 
 but was easily dismissed when you would see yourself a old man for the next half of the game.
 
  Strong story, gameplay, and suspence. The gameplay mechanism was nicely successive to captivate 
 the audience, and the difficulty was calibrated to par, but the game's in game economics and systems 
 made this game not as good as it should be.
  
  The short game time, also made some undeveloped plots, as you would be hoping the story would intwine 
 together. But most of the time is spent doing quests that have no alignment with the true story 
 line. It gets to the point, where game play becomes redundant. But this doesnt progress for too 
 long, since the game only lasts about 10-20 hours to beat. The only other criticism I would have 
 would be the large system requirements. I have a athlon 64 3200 processor with a gig of ram and 
 a 256 radeon 9600SE. You can only enjoy the full pleasure of this game with the graphics set on 
 high, and it was not possible for my computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodBoy69
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 11, 2005 12:34 am PT
Review:  This game isn't a sequel it's just an updated version for Pc. It plays a lot better on Xbox. It's 
 a good game on the Xbox, and on the Pc it had bugs. Eg sound cuts out or it just quits. Plus it's 
 a little bit short but if you don't mind playing relatively the same story then great re-play value. 
 I know that i played it multiple times making around 4-5 charecters (wanting to make all charecters 
 good and evil) before i got bored of it. Just to let everyone know about it that it is NOT A SEQUEL 
 it's just an updated version. I brought it thinking that it was a sequel but i got home and played 
 and realised that it is not. Lucky i brought it at EB so i could return it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kicken
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 10, 2005 4:23 pm PT
Review:  --This game is awesome, really really good, but the bad score is because I played the *stuffing* 
 out of Fable for xbox. the problem was that I played it so much for fable, and since theres no 
 difference in good or evil, theres no replay value, thats why it got such a low score in that compartment, 
 
  --Gameplay is awesome, extremely fun, but then after awhile it got repetetive, and easy, and if 
 you play it again, its not addicting or anything. 
  --Graphics, decent. They were good for computer, but lagged with my decent video card. I liked 
 though how you got older and you could get cuts and scars, really cool, but the contrast between 
 dark and good should of been more realistic, and your guy grows up way too fast for the game. 
 
  --Now length wise and story, if you played xbox and played this game, its so old and there is 
 nothing new until the end, and I bet this game (all side quests, everything) in 13 hours, including 
 the new stuff, new stuff would take you maybe 2 hours tops, easy, simple, no new side quests (like 
 in hook coast or anything) 
  --All and all, this game would be good if you never watched or played this game for xbox, its the 
 same until the end (with few things in the middle) and the end only gives 2 hours, plus youll play 
 it once maybe twice, and youll be done, not worth the money, definately borrow from a friend before 
 you play it, fun, but just not worth the money because its short. if it would of been longer, and 
 maybe just even more customization to your character, something new once and awhile, it would be 
 funner, and keep you at the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conrad_QS
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2005 3:38 pm PT
Review:  The Fable is shown to us like a story... one of the most beautiful stories ever made... Characters, 
 story-teller, peisages and all the elements are perfectly designed and "teleported" from PS. For 
 the first time, the camera moves is no longer a problem for this kind of game. The choices and 
 the in games make the difference, plus the reaction of the people in town. For example, if you 
 choos e to be a good character, the people will salute you and the woman will have hearts for you. 
 If you are bad, you eyes will became red and all will run away from you + the guardians will follow 
 you like hell. The end can be as you choose - good or bad. If you are using excessive powers, you 
 will became older sooner, but the maximum age is 65 years old. Play the game and you will won't 
 regrete that! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Square_Enix_69
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 10, 2005 8:27 am PT
Review:  Im don't know if you can agree ith me when I say that Fable: The Lost Chapters' one of the greatest 
 role playing games available. The year 2005 has been a great year for lionhead studios and of course 
 Peter Molyneux. They're long awaited Black & White 2, The Movies and of course, the reason for 
 this reveiw, Fabel!
  
  Fable: The Lost Chapters allows the player to be himself. He gets to decide what path he's going 
 to take and how he takes it. Are you going to become a mighty hero worshipped by many around the 
 lands or are you going to be an evil barbaric warrior in search for just power, glory and money!
 
  Which way you go, you decide. But if you complete the game as good why not play through it again 
 as evil or visa versa. It's not going to be completely the same because there are different quests 
 and paths for each alignment!
  
  Fable has all the great aspects of a role playing game but with all that more of an adventure and 
 a great story of your charcter, how he's turned out to be and how he's grown up from a meer child 
 to a great Fighter!
  
  Its your choice to become either a strong soldier, a nimble theif, an agile ranger or a powerful 
 mage! ... or you could just be all of them!
  You can learn new skills such as theving, magic, becoming for stronger or have a better accuracy 
 with your bow.
  
  Fable: The Lost Chapters puts you in control like you have never been before. It has neat graphics, 
 incredible gameplay and an amazing storyline to play the game through. This game is really worth 
 its expense and even though it's not very long to ply through you'll have hours of fun playing 
 it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SixSigma1978
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2005 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Lets talk about the pros first. Mixing the SIMS -a la esque into the game is a fresh way of looking 
 @ RPG in game dynamics. It certainly breathes new life into the genre. I remember spending hours 
 (in the beginning if I might add) flirting with local females to get them to marry me.. further, 
 the renown mechanics is also an intersting addition to role playing aspects.
  
  Graphically the game is pretty.. however, the world seems pretty small and linear. After getting 
 pampered by HUGE worlds of Gothic, Dungeon Siege and the Mother of them all- Morrowind... this game 
 world seems almost the size of an average backyard.... I hear the XBOX version was even smaller.. no 
 northern wastes and such!!!!!
  
  This brings me to the derived SECOND point.. its WAYYYYY Too short.
  i think i wrapped up the 
 game in less than 20 hours (and there are peeps out there whove done it in HALF that time apparently) .... come 
 on... we're not expecting an MMORPG like world.. but isn't this cutting it a bit too short???
  
  The sound seemed ok... so were the quests.... but nothing that makes me sit back and say to myself 
 "Cool"!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsday
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 7, 2005 12:31 pm PT
Review:  There's more to life than beauty. Ugliness has it's place, as does leftover pizza and decorative 
 toilet seats. But beauty can sure as hell mask incompetence. I'm not trying to say that Fable is 
 an incompetent game masked by beauty, but the sense of the world it puts you in greatly enhances 
 the game thats on offer.
  
  In terms of Gameplay, Fable is not a Genre defining title. Despite the game's obsession with the 
 whole good and evil thing (more on that later) , it's a standard adventure/rpg/action game.
  
  You start out as a small boy, village just been burned to the ground, parents killed, someone 
 is trying to kill you etc etc. You get saved by a mysterious tattooed man who takes you away to 
 the hero's guild where you begin training to be a hero, and ultimately uncover the secrets behind 
 who was responsible for destroying your life.
  
  You have a choice between 3 main paths - warrior, archer, or mage. I found that many missions required 
 at least some development in one of the skills and since there's no real penalty in gaining levels 
 in all three, you will find that you end up mixing and matching your skills, even when you start 
 out with the intention of staying "pure".
  
  The missions are well thought out, and the main story is accessible, well told, and not too instrusive. 
 All of the missions are given with voiceover at the minimum, and the main missions are also acted 
 out with some of the wonderful characters in the game.
  
  On to the good/evil thing. I really didn't see the point in this. Every action you do has an associated 
 good or evil rating. Kill a wasp or a bandit, and you get "good" points. Kill a villager or wandering 
 trader and you get "evil" points. The net total of good and evil points makes your character more 
 or less of the two extremes. The more evil you are, the darker you become, eventually growing horns 
 and glowing eyes. Good characters will have a white glow and a halo. The whole system looked pretty 
 but was too simplistic and contrived. You could completely change your alignment by donating at 
 a temple or spending time killing oppositely aligned people/creatures. Killed a few too many innocent 
 children? No problem, just hang out in the graveyard for half an hour and you will have a halo 
 in no time.
  
  This is a good game. It is beautiful to look at, sounds great, well written and acted, and also 
 slightly flawed. It could have been perfect but is not quite there. There's no doubt that it is 
 worth the money you put down on it, but whether you will pick it up again in 12 months time, or 
 talk to your friends about it in 10 years "remember that fable game??" is questionable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CeldorDK
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  There is no doubt that i have always been and is still a big Lionhead fan! But by watching this 
 new game, i see that they can not only make 3rd person Black &amp; White games! This game is very 
 very awesome!
  
  I used my first 5 days to play this non-stop. It's a masterpiece without competing with other games. 
 The only bad thing about the game is that there no Multi-player options! You can't play on-line 
 with you'r friends, even though it could be nice, to destroy them in this wonderfull game!
  
  First view of the game gave me a Go-On bravery, it's really good graphic, the sound is excellent 
 and the gameplay should have a 11, if that was available!
  
  Everyone, go buy this if you get the chance, this game won't disappoint you!
  
  Enjoy!
  
 
  [I gave it 10.0 PERFECT:
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 10 (Works best on nVidia)
  Sound: 10 (Works best with SoundBlaster Surround)
  Value: 10
  Reviewer's Tilt: 10 (Serious 
 doubt that you will Not-Like this game!)
  
  10 is the best, and so is this game!]
  
  Re-Rated to 8. Sorry Fable :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charn
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 5, 2005 5:37 am PT
Review:  The story was great, but I need more, well ... realistic.
  
  - In some maps. There were bandits and undead working 
  together in the same maps (It's not a 
 good idea for the game designers
  having undead and human in the same place) .
  
  - Offensive magic is a bit weak, "Infernal Wrath" for example.
  With fearful arcane symbol on 
 the earth, fire pillars and dark spirits 
  swirling around when casting. It should be very powerful by these,
  but I recognized that even 
 I mastered this magic it would require me
  to cast again just to deal with bandits
  
  I mean it should be as deadly as natural disaster even that
  would cost a lot of mana. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destiny_blade
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 20, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  a orginal and thrriling game, you instanly become addicted to it i like the whole good or evil theme 
 how your choices effect albion i thought this was very effective and we should see more of this 
 in games to come but the game is short but sweet there are a few bonus and side quests you can 
 do to extend the game but still it wont extend the games lifespan by much the music is very atmosphereic 
 and appeling i think they did a great job there the graphics could have been better but not bad 
 for a pc game the whole evil good theme allows you play the game but its still pretty similar but 
 i gotta say jack of blades is a very good villian. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacuus
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 4, 2005 7:19 am PT
Review:  I never played the first one, but this game is a lot of fun. The fighting, controls, skills are 
 all very intuitive and interesting. The story is extremely immersive. It falls short only in its 
 length and depth. While having the ability to add "power-ups" to your weapons, some amount of crafting 
 would have been nice. Especially where your properties are concerned. Being able to be mayor of 
 a town, a landlord, and husband were pretty neat aspects that lent to the overall immersion, they 
 were only skimmed. Read here, Sims meets a great RPG. Yeah thats exactly how it started feel. Great 
 combination 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwells
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 4, 2005 6:46 am PT
Review:  There were many things I liked about Fable: The Lost Chapters and yet, somehow at the end of 
 it I feel like I was given a story that never finished. In this case, I have to agree with the 
 GameSpot review (which I hate to do  just kidding guys) in that it seemed as though there was 
 great promise in this game that was never fully realized. We were promised choices with meaning, 
 and we were certainly given choices. However, the choices had little meaning. Weirdly, the stuff 
 I liked doing most was wandering around wooing the ladies (what can I say, Im a 38 year old married 
 guy who doesnt get to do that sort of thing anymore) . And unfortunately I cannot review the last 
 part of the game (i. e., the Lost Chapters) because every time I got to a certain point that I needed 
 to get to my system froze up, so I did encounter some technical difficulties. Perhaps the snow 
 animation was too much for my computer. In the end, I never felt particularly close to the protagonist 
 and the choices he made on my bequest never felt difficult. The answers were always so clear 
 cut between good and evil that they became somewhat cardboard and wrote. I would have preferred 
 an actual moral dilemma for a good character, for example. You know, save some woman you love, 
 or save a large group of anonymous villagers. Now that is a choice. I guess what I am saying is 
 that while you are forced to make choices, the choices are so easy once youve decided in which 
 vein you will play the game that it is almost like you dont really have a choice. In wonder how 
 the game would play if you simply picked good vs. evil alternately. I bet it wouldnt be any 
 different  and that is the main weakness of this game: that you have choices, but they feel like 
 they do not matter. That and the fact that I dont think I ever once died. I am certainly no video-game 
 action hero, and thus I can tell that a game is not well balanced if I never have any difficulty 
 with it. Usually action games make me work harder, simply because I suck at them. Hey, Im 38. 
 I can live with it. In the end, this game had a lot of potential that I feel it never lived up 
 to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaust111
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 2, 2005 3:10 am PT
Review:  If you're familiar with the Xbox version of Fable, you'll find that Fable: The Lost Chapters is 
 essentially the same game, though it's been tuned to work well for the PC and gains a significant 
 amount of new content. That is, the 12 months since the release of the original apparently were 
 well spent -- this game isn't any worse for wear today. The new Lost Chapters storyline picks up 
 immediately following the conclusion of the original Fable's main quest, challenging you to explore 
 the treacherous north of the world of Albion, and conquer a great threat lurking there. Featuring 
 new places to explore, new items to find, and new monsters to fight, plus lots of new dialogue 
 and cutscenes, the additional content of The Lost Chapters is at least as good as that of the original 
 game, and it blends in seamlessly with the rest. It's like getting an expansion pack together with 
 the original game, and The Lost Chapters helps address one of the original Fable's problems, which 
 is that it was quite short. Fable veterans will of course need to play through the game again in 
 order to get to the new stuff, and the additional quests amount to only a few more hours of gameplay, 
 if you play straight through them. So while fans will surely enjoy the new content, it isn't necessarily 
 enough to justify getting a second copy of the game. And if you're new to Fable, you'll be better 
 off for all the stuff that's been added. Other than the new content, Fable's controls and presentation 
 have been translated very well to the PC, to the point where the game barely shows its console 
 roots.
  
  You begin Fable as a young child, and it's here that you're introduced to the game's moral alignment 
 system, its sense of humor, and its dark edge -- as well as its basic controls, which will be mostly 
 intuitive if you've played other third-person perspective games recently. Your first order of business 
 is to earn a few gold pieces with which to purchase a birthday gift for your sister. Whether you 
 make the money by being helpful or by making trouble is up to you. This initial  
 sequence is quite impressive in the amount of freedom and variety it affords you, and it suggests 
 that Fable will constantly challenge you to make moral decisions like the ones presented early 
 on. For example, will you help a little kid fend off a bully, or will you join in on the bullying 
 (or beat them both up) ? These decisions are so ethically basic that they're not at all difficult 
 to make, but it's still interesting to see how the game plays out depending on what you do. You'll 
 discover, though, that Fable's introduction is not reflective of most of the game's quests, which 
 don't give you many choices. At any rate, soon after you complete your first main task, something 
 sinister happens. Fortunately for your young character, he is saved by an enigmatic man who transports 
 him to the Heroes' Guild, where he is to be trained to become an adventurer.
  
  How you treat the populace of Fable's world of Albion is your decision to make. Whatever you do, 
 it can be interesting to observe their reactions.
  
  Cut to your hero's teenage years. At the Heroes' Guild, you're instructed on how to fight with 
 melee weapons, a bow and arrow, and the powers of will -- otherwise known as magic. All three of 
 these fighting styles are relatively simple to use, but they work well. It's possible to lock onto 
 nearby targets, and you can switch between ranged and melee weapons easily. Melee combos are unleashed 
 just by left-clicking repeatedly. Some foes will block your attacks, but you can penetrate their 
 defenses either by maneuvering behind them or by using a slower, stronger, unblockable strike that 
 becomes available after every few normal strikes. Archery works similarly but is more methodical -- the 
 longer you press and hold the attack button, the more fiercely you'll draw your bow, resulting 
 in significant damage per hit. Actually, archery may not seem altogether practical in Fable. It 
 can be plenty effective, but since you'll be fighting most foes single-handedly, and most of them 
 will quickly close the distance between you, toe-to-toe combat proficiency will seem like the obvious 
 first choice. A few flying enemies will require you to put your unlimited arrows to good use, though.
 
  
  Magic is unquestionably valuable in Fable. You'll start off with a simple lightning attack, but 
 you'll be able to spend experience points on more than a dozen other different spells (and upgrades 
 to those spells) . There are spells that do such things as temporarily boost your strength and speed 
 or temporarily cause time to slow down all around you, letting you easily outmaneuver foes. (Descriptions 
 of these spells make them sound very useful, and, in fact, they are.) Magic is a little awkward 
 to use at first: You need to hold down the shift button to access your spells, then you have to 
 use your mousewheel to cycle through your available spells, if you have more than a couple. But 
 this is easy enough to get used to, and worth getting used to sooner rather than later, because 
 magic helps make Fable's frequent battles pretty easy, for better or worse.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: squalcl
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 31, 2005 10:30 pm PT
Review:  The game's graphic certainly is good. However, one of the biggest weaknesses is character interaction. 
 The civilians don't really do anything; they're just there for entertaining purposes. The good 
 and evil choices are way too simple, which is not so true in real life. What's weird is that the 
 hero never says anything except when making expressions; lack of participation of the hero left 
 out a lot. The combat system is fun, but a few spells can make combat extremely easy. I spent about 
 2 minutes to kill the dragon Jack of Blades in the end, using multi-strike spell with physical 
 shield, wielding Solus Greatsword. Shops can be exploited also; can earn money by buying and selling 
 things all out. As a result, the money doesn't seem precious anymore, no appreciation for it. The 
 treasure chests aren't worth while to open, since most of them can be bought, or not as powerful. 
 The missions are too simple and straight-forward. But anyways, it's a good game. More sophisticated 
 story plot and good-evil system will enhance the game greatly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michael_delta
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 31, 2005 3:27 am PT
Review:  What can I say about this game? WOW!!! I NEARLY bought an XBox just for this game (as well as Ninja 
 Gaiden) . But since it was released for the PC, I just could not believe my eyes!! I played the 
 game and I was awestruck with it's magnificent characters, storyline and a whole lot of other stuff 
 as well!! I really like it when you can have a choice between Good and Evil and everything around 
 you changes to what YOU decide!! Get this game, it's really really worth playing!! Just would like 
 it a bit more if I can "upgrade" the graphical details!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KitKitty
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 31, 2005 1:47 am PT
Review:  I waited for years to get the first fable, It totally blew, I tried The lost chapters, and guess 
 what... ITS THE SAME THING! Is it a surprise to any one that this game is just a rip off remake 
 of the first crappy ripoff? I love rpgs, I love fun action filled exitint games. Its two short, 
 to easy, to small, to annoying, and all around to BAD to play or buy. Why buy the remake of the 
 same game? If you honestly need to that much, rent the xbox version and beat it, in like what a 
 day? Trust me it wont be a challenge. The graphics, music, AI, gameplay, and physics could have 
 been better. Why? Well for starters, there are no physics, the graphics arnt nearly as good as 
 some xbox titals, the music sounds like your in a Disney fairy movie, the AI is stupid, and.. well 
 its the same crappy game again. If you want to hear what I said for that one read my review on 
 fable... after all the same game deserves the same review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rvdg
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2005 2:00 am PT
Review:  Perfect, just plain perfect. its the best game i ever played! The made just one thing a bit weird. 
 If traders or villigers are attackt, the defend them selfs. but if you attack them the dont. you 
 master the controls quite quick. it so masterly cool. on a rating from 1 to 10 i would give it 
 a 1000000000000000! Great, fantastic, briliant, masterly, cool, perfect.
  Fable: The Lost Chapters. The demon doors, the silver key chests, the quests, the weapons, the 
 clothing, the hairstyles, the tatoos. the minigames are great to. 
  
  all to gether it's perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murdrax
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2005 10:34 am PT
Review:  i got intrigued by fable when i first saw previews but was bummed out from being on xbox only. 
 then i learned of upcoming pc version before going on vacation. while there i got a chance to dig 
 my teeth into xbox version of fable l, oved it so much as soon i i got hoime bought the pc version 
 and have been having the time of my life with it.
  
  if fable 2 comes out for pc i will definately by it as well. all i can say is its been very enjoyable 
 and still pop on it accasionasly to either save the innocent or smack around the kids lol.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charbo00
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2005 7:29 am PT
Review:  Fable for xbox was a great game when it came out. The only bad thing was that it was way to short. 
 The re-release of it helps this by not only bringing it to PC but adding new quests and story parts. 
 Granted, these dont add too much to the game, but especially if you havent played it on xbox, its 
 worth a buy. You play as a kid who's village gets burned down and you are taken to an academy to 
 become a hero. You can choose to be good or evil, depending on what you do and how you act. You 
 will be able to customize the hair of your character and there is alot of differant clothes to 
 wear. You can also choose if you will use strength, magic, or range. Closer to the end you will 
 probably be good with all 3, but in the begining you will probably want to stick to one. Even after 
 you beat the game, it is still fun to go around killing people if you are bad, and do the extra 
 quests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fl3cha
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 27, 2005 4:52 pm PT
Review:  It was one of the best games i have played ever! A lot of things to do, many optional quests, and 
 a lot of others things to discover! A lot of  can make the character 
 the way you want! Its a great fun to see the reactions of people if you are good or a evil person. A 
 very good story to!
  
  The only problem... there are only a few main quests... if you just want to do main quest and arrive 
 as soon as possible to the end... well.. you will finish the game quick! But you have plenty of other 
 tings to do.
  
  A very recomendable game! :) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: broli12
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 25, 2005 10:38 am PT
Review:  this is one of the best games for the pc never seen something good i never seen something likes 
 this you will say that even battlefield 2 is nothing is you played this game must fill it up a 
 bit to come to the 100 words well the grapichs are nice and the gameplay to the music is not so 
 great adn the value is ok so i think this game is gonna be number 1 for the pc in a few weeks and 
 i cant believe it if another game is number 1 instead of fable what not at 100 words jet hum then 
 lets fill it up with this nosense so if you read this just stop reading its ust stuf to fill up 
 to 100 words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tartagliam
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 24, 2005 7:31 pm PT
Review:  All my friends kept saying "don't play this" and "Fable sucks donkey dick". But let me tell you, 
 I had a lot of fun. Let's begin with the ratings:
  
  Gameplay (out of 10) :: 8
  Story (out of 10) :: 8
  Graphics (out of 5) :: 4
  Multiplayer (out of 5) :: N/A
  
  The 
 biggest part of the game? The actual experience itself. Albeit a really short game (even with the 
 Lost Chapters levels, I still beat it in less than 10 hours) the gameplay keeps you really involved. 
 There are a lot of quests, really cool powers and tons of different personality aspects. I really 
 did like the fact that your character could be customized: You could have tattoos, facial hair, 
 different personality traits. Hell, you could even be gay! (pretty damn funny in-game lol.)
  
  The third time through, I was finding even stuff I hadn't known about! And the story? Hell, 
 it wasn't that bad! It had a good way of tieing everything into place. The only parts I didn't 
 like were the protection parts. (I hate these levels in all games.) The NPCs are really weak, so 
 it makes a really un-balanced game if you choose to be good.
  
  But still, the good and bad sides really do change the way that you play the game. The graphics 
 are pretty good (especcially with the new Lost Chapters resolutions) and the cities all vary in 
 great detail.
  
  Everyone said this game sucked. And you know what? Maybe it did. For me it grew on me, and I consider 
 it one of my "guilty pleasure" games. Overall: B+. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 24, 2005 6:27 pm PT
Review:  I have to disagree with the Gamespot review on this one. The console roots of this game are glaring, 
 and hobble what might have been a great role playing game.
  
  The first obstacle for any console port is the graphics. Fable's graphics are merely adequate. 
 While the style is interesting and fresh, they remain subpar. Many of the character models look 
 flat and unfinished, something that was acceptable three years ago on the PC, but which now simply 
 makes the game look dated.
  
  Excellent voice acting can't make up for this game's schizophrenic tone. Sing-song voice acting 
 can add charm to a console RPG that is designed for a younger gaming audience. But this game is 
 certainly not for little kids. At least, sometimes it seems it is. And then not. And that is part 
 of the problem with this game, and which I think again derives from its hybrid development.
  
  PC RPGs tend to be more adult in tone, and its seems the game designers knew that. But Fable 
 is in style a humorous and light RPG. The combination doesn't work. And throughout the game, one 
 is faced with a continuous clash of tones that makes it difficult to really become engaged with 
 the game. It constantly forces you out of the game experience. And let's be honest - the experience 
 is everything in an RPG. Some RPGs immerse you so much in the game world that time seems to stand 
 still. That's part of the reason why people play them. This game, to put it bluntly, is not immersive 
 at all.
  
  Controls for the game are fine when moving around, but clumbsy in combat. It takes some fiddling 
 to get things set up in a way that makes sense. Even then, its glaringly obvious that this is a 
 console port and that the designers didn't spend enough time getting the control system right.
 
  
  Then there is the difficulty. This game is entirely too easy. And while this was acceptable at 
 first, the difficulty does not ramp up as the game progresses. The best RPGs not only make you 
 feel incredibly powerful in the game world, but also continue to thrown threats at you that challenge 
 your power. Toward the middle of the game, you are so powerful that the challenge is completely 
 gone from combat.
  
  That could be redeemed if the story and quests were interesting. But they are standard fare. Go 
 and eliminate this baddy or that baddy, or collect object x or y or z, and bring it back to person 
 a or b or c. The story is completely cliche. Young hero wannabe taken by magical stranger to learn 
 the tools for revenge and to find a lost family member. This kind of plot is only bearable when 
 its done lightheartedly (because its been done so dang many times) . Again, the schizophrenic tone 
 ruins what interest the plot may have produced by abruptly switching from and adult to kiddie tone, 
 sometimes in a matter of seconds. 
  
  In short, I wouldn't recommend this game to any PC RPG fans, unless you're a convert from consoles 
 and want a bit of nostalgia. It's short, not much of a challenge, and has nothing that you haven't 
 seen before a dozen times in terms of plot or characterization. I suspect many RPG fans will be 
 bored in a few hours.
  
  Hate to be blunt, but there it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riandro
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2005 1:56 pm PT
Review:  lovly!!! cant put it into words! ive already completed with full shining plate all the abilitys 
 and fully good but i want to play again!!! the learning curve is about 10- 15 miniutes but thats 
 good if u want to know how to live! the difficulty is about right and hard. i doesnt allways get 
 repetitive but i got to say it does get to that stage when travelling. there are new armours and 
 weapons in this beauty of a game not to mention 2 new epic spells that i shall not speek of. there 
 are new quests and adventures too. i think ill go play it now =-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plainelmo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 24, 2005 9:14 am PT
Review:  Spoil yourself and play FABLE: TLC~ Peter Molyneau: brilliant mind of bringing enticing alignment 
 factors to PC games has just about hit the nail on the head with this one. Fable leads gamers in 
 a fulfilling plot that generates character customisation rarely seen before in its genre. Brilliantly 
 coupling character development with benefits or consequences determined on how you play the game. 
 
  
  When I first played this game I was immersed from the moment I began my new adventure throughout 
 the tutorial to end. Fable keeps the player involved and whilst it does follow an almost linear 
 plot, there are still a number of side quests to keep more of the 'go for broke' players happy. 
 Alignment choice furthermore adds to Fables replayable value as certain events and worldly attributes 
 change according to the decisions you make as you progress through the game.
  
  The graphics are simply superb and would keep even the most visually demanding players more or 
 less happy. There maybe could have been slightly more variety to personal equipment sprites. However, 
 the Sonics and spell affects more than added to the lack in equipment diversity department. The 
 games spell affects are simply amazing adding to the power and vibrancy to the would be magic-users 
 of the game.
  
  Combat mechanics function smoothly with little problems. Although the hero does not have the talents 
 nor moves to rival Kratos from 'God of War' there are enough attacks to keep melee enthusiasts 
 satisfied with how well the overall combat plays out. Ranged combat was more than a pleasure to 
 partake in with the zoom feature and movement physics, offered ranged combat an extra air of realism. 
 
  
  Interestingly enough, the aging system added spice and character to your experienced adventurer, 
 who you witness develop from childhood to adulthood. Whilst not the first in it's class to bring 
 an aging mechanic to the scene, FABLE seems to have gotten the better part of it right~ especially 
 aimed towards players who develop a sentimental attachment to that old grizzly warrior. Whilst 
 aging does affect the look and appearance of your character it does not affect your statistics 
 or your martial prowess on the battlefield. This concept along with the accumulated body scars 
 feature brings more spice to the game and makes the adventure all the more realistic, more heroic. 
 My only real gripe about this feature was how the age was calculated, all in which was slightly 
 flawed.
  
  Finally, some may argue that the voice acting was a little overacted, but all in all, I personally 
 feel that it only added to the foreboding setting. Fable TLC is definitely worth taking a look 
 at, whilst it would have been nice being slightly longer, the game plays out well enough that most 
 action/RPG enthusiast gamers probably wouldn't care.
  
  Fun, fulfilling and worth playing twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justinwwk
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 24, 2005 6:54 am PT
Review:  Each time I turn on my computer and start Fable: The Lost Chapters, I would end up at least 3-4 
 hours playing it. It is just simply highly addictive! The graphic is reasonable good enough as 
 you can apply changes into your character from time to time such as hair styles, clothes, weapons 
 etc. The world of Fable is similar to the scenes from big movie hits such as Lord of the Rings 
 series, as it has fearful monsters, zombies, dragons and that makes it so much fun exploring it. 
 The game play were excellent as you can actually do a lot of things like a real human living in 
 a fable world. At the same time, you will actually grow from a kid to a teenager, and later on 
 to adults and continues on. The only weakness of Fable is that it is rather short. It would be 
 great if the story can be unfolds more and more places to explore. Anyhow, Fable is a recommended 
 game for RPG + Action games fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermojoman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 24, 2005 1:34 am PT
Review:  This game is the best game EVA!!! i cant wait for fable 2 to come out! its gonna be killa! The 
 graphics are really good, i really think that they r good. The sound is also extremely good! In 
 summary, i think that this game is very good and u should go buy it!! Go on, go buy it now get 
 out there! Quick b4 the shop closes gogogogoo! gogogogog. is this 100 words yet
  i really wish that this was 100 words
  and then i went to the shops and bought fable. the end. 
 oh man screw this how long dsu this dam thing hav 2 be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iciris
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 23, 2005 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Fable brings you the great game play that only a mouse can give you compared to the game pad with 
 the X-Box version of the game. I have personally enjoyed every moment of replaying the parts of 
 the game that I have done previously on the X-Box, with the added extras that they have added it 
 brings a slight change to the way the plot plays out.
  
  The graphics and colors were great if not better then I expected for a conversion of an X-Box title. 
 However I did find some problems with the game not allowing me to turn Shadows too full, even though 
 I own a Sapphire X800 XT PE, this has lowered my rating of the graphics slightly however it is 
 still great. The colors were what stood out for me, giving the game that cartoony life like feeling.
 
  
  The sound effects still sounded good. I did not find any problems with them other then the very 
 repetitive sound of hitting enemies; the same sound over and over again.
  
  The game was much nicer for me being a PC user who plays on his friends consoles. I spent aprx 
 30 hours playing on the X-Box and another 20+ on the PC and I plan on spending many more. My big 
 disappointment was the fact that it did not have multiplayer. I do understand that it would be 
 very hard to insert a multiplayer story line to coincide with the single player game, although 
 it would still be nice.
  
  In general I recommend this game to any Fable Fan, however if you felt that Fable on X-Box was 
 missing something I would not expect you to buy TLC and find it. It was well worth it for me. All 
 I can recommend you do is go find someone that has the game and try it for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DunnoMyName
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 21, 2005 3:13 pm PT
Review:  When i just started the game as you play a little boy,
  it was fricken cool.. you can choose your path about 3 thing..
  and it's only the start..
  every 
 time i made a combo.. it was so fricken addictive!
  i'll do it short:
  
  Graphics are F***ing Amazing! even on low settings it looked good..
  but there were some bugs 
 =\ not so criticl but.. OK..
  9\10
  
  Sound.. i can listen to this music all day :-)
  9\10
  
  Story is changing with the players choice.. i finished the game 3 times
  and saw 2 
 diffrent endings but it's not all about the end..
  you can do secondery objectives so it changes some times everything
  9\10
  
  Gameplay is 
 addictive and changes.. i realy like the sword beacuse
  of the combos and the bow is annoing! you can't play like this..
  9\10
  
  TOTAL: 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riviereflo
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2005 11:57 am PT
Review:  This game has so many things that are good about it. Ones that i can name are great gameplay, great 
 story, amazing graphics and many more. The game has a a good amount of skills and also has quite 
 interesting skills as well. This new fable that that has now come out on PC is great cause it now 
 allows your character to have many different types of skills and weapons, ranging from using magic, 
 using bows and lastly the best one using a sword or hammer. 
  
  i think that the story is quite interesting and because you are allowed to become good or bad is 
 a great feature. Another great feature is that if you become good or bad or while you just grow 
 up you apperance will change, which can make the game seem more realistic. Also because you have 
 an effect on people, like people feeling differently about you either being scared, or in love, 
 etc. 
  
  To conclude this i think this is a game well worth the money and is a game that anyone who likes 
 rpg games should like this. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fantasy_wow
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 19, 2005 3:12 am PT
Review:  Since from the starting of the story, a lot of choices can be made by the main character, and each 
 decision made will lead to different branches of story line. Either Good or evil, well-known or 
 plain, hero or devil..... it is yours to develop the character to. Personally, i think there is 
 not much skills and spells for particular type of fighting style that we want to be (e. g warrior, 
 archer, magician, assassin and so on...) , but, because of that, we can personalize the character 
 accordingly to our will for the best fit of the character that we want it to be... or the situation 
 of the current quest. I'm truly putting myself inside while i was playing this game.... like playing 
 myself inside the game..... I found myself through the game!!! I like the background music very 
 much too! It is totally addictive to me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucky2492
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 18, 2005 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Fable is a fun game. Its a pretty short game even with the added content but has a huge replay 
 value. The graphics a very good. The melee action can get repetitive, but never so much that it 
 is boring. The magic powers are really fun to use and see. There are also tons of them to pick 
 from. For example, there are powers like physical shield that surrounds you in a blue aura, protecting 
 you from all damge for a certain amount of time. Then there are powers like lightning, which once 
 leveled up all the way creates a powerful chain lightning attack that may even bhead your enemies! 
 The ability to gain scars all over the character's body throught combat and buying and finding 
 new tatoos and hair and beard styles really make your character one of a kind. Also, leveling up 
 health, for instance, will not only increase your life points, but will also make your character 
 appear more muscular and bigger, while leveling up Skill will make your character tall and lean. 
 Coolest of all, leveling up magic will eventually make blue tattoes appear all over your body, 
 as well as making your character's pupils a glowing blue and wider, and making your character's 
 hands glow blue. Lastly, your character ages as you level him up, gaining white hair and wrinkles. 
 Being good and bad also affect your characters appearence and how he is accepted by NPC's, growing 
 horns, red eyes, broken teeth, a red mist, and flies goin] g around him, as well as being feared 
 universally. Or, gaining a halo and blondish hair, with butterflies, and being loved and adored 
 by people. This is a must get for RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThE_MuTiLaToR
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 18, 2005 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Fable: The Lost Chapters is a rehash of Fable for the XBox. In this version, new weapons, armor, 
 quests and environments are added. This is a welcome addition but unfortunately, does not lengthen 
 the plot enough. Overall though, this is a very fun game with some very funny features.
  
  You start the game as a young child whose family has all been slain (or have they?!) by bandits. 
 You are taken to a guild of heroes to train to become a hero. You are taught the basics of swordsmanship 
 and marksmanship. You are then released into the vast world of Albion to answer quest requests 
 sent by needy citizens. Over time, you will come to learn more about your family and the various 
 characters in the game. There are a few interesting plot twists but they are very predictable. 
 The story overall is also a little disappointing.
  
  Gameplay: This is an action rpg game. You swing your sword and fire your arrow with the left-mouse 
 button, block with the middle-mouse, and zoom or "flourish" with the right-mouse. You gain experience 
 over time which you use to level up your physical abilities, your skills, and your "will" (magic) 
 powers. This is a very nice formula, but I had found that the enemy AI in the game is very easy 
 to beat if you figure out the patterns. Also, if you max out your character's physical and skill 
 levels, the enemies become extremely pitiful. Even the so-called "boss" battle at the end of the 
 game is very easy and I was disappointed by that. The game also features shops where you can buy 
 anything from better weapons and armor, to food and potions to increase your health, to tattoos 
 and haircuts to improve your attractiveness and help you score more girls ;) . Yes, dating and marriage 
 is also an addition in the game as well as sex, but it is not a very important feature and gets 
 boring after a while. The quests basically boil down to kill these enemies, rescue these hostages 
 and not much else. There are a few easy puzzles as well. Even with this simple formula, there is 
 just so much stuff to do and I had a lot of fun playing this game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game have been updated from the original game, but not having seen 
 the original nor having a good enough computer to max out the graphics in the game, I can not say 
 much about them. They do look nice though. The animations are fluid and the character models are 
 decent.
  
  Sound: I was very impressed with the sound of the game. The soundtrack is nicely composed and fits 
 the various environments well. It is good to listen to and edited well to pick up the pace when 
 fighting enemies or when there are twists in the plot.
  
  Value: Although I had a lot of fun with this game, it was just NOT LONG ENOUGH. Even with the new 
 editions! There is replay value if you are someone who likes to play both good and evil versions 
 of the game, but the gameplay does not change much from it except from occasionally giving you 
 different enemies to fight, and different weapons you can use. In my opinion, it is not worth the 
 $50 price tag. Wait a few months for the price to drop and pick it up used or from the bargain 
 bin.
  
  Well, that is my review. It is a very fun game with good graphics and very well done sound but 
 the plot is disappointing and it is way too short to justify the price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stedmon8
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 16, 2005 8:31 pm PT
Review:  The thing that really caugt my eye in Fable was how you could be a bad ass or be a angel. Any game 
 that lets you do that is amazing could you can choose your lifestyle very much like real life. The 
 is very fun the quest is very fun and let you make some alerterations when doing the quest. Like 
 for instanc you have to transport two trader threw a forest you can sacfice one of them or pick 
 up an effect trader who wants to tag along. The let you have you own look you can change your armor 
 and see the difference pshyically which I really love also with the weapons too. But the story 
 is actually really straight foward meaning that you cant change the main story of them game. Another 
 good part of the game is the different ability you can do like spells and techniques which you 
 trade for your experience and very good spells and techniques they have. Overall this the best 
 rpg for the pc and a must have.
  
  -sign out this is sted 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moogle10000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 16, 2005 3:56 pm PT
Review:  After hearing all my friends ranting and raving about Fable for the Xbox I felt somewhat left out 
 as I don't have an Xbox.
  
  After Fable came out for PC I had to see what all the excitement was about -- After realizing that 
 this was a Lionhead Studios title I knew the gameplay would be excellent. As I've playing Fable 
 (either the Lost Chapters or the original) I have been constantly amazed at the level of detail 
 in both character animations and NPC interaction. 
  
  One complaint I will voice is the length of the single-player campaign... It proceeds very rapidly 
 and then grinds to a halt.... This is countered, however, by the fact that there are so many different 
 choices you can make during the game that no two runs through the storyline will be exactly the 
 same ... One character might be Evil, the other might be good, and yet another might be mixed somewhere 
 in-between.
  
  Even so, I would highly recommend this title to anybody looking for a fun Action-RPG-type game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmpan
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 16, 2005 11:58 am PT
Review:  This was a great game with many choices. But i was WAY to easy, did the holy side in one day, then 
 i done the evil one in a day too.. Then it was done, and i didn't play any more. The graphic is 
 great, the armor good-looking :) And the easiest class is strenght/sword :) The thing i didn't 
 like was, that u cant jump. Tried mage, it was very hard, and booring :P
  Potions, u will get 1000 of potions, and meat. So it isen't to hard to surrvive!
  A good game, 
 but in the long way, it gets a bit booring! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kscrust
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 16, 2005 7:39 am PT
Review:  Having never played the X-box version, I do not know what is new with this game. I am impressed 
 with the style of this game and the depth of game play. 
  
  One example of this depth is the marriage portion of the game. You can marry a different person 
 in each town. One two or three wives all seem acceptable. If you'd like you can wed a man, or mix 
 it up and marry a man and a woman. 
  
  This game is a lot of fun even if you don't get into the haircuts and tattoos, or even the chicken 
 kickin'. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: northypoley
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 15, 2005 5:08 pm PT
Review:  The game starts you off being a young boy trying to get money to buy a present, and you get different 
 ways to do so. For example, at one one point, a boy is being bullied, you can choose either to 
 beat up the boy or the bully (or perhaps both if you like) , and you will get a needed item. Now, 
 having choices which influences the physical look on your character is pretty awesome, but that 
 awesomeness dies down pretty quick, I'll explain why very soon.
  The gameplay is very simple; you use your experience gained from killing enemies to upgrade different 
 stats so you can kill later enemies easier, like every other game. I said simple because experience 
 is too easy to earn as enemies are too easy to kill. You don't feel accomplished in any way. You 
 can use your easily gained experience to up grade stats divided into three branches, and in each 
 of those branches are unique skills you can upgrade. For example, you can upgrade "Health" in the 
 physical branch which would increase you maximum health. By upgrading different stats, your character 
 can look differently, like getting more muscular when upgrading your physical stats. So, that brings 
 back to the point where I said that the awesomemess dies down quick. For my character, I was a 
 full magician, only upgrading my physical stats to wield heavy weapons. My magican's physical appearance 
 was very skinny, not buff at all. But later in the game, when I felt that I should spend my experience 
 on my physical stats, I nearly maxed them out because experience was so easily earned. To make 
 things short and clear, my magician went from a weak, skinny dude to a big, muscular man in 30 
 seconds because I used my excess experience points from upgrading my magic. So that kinda killed 
 the game for me. I had a total change in appearence in 30 seconds with minimal effort, I only used 
 excess experience. Now that being said, it proves that you can get overly powerful half way through 
 the game with minimal effort, especiall when compared to your enemies. You get all those powerful 
 new spells and muscles but you don't really get to show them off since the enemies are so easily 
 beaten.
  Another factor which changes one's appearence is how good or bad he is (good people will have halo 
 above their head, and evil ones will have horns on their head) . That is something quite cool, but 
 it also feels extremely easily to do, since you can just either sacrifice ( to get evil points) 
 or donate ( to get good points) to change your appearence. It take you like almost half the game 
 of doing pure good deeds to max out your "goodness," but you can get evil in like 5 minutes later 
 on in the game when you get to sacrifice.
  For a game who's main attraction is choice which affects your character physically, it seems gravely 
 too easy to manipulate. If the game offered more variety and depth, that would've make the game 
 much more fun. The game doesn't let you fully utilize your powers. For example, the game doesn't 
 offer quests which would require you to use magic to fend off random bandits trying to damage a 
 building without you physically hurting it as much as possible. From the above scenario, that quest 
 would favor magic users since certain spells can lock onto target and hit only that target, like 
 lighting, so physical users with long swords would risk damaging the building itself. Because certain 
 quests would make things easier for certain class of people, you feel that you really are that 
 class of fighter and that you have your own weaknesses. Or a mission which gives you certain paths 
 to the same location, one path with many tightly packed weaklings, an the other with few, but strong 
 opponents. Magicians or long swordsman could go to the packed road since there are area attack 
 magic for magician and swordsman have a wide range of attack and could kill weaklings in one or 
 two charged hits. An archer could choose the latter road since they are stealthy and can sneak 
 up on oppnesnts to get a clear one-hit kill headshots o them, and since the opponents are scattered, 
 one would notice the fallen victim and thus, not overwhelm the long ranged archer with melee attacks. 
 Mission like that also makes you fell more like that kind of fighter in my opinion.
  Well, those are all my bad opinions about this game, some may agree, some may not. Even though 
 those are the bad parts about the game, thats is also about ALL the bad parts about the game. There 
 are many fun parts in Fable that other games don't offer, like getting married, buying and renting 
 houses, be a business man and trade between shops for profit and more like getting your tolerance 
 to alcohol to go up. The about fun parts may be offerend in different distinct games, but none 
 are commonly found in such an action oriented game. In conclusion, while i still felt that the 
 game lacked depth, the fun things made up for it, so overall, it was still very fun
  The above as just my opinon, and my complaint was only about the game play since I don't really 
 want to spend so much time on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sword_stalker
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 15, 2005 3:36 pm PT
Review:  hey... i loved it... i played both sides in 1 game :)
  
  lion head shows exactly what it is to be a hero and have the power. 
  There are a lot of things 
 to improve such as the A. I.'s replicas to your emotions and the glitch makes the money acquiring 
 un-interesting...
  glitch (sell/buy more than 50 items 1 shot...)
  i did that in hook coast with about 700 sapphires... got millions instantly...
  from that moment 
 on... the game got boring... So in a further game, take out the option sell/buy all. Leave it at 
 : sell 1, sell 5, sell 10/ buy 1, buy 5, buy 10
  
  All and all. very realistic emotions from people exept the fact that when you are on the side of 
 good, as soon as you interact with someone holding a box, they drop the box to say hello... thats 
 a bit weird.
  
  The spells, the looks of the hero and whole lot of other features amazed me.
  
  the game looks 
 great.
  
  with all respect. 
  sword stalker.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: valafore
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2005 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are simply awsome allthough a tad shiney in some places and the peole could have used 
 a bit more work
  
  Sound was quite nice in battles with the sword clashes and the crackle of the lightning although 
 the main theme was a bit lacking
  
  Gameplay is great combining roleplay, action and adventure
  
  the story is simple yet well 
 developed, the classic kid loses family in terrible event, kid spared from terrible event, kid 
 grows to be a hero, kid as hero rescues mother from captors. the ageing is a bit odd in training 
 because you end up older than wisper somehow but i understand why you progress so much at first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleaner1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 14, 2005 10:19 am PT
Review:  FABLE is just simply a great game, fun to play and has a nice story to it aswell.
  amazing graphics, lots to do beyond the regular quests, the world is huge and you can explore it 
 as much as you like to find verious treasures.
  there are even elements of GTA like your character can get fat if you eat too much you can get 
 buffed up, get a hair cut, tatoos and even get married and have sex, so there's alot to look up 
 for.
  the only thing i didn't like about it, is that it was too easy to beat and so didn't take much 
 time to finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meniam
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 14, 2005 7:47 am PT
Review:  well lets see i got this game on friday and by sunday morning i had done it both good and evil....
 
  
  not as much fun for $ as i had thought, but still took mymind of my life for a few houres atleast.
 
  
  But back to the game graps was VERRY asian inspiret and as this might be somes cop of coke it sure 
 isn't mine... infact come to think of it the whole game was asian, sounds was uninspiring and quite 
 simplie annoying so it was the frist thing to go. that beeing said the voices was a nice surprice, 
 and i just loved the accents really gave it a most needet spice up.
  
  the overall Gameplay seems to me as extram fixed and don't allow much room for exploring...
  
 
  Sidequest is more a pain then a fun break from the grind of the main quest
  
  i know i've been mean to this game so i guess it's time to say something nice about it too. Well 
 i have to give them cred the story as fixed as it might be is verry well developed and if it have 
 been a animae i would have liked it more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbarnard
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 13, 2005 7:54 pm PT
Review:  I played a bit of Fable on the X-Box and liked it, but never ahving owned the console, I didn't 
 get to play it through. When I learned that The Lost Chapters was coming out for PC, though, I 
 started reading everything I could on the GamFAQs forums about the original Fable. There is a highly 
 dedicated community for this game, and now that I've played through it extensively, I can completely 
 see why. Fable may not be the most challenging game out there, but it is most definitely the most 
 satisfying. 
  The ethics system and permanence factors in the game is not as well developed as Peter Molyneaux 
 hoped they would be when the game was first announced, but what is there, makes for a very mature, 
 entertaining game. People got really mad that he didn't deliver on his lofty promises that he made 
 initially, but I can completely understand the delimmas he faced. How do you best balance out making 
 a game that's playable versus what you envisioned the feautres would be? Some things need to be 
 weeded out for development time, some things need to be weeded out for gameplay irrelevance.
  What it really boils down to is, do you enjoy playing it? 
  The answer for me is, "Yes. I enjoy 
 playing it so much that I haven't played anything else since I installed it." 
  If you're looking for a game where you can see the effects of everything you do; where you're hard 
 work is rewarded with visible changes and increased power to your game character, this is your 
 game. It does those things better than any other game I've seen, and I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloHunter72
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 13, 2005 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Fable for the Xbox, was great in many aspects, but with the Lost Chapters added into the game, 
 there are more choices to make. With The Lost Chapters to be released on the Xbox on October 18, 
 you can expect more hype. The graphics engine is pretty nice, and looks a lot better than on than 
 on the Xbox. You can even make custom tattoos, and the controls are pretty easy to get used to.
 
  
  What is magnificent about the game is the music. It goes great along with the scenery, and the 
 gameplay is pretty straightforward. The game is, still, surprisingly short, and can be finished 
 in about 8-13 hours, depending if you finished the side quests or not.
  
  The game is not too immersive, but the great new weapons and creatures make the game a lot better 
 than the original. Suggested for RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrandXSavior
Rating: 6.1
Date: Oct 11, 2005 11:33 am PT
Review:  I started following Fable's production around the time it changed from "Project Ego" to Fable proper. 
 Looking past the colorful rhetoric and self ingratiating platitudes Molineux extolled on the merits 
 of his latest opus, I found several features that truly represented Fable as unique in a world 
 of linear homogenized hack-N-slash RPGs. A fully explorable world, open-ended game play, naturally 
 progressive aging, and co-op were just a few of the features that truly made Fable sound as if 
 it could be "the greatest RPG ever made". Certainly things such as free exploration and open-ended 
 play had been done before (e. g. the Ultima and Elder Scrolls series of RPGs) , but the idea of seeing 
 your character progressively reflect the "years" of trial and tribulation on their visage, and 
 the potential for playing such a seemingly in-depth game co-operatively with a friend presented 
 a scenario that appeared to good to be true. As the saying goes; if it sounds too good to be true, 
 it probably is.
  
  Just before the games release, the often touted co-op feature was to be one of many casualties. 
 The 40+ hours of game play was now weighing in at a rather anemic 10 hours. These were omens of 
 foreboding to be sure, but the worse surprises were to only be revealed upon actually playing the 
 game.
  
  I began to lament within minutes of control being relinquished to me following the opening cut-scene. 
 I observed a rather nicely rendered world, albeit highly stylized, extending out from my starting 
 location. Exploration, being the pinnacle past time of a large RPG and a personal favorite of mine 
 when presented with a new world to explore, was my first order of business. Imagine my chagrin 
 as I had the audacity to dare and stray off the beaten path only to find the bane of all explorers; 
 the invisible wall. There might be a nicely detailed hill or grassy plain extending towards the 
 horizon, but I would never know what lay beyond said hill or what resided in those idealic grassy 
 plains since exploration of these locales was verboten. What happened to the fully explorable 
 world? Slap! Face; meet the cold unforgiving fist of reality.
  
  My jaw, already red and stinging from the slap it had just received, was barely recovered when 
 the next resounding slam was on target to hit me like the proverbial ton of bricks. I completed 
 a number of proving ground quests and activities that were obviously in place to 
 familiarize the player with Fables control scheme. Things seemed to be going rather swimmingly 
 until a message displayed before my eyes; Would you like to progress to adolescence?. 
 I know parents always say they grow up so fast dont they?, but this was ridiculous. 
 Where was the naturally progressive aging we were promised? Oof! One punch to the kidneys courtesy 
 of seemingly un-realistic expectations. 
  
  The remainder of my time with Fable, aside from demonstrating my own self loathing by perpetrating 
 this abortion upon myself, simply displayed what has become rote in the industry; linear quests, 
 hack-N-slash combat, boss monster battles to represent a final conflict for a series 
 of repetitive events, etc. ad nauseam. Another feature present in Fable that has 
 become epidemic within the genre is the adding of flash over substance. While they 
 are nice features being able to get a haircut or to take on a characteristic representative of 
 your worldly actions (e. g. angelic glow if you do good, devil horns and flies if youre evil) , 
 if they were added at the expense of the freely explorable world or co-operative game play, I would 
 have rather have been able to walk to the horizon then look like an on-screen cameo extra in The 
 Crow.
  
  Fable simply represents what has become wrong with the RPG genre in my opinion. Its been 
 shown time and time again in recent years that it is much easier, expedient, and profitable to 
 create a homogenized action RPG with excessively flashy combat wrapped in a trite clich of a story, 
 then it is to create an immersive in-depth tale that draws a player in suspending disbelief for 
 hours at a time within a world that is both alien and familiar simultaneously. While these may 
 seem to be lofty goals, they are by no means unobtainable as precedence has certainly been set 
 by past example (Ultima VII, Wizardry 8, Daggerfall, etc.) .
  
  Many of the vanguard RPG series have become extinct due to afore mentioned corporate sensibilities 
 (e. g. Ultima, Wizardry) . The Elder Scrolls series seems to be one of the last western old 
 school RPGs that remain relatively unscathed by the ravages of corporate raping and pillaging. 
 Several European developers also appear to have bucked the trend and taken up the call for championing 
 immersive CRPGs (e. g. Gothic, Arx Fatalis) for the nostalgic and those who want more then a 10 
 hour dungeon crawl hacker. 
  
  Those looking at Fable to contain more then rudimentary RPG elements should look elsewhere. Indeed, 
 Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, Gothic 3, or even the older but still excellent Morrowind would result 
 in a better investment of your RPG dollar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: signupshit
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 11, 2005 6:33 am PT
Review:  The problem with Fable is everything is very forced and very short. Yes the graphics are great, 
 but if you've come to expect an RPG in terms of Elderscrolls, System Shock or Ultima Underworld 
 you will find this a weak experience. 
  
  The voice acting is fantastic and the graphics are nice but there's little beef on the RPG bone. 
 Like many games today it has very high production valuse but very little depth. Unfortunetly this 
 is becoming a trend for PC games as software houses look to dual develop along the console line.
 
  
  The gameplay is repetitive and you will find a very linear path is followed by a predictable storyline.
 
  
  If you're looking for an RPG you may be best waiting for Oblivion, soon due for release. If it 
 can live up to the excellent Morrowind and if the rumours are true as to it's gameplay this may 
 could be something special.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goodman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 11, 2005 1:59 am PT
Review:  The game puts mixed style games on a new level... perfect storyline... nice looking graphics... 
 qool gameplay..... the perfect mix of action, adventure and RPG... .. the game pull you inside 
 of story it let you immerse in everything that happens around in the game world... A real masterpiece. 
 This is the game witch you play from the beginning il the ending not thinking about other games. 
 I already want to see the expansion or next part. also liked very much the unpredictable curves 
 of scenario... really puts interest of playing the game on top... (what will hapen next? the question 
 that spins in my mind playing this game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harrisi17
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 10, 2005 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I suggest this game to anyone. I like the FPS genre a lot, but sometimes I just want to settle 
 down and have some fun. Fable will definately fulfill that. Fable is great and you should get it. 
 I am not rich and watch what games I buy. This is also worth the money. It is a game that you will 
 be playing for hours, so make yourself some time. This game is worth canceling appointments for. 
 It is not a perfect game but all the drawbacks can be over looked. The other RPG I played was harvest 
 moon for the PS1. Fable is a lot like that, but also a lot different. It can be a relaxing game 
 but is also very griping at times. Get this game now. It is worth all of the money and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cesarjose1979
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 10, 2005 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I played this game for 2 days straight when ever I got the chance I found it to be very fun. Not 
 complicated you can do certain things that keep you entertain for hours. The only thing I didn't 
 like about the game is the fast pace at which you age... its most annoying how you get so old while 
 everyone else stay forever youthful... you age even faster then whisper your older roomate when 
 you first join the guild...
  
  still it doesn't completly destroy the enjoyment of the gameplay I recomended if you are into simple, 
 very good looking rpgs....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 10, 2005 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I've always looked forward to playing Fable, but if I'd only knew the game was this awesome I would 
 have playing it long ago. I waited to play the game until The Lost Chapters came out, so I'm reviewing 
 it as a stand alone game. 
  
  The graphics in Fable: The Lost Chapters aren't top notch. They once where on the Xbox, but they 
 aren't anymore, and especially not on the PC. The graphics are very good and fits the presentation 
 perfectly, but they are nothing extraordinary now adays. 
  
  The sounds on the other hand is just perfect. The music, and the voice overs with that cool accents 
 all fit into this game perfectly. The musical score is just awesome and creates just the right 
 mood. The sound effects are good and together with the great music and those very cool voice overs, 
 this game is a joy for your ears!
  
  Fable: The Lost Chapters is truely a fable. You follow this kid from finding teddy bears into slaying 
 huge monsters. The game has got some of the best presentations I've seen in many years. There is 
 a story teller which kicks in now and then telling the story you're playing. This is all very atmospheric, 
 and makes the whole gaming experience a pure joy. The fact that you can do so many cool things 
 are one of the best features in Fable. You can fish for both fishes and hidden treasures, you can 
 dig for treasures, get married, buy a house which of course you can rent out to earn some extra 
 cash, compete in a chicken-kickin-competition, and you can of course always choose to either be 
 good or evil. The gameplay is really awesome, though I know, the creaters promised more than we 
 actually got, I'm still very happy with the final game. The game is incredibly short, and will 
 last you from 10 to 15 hours. Though you would probably replay the experience just for the fun 
 of it, and to try out being something else than good or evil depending on what you where the first 
 time playing it. 
  
  +
  Good graphics and a fantastic overall presentation. The sounds are all very good. The game has 
 got a fantastic atmosphere. You can get married, and many other cool things. 
  
  -
  The fable ends all too early. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jayhawk
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 30, 2005 6:22 am PT
Review:  A couple months ago I saw this game on a friend's XBox and immediately fell in love with it. Almost 
 so much so, that I nearly ran out to by one the next day. It was probably a good thing I saw it 
 was slated for PC release this year, which allowd me to: 
  
  Save some money
  Not get my girlfriend up set about buying a game console
  Spend more time playing World of Warcraft 
 ;)
  Last week though, I got hold of my copy of the game and I ust admit it looks gorgeous. The landscapes 
 and the people look very good, movement is smooth. The voices are wonderful, as is the music. I 
 love the little details. :)
  
  What I'm not too fond about is the interface, it's sort of confusing. I'm not sure if it's because 
 the interface, I tend to rely on melee weapons mostly, using the odd spell to liven things up, 
 and use archery for sniping when possible. However, when facing multiple opponents it seems easiest 
 to use a melee weapon. Or more specifically a light melee weapon, the heavy ones are way to slow 
 to be of any use. Archery seems too slow to be of much use facing multiple opponents, and the spell-slinging 
 seems to do too little damage, or get thrown off kilter when I try to block blows in the mean time. 
 The mouse wheel is used for both blocking and scrolling spells.
  
  I'm also a bit confused about quests that remain on my list of things to do, even after finishing 
 them and the way the game is saved (mixing between world saves which save everything and hero saves, 
 which only save everything concerning your hero, such as stats and possessions) seems confusing. 
 I sometimes get the idea I should nearly finish quests several times in order to get most experience. 
 
  
  Silver keys are another of my weaknesses, so far I found two and I'm clueless as to where to find 
 more of them. I also seriously miss a good map, the in game one sort of shows you a single node, 
 but makes it almost impossible to see the nodes on either side, so I have to guess about where 
 to go to do what. As a result, I'm often either lost or running huge stretches of trails. Which 
 probably is a good thing, as I keep forgetting who sells what and where my loved ones are. 
  
  Finally, targeting things confuses me. I already switched the use of the TAB and the SPACE 
 key as I kept attacking things I wanted to use. Still, when in combat, I find it hard to switch 
 between targets, I also find I tend to lose targets, causing me to attack many people/monsters 
 just a bit, rather than finish them off one by one. 
  
  I guess this game should have me use pen and paper more often, but it feels a throwback to older 
 games, as most games nowadays do a pretty good job of keeping track of what you need. 
  
  Anyroad, I'm still having fun, but not as much as I hoped.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pbrugalett
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 29, 2005 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I knew nothing about "Fable," but being an RPG fan I was tired of waiting for some of the new games 
 due out. "Dragonshard" ended up sucking and "Dungeon Siege II" while supplying more of the same 
 fun from the first game, was only more of the same and I got bored about half way through. But 
 then "Fable" comes along. The easiest way to explain "Fable" is to compare it to an on-line game 
 without being online. Besides the usual and some unusual quests, you can buy houses and get married. 
 The quests range from the "done that" to solving mysteries, finding people and things, rescuing 
 family members and of course fighting monsters, bandits, werewolves, dragons etc. And the fighting 
 controls are quick and easy, along with the characters movements. You are at a third person POV, 
 but the character is large (not too large) so you are up close and personal in combat compared 
 to games such as "Dungeon Siege II." Graphics are great. The world is realistic fantasy. Character 
 alignment and personality development is on par with the best, weapons are over-sized but cool, 
 you go shopping, get drunk and have a great time. I don't want it to end. Get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicc2004
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2005 4:57 am PT
Review:  now this one (by far) is better than the original fable in some way's
  
  Gamplay- they had the original fable with it so that's a 9.6, they put lot's more on that it was 
 able to manage them 4 extra point's making a good action/puzzle/adventure. kill anything where 
 you want how you want.
  
  Graphics- "can i touch that" you will say. it's so bright and shiny on the armor and the plants, swords, trees 
 and water are looking improved the people look a tad better to.
  
  Sound- exellent the sword's clashing is great and the way of the spell's sound affects.
  
  
 tilt- well it can be dull to me but yea it's perfect most of the time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: miklifton
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  When I heard that Fable was coming to the PC with extra content, I was excited! I don't have an 
 Xbox so I was unable to play it. Now that I was able to play the game that I have been waiting 
 for, I can tell you that I was not let down.
  
  The choices you make have consequences. That feature in Fable: The Lost Chapters was the best part. 
 When I first heard about that, I wanted to become an evil person that everyone was afraid of! As 
 I played the game, I would kill merchants and officers. Your character changes its appearance depending 
 on what choices you make. My character grew horns and had glowing red eyes which looked great! 
 My character also had fly's hovering around him. Come on! Just because he's evil doesn't mean he 
 doesn't bathe. Anyways, as the story goes on, it didn't really matter if you were evil or good, 
 the story still pretty much was the same for the most part. But in certain parts of the game, you 
 will have to choose your path. Kill your guilds mate and take the money? Or will you see the light 
 and spare her life? You will have to make a couple of choices in the game that will change the 
 story a little. So this game was pretty much all about what you want to happen. Although it was 
 still too short, it was a fun adventure. There are so many things to do at once. You can even settle 
 down and buy a house. You could even become the mayor of a city! In the end, I thought it was a 
 great game that everyone should play!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Weirdo999
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 27, 2005 1:01 pm PT
Review:  It's a fun game indeed, I played it already on the x-box, and so far it looks a lot the same, oh 
 well. People just wanna earn easy money eh? But everything in this game has been improved, sorta. 
 Graphics do look better, I mean, just look at the water man or the sun, or the hero view, but sometimes 
 the camera is a pain in the you know what. Oh well, I will play it again soon. Oh, just noticed 
 100 thingies, the new wizard hat is funny, and uhm I think that the assasin suit looks nicer, a 
 lot of things look nicer, and the hooded version of the pupil thingy looks darn cool :) :) . Can't 
 wait to see the new area's and stuff. I wonder what is really new :)
  
  Hmm, the sound, it is better than the x-box, because now I can use headphones (my tv doesn't support 
 it : () . So yeah, improved indeed.
  
  Conclusion, great game :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkFaust
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 26, 2005 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Fable : TLC, for the PC brings the same world that Fable on the Xbox has brought, but 33% longer, 
 with more weapons, armors and customisation choices. 
  
  The game got a nice graphic update, and we welcome the new resolutions. The game looks sharp for 
 its fairy design, and couldn't really be better graphically, since the whole world in fable seems 
 unrealistic, but freshly immersive.
  
  The sound is awesome, voice acting, musics, wind effects, weapon clashing, emotes of your character, 
 everything's there and nicely done.
  
  The game itself can be done in 10 hours or so if you completely miss the fact that you're in a 
 growing world and that you can do whatever you want. And of course, one of these choices is to 
 play the game from point A to B without looking for the details and alternate quests, ways to make 
 cash, to rob houses, to get married, etc.
  
  Most of you guys know what Fable is, so if you're wondering if its worth it, just ask yourself 
 if you'd pay for a better version of the same game you played on Xbox a while ago, knowing that 
 some of the new stuff is really worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2005 7:25 pm PT
Review:  After playing a game like Fable, you find yourself asking "Why don't they make more games like 
 this"? You can be good, and help people. You can be evil, and murder/rob people. Or alittle of 
 both, doing a good quest while murdering the innocent. Your choice. All of which takes place in 
 a world that YOU want to explore, thatThe weapons are many, and satisfying to use. The clothing 
 is more abundant in Lost Chapters too. Also, the ability to make customs tattoos is TIGHT!!! My 
 dudes gonna have hatchetmen all over him, maybe even the six jokers cards. I look forward to a 
 next gen Fable. Maybe there will be horses you can ride, or flaming arrows, the posibilities are 
 very exciting. Maybe even one day playing Fable 2 with the Nintendo Revolution (probably never 
 happen, but imagine sword fighting!) . Bottom line is, Fable is one of the best games of all time. 
 I've played the original Fable all the way through about 6 times, and I plan to play the Lost Chapters 
 just as much. So if your trying to decide wiether or not to pick up a copy of Lost Chapters, my 
 suggestion is DO IT! Even if you have a copy of the original, still buy it. The extra stuff is 
 enough to warrant fans of the game to put the original in a safe place for memories sake, and pick 
 up Lost Chapters. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2005 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Last year on the Xbox, Fable was released to mixed reviews. Some of these reviews praised it for 
 being a highly immersive game with detailed environments and fun gameplay, and some critiziced 
 the fact that many of the elements originally set to be in the game when it was still called "Project 
 Ego" got cut out from the game. All reviewers, though, no matter how good or bad their review was, 
 seemed to point out that Fable was just too short.
  
  The Lost Chapters tries to address the one most agreed upon gripe with the original release, by 
 adding more quests, monsters, items, and a couple more hours of gameplay.
  
  Now, I would like to first focus on what makes Fable: The Lost Chapters such a good title.
  
 
  Firstly, as anyone can clearly see, the game is gorgeous. There are several types of environments 
 that all come alive and suck you into the game. Character models, while cartoony, are all detailed 
 and keep with the storybook feel of the game. The numerous weapons and armor are all well modelled 
 and textured.
  
  Secondly, the musical score is one of the best found in any game to date. Thanks to famed movie 
 composer (And a former member of the Oingo Boingo) Danny Elfman, every bit of music from the opening 
 overture, to the theme for the town of Oakvale, to the end credits, are nothing but candy for your 
 ears. The quality of the musical compisition is so high, i often found myself just looking around 
 an environment listening to the music. As if the graphics werent enough, the music will certainly 
 help to immerse you in gameplay.
  
  Thirdly, the game has easy to pick up and play gameplay that anyone can have fun with. Some people 
 criticize it for being a bit too easy, but the gameplay never got boring for me; even if it was 
 admittedly a lot easier then other games. Most of the game you'll be either chopping your way through 
 hordes of enemies, shooting them down with your bow, or assaulting them with your magical spells.
 
  
  Fourth and final, the new content in the game. We have two new spells, which are very cool to see 
 in action, a plethora of new actions - all of which are dances, armor, weapons, a few new bad guys, 
 and an entire new continent to explore. Plus, the demon door that just wouldn't open in the original 
 game is more then happy to let you pass now. Speaking of demon doors, there's also a couple more 
 of them, as well as a new total of 30 silver keys, and a few new silver key chests, including one 
 that will need all 30 keys to open.
  
  There's a few new sidequests too, to keep you busy before you get to the wholly new end game. The 
 dragon fight that was abruptly cut out of the Xbox release is also in; and while the fight has 
 been called too easy, there's no denying that watching the fight in action is a wonderous sight 
 indeed. As well as all those other features, we've also got two new heroes you'll meet in the game 
 that were cut from the first release, who you can help out from time to time, and who'll help you 
 out towards the endgame. Also, its now possible for you to kill every other hero in the game, something 
 evil players will really eat up.
  
  And as a special bonus to PC gamers, you'll get to import your own custom tatoos in the game to 
 further customize your character, who in case you dont know, evolves and ages over the course of 
 the game.
  
  Now its time for me to do my complaining. In this case, i really don't have a lot to nitpick about, 
 but here goes.
  
  The first problem with the game is that its STILL much shorter then most other RPGs. It only took 
 me about 6-8 hours to beat the game. I did have knowledge of most of the quests from the original, 
 but even if its your first playthrough, it probably wont take you much longer, at most i see the 
 game lasting 20 hours.
  
  Secondly, there's still a console style save system, which besides just being annoying, also leads 
 to some possible bugs and exploits. (When your on a quest you cant do a full save, only save your 
 characters stats. This allows you to start a quest, find a rare item, save the new stats, and load 
 the game back, effectively duplicating the rare item you found.) Hopefully there will be a patch 
 to fix this soon.
  
  Lastly, as i mentioned earlier, the game is still a bit too easy for most players.
  
  All in 
 all, Fable is one of the best games i've had a chance to play. Its immersive gameplay should be 
 duplicated my future games. Interacting with people who actually have schedules is a really cool 
 gameplay element, as is the aging character, and overall immersiveness from great graphics and 
 music.
  And while Fable's main story might not last you very long, you should at least be kept busy a while 
 longer with some of the new sidequests, and searching for ways to enter the demon doors and open 
 the silver key chests.
  
  I recommend Fable: The Lost Chapters to literally everyone, Especially if you like action or RPG 
 games. (My friend, who never plays any computer games that are "twich based" like action and FPS 
 games, acutally managed to play through and love The Lost Chapters. This is proof that Fable: The 
 Lost Chapters is a perfect game to give to someone whos just getting into computer gaming, or who 
 previously would only play strategy or sim games.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flaknugget
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 23, 2005 2:18 pm PT
Review:  As good as any of the N64 Zelda games, with better graphics. I especially enjoy the open-ended 
 side stories, like the wide variety of bar games, buying real estate, marriage (and even puligamy) ... 
 plus the whole concept of having a good/evil grey scale to develop your avatar on is something 
 more games need.
  
  My only complaint is the names of the Villians aren't creative enough, and the themes provided 
 by the main story are pretty cliched.
  
  I've heard the compaint that this game is too short, but I don't buy it. 
  
  It's certainly 
 not as endless as Ultima or Morrow Wind, but there is plenty more content here then any resident 
 evil title. Probably not as much to do as GTA: San Andreas, but stil boasts better graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thef8lfox
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2005 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Fable: The Lost Chapters is a fantasy RPG that serves almost as an expansion pack for the XBOX 
 game, Fable. Ofcourse for PC gamers this is all brand new considering Fable never made it's rounds 
 onto the PC. Prior to playing this game on the PC, I had only seen my friend play a few quests 
 on his XBOX and I must say I am quite impressed by what Fable has to offer for the PC.
  
  Fable: TLC has a very KoTORish feel to it in that it let's you choose your alignment by descisions 
 you make ingame; there's the lightside and the dark side and depending on your actions you gain 
 either light points or dark points. There are also certain spells like force push, life drain etc... 
 that bear resemblance to KoTOR's force powers. That being said Fable: TLC's alignment system is 
 nowhere as near, in terms of depth, as KoTOR's alignment system, which may or may not be a good 
 thing depending on your style of play.
  
  The Lost Chapters overall adds quite a bit of content and although they just seemed to be tacked 
 on towards the end, there are also additions to the original gameplay from the XBOX version. For 
 example, in the original Fable, while you are courting the mayor of a certain city, you find out 
 some of her really dirty deeds, but you also can't do anything about it. The Lost Chapters adds 
 content such that you can choose either to hide the truth and marry the mayor, or you can bring 
 it to light, both of which has it's ample rewards.
  
  The gameplay overall is immersive. You spend most of your time fighting enemies, everything from 
 wasps to dragons. The diversity in the type of enemies takes away the redundancy often found in 
 games of such caliber where you often find yourself visiting a place more than once. The fight 
 you put up is determined by three attributes; Physique, Skill and Will. Physique refers to how 
 well you weild your melee weapons, skill to your ranged weapons and will to your magic powers. 
 As you fight you gain experience which you can use to level up your character.
  
  The levelling system is awesome in that not only does it give you xp for killing enemies, it also 
 gives attribute based xp depending on how much you use your physique, skill or will. It is important 
 to have a balance between the three during earlier stages of the game. I thought I'd go all magic 
 but found out (rather quickly) that my low level magic was no match for the enemies even at lower 
 levels and I found myself switching between using magic and melee weapons. At higher levels, it 
 makes sense to specialize in one field as the specializations inflict a lot more damage
  
  The graphics in the game are really good with attention paid to subtle details. For example, as 
 you fight more and more you will find your hero taking on scars. The hero's appearance is also 
 changed by alignment, you'll soon find your hero either having a halo on his head or growing some 
 devil horns depending on your alignment. The music in the game is well crafted to go hand in hand 
 with the environments and transitions nicely from times of peace to when enemies appear. The music 
 is rather soothing during times of peace and is not abrasive to the ears.
  
  All in all Fable: The Lost Chapters is a great game. If you ever find yourself needing a break 
 from the main storyline there are plenty of options for the everyday Hero. One can go fishing, gambling 
 or even act as a trader, buying goods from one store and selling it as another for profit. If none 
 of that floats your boat and you'd rather brush up on your social skills, the game makes considerations 
 for you. If you've always wanted to see what happens if you let a fart rip in the thick of public, 
 now you can with Fable's expression system! In addition to your obscene gestures you can also woo 
 your many many admirers and end up marrying them. Although these options are presented, you'll 
 often find it hard to detract from the immersive storyline and by the time you are done you'll 
 often be wanting more, which leads to Fable's downside; length. The game takes about 15-20 hours 
 to complete, which is rather short by today's standards especially if you consider the fact that 
 it's almost impossible for your Hero to die. But all said and done I'd take quality over quantity 
 any day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Human_Flaw
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2005 7:19 pm PT
Review:  "Fable" was originally released on the XBox last year by Lionhead Studios to mixed reactions by 
 both critics and fans. It was cited for being too short, too linear and not delivering the features 
 developer Peter Molyneux kept promising in pre-game press releases. Now, as "Fable: The Lost Chapters" 
 makes its debut on the PC one year later, it is once again under scrutiny by those same fans and 
 critics for the exact same reasons... Some of which are justified, some of which are not.
  
  The main element fans of both action-adventure and hbrid-RPG games who are new to "Fable: The 
 Lost Chapters" (on either XBox, or PC) should focus on when they play the game for the first time 
 is what "Fable: TLC" does particularly well instead of what it doesn't do, or fails to do. If they 
 go into the game with an open mind they should have a very fun and exciting gameplay experience 
 all around for however long it lasts (more on that later) .
  
  Fable: TLC is literally a fantasy-based "fable" about a young boy who grows up in the fictional 
 world of Albion and it tells the classic tale of swashbuckling heroes, larger than life villians, 
 epic adventures, exotic creatures and the quest for either revenge, or redemption depending on 
 the moral path the player chooses as they progress through the game. 
  
  Truth be told, the core storyline of "Fable: TLC" is pretty short. Estimates of around 10 hours 
 to complete just these core quests is fairly accurate. However, this is where "The Lost Chapters" 
 come in. Lionhead Studios has added a few more quests the player can choose to do once the main 
 storyline has ended that wraps up the main storyline more thoroughly than the original version 
 did as well as additional, smaller side-quests players can take at any time as they are concurrently 
 working through the main storyline as well.
  
  Other additions include new sets of armor, some new weapons (that can only be accessed by going 
 on mini-quests that involve collecting X-number of Silver Keys to unlock various chests these new 
 items are stored in) , more expressions and a few new magical spells.
  
  Unlike more in-depth RPG games, the player cannot customize the gender, race, or other features 
 of their "hero", a generic term used to describe the player be they good or evil. The only real 
 customizations in the game comes in the form of various clothing/armor, hair styles (including 
 facial hair) and tatoos the hero can wear. However, the actual effect on the other NPCs in the 
 game is limited to them either admiring and falling instantly in love with the hero if they are 
 good, or cowering in fear and being openly hostile to the hero if they are evil. The only other 
 "customization" depends on which moral path you choose as the hero can eventually recieve a glowing 
 halo around their head, or sprout horns and become horribly deformed to reflect their moral allignment.
 
  
  There is a bit more variety when it comes to leveling up the hero, although, they still aren't 
 as varied as more in-depth RPGs as they consist of three general areas that branch off into specific 
 sub-areas where players can allocate their experience points. 
  
  The first two areas, Strength and Skill, affect mostly melee and ranged combat as well as allowing 
 the hero to be more stealthy and be able steal items and break into NPCs houses and shops. The 
 third area, Will, concentrates primarily on magic spells such as being able to slow down time ala 
 "Bullet-time" in the "Matrix" films and games, or casting arcs of lightning similar to the "Jedi 
 Knight" series of games.
  
  While there are only three areas that a hero can gain experience in as they progress, players should 
 have no trouble finding the right balance for their particular style of play, although, the game 
 relies more on melee (sword-vs-sword) combat more than anything else. Therefore, even a hero who 
 wants to become a powerful wizard/mage is going to have to invest in at least low-level melee (Strength 
 and Skill) combat levels if they want to have a less frustrating time while they gain those higher 
 levels of spells.
  
  That is not to say this game is particulary hard at any rate. 
  
  One of the flaws of "Fable: TLC" that was present in the original "Fable" is the difficulty of 
 the game itself, including actual combat and various quests, is very easy. It becomes easy to the 
 point of becoming insulting once you master the various tricks for defeating large groups of enemies, 
 and the various bosses you will encounter during the game. While this is true of any game, "Fable: 
 TLC" tends to handle the hero with kit-golves as there are no mind-bending puzzles to figure out 
 and the hero can't actually die as long as he has what are called Ressurection Viles in his inventory 
 that instantly bring hm back to life during a fight if his health should run completely out. This 
 wouldn't be a bad thing, but again, the bulk of the gameplay is combat and this in itself is not 
 very hard, thus, a good player won't even need to use a Ressurection Vile if they just keep an 
 eye on their health as they go and as they level up and become stronger/better/faster with their 
 in-game abilities as well.
  
  Unfortunately, there is no in-game difficulty switch, so players hoping to replay the game on harder 
 difficulties are going to be dissappointed until (if) a mod community develops, or the developers 
 put out a patch that includes higher difficulty levels in the future.
  
  However, on the same note, it is evident "Fable: TLC" is not supposed to be a hardcore action-adventure, 
 RPG game and more of a parody, satire of similar games as there is definitely an underlying tone 
 of humor (adult humor) that runs just beneath the surface that tends to come out at just the right 
 time when you think the game is either taking itself too seriously, or about too. 
  
  This is particulary evident in the graphics as they are very cartoony and exaggerated for the most 
 part. 
  
  For example, the guards that populate the world of Albion look suspiciously like Dirk the Daring 
 from the "Dragon's Lair" game, but with long, Sherriff-of-Nottingham mustaches from the Disney 
 "Robin Hood" cartoons. 
  
  However, the graphics are well-done, from the main hero to the NPCs you will encounter, and the 
 use of shaders and light bloom in the game add subtley and realism to a world that is clearly an 
 exaggeration on one hand, yet beautiful in its own right on the other. Some of the places in Albion 
 are purely breathtaking and with a powerful video card, with full-scene antialiasing and aniostropic 
 filtering turned on look almlost photo realistic to some degree.
  
  The only downside to the graphics is the variety of NPCs is very limited and players will literally 
 see the same  in one region of Albion as they did in another 
 even though that region is supposedly hundreds of miles away. This is unavoidable, but it would 
 have been nice if Lionhead Studios had taken more advantage of a PC's hardware (namely RAM) and 
 given more variety to the NPCs as this XBox limitation would not be an issue with most current, 
 modest to high-end PCs.
  
  One of the good things "Fable: TLC" has brought straight over from the XBox, aside from improved 
 graphics, is the incredible soundtrack that film composer Danny Elfman (Batman; Desperate Housewives) 
 helped oversee. 
  
  It gives the game a truly epic feel such as when in battle and off-sets the more humorous and subtle 
 tones when the hero is doing things like sneaking around a town in the middle of the night, or 
 courting the current love of his life -- Of which he can have more than one as long as they are 
 in different towns as well as it be a same-sex courtship/marriage if he so chooses.
  
  The various sound effects, ranging from combat to the ambient, are wonderfully rendered in Dolby 
 Digital, 5.1 stereo and like the rest of the game are exaggerated in some respects, but at the 
 same time fit in with the game because of this. There are some directional problems with Sound 
 Blaster Audigy cards on some systems, however, as dialogue will be spoken on a rear speaker when 
 a character is standing in front of the hero (on screen) , but this isn't a consistent bug and may 
 be system specific as stated, nor does it detract from gameplay all that much if it happens. 
 
  
  "Fable: The Lost Chapters" is a fun, fantasy action-adventure RPG-hybrid that focuses more on action 
 than RPG, but is fun in its own right and manages to transport the player to a world that is truly 
 unique. Although it the game could be longer, harder and "The Lost Chapters" add substantially 
 more content than is present, it is still a good game and one that players of similar games like 
 "X-Men: Legends" and "Jade Empire" (lite RPGs) would do well to pick up.
  
  If fans and critics can concentrate on what "Fable: TLC" does well instead of what it doesn't do 
 and are looking for a fun, exciting game with an underlying, humorous tone that pokes fun at more 
 hardcore games in the RPG genre that take themselves too seriously then they should also pick it 
 up as they will probably enjoy it... Even if they won't publically admit it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickr
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 26, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Fable the lost chapters is an amazing game that will satisfy all the people.
  The story line is very good and detailed, making you feel like you are really in the world of Fable. 
 The graphic also ads the game to be more interesting and get you in the game.
  You begin as a kid who's family has been killed by the bandits and you are taken by the mage to 
 the heroes guild, where you will do some basic training and get familiar with the game. You will 
 progress through the game by aging and getting experience and money, there are lots of quests to 
 take on and they all vary from one to another. You are able to progress and get more powerful by 
 choosing your abilities such as "strenght, agility, iner power and other... There are many items 
 and weapons to choose from, many characters to interact with and decide if you want to help them 
 if they have any quest or mission for you.
  You can choose you'r side as good or evil and that makes a diffrence how the characters in the 
 game see you.
  You can even choose your looks by getting cards and then going to a shop and for example get a 
 new haircut. Although in the start the game will look little bit boring as you progress you'll 
 find the game has plenty to offer and becomes more and more interesting. The sound is a bit oakward 
 and can cause little annouance but not to the level where you will want to throw the game in the 
 garbage.
  Owerall the game is interesting and well worth the buy and time to spend playing it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burrek
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2005 5:42 pm PT
Review:  The detail put into this game is outstanding. The NPCs have tons of different reactions and will 
 act accordingly to what you do and how you look. The chickens will fly high and the badits will 
 slam against walls, the dames will swoon and the peasans will cower. Everything rounded out in 
 an outstanding graphic package. 
  
  The art direction is very strong and stylied. Like everywhere else everything is extremely deitaled. 
 Grass, butterfiles, bugs, gleam of light on window panes, chicken feathers...
  
  The game is rather short though so you get quality over quantity. It does have some replay value 
 but it can get a tad repetitive after a while since there is a finite amount of things to do.
 
  
  The music is excellent, voice acting is terrific, abiment sounds are very good.
  
  The story is quite conventional yet the ability for it to mold to your decisions makes it interesting 
 enaugh.
  
  This game is the best hero simulator you will find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 20, 2005 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Fable for XBOX was one half of a genuinely inspired, genuinely funny, and artful-looking XBOX game. 
 But it was wayyyyyy too easy, too short and had a poor ending. The PC version is an attempt to 
 improve Fable and it almost succeeds.
  
  The combat difficulty is STILL weirdly and extremely easy no matter what weapon or magic skills 
 you use. The enemies stand no chance whatsoever against your character. Even the bosses go down 
 with little effort. There is a combo to increase damage but it is a one-button combo that simply 
 has you tapping the SAME button over and over again. Not much of a combo. You cannot choose a higher 
 level of difficulty in this game. The combat engine seems designed for little kids to play. And 
 I am no super-expert at action fighting games.
  
  The additional tattoos and gestures add only a tiny amount of new gameplay since the affects that 
 these have on the townspeople is the same as the other tattoos and gestures. Nice to have I suppose, 
 but not worth 50 bucks to experience.
  
  
  What Fable does really well:
  
  On the other hand, the handful of new optional missions are fun enough and the additional chapters 
 at the end give the game a much better-resolved ending. The new chapters are not lengthy at all 
 but they do allow Fable to tell a better and more complete story.
  
  The graphics looks even better (if your PC can handle detailed textures and shadows) . One of the 
 best parts about Fable was its great look. The bitmap textures are much higher resolution than 
 in the XBOX version. The gameworld and characters all look really really great close-up and everything 
 animates well.
  
  
  The UK-style humor is still quite funny and there's even more of it in this version. One quest 
 (I wont give it away) must have an hour's worth of funny cutscenes. Cutscenes aren't exactly gameplay 
 but I enjoyed all of the new dialogue and cutscenes.
  
  
  I have to give this new version of Fable a solid B rating for everything it does right, but I dont 
 understand the too easy combat. For me, it significantly detracts from the game since combat is 
 at least 75% of the gameplay. 
  
  Why have lots of different weapons and skills if EVERYTHING you choose amounts to the same thing 
 in what is STILL a pretty short game? 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Illfingas
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 20, 2005 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Fable is a great attempt and clearly you can see all the developing time went into the story and 
 presentation of the material, not the gameplay. I can honestly say i like the presentation of the 
 game, from the idle animations to the way your character leans when u are making a turn while running. 
 
  
  That being said, the gameplay is very shallow from the sword fighting to the magic casting and 
 well, the bow. The world you cannot explore, everything is too linear, you are spoon-fed every 
 detail about every quest, you are never left to your own devices. The game would prolly be longer 
 if there were less objective marks, arrows, handouts on the screen and more use of peoples grey 
 matter. Fleshing out better gameplay is more important than story imo... cuz lets face it you can 
 only re-read one book over and over again so many times, its gameplay that keeps you coming back.
 
  
  Clearly it is tried tested and true since games like Battlefield2 or Halo2 (gameplay+story... get 
 a pen Molineux) relly soley on gameplay to keep players coming back.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
