-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Faces of War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/facesofwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Intense combat with loads of enemies.
 Detailed visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Awkward, unresponsive control scheme.
 Artificial intelligence interferes with movement orders.
 Linear mission design.
 Some annoying language translation problems.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 22, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.7, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 698 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Best Way
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Sep 12, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Faces of War proves that even something as formulaic as a World War II real-time strategy game can 
 still go awry. 

  It's surprising that developers are still finding ways to screw up World War II real-time strategy 
 games. Games like the fantastic Company of Heroes should be the rule by this point, not the exception, 
 seeing as developers have stacks of games to pick apart to see what works and what doesn't. Unfortunately, 
 as Faces of War proves, this isn't the case. Many RTS versions of the noble crusade remain packed 
 with flaws, including dull, derivative missions and control problems, and this game is no exception. 
 Even though developer Best Way has already produced the well-regarded Soldiers: Heroes of WWII, 
 here the company has made a primer on how not to make a WWII RTS. Faces of War hits all of the 
 potholes that have wrecked similar games in the recent past, and it's driven into a few new ones. 

          Really, really close-quarters combat.     

  By now, you probably know the drill when it comes to World War II-themed strategy games. The solo 
 part of the game features the usual three campaigns (there is no skirmish option) , so once more 
 you get to tear up Europe with the Germans, Allies, and Soviets. There are no surprises here, although 
 the developer has thrown something of a curveball by picking up the war after the midway point 
 of 1944. You come on board for the final stages of the conflict, so, for a change, there isn't 
 a focus on the standard WWII-game headline battles like D-Day (which is represented in a bonus 
 mission outside of the formal Allied campaign) and Stalingrad (which isn't featured here at all) . 
 Chances are that you've liberated Omaha Beach and blasted that infamous Russian city to rubble 
 a few dozen times in other games already, though, so the (partial) absence of these engagements 
 is refreshing.  

  That's about all that is refreshing about Faces of War, though. Everything else has been scooped 
 out of the big bag of WWII RTS game clichs with both hands. Gameplay is something of a cross between 
 Commandos and a typical larger-scale WWII RTS. You take charge of a small squad of troops and don't 
 have to deal with resource management or even minor management tasks such as ordering up reinforcements, 
 but you do have to deal with large numbers of enemies. Overall, the designers have sort of hit 
 the sweet spot between solving level puzzles and blowing the hell out of everything that moves. 

  Still, missions all deal with tired, bog-standard objectives like blowing up radio stations, rescuing 
 generals, detonating bridges, and stealing secret plans. There are lots of vehicles, gun emplacements, 
 and tanks to hop into, plus loads of buildings to enter and use to set up shooting positions, but 
 the end goals are still very, very familiar. You can choose to play assignments by either tactics 
 or arcade rules, but both feel like a Sgt. Rock comic brought to life, with your squad going up 
 against insane odds and stacking bodies like cordwood. Best Way seems to have compensated for the 
 lack of unique settings by swamping every level with foes. Combat is fast and busy in such a never-let-up 
 style that the incessant action soon begins to wear on you.  

          When in doubt, you can never go wrong by hiding behind the nearest friendly tank.     

 
  Levels have also been overdeveloped to the point where you have no real freedom. They aren't as 
 rigid or as puzzle-heavy as those you would find in one of the Commandos games, although there 
 is typically just one way to complete objectives and usually just a single way to get there. You 
 need to do everything in perfect order to activate a trigger spawning backups (like a column of 
 tank reinforcements) or setting up the condition needed to take out the battalion of enemies that 
 attack you at the end of each mission. A lot of levels feature extremely dissatisfying endgames 
 that you don't control, where the cavalry shows up out of the blue like a deus ex machina, for 
 example, or you suddenly win the day just because you managed to stay alive against withering enemy 
 fire for a long-enough period of time. Often, these victory conditions aren't spelled out, so you're 
 left mindlessly killing enemies in the hope that the level will eventually end.  

  Also, if you don't follow the moves "suggested" in midmission officer voiceovers to the letter, 
 you have no hope of winning battles. You don't even have a choice when it comes to taking on secondary 
 objectives, as you always have to complete them ASAP or get shredded by hidden mortars, blown away 
 by a King Tiger tank, or overwhelmed by enemies who often pour out of buildings like clowns out 
 of a funny car. This is one extremely linear game in which everything feels scripted.     

 
  Troop movement feels limited as well. Your squad is never completely under your control, due to 
 an artificial intelligence that constantly interrupts commands. Sometimes this is a good thing, 
 as soldiers seem programmed to seek cover whenever possible and you can readily position troops 
 behind cover thanks to ghost images that pop up when you position the movement cursor behind rubble, 
 walls, burned-out vehicles, and the like. But most of the time this trait just gets in the way, 
 as the AI will do things like force a soldier to drop to a crawl or stop and return enemy fire 
 when you're trying to get him to sprint to safety. At other times, soldiers won't respond to movement 
 commands. They also seem to always leave cover and stand up to shoot, even when it isn't necessary. 
 Troops also have an odd tendency of running into each other, or into the rubble that clogs almost 
 every level, and freezing in place until you click a new destination that lets them escape their 
 traffic jam. Most missions take place at least partially in closed-in city or town streets, so 
 these movement snafus can lead to a lot of frustration.  

          Just another day on the Russian front.     

  Faces of War does feature a more hands-on 
 control mechanism called direct control (previously seen in Soldiers) , where you can take charge 
 of an individual soldier. It's too unwieldy to use, however, as you need to hold down the Ctrl 
 key and use the arrow keys to move. You can switch it on and off with the End key, but this is 
 arguably even more awkward as you can't move your squad properly with direct control on, and need 
 to hit the button over and over again during the course of every mission. At any rate, using direct 
 control effectively is pretty much impossible due to the zippy speed of most levels. So don't expect 
 to get any use out of this option, except for those moments when you want to take a few potshots 
 at a specific enemy sniper or a foe manning a gun emplacement.  

  Visuals and sound cause more confusion. Best Way's Ukrainian roots are apparent in the horrible 
 English of the mission briefings, which are frequently so off-the-wall that you don't quite know 
 what's going on until you actually start the action. At least lines like "We Stand One" and directives 
 such as the one to "withdraw the secret stuffing" from a radar base provide comic relief. Maps 
 are loaded with detail, which makes for some truly authentic-looking theaters of war (towns really 
 look lived in, with telephone boxes on corners and amenities like parks and water fountains) and 
 loads of destructible buildings that go boom in an impressively cinematic fashion -- but they wreak 
 havoc on camera angles. You have to constantly swivel the camera and zoom it in and out to dodge 
 the buildings, trees, and debris that block your sight every time your squad turns a corner. As 
 this is one fast-paced game, it often feels as though you're battling the camera as much as you're 
 battling the Wehrmacht, GIs, and Reds. All this detail seems to cause a lot of slowdown, as well. 
 On any visual setting, the game bogged down at least once per level, typically in the midst of 
 the huge, smoky final battles.  

  Audio cues are another problem. While the game delivers solid explosions and machine-gun rat-a-tat-tats, 
 it lacks good cues. So you're never told where enemies are located or are moving to, and you're 
 given just a wimpy, hard-to-hear announcement heralding the arrival of a grenade at your feet. 
 The latter can be a real pain, too, as grenades in the game are nearly impossible to see, being 
 no more than a couple of pixels in size, and are smartly tossed by enemies into trenches and at 
 manned gun emplacements.  

           Say goodbye to one Allied bridge.     

  Multiplayer is arguably the high point of the game. Co-op play for two to four players is supported 
 for one-off missions, and there are eight traditional multiplayer modes of play including deathmatch 
 and king of the hill, along with interesting variants like Chicken Hunt, where you compete to kill 
 farmers and capture their finger-lickin' good livestock, and the Capture the Flag-like Battle Zones. 
 Maps are on the small side and seem designed to spark conflict almost from the moment you spawn 
 your units into existence. Getting into gunplay is also sped up as you have liberal access to vehicles 
 and tanks in most modes of play, so you don't necessarily have to wait for your slower ground troops 
 to make their way to the emerging front lines on foot. Lag is a bit of an issue at times, however, 
 and matches are frequently interrupted as the server resyncs with the players. This can be pretty 
 jarring, especially in the midst of a firefight, as units can suddenly appear or disappear. Still, 
 there seem to be a fair number of people playing online, so it's pretty easy to hook up with a 
 match.  

  For all this, Faces of War isn't terrible. Even with the been-there, done-that WWII setting and 
 the other problems noted above, at times you can't help but enjoy the game despite itself because 
 Best Way has thrown everything but the kitchen sink into missions. There is something undeniably 
 cool about feeling like you're taking on the entire Wehrmacht, US Army, or Red Army with just a 
 handful of troops. If not for the control and design problems, this intensity might have made for 
 an enjoyable RTS. As it is, though, this is just one more forgettable WWII game to throw onto the 
 pile.  

    Editor's note 09/26/06 : When the review was originally posted, it implied that there was no 
 way to toggle on the game's direct control feature without pressing and holding a key, which is 
 incorrect. GameSpot regrets the error.      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (41 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: indaybibi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 9:21 pm PT
Review:  this game is really hard when it comes to your regular rts games.. like soldiers but you can control 
 more units this time and that's the fun part!!
  
  the damage physics is superb everything around you is fully constructable.. 
  
  its worth a 
 try if your a die hard RTS gamer.. but if not.. ITS NOT FOR YOU BOY !!!! Heheheheh
  
  Compared to games like Sudden Strike or Blitzkrieg, there's not a great deal of variety to the 
 units here. Instead the focus is on iconic vehicles like Sherman and Tigers and T-34s and infantry 
 armed with a wide range of weapons, from SMGs to flamethrowers. Some gamers might miss the more 
 obscure units but the ones that are included in Faces of War definitely capture the flavor of the 
 conflict and allow for all the cool tactics and schemes seen in your favorite war movies.
  
  One of the worst offenders in Faces of War is the poor artificial intelligence of your units. 
 The cluttered nature of the levels really frustrates the game's path finding, particularly if you're 
 trying to make your way across streets strewn with rubble. Since there's lots of rubble throughout 
 the game, you'll find yourself getting frustrated when your soldiers can't seem to work their way 
 quickly around the various obstacles in front of them. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WW2freek
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 1:40 am PT
Review:  My first review of the game. This game to start off with is extremely fun to play.21 mission,10 
 frontline games,4 combat multiplayer mission and of course, coopertive. The same things as soldiers 
 heroes of WWII . Same pepole you play with, allied, german and the soviets. 7 missions in each campain 
 and 3 training mission. All 21 games are difficult but you will handle it. They say at the back 
 of the cover "All mission are realistic and historically correct". Before you play a mission they 
 will have a cinimate. But at the extremely conner of the page it says"Mission are not 100% correct".
 
  That is very weird. In fact I did some reserch, and it shows, ready for this? None of the missions 
 are even 30% correct. Example, (I don't know how to spell) Neigenhin Bridge.
  It happen In 1944. Operation Market Garden. The allied cross the bridge and the german bomb on the 
 bridge failed. In the game, German forces blow up the bridge and killed all the british soldiers 
 AND blow up a huge make-belive barg that has a 150mm gun. Over to the online. There are over 100 
 players in online and still growing. Frontline is defending or attacking. If you are attacking, have 
 fun with destruction. If you are defending, let me find my trumpet. The are chat options too. There 
 are planes in one of the maps but know one knows how to fly a plane EXEPT this one person called 
 fritz. My name is called peter (english) . All the maps are big and deserted. Maps like, surub, desert 
 airport, farm and town.
  You can make maps with the 1.04v. Thing is,1.04v can't play with 1.01v and same with the other. Vehicles. There 
 are about 130 vehicles and half of them are not real. Like in every 1c game, the AAgun, german Flakpanzer 
 IV Wirbelwind and M4A2 (DD amphibian and Mine Clearer model)
  Overal, the game is fun and challenging at the same time. But there are also downpoints. Like controling 
 a soldier with ctrl, up, down, left and right. There are long pauses during the online games and sometime 
 the game stops instanly while during the games. This is it. Later this year, there is faces of war 
 II or Men of war. I heard it has more make-belive vehicles and can play as Japan in online. And it 
 goes to north africa, pacific and Eropean soil. So, have fun withe this review!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: talknight2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 1:52 am PT
Review:  Good:
  Great graphics
  Excellent gameplay
  Many tactical options and dozens of weapons and items to use
  Enjoyable (though somewhat slow 
 over 400 Ping) multiplayer experience with great maps and play modes
  Hectic action and very detailed, realistic explosions
  Easy to use command system and interface
 
  
  Bad:
  Awefully annoying AI sometimes causes your squad members to use their grenades and\or rocket launchers 
 at really bad moments when they should run for their lives instead (such as when getting assaulted 
 by numerous tanks) . 
  Buildings sometimes obscuring sight, though easily solved by activating the silhouette option or 
 moving the camera angle around from time to time.
  
  I just love this game.
  How can you not love it? (well unless you're a total noob and have no friggin' idea what *tactics* 
 is all about)
  It looks great, plays great, sounds awesome, has long, KABOOM-filled missions, and has a great 
 command system.
  The only single drawback of this game is the somewhat sluggish friendly AI causing your men to 
 just stand around looking for grenade targets and get chopped down by machinegun and\or grenades 
 and the like. Thankfully, if you play the game right, you can easily avoid getting in such situations 
 in the first place. Just remember to SAVE before attempting any kind of attack and you'll be fine.
 
  I won't lie to you, this game is pretty darn hard and requires loads of patience and a commanders 
 mind to succeed in, but after you complete a few mission you'll get the hang of it.
  My personal favourite feature of this game is the direct control mode, allowing you to control 
 you're men manually (one at a time though) , drastically increasing their battlefield efficiency. 
 Usually you will be provided with a Sniper and atleast 1 Machinegunner in your squad. If you're 
 patient enough you can take one of them on commando mission behind enemy lines to soften up hard 
 areas without being spotted (using the convenient concielment provided by the numerous bushes and 
 walls realistically laying around the battlefield. It's always a good idea to load you're sniper 
 with some AT grenades and a bunch of weapons and ammo and go around the back of the enemies tanks 
 to wreak some havoc before advancing your whole squad.
  Remember: bushes+sniper rifles+AT grenades are you're friends! ;-)
  
  The mission are just 
 plain awesome, providing loads of all-round chaos and explosions while providing you with calm 
 time to rearm yourself (make sure you rearms quickly though because if a dead body is touched by 
 any explosion or vehicle it'll dissappear, taking all it's ammo and items with it) .
  Even after large events such as destroying a bridge in a FANTASTIC explosion or capturing a crossroads, 
 the missions still won't end, and you will be given more and more varied secondary objectives to 
 complete, such as destroying a mortar position or protecting your spotter while he sends false 
 coordinates to the enemy.
  
  Since, according to the storyline, you are a member of the commandos\rangers units of Russia, Germany 
 and the Allies, you may expect very varied missions, and you'll get them. Objectives in the game 
 range from all out charges, to ambushes and covert operations, to full-out Commandos style mission 
 having you inserted into an enemy camp and having to wreak havoc without being detected before 
 your re-inforcements arrive, and giving you a HUGE array of weapons (virtually every single mass-produced 
 gun of the war is featured, aswell as silenced guns, radio mines and whole crapload of general 
 equipments items ranging from helmets to radio transmitters) This whole lot provides for a very 
 immersive and fun experience that I recommend to any tactics or WWII buff out there.
  
  GET THIS GAME, IT'S JUST PLAIN AWESOME!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crisissuit3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  it took me a lot to get this game. my parents had a 30% off coupon. faces of war was 50 dollars 
 and it was a race to my house. my dads office and my local store. luckily my mom came in and handed 
 the few extra dollars i needed.
  
  hello and welcome to another of my reviews.
  
  as i reread my dawn of war review i gave that game too low of a score so now im changing it up 
 a bit.
  
  graphics: 3/3
  
  this game visually looks amazing.
  
  there are a lot of guns to use. sparks fly off tanks and bazooka smoke looks amazing. its also 
 fun just shooting at houses and watch the explosions and all the debris.
  
  the units are very detailed as well as the weapons and vehicles.
  
  with all this you'll probably 
 need a pretty high end pc. and when i first got this game my pc lagged like there was no tomorrow. 
 even when i upgraded it, it was still suffering from framerate issues. but if you have the alien 
 pc to play this then it should be smooth.
  
  story: 1/2
  
  what do you want from me its a WWII game. you play as the germans, russians, and allies. thats 
 pretty much it.
  
  and the reason why the story get the lowest score is because even though i always enjoy the story 
 line of a game. its a WWII game. its cliched what more can i say.
  
  so yea you have 3 campaign 6 if you count the advance version which is hard as heck since in the 
 easier version you have allies. here you need to move the camera a lot.
  
  gameplay: 4/5
  
  faces of war is very revolutionary for it adds a few things to the rts mix.
  
  for one 
 it adds a cover system. this is amazing since instead of having your guys line up and pretend to 
 flank them and your actually doing something.
  
  here it is extremely real.
  
  your men take cover and flanking can really bang up your enemy since all units are weak. just like 
 in real life.
  
  tanks are also more vunerable at the rear so have a bazooka guy go around can save your squad.
 
  
  speaking of which. the first few levels of the 3 campaigns. you are given a few guys and only those 
 guys.
  
  you will get reinforcements once and a while but like i said. they are weak!
  
  this game also has a stealth aspect. say you have a sniper but he will easily get spotted. 
 or a large patrol is heading right toward you.
  
  you can tell your men to cease fire and go prone in some tall grass or maybe (dont try this) in 
 a building. though i recomend the grass.
  
  now for the thing that reall mes this game stand out.
  
  DESTUCTIBLE TERRAIN!!!!!
  
  almost 
 everything you see can be destroyed. maybe a few building cant be but you'll hardly ever notice.
 
  
  its always fun to have a anti tank cannon and shoot a house with men in it. the floor will crumble 
 below them, the roof will fall on them. you can destroy there cover.
  
  its just amazing. now for some bad things.
  
  this game has some really dumb ai.
  
  a lot 
 of times they will not move or will take forever to move. 
  
  sometimes they will switch from sprint to walk.
  
  theirs a lot of micromanagement with your 
 units since you can pick up stuff from boxes or dead guys.
  
  and the worst about the ai is that they will do stuff on there own.
  
  i always have find one 
 of my guys being the hero by running out in the open or taking some idiotic path throuh a enemy 
 MG.
  
  and here is one last good/bad thing.
  
  this game can be unforgivingly hard at times.
  
  there will be times when a MG has your guys 
 pinned down and it feels like they dont run out of ammo. and it always looks like your not going 
 to make it but all of a sudden. one of you guys fires a lucky shot or a lucky grenade.
  
  this game is great and i totally recomend it.
  
  now what do i give this?
  
  
  an 8.5
 
  
  man i need to work on my rating scale...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: toysaow
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  before i starter play solidiers hero of world war 2 this demo , i love this type game, and i feel 
 first time what type game is my like, so i buy this original game, also in my first life buy original 
 game and collection. after faces of world come out, same type of my love games, so i buy it and 
 collect it. now faces of war 2 is coming soon and i will collect soon again. becouse i love it 
 this type games, in my life i first time to feel, and let me know what kind call the games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exo911
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 24, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  Ok the gamespot reviewer clearly has no taste. Company of heroes pffft. This game is fun and challenging. 
 For those of you who dont know about the gameplay i will lay it out for you. First of all you can 
 control how your squad fights, and when you get bore you can control one of your soldiers and fight 
 as him. Online is amazing, alot of fun. This game features tactical and strategical combat. When 
 you first install and play there are a few bugs so get the latest patch. You can play as the Germans, 
 Russians, or allies ( British and American) . There are 2 campaigns to each faction, basically Normal 
 and Elite. There is vehicle combat and aerial in certain maps. I reccomend this game over company 
 of heroes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slonor
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 9, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  FoW features very innovative (with the exception of SHOWW2) gameplay elements. It is extremely 
 detailed compared to most other RPG games. I think a good way to describe this game is by comparing 
 it to CoH. CoH basically takes place in a theoretical environment. Troops who are in cover are 
 really just in a hotspot where the probability of getting hit is artificially reduced. FoW has 
 a physical environment where cover truly is cover in that it reduces the chance of a soldier being 
 hit because there is a solid object between a part of that soldier and an enemy's rifle. He can 
 still be shot in the head once and killed. This is amplified by a completely dynamic environment 
 where cover is constantly being destroyed and created. A destroyed or disabled tank is cover. A 
 rock that falls off of a building is cover. You get the idea.
  
  CoH boasts dynamic buildings that change as they are attacked. A damaged building (damaged life 
 of building) could lose the roof, allowing enemy mortar shells to rain on the inhabitants. New 
 windows appear as holes are shot in the building. Impressive, but it is still theoretical. In FoW, 
 there is no such idea as the life or condition of a building. In fact, the only things with life 
 bars are soldiers. Buildings are completely dynamic in that they are not actual entities on their 
 own, but instead, the individual entities are the bricks (or other materials) that make up the 
 building! To kill a soldier in a building, you actually have to hit that soldier somehow, not just 
 destroy building while soldier inside. That is because there is no clear line between a destroyed 
 building and a non-destroyed one. You can blow a building apart by shooting at the walls and making 
 holes in them, which eventually causes the frame of the building to weaken and parts of the building 
 to collapse. This debris can kill soldiers if the rocks physically hit the soldiers. In essence, 
 it is a highly-advanced FPS physical environment, but in an RTS!
  
  That said, the tanks in CoH do feature some realistic damage. Gunners can be killed, turrets can 
 be blown off (and repaired) , engines can be damaged or destroyed, etc... But often, it is left 
 to chance in CoH. In FoW, there is much less chance. Yes, there is a chance that a round will bounce 
 off instead of penetrating, but this is mainly determined by the angle of the round, the angle 
 of the armor and the round type. The rear of tanks is always weakest, while the front is strongest. 
 The rear of the turret is probably the weakest point. if you want to kill a Tiger tank with a Panzershreck, 
 you should aim at the back of the turret, as the rocket almost always bounces off from the front 
 or side. The damage is also very well-done. Every wheel, track, turret, muzzle, engine or frame 
 take damage individually. That is, if the turret is damaged, the tank does not take any health 
 point damage. The turret simply does not rotate, and that cripples the tank. There are also two 
 types of damage: permanent and repairable. Repairable damage can be repaired and includes dislodged 
 turrets, torn tracks, flat tires and damaged engines. Permanent damage cannot be repaired. This 
 includes destroyed tank frames (turret does not move and tank is immobile, but can still fire) , 
 blown off wheels, blown off turrets and engines that were blown out of the tank. Tanks also never 
 really belong to any faction in FoW. They are simply objects that can be driven and used by soldiers 
 (your own or enemy) . Likewise, each soldier controls a specific part of the vehicle. To drive a 
 tank, you need only one soldier. But that one soldier will be able to at one time only do one task. 
 So, you can either drive, reload, fire or rotate the turret. Therefore, it is usually best to have 
 at least 3 soldiers in one tank, with a maximum of 5. Soldiers can also be killed. A gunner looking 
 out of the tank can easily be sniped. Crew members can catch on fire if the tank is critically 
 damaged. You can even damage a tank with repairable damage, force its crew to leave, kill the crew, 
 repair the tank and, in a way, capture the tank! This leaves many possibilities, since you can 
 theoretically drive anything.
  
  Each soldier in this game also has his own inventory. This is also true for vehicles. Ammunition 
 and grenades exist in a quantity and can run out. Vehicles also have a fuel amount, and this is 
 depleted as the vehicles are driven. Fuel canisters can be used to not only contain fuel, but to 
 transfer it from one vehicle to another! Or , you can fill up a fuel can, set it on the ground, 
 and shoot it to cause an explosion! Same for air bombs or heavy artillery shells. You can even 
 demolish buildings by driving tanks into them if you want to conserve High Explosive ammunition 
 for use against ungarrisoned infantry. The possibilities are endless!
  
  Unfortunately, the game does suffer from one problem: replayability. There is no skirmish mode! 
 if you want to customize a level, you have to use the map editor. This is truly a shame for an 
 otherwise excellent game. The other problems mentioned in the official review are negligible. Yeah, 
 infantry can be kind of stupid when you let the AI handle them. So, JUST TURN OFF AUTOMATIC MOVEMENT 
 AND/OR FIRING! Direct control is great in this game, and you almost cannot win most levels without 
 it. You need it to properly maneuver tanks to avoid hits, you need it to send in a lone infantryman 
 to take out rocket artillery before your tank rolls in, and you need it to fire the anti-tank gun 
 at the back of the tank's turret so it flushes the infantry while leaving the tank with no permanent 
 damage. The game is also somewhat hard, but in a challenging way instead of a tedious way, which 
 is always good. Campaign missions often revolve around saving often and trial and error, but it 
 almost never gets boring or tedious, and is instead very rewarding when you finally capture that 
 Tiger tank in a mission where you probably weren't supposed to due to the endless onslaught of 
 enemy tanks and infantry. The reason for the large learning curve is that you really will need 
 to play for a while before you learn the tank types, the strong points and the ammo they use. It's 
 simply a very in-depth and detailed game.
  
  A great game, but it is all almost ruined by a lack of a skirmish mode. So, play the campaign and 
 then make your own maps! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonballzgt_2
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  i play all day via internet , i like very msuh the campaing , but multiplayers is the best 4vs 
 4 in desert , i no concur with revier command of heroes is a trash compare to this ,this game have 
 10 graphic 10 sount a regular ai , ai enemy is very good , ai for you is regular , and the best 
 thig the interface to you control you tank , man or vehicles , you can fire manualy in one and 
 other direction and conserve the bulet , rechage the tank with fuel munition , put mines , and 
 mush alot you no do in single player , for next time principal review play single complete and 
 multiplayer and learn how play haha i give to this game a 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huangzhihao
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 27, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I always thought there are reasons for Gamespot to give it such a low score, but after i tried 
 it out myself, i feel the review from Gamespot is way off. Many compare this to Company of heroes, 
 but they are actually quite different. Faces of war is much more complicated and involve way more 
 micro management. The ability to control a single soilder in third person also adds a nice touch 
 to a already great RTS game. While playing, one great thing caught my attention, and it is the 
 extremely well programed damage model and effects. All the explosions, sounds, scatters... I really 
 feel it may be even better than CoH. Despite all that, this game is highly realistic. There is 
 a limit how much a soilder can carry, what weapons he's carrying, and the corresponding ammos. 
 You can loot ammos if you ran out of them. You can pick up weapons on the ground and decide which 
 soldier to equip.... Last, talking about graphics, Faces of war certainly provide the best visuals 
 during the time of its release, and is still better than many recent games. compared to CoH, Faces 
 of war is beautiful in another way.
  This game certainly deserve a score higher than 8, even the recent C&amp; C3, which i did not like 
 at all, got 9.... Well, it seems most people are moving towards the arcade, fast-paced, easy-going, 
 no-brain type of games, including the reviewers from GS.... sad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noobgotpwned
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 26, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  By the reviews this game was getting, It was hard to decide if I wanted to buy it or not, but I end 
 up buying it I just use the mouse when playing RTS games I am not use to the keyboard yet so...
 
  one thing that stood out quick to me was everything is left click which is weird because most 
 rts games I have
  you left click on a squad and right click in the area you want them to go ,,,
  but this game 
 it is left click for both that was hard for me to get use to
  
  graphics are good not great... i read a review before mine and it explained how you can you use 
 almost anything for cover I really like that point of the game I don't like single player mode 
 on any rts game but my brother said he liked it alot my brother and I usually hook our pcs together 
 and play LAN and I think the multiplayer that way is awesome but I hate the online multiplayer 
 .. there is either no one online or when there is they act rude I think the sound is really good 
 all in all its a good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karl319
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  Faces of War is hands down one of the best RTS, if not one of the best games in general, to come 
 out in a long long time. Faces of War at heart is a re-wrap of Soldiers: Heroes of WW2 since it's 
 using the same engine but tuned with new features and graphics options. Sadly Faces of War is also 
 wrongly compared to another recent RTS Company of Heroes in an endless flame war on which is better 
 , now let me just point out in an unbiased view that Faces of War, delivers more than CoH does 
 and probably will. I know I'm going to be comparing the two games a lot through the review but 
 why not, at least I'm doing it the right way with solid facts and no fanboyism.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Faces of War Is ALL about the multiplayer aspect, from the traditional deatmatch 
 gametypes to a conquest style zone holding mode and the best part co-op. The multiplayer has endless 
 play value because no match or sessions is the same as the last one, the game is just so versatile 
 and dynamic that it feels like a whole new level each time you play the same one. What makes it 
 so is the destructable environments in Faces of War. Nothing is unbreakable, everything acts as 
 cover, shielding your men from a tank coming up the road long enough for you to prepare an ambush. 
 Or when you need your men to get to some cover after being attacked in the open street... just 
 grab a nade and blow a hole in the wall and run, or if it's a house... use it as a fort and deploy 
 your machineguns, snipers, flamethrower smg's anti tank and whatever you got inside.
  
  Or if you really need a fast exit, run down the house with a tank and use the new made exit to 
 flank the opponents. FoW is all about finding solutions to problems as fast as you can. Because 
 you don't have forever. You have to consider AMMO, both PRIMRARY and SECONDARY, and GRENADES, BANDAGES, 
 what TYPE of weapon, what type of AMMO... FUEL, COVER. Everything. As opposed to CoH's static death 
 animated houses and vehicles. In FoW anything becomes cover... blow up a tank, and the wreckage 
 will stay there as immediate cover for men to lean up from and shoot, or hide behind. Company of 
 Heroes, lacks all the above except for ammo types, for which it has a crude buy 30 seconds of secondary 
 ammo .
  
  Each vehicle has different caliber guns, and as such, different ammo types and effect on other 
 armor. You can't for example, unlike with CoH's HEALTHPOINTS - blow up a tiger with a ... 20 mm 
 light tank. FoW has an actual damage modeling system, you can break tracks, repair them later, 
 you can blow up engines, break turrets, kill the crew, bullets will dent off if they arent strong 
 enough, and so forth. When a vehicle blows, theres no boring death animation... the vehicle breaks 
 down in the position it was in, each death is different than the last, depending on the direction 
 of the fatal shot and the area hit. A nice detail also I'd like to note is the fact that tanks 
 get bullethole scorchmarks on them after they've been hit, so you can see exactly where the shots 
 hit him.
  
  So you can automatically see if you're going up against a tank that's seen a lot of action by the 
 dents on it's hull. Each vehicle also needs a crew, minimum of 1... but 1 man wont be too fast 
 at loading, aiming, driving, and defending a tank. Each vehicle has it's own ammount of crew needed, 
 you can evacuate them, swap them around, tell them to man a different position etc. Again something 
 which CoH lacks, with it's old fashion healthpoints system on soldiers and tanks...
  
  Yes I know CoH is SUPPOSED to be a simple fast paced version of ww2, but I'm just pointing out 
 all this to those who think CoH is a realistic game and better than FoW.
  
  Lets see what else have I not.. cov.. ered... hm.
  
  Faces of War has an inventory system, people 
 drop their guns when they die, you can go scavenge the corpses for ammo, weapons, or whatever else. 
 Theres just ... so many guns to list that I wont even bother, from anti tank rifles to mg42's ... 
 B. A. R.' s M1's .. you name it, flamethrowers are awesome I may add, burning down houses and smoking 
 out the rats in them.
  
  Lets see, now, every house as I said is destructable with multiple parts that can be blown up, 
 all physics orientated as is everything in this game. Say you got yourself a nice tiger tank, stroling 
 through a city, and you got a nice bunch of Sherman's or M10's after you... oh no, you're out gunned 
 from all sides! ... how about you park your tank inside a nice warehouse or back it up inside a 
 house, thus shielding yourself from the flanks, and containing the element of surprise until you 
 can get a shot at them 1 by 1. And don't forget to use an AP shell, not an HE, and watch your ammo.
 
  
  OH I almost FORGOT the biggest factor in this game... direct control!
  
  Direct control lets you take control of any soldier you choose, any vehicle, gun, whatever and 
 just drive it around like a Battlefield series game. This is very useful for multiplayer, for executing 
 manouvers and missions too complex for the A. I. itself, such as crawling through the ruins and 
 mud ridden city streets to sneak up on a fortified tiger tank and lob a nice AT nade on it and 
 shoot the crew when it runs out. And hey maybe if you got time, check if the tank is still operable 
 and use it against them?
  
  God I feel like I'm writing a book yet I got so much more to say. I really don't think I can sum 
 all the amazing gameplay in this game into a mere novel even. It's just... beyond, words. Working 
 together online is like a whole... nother game, for example one player could be driving a tank 
 while the other uses his man in direct control to snipe anti tank gun positions to clear the path 
 for the other one. And so much more, and this is not limited to co-op, the other modes are just 
 as fun if played right.
  
  Well I'll just stop here for now, and move to the next categories. Which will be shorter.
  
 
  And before I forget, which I should have said before, this game is really best with the 1.4 or 
 above patch, seriously, if you get this game, GET the patch, or you may regret it.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics do the game just fine with the 1.4 update (which adds reflective 
 water with realtime reflections) but even without that, the bumpmapping on the vehicles and very 
 nice soft self shadows do a fine job. The textures aren't 1000x1000 res, but they still do a good 
 job with reflecting windows, breakable glass, particles that cast shadows. And just everything 
 else. And it doesn't take a monster PC to run, unlike unoptimized CoH which requires more than 
 it's worth sadly.
  
  To make up for that tho, the vehicles look absolutely great, detailed with nice bumpmapping and 
 detail touches like ropes, wires, ventilations, hatches.
  
  The game also has a simple yet sortof good bloom shader, nothing amazing, I don't really favor 
 it personally.
  
  Sound:
  
  If you got the hardware and turn the settings up in the options, you'll get some pretty nice audio, 
 you can hear the clank cluttering in the engine of a russian T-34 as if you're standing next to 
 the thing.
  
  All in all the audio is great, the only problem personally speaking is the soundtrack which could 
 be a bit .. more, orchestral. But it's no major problem.
  
  A good detail is that each country speaks in it's own language, so you wont hear germans going 
 we izt zpeakin zie enlizh .
  
  Value:
  
  For the measly few bucks from your wallet and days pay, you can get ... hundreds of hours of online 
 fun, my x-fire profile is more than willing to back that up. And all in all, with the map editor, 
 the online fun, co-op and good friends, it's an amazing game with fun and great moments in it. 
 From taking out a sudden threat of a tiger tank coming from your rear by desperately running to 
 cover and grabbing a zooka and busting it's engine to the sudden sound of a flak gun aiming at 
 you from a hidden firing spot inside a building.
  
  Reviewers tilt: 10 of 10 , what can I say, I love, this, game.
  
  Seriously, if you are a fan 
 of fun online games that require some skill and reward for taking the time, and if you have great 
 friends to play with in LAN, or online... what are you waiting for, what, are, you, waiting, for!
 
  
  And with mods... you'll have... a LOT of fun. I recommend RealWar1.2 (or higher) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frenetix
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely love it, 1.0 showed a lot of potential, and 3 tons of bugs, but with the latest patch 
 (1.04a) everything is like you could ever want it, considering FoW features things like manual 
 control of your soldier, a nifty inventory system and pretty damn good damage system on vehicles 
 the battles are nothing short of fun and tactics.
  
  And when it comes to multi-player, it got my favorite game-mode, Co-op, you can play any of the 
 single-player maps with up to 4 players offering really good teamwork.
  
  About that damage system, how does treads getting blown of tanks sound? Good? How does repairing 
 said broken track with a repair kit sound? Even better? Good! Because you can do exactly that and 
 more in Faces of War!
  
  The inventory systems and weapons.
  You got various weapons and items to put in your inventory/hands, things like helmets, body armors (rare) , 
 several types of grenades (AP&amp; AT) , bazookas and panzerfaust tubes, MG42's, MG34's, MP40's, Sturmgewehr, 
 BAR, Thompson etc etc, the list is pretty damn long.
  Hey, just earlier today in Co-op I even equipped one of my soldiers with 2 panzerfaust (AT rocket) 
 tubes and a Mosin nagant sniper rifle and went off taking down 1 tiger tank and several soldiers 
 before retreating to my co-players cover.
  
  And more 1 thing on my mind, physics! One of the most awesome things I've found in FoW, let's take 
 this example here.. You got a big heavy tank (King tiger for example) and you also got a house (more 
 stories = more awesome) with enemies inside (preferably not anti tank troops ;) ) , just take your 
 big fat tank and ram it straight into the building, and keep going! Building collapses around you 
 taking the soldiers with it, voila, no more pesky enemies in that house :D
  
  Well I just ran out of words. *off to play FoW* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 17, 2007 2:20 am PT
Review:  I have enjoyed JTF and Act of War to a tremendous degree.. but this has a bit more tactics and 
 less strategy than I care for. This does NOT affect what I see in the game itself. First off the 
 graphics are just stellar.. the gameplay although awkward at times works well for the most part. 
 The game does have few bugs even with the latest patch 1.04 like repeating missions in which you 
 have to load a previous save to correct the error. But the game is more geared to those who have 
 experience in these types of games.. the tutorial is pretty vague at times and sometimes you have 
 to play with it to find out just what to do. I'm all for learning but sheesh, I just want a game 
 I can dive right into and learn as I go than having to figure out every single thing. Sure it gives 
 it a dose of reality.. but there are limits for me. So here is my breakdown: Gameplay.. Great, 
 but not for noobies. I have to pan the camera around so much that it becomes irritating for me. 
 Graphics: a straight 10.. it is exceptionally detailed.
  
  Sound: The music score gets to ya at times but the weapon sounds are right on. Also, there are 
 sound cutoffs where the announcer just doesn't say a word and you have to read through the dialogue... 
 Value: I have to say with 3 campaigns the game has a ton of replay value to be had.. but that can 
 be said for nearly all RTS games in general
  
  My Tilt would be a 8.. for being a great game.. even though it didn't grab me as I thought it would. 
 Aside from the fact that strong tactical games probably aren't my thing . Slight tactical games.. 
 sure.. but not overtly so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEADpepsi
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 16, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  With the patches and MODs this game is amazing for multplayer, single player is well just bad. 
 Recommended you just skip single player and dive in the action online, but even in multiplayer 
 there is a tonne of people that play coop, but it just aint my thing. Hopely the devs look at what 
 worked in the MODs when they make the next one.
  
  LOL have to have atleast 100 words blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
  blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
  blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avp2167
Rating: 3.9
Date: Feb 14, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  When i got Faces of War, i was expecting a great sequel to Codemaster's Soldiers: Heroes of World 
 War 2. I love Ubisoft but this just makes me sad.
  
  Faces of war is a cheap copy of Soldiers. It may have the graphics, but the gameplay is the same 
 and some features are removed completely. An example of a feature being removed is the buy menu 
 in multiplayer. FoW adds this werid time limit buy system with oly few vehicles and soldier choices. 
 Whereas SHOWW2, They have a GREAT buy system which features 3D models, A view of whats in the inventory, 
 Statistics. There was also a great money system in SHOWW2. There was also tons of buying choices.
 
  
  SHOWW2 does NOT need the latest graphic card, where as FoW needs a good card to play with a bit 
 of lag. Why BOTHER? The gameplay of SHOWW2 is soooooo much better and way more fun multiplayer.
 
  
  I know Ubisoft was trying to make an already great game greater, but all they ahceived was a skeltal 
 copy of SHOWW2 with most features erased.
  
  GRAPHICS isnt everything. I prefer going for the gameplay.
  
  Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 100starz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 14, 2007 3:18 am PT
Review:  ---GAMEPLAY ---
  The gameplay is great. You can loot bodies or boxes, you can get in vehicles, you can blow up buildings, you 
 can make craters, you can burn trees, YOU CAN TAKE DIRECT CONTROL OF WT [insert letter here] PWNER 
 TANKS!!!!!!
  It also has great campaigns, AI but it also has major lag in MP.
  
  -------GRAPHICS -------
  The graphics are wow factor. Amazing. The bloom is very nice, the texture 
 and model detail is amazing.
  
  -------SOUND -------
  The sound is pretty good for teh guns, tanks, but the localization isent so good. The US english 
 is pretty bad as in we stand one give me rounds get the secret stuffing out of the radar we must 
 leave before the dawn etc.
  
  --------VALUE -------
  I dont know what it costs because a friend gave it to me, but its worth whatever it costs.
  
 
  --------TILT -------
  If this has anything to do with the camera, then camera controls are very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fliptje
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 16, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Preordered the FOW game already in april, since SHoWW II was the best game up till now I'd ever 
 played. At first sight, the look and feel was very similar. Immediately though, a more intense 
 gameplay and higher pressure became apparent, also due to the type of mission and the fact you're 
 in control of a team now. The user interface somewhat felt complex, but by learning the Function-keys 
 and other direct commands via the tutorial missions, it can be played smoothly. Especially recommended, 
 to command the squad.
  
  Main point: this game still stays unique in its kind, together with SHoWW II. Best Way has a superb 
 format that is the perfect balance between Real Time Strategy and First Person shooting games: 
 you constantly have to plan the actions of your team, think 2 steps ahead, but can always interact 
 directly with any soldier of your team in direct control mode for special tasks. I still love to 
 be the sniper that does all the preparation work in silence 
  
  Last but not least, this game is *realistic*: especially the fact that you can reuse enemy equipment 
 (it doesn't suddenly 'disappear' after having been shot at like in company of heroes and panzers 
 ) . Suggestion: Instead of playing squad sgt, just capture an enemy tank or artillery and this game 
 suddenly gets a whole new dimension!
  
  Haven't played it in multiplayer yet, only question: will there be enough single player missions 
 to play this game for such a long time as its predecessor Soldiers Heroes of WW II, which in my 
 opinion still stays on top... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darksunshaman
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that I was very excited to get this game home, install it and give it a whirl. 
 I was extremely happy with the tutorial and gameplay, the graphics were outstanding and had a lot 
 of fun with it. The paper cuts started with a few program crashes, annoying but not totally unexpected. 
 Then I had issues repairing vehicles, seems at least for me that repair kits were nonexistent in 
 the game. What gives? I also detest the fact that whenever you switch campaign sides, as in after 
 you beat the german campaign and want to play the allies, you have to perform the same exact tutaorial. 
 Good the first time to learn the system, but gets annoying. I would have like to have seen more 
 opportunities to absorb other soldiers into your squad and perhaps a better way of managing inventories 
 during looting. For my mooney, I had alot more fun with Company of Heroes, albeit they are two 
 different types of games altogether. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikey007
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 1, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Dont listen to the Numpty down below giving it a 2 or the gamespot review for that matter, he just 
 sounds like your typical RTS hater, because this game its solid! It should have been given an 8 
 at least!
  
  Anyways,
  
  Did you enjoy Soliders: HOWW2? if so, you'll love this game! Its basically the same game but with 
 Many improvements.
  
  Heres what i liked:
  
  *Groups. Your soldiers can be formed into groups with a leader to make man management easier, but 
 allot of the time i tend to use 1 man &amp; use the others to protect my flank.
  
  *Commands. In a group you can easily issue a command, such as, 'throw anti-grenade' &amp; one of 
 your soldiers will do it. No more fiddling with the menu to select a grenade, it gets done &amp; 
 quickly.
  
  *Smarter AI: For example one of your soldiers gets his helmet shot off whilst controlling your 
 group, just click back on the helmet &amp; the soldier who lost it will run back to grab it while 
 the others cover him. Also repairing tanks &amp; healing has been streamlined.
  
  *Direct control: Its back &amp; not really different, but its such a great feature that i just 
 had to mention it again. Those who haven't play S: Howw2 don't know what they are missing! I think 
 it should be a standard feature in all future RTS games from now on! It gives you much better control 
 &amp; you also get rewarded by extra accuracy with weapons!
  
  *Clever missions: Big maps with lots of objectives &amp; TONES of enemys to mow down :)
  
  
 Now for some negatives:
  
  * When objectives are issued sometimes your in the middle of a fire fight &amp; cant hear the voice 
 over. But thats easily fixed by looking at the objectives menu after its over.
  
  * Some controls &amp; menus are a bit vague. for example it took me 20 mins to find the 'repair 
 button' (you have to click an almost hidden gray tab to find it, not very good menu design IMO)
 
  
  * When in group mode, some soldiers don't follow your orders, so you have to re-issue them. Its 
 one of the reasons i only fight with 1 guy &amp; use the others to guard my sweet ass.
  
  Overall: FOW is basically an updated &amp; improved version of S: Howw2 (don't listen to anyone 
 who thinks otherwise!) If you enjoy a bit of strategy, looting dead enemy bodies for new weapons, 
 commandeering vehicles for your cause &amp; playing a game you can actualy sink your teeth into, 
 BUY THIS GAME! Its one of the best WW2 RTS's ive ever played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrismans
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  i think that this game is very over rated ,, sure it mite not be as good as COH but it is still 
 a good game. multiplayer is very addictive however you might find it is a little laggy but it is 
 understandable when there is so much going on. accents on the game are very iffy but who cares 
 ,, it frustrates me when u get people giving a game such a low rating for silly little things.
 
  
  
  the only reason why im doing my score as 10 is because u get people rating the game at like 1-2 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soultaker_it
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 20, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  There isn't any game that let you create realistic looking 3d craters, calculate ricochets (both 
 cannon/MG projectiles) and allow you to blow up/destroy practically any thing on map apart from 
 showw2 and this game.
  Said that, probably is enough (as it would be for me) for you to rush buy the game, if it isn't 
 the case, keep reading...
  
  Anyway this isn't a game for simple people, it can be quite difficult and requires some thinking, 
 the controls aren't bad , you simply need to have some patience and play some time to understand 
 the interface, which is actually very readable and straightforward anyway, maybe a brief look at 
 the interface chapter in the very brief manual will help.
  Speaking of instability, I have a quite powerful pc, but surely not the best around, (don't have 
 time to put specs though, will do if you ask) and experienced 0 (zero) ctd or any kind of other 
 problem in about 30 hours of play, I've played with all the sides to about 4th mission with all 
 of them, and a little in mp (through lan only) .
  Anyway, if you liked soldier you MUST NOT MISS THIS one, actually I think that with a map editor 
 it will become one of my best game ever (and I have a loooot of game) , and the map editor is coming, 
 listening to developers, need to say they said that also for soldiers, but at the end nothing showed 
 up, hoping they remember how disappointed was the community last time, and I think they won't do 
 the same mistake 2 times in a row.
  
  Concluding, sound and graphics are obviously top notch, especially localized damages textures (yes, 
 you can see where did you hit that tank or that wall) , and in a world were these things are lost 
 in favour of fast paced action, because people don't have enough of have already too fast life 
 nad stress due to this.... bah, anyway if you like simulations, are above the age of shot-shot-shot, 
 and somewhat hate the shape rts have taken in the last years, try this!
  
  PS about the first person control, regarding the gamespot review:
  If someone don't need to use 
 this extraordinary feature, I'm sorry to say that he didn't understand nothing of the game.
  I use the good ai of my soldier to put them in good spot and them use MY men to do various job, 
 usually the most important ones, so you can put some men in good watching point to cover you and 
 then go in for the hard kill with YOUR man, and there is no feeling like doing this by YOURSELF 
 in any other rts, and it's very satisfactory and funny. What about punish a enemy tank feeling 
 to much sure of himself with a rear bazooka shot from a safe hiding spot in bushes in MP, you can 
 NEVER do that with any kind of other rts, but this is the way they did, and it's strange people 
 rush enemy tanks with infartry AND SURVIVE.... expecially company of heroes, wich is quite good 
 and entertaining, but plain simple repetitive fiction :- ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tohan6
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2006 2:10 am PT
Review:  Realism and pickiness to litle details - litle uncomfrtable squad system for hardcore Soldiers: 
 Heroes of WWII fan, will be patched really soon... lots of script errors and bugs that will be 
 fixed in the bugs, and wrong time for release - its all the reason of biased reviewing little yellow 
 webpapers that charge you for READING - like gamespot - IGN got 8.7 out of 10 - because they actually 
 played the game - and find it BEST REALISTIC WW2 RTS SIM on the market - no questions about popularity 
 of the game after MP lags will be patched - WHOOORA for over 170 armor units, tanks, AT guns, americans, 
 brits, soviets, germans... game is priceless and based on MATURE 25+ community of people that play 
 it ... thats why you wont have to deal with kids coming from Company of Heroes - coming because 
 they got bored with 17 tanks in total... they will come and leave as this game features more realism 
 and requers more action and thinking by user.
  offtopic - Ai is smart enough to toss nades from them before they blow up... i've seen it - my 
 jaw dropped. all i can say is $30 worth spending !!! HELLO BTRH mod and thousands of hours of multiplayer 
 insanely tense battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 14, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Levels have also been overdeveloped to the point where you have no real freedom. They aren't as 
 rigid or as puzzle-heavy as those you would find in one of the Commandos games, although there 
 is typically just one way to complete objectives and usually just a single way to get there. You 
 need to do everything in perfect order to activate a trigger spawning backups (like a column of 
 tank reinforcements) or setting up the condition needed to take out the battalion of enemies that 
 attack you at the end of each mission. A lot of levels feature extremely dissatisfying endgames 
 that you don't control, where the cavalry shows up out of the blue like a deus ex machina, for 
 example, or you suddenly win the day just because you managed to stay alive against withering enemy 
 fire for a long-enough period of time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dozzpot
Rating: 2.9
Date: Oct 10, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Soldiers: Heroes of WWII - my favourite RTS action game ever! It took me a while to get into it 
 but now I have played it twice and think it is fantastic. I was therefore thrilled to hear that 
 Faces was developed by the same people and sure enough the controls were so familiar.
  But it is AWFUL, what have they done to my favourite game? It's supposed to be RTS but it's just 
 a constant din of shooting and being shot at. No time to think about strategy, assemble equipment, 
 plan postions. There is no control over the squad and you end up as a spectator to chaos. I am 
 so disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasirris
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Faces of War is both realistic and fun. What is there not to like about it? It's so great and will 
 last anyone a good long gameplay time. Faces of War is what i've been waiting for ever since. Although 
 the graphics isn't eye candy, it has a great array of units and possiblities. In multiplayer, there 
 are also a decent amount of maps. You can flank a player or charge head on supported with snipers 
 or you could even create a mechcanized sqaud or rush the enemy with infantry and APCs. When I play 
 Faces of War, I feel like i'm there commanding the units to battle. The AI is great and couldn't 
 be any better, there still might be some bugs in the game but i'm confident they will fix it soon 
 enough. If you're an RTS fan then this is the game for you. I'm suprised why FoW gets a puny 6.0 
 rating. This game is better then that. Overall, Faces of War is a ultimate historic RTS simlulation 
 and cannot compare with other RTSs because it is so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eastiling
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 2, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I was so chuffed with the demo for this game, i thought YES! But then i got the game and i went 
 NOOO, Heresy!! The game had so much potential!! It had all the makings of a brilliant WW2 game.
 
  
  In my opinion the game was a star*. It has that WW2 that you some times fail to see in other games 
 of the same Genre. But then they made it so you could only control One Squad! (Most of the time) . 
 It just seemed so wierd. I dont kno what else to say, Good Graphics, Sound, Gripping but annoying, 
 Slighly Repetative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkWarjo
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2006 1:12 am PT
Review:  Really good game, i enjoyed playing the first missions, not too hard, but when it comes to the 
 final missions and you need to control your guys in some intense fight, they don't wanna move?! 
 WTF?! damn ai is fighting with me and disagrees with my tactics, it pisses off! Scenery is nice 
 and almost everything is destroyable, you can run a tank trough someones living room if you want, 
 but it's also funny when you can push a cannon trough a stone wall with only two man pushing the 
 cannon..
  overall it's a good game but has some really odd problems. AI is good sometimes controlling your 
 men away from harms way and all but mostly it's just moving your men without you agreeing with 
 those movements 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sobekhorus
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 27, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  I dont know how West Bay's designers were thinking when they designed the missions. A majority 
 of the missions are so difficult that only a RTS expert could play through the missions without 
 havng to reload every 5 minutes.
  
  Its very difficult and the strength ratios are often so unbalanced that its ridiculous Normally 
 the strength ratios is something like 1:15 and you wonders howcome the whole enemy army has to 
 be involved in every mission and then the enemy almost always has a squadron or two with all kinds 
 if vehicles, like tanks, armored cars, halftracks etc... In these cases you mostly have to rely 
 on AT grenades or if you're lucky a bazooka or Panzerschreck that you have found among the killed 
 enemy soldiers. After this there is this other problem, the mission scripts, the problem with them 
 is that you cant do as like or in complete the objectives in another order then the designers have 
 decided forcing the players units into going a certain way, poreventing them from doing flanking 
 manoeuvres.
  
  Then we have the bugs, the game constantly suffers from low fps whenever there are more then infantry 
 units on the map, especially when tanks enter the map the fps drops. Alos the AI is sometimes very 
 poor despite developers claim that it should be really good, its not. Sometimes you soldiers do 
 really stupid things like when you order a soldiers to throw a grenade on a enemy soldier or vehicle 
 he stands in front of the enemy for like 5 seconds before he throws the grenade this often results 
 in an almost killed soldier. There are alots of this kind of stupid behavior things that they do. 
 Sometimes though they do act in a clever way.
  
  There are actually alot of good things with this game as well. The graphics is really awsome and 
 just the fact that you can demolish almost anything thing in this game one way or another.
  Either you blow it up with artillery fire or you drive your artillery (tanks) through the buildings 
 and watch them collapse or you can use a flamethrower to set the building or bushes or trees or 
 crop fileds on fire.
  
  Another good thingis that you can walk around on the battlefield and lok for more weapons and ammo. 
 This is very helpful if you are low on ammo or if you want more machine guns or grenades.
  
  You can pick up/use almost anything including enemy veihcles and guns as long as they are not 
 broken. Broken tracks on a tank is repairable if you have a repair kit.
  
  Summary: this game could have been a real killer IF the bugs had been sorted out and if the game 
 difficult levels had been a few more, one easier and one in the middle between arcade and tactical.. 
 If they correct the strength ratios in future patch (es) and correct the fps probelm and some of 
 the minor AI troubles this game could bee quite good. I havent tried multiplayer yet but i would 
 think that it most likely is more fun then SP since it is more balanced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hanno555
Rating: 5.3
Date: Sep 26, 2006 6:03 am PT
Review:  First off, this should have been an expansion pack for Soldiers: Heroes of World War II instead 
 of a stand-alone, $39.99 game! There's very little difference between the two. The few additional 
 features are welcome, like when you click the repair icon and then click on a vehicle, the soldier 
 will get a repair kit, if there is one, out of the vehicle's inventory. You still have to select 
 one soldier, click on wherever the ammo is, then load the soldier up and then move to the tank 
 and put the ammo in inventory, which can be very laborious! It would have been nice if there was 
 a squad command to transfer ammo. For a game with supposedly advanced AI I didn't see any. The 
 enemy seems to be able to do banzai charges at will, while your soldiers sit there with their thums 
 up their noses waiting for the inevitable. In the couple of missions I have been able to get through 
 there are other squads which you have no control of and the mission objectives are a joke! Attacking 
 a fortified position over open terrain with only a few bushes here and there for cover. This could 
 have been an awesome game and I was looking forward to it. Better luck next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caiman78
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 25, 2006 1:52 am PT
Review:  The game has multitude of failures, bugs, etc...
  
  The truth is that it is a shame for which the game could be very good.
  
  The screens of training 
 repeat themselves continuously, doing to the confused enough and boring game.
  
  They exist multitude of places in the game where the prominent figures remain caught and it turns 
 out to be very frustrating to play with that way.
  
  The organization of the campaigns is a real chaos, they are very bad organized the menus and the 
 way of acceding to them, an example is when a mission finishes the game says to you: Finnish or 
 Continue, it is very confused.
  
  This game needs urgently one or two patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pendergastt
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 25, 2006 1:12 am PT
Review:  i didn't heard about this game until i tried a demo. I did'nt like it. i thought it was ok but 
 not so right. But when i get the game i started to enjoy it in all ways.
  
  The very best thing about the game (for me) is that you can take cover in any place!! doesn't matter 
 where you are. you can take cover and survive to enemies shots.
  
  The AI isn't as good as the game deserves but istn as bad as other strategy games. This game makes 
 you think about your next movement in the battlefield because an error would be mortal. Another 
 point for that game is that you can either control a unit manually or with the mouse.
  
  The scenario is fully destructible and its incredible when something demolish a building and you 
 are in a cross fire between the enemy and your men.
  
  Another point for the game is the inventory. Each soldier have an inventory where you take the 
 ammo, the weapons, the medical atention... and when you run out of ammo you have to search for 
 it on dead bodies all over the battlefield.
  
  The things that could be fixedin next patches would be a better info of the remaining ammo in a 
 soldier because when you are lak of ammo and points an enemy to attack, the soldier who are out 
 of ammo goes next to the enemy in order to throw a grenade. and that sometimes is frustrating.
 
  
  To resume: Is a great game. an incredibly game... if you like strategy go for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StraiN-ShifTeD
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 23, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  There are some parts of FoW that I have had trouble with and one is the squads that are established, 
 most of the time I disband them so I can move men individually but as soon as you select them all 
 again they turn back into a squad which can generally be quite annoying. Other little things can 
 be annoying such as tanks not being damaged but simply destroyed more often and also buildings 
 being harder to destroy
  
  The squad command is a very good idea and allows for a more RTS-like gameplay with less direct 
 control. The AI isn't all that good and so there's quite a bit of man running into the face of 
 a blatant machine gun nest, etc 
  
  However there are some very nice new points to this game over soldiers such as the improved graphics, 
 more units and the larger use of turrets, etc which I found very cool. Also the larger amounts 
 of enemy units on each map accounts for the larger amount of units given to your control in game, 
 if only by a little. But there are a lot more NPC allies around making the war seem all the larger. 
 Multiplayer and LAN is great for head to head battles as well as playing missions co-op. But it 
 is just a lot of fun driving tanks, etc. in direct control around the battle field through structures 
 or blowing up an entire area of the map with a bombardment of rockets.
  
  I really do love this game but there are the little things that can be off putting, and the difficulty 
 of the game may also be one of these things, but with arcade mode this may rectify this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: britneyyy
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  Easy to learn hard to master game , bring you to RTS game where you command units in missions in 
 the famous battle in WW2.
  Very nice graphic and not that much demanding, finally big number of samples for russian in original 
 language (i like that campaign a lot)
  yet again someone was payed on this site to give 6.0 score only, for this
  game.
  who liked 
 MOHAA fps he will like RTS genre after this game.
  You can 't stop playing and enjoy in atmosphere of battles , you can use corpses , u can use melee 
 , bazooka , tanks , tops ,big guns vehicles.
  it's hard to describe how much is good this game,
  you must play this . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rayknet
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 23, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  This game again brings you to the bottom WW2 but in a unique way. You are a commander of small 
 group of US soldier division control them to get their objective done. In each group you can order 
 them with deeper commander compared to other RTS games such as sniping, rocket launching and even 
 choose their guns! (Imagine RTS version of Brothers in arms but a lot deeper) However the real 
 star of this game is the ''direct control'' that gives you an opportunity to control your soldier 
 like a first person shooter game. Imagine snipe enemy by your own hands, in some state I feel it 
 can bring my deep pressure out, or drive your tank through houses and watch them crushed! (Yep 
 this game has over-standard of RTS physic engine. You can shoot to the wall with intention and 
 expect the bullet will bounce back to your enemies that hiding besides it.. Annoying with the filled 
 house that full of jerries that shoot you with no mercy? No problem, let your rockets work ! Thats 
 it and the firework begins.
  
  The gameplay is deep too. I've attempted to capture the static point once but there was an AA gun 
 that guarding it. Moving directly to them is almost impossible. After use my brain. I tried to 
 bombarded them with all of my grenades and advance gradually. My plan went though well but eventually 
 I've got a warm lovely bullet hit my squad hardly and they all got killed. For the next time I 
 changed my plan, I went back to Tiger tank that I just blow it ( yep I'm goanna still and reuse 
 it ) I repaired it and drove them to get rid of that AA I used the direct control feature chose 
 the personnel and light armor bullet shot the AA proudly and now it's time to scream ha ha ha !!
 
  
  There's some problem too. Sometime I can't move my squad or even individual soldier. It's quite 
 annoying but for a little while they will become controllable again and it doesnt' t occur too 
 often.
  
  Sounds are also good. The game noisy with realistic combat sound, yet I wish to have more speech 
 or command sound. If you are not a hardcore gamer, this game can bring you a lot of entertain. 
 Don't judge it by professional's review. They are not always right (Advent rising for instance) 
 I've never imagined that this game would be good among the whole lot of great RTS game, moreover 
 it ships in a same moment of Company of heroes, that's its real rival, but in my opinion they are 
 both fun but this game brings more new things 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardW331
Rating: 5.7
Date: Sep 22, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  Ok ok... this game is merley a direct copy from SOH... Its just tonnes better graphics and gameplay
 
  
  All im saying is SinglePlayer is kinda crap... i dont like it much.. boring and sometimes very 
 frustrating
  
  I was really lucking forwards to multiplayer... but slow lagg gameplay...
  
  wtf is going on here ?
  
  btw... its not my connections... its not my graphics settings 
 cuz i change the graphics to ultra low
  
  still the same, i have GeForce 7900GT... 3.6processer... 2gb RAM... everything a best PC could 
 buy... so its nothing to do with that
  
  It must be the game... and it is, since everyone is having the same problem !
  
  So... Faces 
 Of War Dev Team... or UbiSoft whoever made the bullcrap lagg system on Multiplayer.... Fix this... 
 or im Shixing
  
  If is wasnt for the lagg on Multiplayer... it would be amazing game.. but cuz of that... forget 
 it
  
  *---*---*---*---*Borrow or rent game b4 u buy* ---*---*---*---* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guppeeh
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 22, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  Lets be frank, the Gamespot reviewer is right on the mark. I would have rated it a 7 or a 8, only 
 because I know the upcoming patch would fix most of the glaring problems. The graphics engine is 
 superb and the WW2 authenticity is superior to most. This game can really shine with the right 
 mod, as its internal structures are very accessible for manipulation.
  
  Overall, its a bit disappointing compared to SHOWW2 but with right support, it can crawl its way 
 back up to the top. But if anything FoW clearly succeeds in, that would be being completely unique 
 in the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunchap
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 21, 2006 12:33 am PT
Review:  When i bought Faces of war i thought it would be something like the first game (Soldiers: Heroes 
 of WW2) , but it is much better, all the physics, graphics, and the sound are ten times better than 
 SHoWW2. In SHoWW2 there were 4 campaigns to play but in Faces of war are only three, but they are 
 much more intense and bigger than the ones in SHoWW2. And finally the AI of the soldiers is much 
 better/cleverer than in the first game- the soldiers behave now like real soldiers- not like dummies. 
 I would rate to buy this game, especially who likes the history of WW2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyborgdl
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  First off id like to mention the fact that I loved soldiers heroes of WW2, I thought it was a fantastic 
 game and after playing FoW for a bit now I believe I will love this game equally.
  
  However there are some parts of FoW that I have had trouble with and one is the squads that are 
 established, most of the time I disband them so I can move men individually but as soon as you 
 select them all again they turn back into a squad which can generally be quite annoying. Other 
 little things can be annoying such as tanks not being damaged but simply destoryed more often and 
 also buildings being harder to destroy.
  
  The squad command is a very good idea and allows for a more rts play with less direct control, 
 but the AI isn't all that good and so there as quite a bit of man running into the face of a blatant 
 machine gun nest, etc 
  
  However there are some very nice new points to this game over soldiers such as the improved graphics, 
 more units and the larger use of turrets, etc which I found very cool. Also the larger amounts 
 of enemy units on each map accounts for the larger amount of units given to your control in game, 
 if only by a little. But there are a lot more npc allies around making the war seem all the larger. 
 Multiplayer, internet and lan is great for head to head battles as well as playing missions co-op. 
 But it is just a lot of fun driving tanks etc in direct control around the battle field through 
 structures or blowing up an entire area of the map with a bombardment of rockets.
  
  I really do love this game but there are the little things that can be off putting, and the difficulty 
 of the game may also be one of these things, but with arcade mode this may rectify this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connary
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 17, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is scripted, events are generated when the player reach a certain point, the concept 
 of sandbox is not real here (i only played the first german missions) . You cannot take decisions 
 like 'follow the left path to the town or follow the right path to the river'... no, u cant.
  The only thing u must do its try to get the next point with your brothers in arms, only this, and 
 this is really GREAT&iexcl;&iexcl;&iexcl; Only a couple of men trying to cross the enemy lines, 
 each meter is worth the entire game. U can take cover in all kind of environment, get the armor 
 and other guns for the dead, give orders to the entire group or only to a single man and u can 
 aim and shot with his gun. If u think every step u can do many different combat actions.
  There are a few problems, sometimes the AI appeared from nothing in certain points (scripts) and 
 this isnt good for immersion but this game is more action based.
  Its a nice game, very fun, highly detailed and very hard (im playing in tacticts mode) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lewis8888
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 15, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Faces of war is a very unique game, the game is all about you controlling a few squads battling 
 your way through ww2 playing from 4 nations. the british , american, germans and russians. what 
 i like alot about this game is the way you actually get to play the germans as most games dont 
 have that.
  
  the game includes 3 campaign, allied ( british &amp; americans) , german and russia each one has 
 some very challenging missions that take alot of skill. the game is very realistic. Tank battles 
 are awesome with the effects and realism. the tanks have no health bars meaning you will have to 
 hit the tank in the correct places to make destroy it.
  
  Tank fighting
  ___________
  
  Tank fighting in Fow is excellent. the good think is you dont have to completely destory it 
 to win the tank battle. for example you could hit the main gun off forcing the Crew of the tank 
 to Retreat. then if you want you could send some engineers or infantry squad to repair the tank 
 and steal it for your self to use againist the enemy. you will also have to watch your ammo and 
 fuel for your tank as the game is realistic
  
  Infantry Fights
  ___________
  
  Infantry Fights are again excellent using the squad control panel can be a little hard to control 
 at first but you will get use to it. It is easy to to find cover for the whole squad or get rid 
 of it with a tank shell as you can destory anything from a house to a fence in the game. you will 
 also need to watch for the ammo , grenades , health and other equipment to make sure your men are 
 fully ready for the fight.
  
  Night battles
  __________
  
  Night battles are excellent they give a really good graphical and gameplay look to the game. for 
 example the headlights on trucks and jeeps look excellent and really show some good graphics to 
 the game.
  
  Mutiplayer
  ________
  
  the Mp player of the game is excellent, Coop to play the levels from every team from the campaign 
 levels. and alot of Types Of game types. From team death match to a game called chicken hunt when 
 you have to hunt and kill chickens.
  
  Training &amp; difficulty
  ______________
  
  the game includes 2 Modes. Tactical Play for experienced players who will know how to play the 
 Game, possible People who played SHOWW2 And arcade Mode for new players to the game. the Training 
 does explain very well how to play the game. you will learn pretty quick but i can say the game 
 has alot of Controls so it will be hard to under stand every single one of them. if you play on 
 Tactical Mode i have to say the game is pretty hard but no game is fun if its easy.
  
  Others
  _____
  
  the game included about 100+ Vehicles from WW2 and alot of guns and equipement. 
 the game is very realistic.
  
  
  I suggest this game to any RTS fan who wants something different than the boring build bases and 
 collect resources and kill.
  
  Thanks for reading
  -Lewis8888 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow5654
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 14, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  It is a very Fun And Very Addicting wwii game it is also challenging at first I haven't played 
 long and this is my first impression so my opinon can change. Very different from normal wwii games 
 because it adds the factor of tanks having fuel and ammo and same for other vehicles with weapons. 
 Infantry can change weapons and have many options plus they reload. Terran completly destructible 
 and plyible so u can take cover virtually anywhere. There is no skirmish missons so kinda a letdown 
 there. Have not tryed multiplayer so I have no idea there. Again this is my first impresion so 
 it may get better or worse depending on how much fun the game turns out to be later. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
