-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FaceOff Hockey 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/totalprohockey/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  9, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 6.3, 6.3 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 21 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: .400 Software Studios
Genre: Ice Hockey Management
Date:     October 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The developers may have designed a serious hockey simulation for the serious hockey fan, but the 
 dated, almost DOS-like interface and absence of nifty accessories make it an acquired taste.

  Experienced sports management simmers will immediately see the similarities between FaceOff Hockey 
 2004 and the latest edition of Diamond Mind Baseball. Like its hardball-centered predecessor, .400 
 Software Studios' take on pro hockey is extremely powerful, exacting in regard to stat generation 
 and authenticity, and incredibly, frustratingly hard to use. The developers may have designed a 
 serious hockey simulation for the serious hockey fan, but the dated, almost DOS-like interface 
 and absence of nifty accessories, like career play, make it an acquired taste.  

          Manually simmed games are tense affairs where you switch up lines on the fly. And the play-by-play 
 features evocative descriptions of what's taking place on the ice.     

  Still, it's a good bet for shinny nuts who demand pinpoint accuracy in their hockey games. While 
 this game may be a new take on the old FaceOff Hockey series developed by David Landsman's Land-Sports, 
 it retains the same dedication to exactitude. Nobody else gets the NHL quite like Land-Sports, 
 an achievement that was recognized back in 2001 when EA Sports hired the company to provide ratings 
 for its NHL games. That same focus can still be seen today, although issues with regard to the 
 interface and options may turn off casual hockey fans.  

  For starters, the menu system is straight out of 1994. Aside from the opening splash screen typical 
 of .400 Software Studios productions, there is little representative of the modern, easy-to-use 
 text-based sports simulation. Unlike most games of this ilk offered today, there is no step-by-step 
 process to walk you through seasonal play and to take you from training camp through the Stanley 
 Cup playoffs. You choose a player database and immediately have to go about configuring a league, 
 complete with a dozen or so options ranging from the number of teams to the overtime format. The 
 standard NHL setup is the default setting, with actual NHL players on the rosters of clubs with 
 phony nicknames (Toronto, for instance, is home to the St. Pats, which is at least a tribute to 
 the team's previous name) , although you can tweak to your heart's content. Then comes the setup 
 of your chosen club, roster assignments, setting lines, and the decision of when to pull your goalie 
 in simmed games, and so forth.  

          Simming screens are stark and simple, but they get the job done, and the numbers generated 
 are right on the money.     

  There is no assistance to walk you through these choices, so novices beware. Even veterans with 
 a background in text-based sports sims will have a bit of a rough time getting going here, since 
 the absence of guidance forces a lot of fiddling with menus for the first few hours of play. Everything 
 could have been arranged better. Why is the season schedule presented in a small box rather than 
 in an easy-to-read calendar? Why are vital team functions, such as managing the roster and setting 
 lines, split into different menus? What is the point of having an entirely separate menu for the 
 sole purpose of appointing captains and alternates? Much of the interface could have been simplified 
 just by deleting unnecessary screens and combining functions.  

  There are even a few noteworthy bugs. Both goalies on a roster can occasionally be injured or suspended, 
 halting a season dead in its tracks. Databases can apparently be corrupted during installation, 
 and then the game is unable to find player lists. This forces a reinstall, which implies the programming 
 is sloppy. You need to rename a file in order to get the help files (a separate download) to properly 
 display in the game. And when you're setting up leagues, error messages frequently pop up saying 
 vaguely threatening things about access violations. The game never actually crashes due to these 
 errors, although a lot of functions that should work occasionally don't, for reasons known only 
 to those responsible for this arcane interface.     

  But even with all that, FaceOff Hockey 2004 simulates professional hockey games better than any 
 other game on the market. There is no career option, so play here is strictly focused on replaying 
 single seasons; but, it is worth struggling with these limitations to experience a game engine 
 that generates lifelike player and team statistics. Assign the right ice-time percentages to your 
 four lines on the coaching strategy screen and you get accurate numbers across the board in terms 
 of scoring and shots on goal.  

          Box scores read like something right out of the newspaper. Games between conference rivals 
 like Toronto and the New York Islanders are typically penalty-filled affairs.     

  There is a lot of flexibility here, too, as strategies can be edited for every team. If you want 
 to mirror the lines and tactics that Mike Kitchen brought to the St. Louis Blues when he took over 
 from Joel Quenneville this past spring, you can do so. As an added touch, you can even set up coaches 
 and give them personalities, such as master strategist, studious, vocal, and that old Pat Quinn-styled 
 favorite, ref-berater. The only issue is that most of these values are left blank, forcing you 
 to do a lot of fine-tuning with teams if you want to experience an accurate NHL simulation. Even 
 with this absence, games take on a lifelike sheen. Traditional rivals even tend to get involved 
 in fight-laden affairs. One game we simmed between divisional opponents Dallas and Detroit was 
 marked by 126 minutes in penalties and a three-on-three brawl in the final minute -- the score was 
 out of control.  

  Player default settings are pretty solid. Check the box scores after a night of action around the 
 league and you'll discover that the right players are finding the twine and clocking the most minutes 
 on the ice. Big scorers like Alexander Mogilny and Markus Naslund routinely lead the league in 
 scoring. Numbers reflect player attributes as well. Natural scorers, such as Glen Murray, typically 
 count more goals than assists, and playmakers, such as Doug Weight, get credit for a lot more helpers 
 than goals. Ice time is also dead-on. Top forwards always clock in at around 17 to 25 minutes a 
 night, while stud defensemen, in the style of Adam Foote, patrol the blue line for around 30 minutes 
 a game. Purists might quibble about inflated offensive numbers -- scoring is well above that of the 
 current dead-puck era -- although, this might be a blessing in disguise since so many of those purists 
 long to go back to the more wide-open NHL of the 1980s and early 1990s.  

          The interface is plenty convoluted, with far too many menu screens. This one exists solely 
 to designate player status and name team captains and alternates.     

  These mostly accurate statistics are generated no matter how you simulate games. You can whip through 
 a day's schedule in seconds or tear through a full week, month, or season with a single click. 
 Speed is such that you can easily sim two or three seasons in a single evening of play. Manually 
 playing games, of course, takes more time, but it holds its own rewards, as you can step behind 
 the bench and shift lines. Textual play-by-play is well done, setting up both a sense of flow and 
 adding tension to the proceedings. Roaring crowd noise also gives you an air of sitting rinkside. 
 But as satisfying as playing solo is, it's even more entertaining to go online and take part in 
 online leagues. There is a strong community of FaceOff series owners out there and many ongoing 
 leagues.  

  Still, FaceOff Hockey 2004 remains something of a fixer-upper. There is a lot of promise here if 
 you're willing to do some work in the beginning and set up all the necessary league files, but 
 the learning curve is steep and the interface unforgiving. No other text-based game provides such 
 an authentic simulation of NHL hockey, but players must accept a lot of rough edges.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
