-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Falcon 4.0: Allied Force
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/falcon4alliedforce/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Improved graphics and sounds.
 Incredible dynamic campaigns in two different regions.
 Enemies put up a good fight.
 Possibly the most accurate simulation ever released.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Graphics still trail those of newer releases.
 3D cockpit pales compared to 2D cockpit.
 Printing the entire manual will cost a fortune.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  2, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 8.9, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 826 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Graphsim Entertainment
Developer: Lead Pursuit
Genre: Jet Sim
Date:     Jun 28, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It took seven years, a number of false starts, and one of the most devoted fan communities in existence, 
 but the release of Falcon 4.0: Allied Force shows that its potential has finally been realized. 
 

  Ask any simulation fan worth his hands on throttle-and-stick (HOTAS) setup what the best combat 
 flight simulator of all time is, and he's likely to reply "Falcon 4.0." Ask that same person what 
 the worst combat flight simulation of all time is, and you're just as likely to hear the same answer. 

          Falcon's back, and it's better than ever.     

  Released in 1998, Falcon 4.0 was far from an unmitigated disaster, but the design goals were so 
 lofty that there simply wasn't enough time or resources to climb high enough to reach them. The 
 end result was a simulation that was so far ahead of its time that it feels current to this day, 
 but it was buggy enough to turn off the demanding hardcore audience it needed to cater to for success. 
 Crashes were frequent, the brilliant dynamic campaign system was full of glitches, and multiplayer 
 was practically broken out of the box. As we put it back when it was first released, Falcon 4.0 
 offered "more potential, more promise, than anything else."  

  It took seven years, a number of false starts, and one of the most devoted fan communities in existence, 
 but the release of Falcon 4.0: Allied Force shows that its potential has finally been realized 
 and that promise has finally been delivered. This will come as no surprise to longtime fans who 
 have dealt with the innumerable patches, fan-made content, and other fixes and enhancements that 
 have appeared over the years to dramatically improve the original release. The tedious process 
 of downloading the proper files and then installing them all in the correct order is known affectionately 
 as the "dance," and it was enough to keep casual fans as far away from this game as they could 
 get. The dance is finally over, and for the first time ever wannabe jet jockeys can install Falcon 
 4.0 from a single disc and enjoy nearly all of its numerous features as the designers intended. 

  For those who are wholly unfamiliar with this game, Falcon 4.0 is an exacting simulation of the 
 F-16 Fighting Falcon. Also known as the Electric Jet, the Lawn Dart, or, more popularly, the Viper, 
 the F-16 is one of the most versatile fighters ever created. Its legendary maneuverability makes 
 it a superb dogfighter, but it also has enough power to carry a respectable load of air-to-ground 
 munitions for "mud moving" when necessary. This simulation lets you try your hand at both roles 
 in instant action, single missions, or several incredible dynamic campaigns that are set in the 
 Korean Peninsula and the Balkans.  

  The entire simulation has had a graphic overhaul, and the 2D cockpit looks as good as that of any 
 modern simulation. All of the F-16's knobs, switches, and handles are depicted in photo-realistic 
 detail, and the mouse can be used to interact with most of them. A heads-up display rendered on 
 the front of the cockpit provides enough information to perform most tasks without needing to reference 
 the cockpit instruments. The display changes depending on the type of weapon that is selected and 
 the radar or targeting mode that is currently in use. The F-16's two trademark multifunction displays 
 are displayed with terrific detail, and it takes hours of practice to become familiar with their 
 seemingly endless menu pages and settings.  

  The 3D cockpit allows for smooth-view panning, though it's not interactive and it's extremely crude 
 compared to the wonderful 2D cockpit. Fortunately, it works excellently with the simulation's many 
 excellent padlock views, which smoothly keep your virtual head pointed at a selected target, since 
 your eyes are on the target and rarely need detailed cockpit information. Cockpit reflections and 
 a "lift line" displayed on the top of the cockpit are tremendously helpful in letting you maintain 
 a sense of your plane's orientation in a swirling dogfight.  

  Terrain graphics are much better than those included in the original sim, although they don't compare 
 to those in modern simulations like Lock-On: Modern Air Combat. Aside from a lack of detail, the 
 terrain is at least very functional for low-level ground attack missions, as it is filled with 
 hills, mountains, valleys, and other features that make air-to-ground strikes exhilarating. Clouds 
 and fog help add to the ambiance, but explosions, weapon smoke trails, and other special effects 
 are severely lacking compared to many other simulations. This doesn't affect gameplay in the least, 
 however, and overall, Allied Force looks unbelievably better than the original release. Best of 
 all it is that it works great with current hardware and operating systems, eliminating compatibility 
 issues that plagued Falcon 4.0.  

          The new 2D cockpit is both beautiful and interactive.     

  Sounds can generally be 
 overlooked in a simulation as long as they don't interfere with the game, but here they enhance 
 the action immeasurably. Air traffic controllers direct you around the airbase, chewing you out 
 if you take off or land without permission. The radio is alive with chatter from other units in 
 your operational area, cueing you into the various targets and installations that are scattered 
 around the map. Within the plane the engine, weapons, landing gear, and various warning horns and 
 beeps all sound fantastic, and the infamous "Bitchin' Betty" is there to let you know when you 
 are flying too low (fortunately, a flick of a switch is all it takes to turn her off when you're 
 flying at the nape of the earth to avoid radar and surface-to-air missiles) .     

  Even in the original release the flight and physics modeling was outstanding, and in this release 
 it has improved to the point that arguably no other simulation can match its fidelity. You can 
 read a book about the flight characteristics of a real F-16, load up the simulation, and re-create 
 those situations to a degree that is almost eerily accurate. A great example is the F-16's tendency 
 to enter a "deep stall" when a ham-fisted pilot pushes the plane well beyond its flight envelope. 
 The F-16 was the first fly-by-wire plane ever manufactured in great quantities, and it relies on 
 constant computer assistance to overcome the inherent aerodynamic instability that gives it such 
 a tremendous edge in terms of maneuverability. Even in straight and level flight, with no input 
 from the pilot whatsoever, the control surfaces of the aircraft make constant, tiny motions to 
 keep the plane flying in a straight line (with everything controlled by the computer) .  

          Enemies in Allied Force know their business.     

  Because the computer is always looking 
 over the pilot's shoulder during maneuvers it makes the F-16 incredibly forgiving to fly. But the 
 downside to this is that it's easy for beginners to get into a situation where their speed is so 
 low that the plane becomes uncontrollable. It doesn't simply stall like most other planes would, 
 quickly dropping their noses and picking up enough speed to give the control surfaces some bite. 
 Instead it enters a "deep stall" where the plane falls like a leaf and the nose gradually pitches 
 up and down as the computer vainly tries to find some angle that will end the stall. This happens 
 in real F-16s, and the only way to get out of it is to manually override the computer, push the 
 stick back and forth in time with the natural motions of the nose, and gradually rock your way 
 out of the stall. Deep stalls also happen in the sim, and you get out of them exactly the same 
 way you would in the real aircraft. Everything from the plane's best cornering speeds to the fact 
 that the controls are deadened significantly as soon as the landing gear is dropped (for more precise 
 control during landings) is modeled to near perfection in this simulation.  

  With all of the highest difficulty settings enabled, even the most experienced pilots will have 
 their hands full managing the aircraft, especially when they have to deal with improved artificial 
 intelligence opponents. The computer did wacky things in the original version of the game, especially 
 during the buggy campaign missions. But now you can expect to face a competent enemy both on the 
 ground and in the air. Surface-to-air missiles and antiaircraft emplacements are a real threat, 
 and enemy pilots dogfight and work together much better than they did before. This makes the instant 
 action missions more exciting, but it really transforms the campaigns. The ongoing war on the air, 
 on ground, and even at sea plays out in real time and is more believable than any simulation campaign 
 ever released. Players can assign target priorities themselves using slider bars, or they can let 
 the computer handle it, which automatically generates missions to meet the overall campaign goals. 
 Players are free to jump into any of these missions, taking on the role of flight lead as they 
 try to make a difference on a virtual battlefield that is constantly in action. The level of detail 
 is staggering, and few simulations do this good a job of making players feel like there is a real 
 war going on around them at all times.  

  If all of this sounds like too much for you, it probably is. Newcomers can tone down nearly every 
 aspect of the simulation by giving themselves unlimited weapons, a bottomless tank of fuel, or 
 even invulnerability. But this isn't the kind of game casual users can simply fire up and get a 
 lot of enjoyment out of right away. Falcon 4.0: Allied Force rewards those who take enough time 
 to really understand every aspect of the F-16's cockpit and capabilities, and also those who are 
 willing to put in the research necessary to personally manage the deep and complex campaigns. A 
 716-page PDF manual is included for those who really want to dive in, and it surpasses even the 
 600-page-plus tome included in the original game in terms of usability and completeness. It explains 
 in detail how everything in the game works, and it's also packed with examples that show why you 
 would want to use a particular weapon mode or radar setting, or whatever, in a variety of situations. 
 There are also 30 training missions included in the sim that the manual provides guidance for, 
 and you'll need to fly all of them to master the plane's various systems. A 109-page printed quick-start 
 guide is included that covers the basics, but it barely begins to scratch the surface of what Falcon 
 4.0: Allied Force has to offer.  

          Ground targets are numerous and dangerous in the campaigns.     

  If you're a sim fan 
 in general or a Falcon 4.0 aficionado in particular, this version of the game has pretty much everything 
 going for it. It is cheap, about as complete as a game of this nature can be, and thanks to the 
 plethora of missions, the inclusion of a mission editor, and especially the several dynamic campaigns, 
 the sim offers limitless replayability. Multiplayer mode finally works well and is a blast either 
 head-to-head or in cooperative mode with up to 16 total players, adding even more value to the 
 game. Newcomers should know by now what they are getting into, but there's an entirely different 
 life waiting on this CD for those willing to make the time investment.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (36 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jschweiger7772
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2009 3:04 pm PT
Review:  I think it is a very realistic Sim. It is the best that I have seen so far. Looking forward to 
 the next in the series. I really cant say anything bad. I just wish that there was a keyboard print-out 
 for me. My memory is not that good I would like to see if they can make a keyboard layout. I don't 
 know what else to say. I can't spread this out to make a hundred words, sorry. How long is a hundred 
 words? I enjoy flight Sims and used to have a lot of them before the house fire. I am sorry that 
 I lost them. I cant. really expand on this. I have no idea of what else to say. this is getting 
 ridiculous. I will just repeat what I said before, Great. I think this is a perfect "10". Great 
 great great 1 11111111 11111111111111 11111111111111 11111111111111 11111111111111111 11111111111111 
 111111111111 1111111111111111 11111111111111 1111111111111111 11111111111111 111111111111111111 
 111111111111111 11111111111111 11111111111 111111111111111 111111111111111 1111111111 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thejocker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Hard, Exciting and addictive, this is Falcon 4.0 AF for me. When I started my first mission, all 
 I wanted is to fire up the engines at the parking like they say in the manual - a full 15 min. 
 startup ! It takes time to understand the complexity of the game, the theater your thrown into 
 and the role you must play in an escort or strike position. but you quickly get there and then 
 your on a role. I love this game, much for the deferent possibilities it gives and the ability 
 to use my Force Feedback II stick. I did not find many games that give that ability and that's 
 a major plus for me. If you love combat flight simulations and simulations in general - This is 
 definitely a must for you ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arielpc
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  Smooth, sharp and detailed graphics are one of the best thing you'll notice at first. They are 
 highly detailed. If you are a newbie flight sim fan, you gonna hate this one because it is too 
 hard to learn and play. But if you are a veteran flight sim player, you gonna love its amazing 
 realism. Good game. That's what it is. However, this game's negative side is its confusing keyboard 
 controls. It is so disappointing. There are tons of more than 2 or more than 3 key-combination 
 keyboard controls. Gosh, they are very hard to memorize. One single function of the jet uses different 
 key-combination controls. Something like CTRL-ALT-SHIFT-F1, Alt-G for gear down, Shift-G for gear 
 up and still there's the G alone key. If they could simplify the keyboard control of this game, 
 I think this would be the best and unrivaled flight sim game both for novice and expert gamer. 
 There are times during the game when my screen would just freeze. I don't know what's happenning, 
 then suddenly when the screen unfreeze, you'll find your plane in different scene. Oftentimes, 
 crashing.
  
  Takes too long to load! They put 5 pictures on the loading screen. Each has time delays of several 
 seconds to few minutes. I guess, they would like to show the real time consumed during the takeoff 
 preparation in actual procedure.
  
  Gosh, I can't take that almost 800 pages of manual to read. I may take me forever to read that. 
 And those keys... my goodness. I think Lastikman can do those key-combination controls which were 
 hard to reach by one hand only, ha ha. Try F/A 18 Operation Iraqi Freedom. Easy, convenient, good 
 graphics and entertaining. I gave up playing this game. it makes me irritated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mannsdan
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 14, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  where do i begin with the disappointment i had for this game...
  i guess i will start with the graphics. to put it mildly: they stunk like crap. after loading the 
 game and waiting with high expectations after reading all of the reviews i was completely blown 
 away by the lameness of the graphics. i was expecting some nice cockpit vies of the land below 
 but all i got was a bunch of low res polygons and jagged lines which looked nothing like mountains 
 or valleys. i turned up the graphical settings as high as they could go and still this game could 
 not deliver on the graphics end. i felt like i was playing a game on an original playstation. i 
 kept wondering why anyone would release a game with such disappointing displays when today's computers 
 have such potential and graphics processing power. how come ace combat 4 on my playstation 2 looked 
 10 times as good as this game? i wish i would have skipped this purchase...
  second of all, the sound was terrible. the same monotone swooshing sound was so annoying. third 
 the game is not at all fun to play. from the begininng you are thrown into a campaign without any 
 idea of what you are really supposed to do. so i spent 10 minutes flying around the same stupid 
 loking terring. is that the runway? no, actually it is supposed to be a stream or something. BORING!
 
  i was looking for a game to test out my new joystick and when this game finally arrived i was 
 completely disappointed. i guess if you are a real pilot and are obsessed with difficulty, long 
 boring manuals, excessive amounts of keys to use and you really don't care about graphics or gameplay 
 you might actually enjoy this game. i am putting this game back in the box, uninstalling it and 
 putting it up for sale on E-bay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiquidKingCobra
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 22, 2007 1:52 am PT
Review:  Warning: Difficulty can be extreme. Not for casual gamers. Lets start at the beginning. A joystick 
 is a must for this game, and if you've got the money I would recommend a package with separate 
 throttle and perhaps rudder pedals. If you want a quick, easy, shoot 'em up flier then keep moving. 
 This game is the most realistic combat flight sim outside the military for a reason. Even if you 
 choose to drop down the realism of the game it can take time to learn. I chose to try and keep 
 things realistic as possible and it took me close to 100 hours of training missions, printing and 
 consulting the extensive manual, and practice before I ventured into the campaign with any confidence. 
 Afterall this time I probably understand about 1/3 to 1/2 of the avionics and such. If you are 
 willing to put the time and energy into this game its depth and replay value are among the best 
 I have ever seen. You can pick up a copy pretty cheap on the internet and its definitely worth 
 its price. LKC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terial1901
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 19, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  I like this game but it is SOOOO Difficult to get used to completely. Now i have Absolutely no 
 Knowledge of Flying, So im spending as much time As I can to get this. There are so many different 
 Controls and $h!+ that I cant do much of anything.
  Its a good game but I think its just a little bit too complicated for anyone just looking to have 
 a good time flying and wanting to be in a first person view of a plane.
  I would have to give this game a 8/10 Theres Okay Graphics and very Solid gameplay at times, but 
 it takes a h3ll of a Time to Understand 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warglom
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so before I begin, YES it IS a SIMULATOR not just your casual Hey cool, bombs, Ima go kill 
 stuff now kind of game. It requires time, THOUGHT, and skill, lots of skill. Now I bring this point 
 up because Im so tired of people giving it a score of 2 saying Its too complicated and its impossible 
 These people are flat out stupid, honestly did they even LOOK at the back of the box? it says RIGHT 
 THERE The most REALISTIC, CHALLENGING, and immersive Air-Combat SIMULATION you can get if they 
 had read that they would have realised I might not want to spend a lot of time learning controls 
 and mapping a joystick and all that stuff SO those people are wrong. Now, onto the review.
  
  Gameplay- Simply put, amazing. The depth and realism in this game is simply amazing. At first 
 the controls and depth MAY be overwhelming, put, if you take it slow and easy you can learn everything 
 easy, just take it one step at a time and it will become second nature. Also the dynamic campaign 
 delivers a feeling that a war is ACTUALLY going on and evolving around you, the radio chatter and 
 all the friendly aircraft make it so immersive, sometimes you can even forget its a sim and fear 
 for your life when something goes terribly wrong with the mission. Its truely awe-inspiring the 
 amount of depth that has been put into the game, and its not just the big things, all the little 
 things make a HUGE difference.
  
  Graphics- A work of art it aint. However for being originally released in 1998 I think theyre ok, 
 actually for 1998 I think theyre pretty damn good. The only truly terrible part I believe is the 
 3d cockpit, only good for padlocking or TrackIR (If you are reading this and dont know what TrackIR 
 your obviouslly VERY new to simming, Be warned ye noobs, this is a difficult game to get good at, 
 have plenty of time on hand) . But all the other little details in here outside of the graphics 
 seem to immerse you do the point where you dont even notice the unamazing graphics.
  
  Sound- I enjoy the sounds. the bombs falling off the rack make a nice thunk =) However the sound 
 QUALITY is not too great, but still it was made in 1998 and once again all the elements of the 
 game come together and immerse you and you dont even notice the small issues with the game, only 
 time youll notice the really small issues is when you get some glitch that throws you outta that 
 cockpit and back into your computer chair and you realise that its not real.
  
  Basically F4: AF Is difficult, and complex, like the actual F-16, but thats what makes it so immersive. 
 However I reccomend that your casual gamers not touch this, your brains might melt.
  
  Side Note: MAKE SURE YOUVE GOT A JOYSTICK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkyboyod
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  This is the most realistic fighter jet simulation out. With that said, it will probably turn away 
 the casual gamer. This game does take a lot of time to fly the Viper well. There is a steep learning 
 curve for those gamers that are not into flight sims. There still is a considerable learning curve 
 for flight sim fans too because there are weapons/radar systems, tactics, and dogfighting physics 
 you have to know well before you can start a sortie. If you have a real fighter pilot friend, (s) he 
 will be a great resource. There are virtual fighter pilot squadrons that can also teach you the 
 basics if you dont want to read the massive manual. The true fun begins when you can overcome the 
 learning curve and take on real sorties, especially with multiplayer. If you have the money, a 
 head tracker will greatly improve gameplay. One annoyance is the grayout during high G maneuvers. 
 Only a pilot that is trained poorly in AGSM will gray out, yet in this game your screen grays out. 
 Are they trying to say our AGSM is poor? So please just turn this function off.
  
  Graphics:
  The aircraft are well modeled. All others are outdated, but who cares?! It's the gameplay 
 we care about most.
  
  Sound:
  Not the most high quality sound, but adequate. I would have loved more chatter from your flight, 
 especially in dogfights. Fellow flyboys are much too quiet during a dogfight.
  
  Value:
  Dude, it's cheap and the best flight sim game. I cant stand playing flight sim games where you 
 just fly from point A to B. Where is the fun in that? I love this game because you have to think 
 before, during and after your sortie. This game is so in depth and as accurate as it can be without 
 breaking SECRET clearance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthMike395
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 15, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  Warning! This game takes a lot of time to learn and do right. This is one of the most realistic 
 flight sim game ever made. As you probably already know, there is an 800 pg pfd. manual that you 
 have to read to really master the game. In this game you can fly 3 different versions of the great 
 F-16 fighter. This game makes it seem that you are really flying! The controls in the F-16 game 
 is the exact controls on the F-16 in real life! Also this game has a great campain to play. The 
 campain takes monthes to finish and there is 6 different campains. If you are deciding between 
 this game and the new Flight Simulator X. I would say you should get this game because it is more 
 realistic than Fight Sim X. Also if you do get the game have some fun with it! You do not have 
 to read the manual straight away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manifestus
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 19, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  First, if you think you like flight simulators, make sure you mean flight SIMULATORS. Not arcade-style 
 flight games. Second, understand that this game does not baby you -- you will (unless you perhaps 
 happen to have extensive experience with the F-16) have to devour at least a significant portion 
 of the training guides and material available -- either in the pdf, online, or otherwise. Third, 
 if you're not an avid flight sim enthusiast ... be prepared to get a HOTAS setup -- and a pretty 
 good one at that. Finally, make sure you heavily utilize the available online community resources 
 -- that's the support you'll be leaning on, not the support of Lead Pursuit or Graphsim Entertainment. 
 All that aside, this simulation is superb -- probably the best civilian flight sim experience possible. 
 You may (like me) feel like bashing your head into your desk repeatedly as your F-16 does something 
 inexplicable (or so you think) , runs out of fuel in mid-flight, or whatnot. Perhaps you'll be overwhelmed 
 by the sheer incomprehensibility of scope, objectives, and masses of stuff out there ... but after 
 hours (or days/months) you'll slowly begin to appreciate (and understand) the levels of complexity 
 that afford this simulation a level of depth not otherwise seen in this genre. My best words of 
 advice with regards to this game will be -- make sure you know what you're getting. This is a superbly 
 crafted, highly in-depth flight simulator; it is NOT an instant gratification flight game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeusEx1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 4, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  If your a Flight Sim fan, an aviation hobbyist, or a gamer who whats a challenge and a change of 
 pace, then this simulation just might be what your looking for. Maybe....
  Learning this simulation requires hours of flight time and study. This is an exact simulation of 
 the F-16 Fighting Falcon. That doesnt mean a newby shouldnt give it a shot. The options allow you 
 to scale down almost every aspect of the simulation, you can play with simplified radar and avionics, 
 even give yourself ulimited fuel and weapons. Though these options degrade the realism of flying 
 an F-16, it gives new comers a nice stepping stone and allows you to learn at your own pace.
  Falcon 4.0 comes with a 716 page pdf manual that details every procedure you might need when flying 
 a real F-16, on the easiest settings of the game you wont need to know most of these procedures. 
 But if you have the time and patience to study the seemingly endless buttons, setting and menus 
 that crowd the F-16 cockpit you'll definently have a feeling of pride that no game can give you.
 
  Falcon 4.0 features a great dynamic campain engine that controls thousands of air, sea, and ground 
 units in a realistic war setting that will change depending on the success and failure of your 
 missions. For example, if you destroy an enemy bridge, enemy ground units wont be able to use that 
 bridge untill it is repaired, which will effect when and where they can move and attack. Failing 
 to complete important missions can result in a great advantage to the enemy, making future missions, 
 that much more difficult.
  This game has a very devoted fan community and you can find some great add-ons that greatly increase 
 the games graphics.
  If you want to play multiplayer, youll need a friend or youll need to be very good at this game, 
 squadrons online are dedicated and recrute only the best pilots. But having a real human as a wingman, 
 really brings out the realism in Falcon 4.0.
  This simulation is difficult, the enemy AI is smart and you will have your hands full driving the 
 jet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UKPartisan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 14, 2007 3:55 am PT
Review:  I would of given this a 10 if it weren't for the shoddy models of some of the aircraft and vehicle 
 models, why bother to graphically update the game if you're only going to update some and not all 
 of the models?? Oh well, I guess Lead Pursuit will get round to it. I have played the original 
 F4 and patched it up with community mods like SP3 and FreeFalcon and found this to be the best 
 option for those of you who are new to F4, for those of you who already own F4 in one of it's patched 
 guises you'll be disappointed by the omission of flyable aircraft as introduced by community mods 
 such as SP3 and various other niggles. Other than that little gripe Falcon 4.0 is still the daddy 
 of air combat sim's nearly a decade after it was released.
  
  (by the way Lead Pursuit seem to be keeping a tight check on FalconAF's modding possibilities, 
 as yet I have only found a commercially available scenery replacer and a cockpit mod. very disappointing) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwaddell
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 3, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  For those simulation enthusiast, this is your game. It's not a pick up and play, but if you give 
 the PDF manual a read, it sucks you in. I've had the simulation 2 years now and still play the 
 dynamic campaign. If you're a military aircraft, flight simulation, or aviation enthusiast this 
 is your game-no-simulation. As far as flashy graphics, it's a 9 year old beauty that still holds 
 up against the modern sims. Just learning how to effectively use different radar sub modes, missles, 
 and air to ground munitions effectively was a challenge (I was 11 when I took on the task of learning) 
 and really rewarded me. To get two maverick missles off on a column of tanks-in a ravine- and maneuver 
 away was one of the most intense and fulfilling feelings I've had with any game/simulation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTZH
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing Flight sim, the 2nd best I have ever played (Jane's USAF was my all-time favriote) . 
 The first thing that impresses you the most is the campaign engine, its realtime, so even when 
 you're not flieng the mission other squadrons are flieng. There are 6 time eras and 2 diffrent 
 campaign locations (Korea and the Balkans) . You're probelly thikning,"that sucks..." wrong!!! first 
 of all there milllions and millions of square miles at each location, the second thing is which 
 makes ever campaign diffrent is you get to choose (before the campaign starts) what kinda missions 
 will be flown, for NATO. So the campaign is the most impressive Ive seen. Moving on, The difficulty, 
 I know you guys have heard guys that say this game is impossible. It really isnt, if you're a beginer 
 you can choose the beginner level, or if you're hardcore its the most realistic simulator you've 
 seve been in. The Graphics are better then lock on's in my opinion but they did get a little better 
 when I patched the game up. If you're trieng to choose from lock on to this, get this game for 
 sure even if you're a beginner, It does take about 1-2 hours to figure out how to take-off and 
 land tho, but after 10 hours of flieng and practicing you wont want to play anything else, best 
 game out there for $30 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link1990
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2006 4:04 am PT
Review:  Falcon 4.0 Allied Force is one of, if not, the most realistic combat flight simulator ever made. 
 The developers and fans put a lot of work into making this game a possibility.
  Flying the Falcon is fantastic. From stalls, to deep stalls, to G-effects, to wing trails, the 
 flight model is realistically correct. The overall feel of flying this bird is like flying the 
 real thing. Avionics are realistic, and the game offers the option of clicking on the MPD buttons, 
 rather than using the keyboard, which adds to the realism. Weapons in the form of bombs, missiles, 
 and guns all behave as they do in the real world. Missiles do not have a 100% hit chance, the guidance 
 system can mess up sometimes, and they can be avoided. Bombs do realistic damage, and small bombs 
 cannot completely take out a bunker, just like in real life. The Falcon's guns take several bursts 
 to take out some armored vehicles, just like it would in real life. Damage is realistic, as multiple 
 systems fail, and the flight model is affected accordingly. The AI are smart even when placed on 
 a moderate difficulty setting. They use fighter tactics that most real pilots would use, which 
 makes them worthy counterparts to any human player. Pilots are even rewarded, based on mission 
 performance, with promotions and/or medals. Overall, the realism of the game has nothing wrong 
 with it.
  The graphics are very satisfying. Explosions and fire trails from damaged craft look fairly realistic, 
 and they could use a little work. However, the resolution and textures are still good, as well 
 as the aircraft models. The HUD and MPD screens in the cockpit look realistic and have good resolution. 
 Pretty much all of the clickable buttons in the cockpit will react when clicked, and the cockpit 
 looks very much like the real cockpit of an F-16. 
  The sound of this game is like no other. Radio chatter is constantly audible, unless the radio 
 volume is turned down in the cockpit. Pilots relay messages that the military would most likely 
 use, and the AWACS gives realistic bearings of bandits as well as ground objectives. The menu music 
 is not anything to shout about, but the radio chatter is much more entertaining while playing the 
 game. The cockpit engine noise sounds like a real Falcon, and it is even possible to hear the rushing 
 air outside of the cockpit.
  This game features 6 scenarios (2 different countries with 3 time periods) . It is possible to fly 
 in the Balkans or in Korea. There are 3 campaigns for each scenario, each lasting several game 
 days, which can contain a lot of missions. Overall, it takes a very long time to play through all 
 the campaigns, single missions, and training missions.
  This flight simulator possesses many different elements which overall contribute to a well-rounded, 
 thrilling game like no other. It is without a doubt, the most realistic combat flight simulator 
 ever to hit store shelves. Any flight simulator fan that looks for extreme realism, should definitely 
 buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigtall1
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 2, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  This is NOT a game, this is a simulation. There is no helpful training movies or anything, just 
 an 800 page pdf file and a 100 page booklet for learning how to operate an F-16. 
  I must admit, at first I was disappointed because I had no idea what I was looking at in the cockpit 
 or how to use it, but now I am starting to figure things out and it's a lot of FUN!
  Once you spend about 4-5 hours, reading and practicing what they tell you to in the manuals. both 
 pdf and hard copy, you start to catch on and it becomes very addicting. You honestly learn how 
 to fly one of the most advanced pieces of war-fare through this game!
  The reason I scored it as an 7.1 would be because there is no voice or help once you load the training 
 missions, you are left to remember what you read in the pdf file before you booted up the game. 
 Also I rated it sort of low because the graphics SUCK. This game honestly looks like it was made 
 in the early 90's, which is was. So if you can get by those two things, this game is for you. 
 
  Also, you MUST get a joystick! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpam
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 30, 2006 2:30 am PT
Review:  Unless you work in the air force and want to train or unless you've always wanted to be a pilot 
 with all the hassle that comes with it, you don't want to try this software. This is not a game, 
 this is a simulation (don't even think of playing it without a joystick by the way) : if you want 
 to use it comfortably, you'll have to learn one of the amazingly indigestible keyboard layouts 
 that can be found on Lead Pursuit's website - up to 8 functions per key.
  I guess this simulation is good once you've managed to learn the controls though, the graphics 
 are a bit old but I suppose the realism is good... but personally I decided to give up and that 
 I had better learn C++, it's easier and more productive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joe185467
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 9, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10. First and foremost, this simulation requires weeks of heavy playing to fully learn 
 how to control the F-16 effectively. It is definately not for the faint of heart. If you come from 
 shoot-em-up games or anything like that, you will not enjoy it, so stop reading right now and save 
 yourself the trouble. Trust me, if you are willing to learn how to play this sim, you will absolutely 
 love it. 
  
  Graphics: 7. Falcon 4.0 AF uses the same graphics engine as the original Falcon 4.0 from 1998. 
 It is not a hinderance, but it doesn't help either. I came from LOMAC, so it took some getting 
 used to. :-) (note: falcon 4.0 AF is a true hardcore study sim; LOMAC is a light-weight survey 
 sim.)
  
  Sound: 10. They got the sound perfect in this thing! the in-cockpit engine noise is muffled by 
 the helmet, just like the real thing. Don't expect it to sound the same as the exterior. 
  
  Value: 10. Put simply, if this cost me $200, I would still buy it. It's that good.
  
  Reviewer's 
 Tilt: 10. I got into it right away, once I convinced myself to take on the daunting task of learning 
 how to effectively fly and fight in the F-16.
  
  To all those people who give dismal reviews; take some time to learn it. You won't look back again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blakewiz
Rating: 6
Date: May 7, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of flight simulations. I played the orignal falcon 4.0 and though it was 
 alright so I went and bought Allied Force..... 
  
  This game takes simulation to a whole new level. You pretty much need to know how to operate the 
 real F-16 to even play this game. Of course it comes with a 800 page manual which will take you 
 half your life-time to read, and of course you can't play the game unless you've read the manual 
 or you'll be lost right away. Training sucks, no help just puts you in a situation and you have 
 to find out how to play for your self.
  
  So after you've got the game figured out it starts to get fun, dogfights are immersing, the campagins 
 are dynamic and very nice, and the AI are very smart. One huge problem I had with the game were 
 the graphics. Plane models are nice and terrain is average, but some of the animations are choppy. 
 An example is when you eject from the plane the parachute comes out frame by frame, not smooth 
 at all. Also the explosions and collisions look terrible. 2d cockpit is nice but blocky to look 
 around in. 3d cockpit is easier too look around in but is not interactive or very nice looking.
 
  
  Overall, if your looking for a realistic flight sim which acts the very same of a fighter jet and 
 don't mind reading a 800 page manual you might consider buying this game. If you want a more fun 
 experience with just enough realsim buy LO: MAC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahowes_gs
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 26, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  If you rate this game for what it is, a huge update of the seven year old Falcon 4.0, and the best 
 combat flight simulator ever made, then it deserves near perfect scores. The graphics could be 
 better, but when you take in account the level of detail paid to flight accuracy, weapons accuracy, 
 the complete battlefield (the entire Koran Peninsula or the Baltic Region) , then you will realize 
 that this game is not about the graphics. Its about realism.
  
  Keep in mind that realism comes at a price, mainly, the 800 page instruction manual and the fact 
 that a 12 year old probably cannot fly an f-16 very well! You must learn, fail miserably, then 
 learn some more if you want to succeed at this game. If you want easy and pretty buy Blazing Angels. 
 If you want real and gritty, pick this game up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: svns_reaper
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 19, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Falcon 40 Allied Force is a great game......... once you learn what the hell you're doing. Yes you 
 need to read the manual over and over, and yes you will be staring at your instruments for a long 
 time wondering what in the world you're looking at. But that's the beauty of this game. You can 
 make it as realistic or arcade-like as you want. Almost all aspects of the game are adjustable. 
 This game is so realistic you can't possibly expect to be up in the air reading that radar like 
 a seasoned pro in a few minutes. I found that pausing the game while referencing the manual to 
 be quite helpful in understanding the cockpit and all the buttons, and different radar modes. But 
 you'll honestly feel like you could actually fly a real jet after you get good at these things. 
 Don't be put off by people complaining about the difficulty. If you want a real, true to life, 
 simulator this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoodFella1991
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 13, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I cannot believe I fell for the player reviews. I am an idiot. As you may have already known, there 
 is and almost 800 page manual that you HAVE TO READ to play the game. The training missions are 
 bad in that you basically have to print out the manual to do them right. I did not even get to 
 the campaign because I got tired of having to read the manual instead of playing the game. Listen, 
 this is the MOST realistic combat sim out there. The problem with that is that it means it is not 
 fun. Expect to be reading the manual for about a month before you get to actually play the game 
 in its entirety. Please do not get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IisDAmac
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 18, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  This geme is, without a doubt, the most hardcore and realistic flight sim out there. Falcon was 
 a computer game a loooooooong time ago. Many hated it for all the bugs and difficulty, but some 
 have made modifications to it over the years and messed around with the code until the game was 
 almost bug-free. Finally after a long wait the game has been re-released with all the fixes and 
 more. Gameplay is so f 'n realistic, u need to read the 700+ page manual on the cd to know what 
 to do. Yes, sounds like a pain in the @$$, but once u learn everything the game is a rare gem. 
 Many people conplain about the graphics. I kinda agree, first, the enviroments are huge and all 
 the battlefield is totally dynamic so u might get some framerate issues if ur processor is slow. 
 Second, they don't look that great compared to other sims like IL2 of LOMAC, but if u play at hi 
 resolution its not that bad.
  
  bottom line: if u love realistic, hardcore flight sims, get this!!!!!!!!!! NOW!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Savages_Havic
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 5, 2006 12:23 am PT
Review:  Overall the game is really good as far as maintaining simulation, but the game is lacking in alot 
 of area's. The graphics really arent up to par, and you dont really feel that since of satisfaction 
 after shooting down a plane. The online multiplayer is very bland, and the campaign mode is pretty 
 boring aswell.
  
  I loved the cockpit and being able to interact with it in alot of different ways. The thing that 
 frustrates me the most about this game is the poor patch support. I havent been able to update 
 my game for sometime because of some patch error. Ive tried automatically getting them, getting 
 them off the official site, unzipping them, my game just wont patch. Ive emailed these guys a few 
 times concerning the problem and submitted several bug reports, yet they ignored the issue all 
 together. That basically turned me away from the game. Sorry but these guys have worst support 
 then novalogic, and thats pretty sad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aubar
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 11, 2006 2:34 am PT
Review:  Falcon 4 was a really great game, a significant successor to F16 Fighting falcon (for those who 
 remember it)
  But what those guys did was a great challenge and it gives a kick in the ass to previous simulations. 
 It is really, really close to reality (how many times did I crash when landing ? ... hmm)
  Too close in fact because it prevents sometimes to have a real good fun bombing, straffing or shooting... 
 Manage all the keys on a simple keyboard is a small nightmare and become fluent with long practice.
 
  Another thing that troubles me is a small support for non-english speaking players which can be 
 hard for them to catch all the radio traffic.
  Graphics are splendid when close but Z-buffer is a bit too short I think but, well, ok I am a perfectionnist 
 !
  Falcon 4 AF is a great F16 simulation game. Thats all ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gilligan841
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 12, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Lead Pursuit pretends it's the best combat flight simulator ever made what I completely agree; 
 very accurate (as long as I can imagine it is in real life) . 
  
  There are two main parts in this game : 1- What are the components of the F16 and how to use them, 
 2- The campaign and all the strikes that the F16 might have to proceed during a war. 50% of the 
 game is how to pilot the F16 and the other 50% is how to use the F16 in a war. You have a real 
 feeling what might be a war playing this game.
  
  However, this game is very hard to learn. First you HAVE to go through the manual (at least 600 
 of the 716 pages) if you want to BEGIN to know about piloting the F16. Then, it's not the end because 
 you have now to learn how to use the F16 in a campaign and again you'll find very hard to understand 
 because the informations about specific strikes in campaigns are not well explained. So you have 
 to strike, then try to understand what went wrong, go back to the manual, read again and again, 
 what you already read at first (remember the 716 pages) , and search newsgroup to find answers to 
 questions that cant be aswered.
  
  Finally, I pretend that this game is for a combat flight simulator enthusiast who will have A LOT 
 OF HOURS to spend playing it. I dont recommand to buy it if you dont have a lot of time in front 
 of you, unless you are interested to spend a few bucks to learn a little bit about the F16.
  
  This game is very addictive even if its very hard to learn to play!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: badkarma77
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 8, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Since this sim is really just a combination of mods for the original Falcon 4.0 one shouldn't expect 
 a great deal more than just that. The graphics are dated compared to newer sims. Falcon 4.0 used 
 to be extremely detailed with a very steep learning curve, and I guess, for a beginner it still 
 is. But compared to the likes of Lock On: Modern Air Combat it seems fairly simplified. With all 
 of that being said, flight physics and weapon systems are accurate and this sim is a great flight 
 sim with a lot to offer. Frankly, it's just a lot of fun to play! I think the price is great too 
 considering most are charging near $50 for their new flight sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ownald
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 7, 2006 2:37 am PT
Review:  Well...
  
  IT IS the ultimate flight sim for this time (!) . Many reviewers thinks that this game is hard to 
 play. But I don't think so, There's a great list of realism settings in the Settings menu of the 
 game. The game is meant to be played with a joystick, but I'm playing it with the keyboard. And 
 that isn't a problem at all! Just change some setting and create your own perfect handling! Some 
 people says that there isn't a clear point what to do in a training mission. Well, they haven't 
 read the PDF manual wich is included in the game... I'm playing the game with a 100% realism rating, 
 and it feels great. If you start to play it, you can direct feel the power of the F16. The handling 
 is SO good that you're feeling yourself the owner of the yet, the handling is just perfect. Another 
 thing i like is the fact that you can click on every switch in the cockpit. The result of clicking 
 on a switch is 99% realistic, just great...
  
  My conclusion: beginner or pro, buy this game if you like flight sims! It's easy to learn the basic 
 handling of the F16, even with a 100% realism rating! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spock1898
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is nearly impossible. I can't believe I wasted my money on such a time-consuming, unrewarding 
 load of ****. Should you actually make it through training (which is terrible in this game) , the 
 campaign mode is worthless, giving you little information on what to do and having no legitimacy 
 whatsoever. Don't even get me started on the graphics. Yeah, the Falcons look great, but just about 
 every other plane is cheaply modeled, and the special effects are way behind other games. Granted, 
 I haven't tried the multiplayer yet, but quite honestly, I don't think there's much left to save 
 this game for me. Ahh, if only Best Buy would allow software returns because that's right where 
 this hunk of junk would end up. Maybe I'll teach this game how to fly out the window of my car. 
 Don't waste your money on this. Buy something more rewarding and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harriskhan_18
Rating: 5.6
Date: Oct 13, 2005 12:06 am PT
Review:  Boy this game is so annoying. Ok i love flight simulators but this game has the worst training 
 ever. It takes hours just to see which keys are used for what purpose. the way they mapped the 
 keys in this game is plain ridiculous and i dont understand a single bit.. during training they 
 should at least guide us which keystrokes to use how you can change your weapon etc etc... Very 
 annoying no help what so ever not satisfied with this game... 
  i loved the old F-16 Fulcrum and Mig 29 and i lvoe microsofts flight simulators because they have 
 a proper tutorial. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyHairedGamer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 24, 2005 1:13 am PT
Review:  The only way to describe Falcon 4.0: Allied Force is to repeat what everyone else has been saying 
 This is a simulator and not a game.
  
  GamePlay (10) : Lets face it everyone has tried to create a realistic air combat simulator but 
 has scraped some part of it to appease a larger audience. Lead Pursuit kept true to the simulation 
 and in my opinion did it right. You will need to read through a good deal of material and practice 
 a good deal if you want to be competitive at this simulation. But isnt that what it is really 
 all about? Having fun and learning at the same time
  
  Graphics (9) : The graphics are excellent. I would like to see more in-program settings available 
 but Im not going to complain. The clouds look good; the aircraft look good and so on. 
  
  Sounds (9) : Probably the one area I thought was weakest. The voices used in the simulation are 
 clear but could have been better. Aircraft sounds are outstanding.
  
  Value (9) : If you like air combat this simulation will continually deliver with the ability to 
 create custom missions through the custom mission editor. Just like previous versions of Falcon 
 this puppy is going to be around a while.
  
  Reviewers Tilt (10) : I love the simulation. No doubt in my mind this is the best on the market. 
 Microsoft, UBI Soft and everyone else should look at this before sending out another combat simulator.
 
  
  The depth of authenticity that has been put into this game puts it in a league of its own. No other 
 air combat simulation compares to it. But it is not for the faint of heart. You really need to 
 do some reading and learn the F-16. You need to understand its flight dynamics, weapons system, 
 radios, and on and on and on. Is it worth it? You bet and the price on this is amazing compared 
 to lesser products that cost more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dirk359
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 7, 2005 10:20 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge commercial and military flight sim fan! The falcon series has won a special place in 
 my game collection. It has always been the best and most realistic f-16 flight simulator a civi 
 could get their hands on. Once you install Falcon 4.0 AF and jump into the game you begin to notice 
 that this is game is like no other. When in the game you can look around the cockpit and get a 
 great feel for the plane. Once airborne the plan acts and behaves very realisticly, tones and buttons 
 light up and makes all the appropriate noise. When you fire a missile you can look over your shoulder 
 and see the empty hardpoint. ^^ Combat engagements are also treated very realisticly which is very 
 refreashing and exciting. 
  
  The only thing that I would warn a person about Falcon 4.0 AF is that it is very realistic. Though 
 you can mess with some of those settings it still maintains a nice yet sometimes intimidating presence. 
 I'm not perfect at the game, but still try to play with invulnerability off to keep the realistic 
 feel. Still even though I am able to taxi, take-off, and engage the enemy ok I still can't master 
 landing. anding is usually where I screw up and crash. -.-;; Beyond being difficult to land I can't 
 say much bad about this game. Sounds and even the graphics are still up to par to today's flight 
 sims, even though the graphics are from a 1995 game.
  
  I hope you give Falcon 4.0 Allied Force a try and support Lead Pursuit's and Atari's faith in one 
 of the greatest military flight simulator series going for the future. *^-^* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HTWingnut
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 21, 2005 5:59 am PT
Review:  First things first, this game is based on broken code that was released nearly seven years ago 
 (as of August 2005) in a game known as Falcon 4. It was patched to 1.08 at the last minute by the 
 design and development team that was disbanded that same day. Bug-ridden and lacking support, Falcon 
 4 was near destined a quick and painful death. However, the source code for version 1.07 was illegally 
 publicly released, and a bunch of talented flight simulation enthusiasts took advantage of the 
 situation and created a number of hodge podge improvements available to the community for free. 
 Greatly welcome by the die-hard community, it turned out to be too much for the casual simmer since 
 there were so many variations and ways to install, and would make playing multiplayer gaming near 
 impossible unless you had identical add-ons. But this kept the dream alive enough to allow Allied 
 Force to be made.
  
  Now comes Falcon 4: Allied Force revised and developed by a new company, Lead Pursuit, headed by 
 one die hard fan himself. Allied Force builds on what made Falcon 4 so attractive originally, namely 
 the dynamic campaign elements and the high fidelity flight modeling of the F-16 Falcon. And for 
 the first time, a "crash-free" game.
  
  This version cleans up the user interface quite a bit and makes it so much more user-friendly. 
 It offers three variants of the F-16 to fly, the Block 40/42, Block 50/52, or the MLU dual seater, 
 although you can only view or fly from the pilot seat.
  
  Flight modeling has only been marginally tweaked, with issues only a hard core F-16 enthusiast 
 would recognize. From my perspective it is feels right from my previous experiences with flight 
 sims, which stretches back nearly 15 years.
  
  Artificial Intelligence has been improved. Friendly aircraft and enemy alike will play a smart 
 battle, but still make some boneheaded moves. The communication interface also seems much more 
 reliable where wingies will actually do as commanded, with a few questionable glitches. For one, 
 usually having a bandit on one's tail is not only a sign of bad flying (yes, mine) , but also an 
 opportunity for your wingie to save one's arse *and* score a kill. Many times my less than skillful 
 flying has landed an enemy on my six, and a desperate request to my wingie landed on deaf ears.
 
  
  Other comms requests are quite reliable however. Traffic patterns are called out as appropriate 
 from the air traffic controllers. AWACS indicates threats in the vicinity. And refueling with a 
 tanker is still the utmost challenge of anything.
  
  Keeping in mind that this is a revision to code released seven years ago, the dynamic campaign 
 is so robust and well designed, that it blows away anything that is offered today. Flying into 
 battle one will notice the ground war progressing, but more importantly the air war ensuing that 
 the gamer becomes familiar with in a hurry, especially as a wall of MiG or Su aircraft flights 
 encroach on your position. All that battle going on around you is to no avail either, as each units 
 success or failure relates to one's "Side" progress in the campaign. As a matter of fact, campaigns 
 will progress better if the user gets involved by creating and manipulating air sorties and ground 
 assaults in the tactical screen. Three Balkans and three Korean theaters are offered to the gamer 
 as well, with hints for a Desert Storm type campaign in the works (unofficially) .
  
  While the graphics look somewhat dated, the Lead Pursuit team did a great justice with a game originally 
 released for DirectX 7. The most important improvement is the cloud models, which present fluffy 
 clouds, and also model ground fog quite well. Most of the unit skins have been revised as well. 
 But getting into the campaign, one clearly realizes that the real meat of this game lies with the 
 dynamic campaign and flight model, and any graphical improvements are for eye candy only.
  
  The most highly anticipated feature of Falcon 4 Allied Force is the multiplayer. Even though 
 the multiplayer gameplay hasnt changed much, what has is overall stability. In addition, the Falcon 
 community has one common install that all can relate to and know they will have a successful connection. 
 Some bugs still need to be ironed out, but for the most part it is possible to run full live served 
 campaigns allowing virtual combat pilots to join the cause at their bidding, joining in with other 
 fellow pilots. Using other software like Teamspeak allows for simpler coordinate flying, not to 
 mention killing time with general chat during long flights.
  
  All this being said, fear not rookie pilots, as Falcon 4 Allied Force offers comprehensive training 
 missions to teach basic skills well enough to join the fight and score a few kills. The game ships 
 with a small beginners manual, but a larger 700+ page manual is available in PDF format which 
 contains the step-by-step training missions that coordinate with the training missions in the game. 
 This is also a great opportunity to use a voice command program like "Shoot!" or Game Commander 
 to offer voice comms to free up keyboard and/or flight stick HOTAS keys.
  
  Be warned, however, that this game requires lots of patience and studying of the manual. Not to 
 mention that several aspects of the simplified game settings don't work properly, hopefully to 
 be fixed in an upcoming patch. Either way, any new pilot should use the advanced avionics anyways 
 if they intend on getting anywhere in the game.
  
  Lead Pursuit has promised continued support of Allied Force and so far has proven right with an 
 immediate patch to fix several of the glaring problems. They have also supported many of the popular 
 combat flight sim forums by answering questions directly and asking what else the community would 
 like fixed, revised, and/or added. Given the complexity and attention to detail this sim offers, 
 one can only be happy to have such great support for this aging title. It looks to be the stepping 
 stone for Falcon 5 which we jetheads anxiously anticipate.
  
  For the beginner, just have patience, and this game will grow on you, along with your skill. For 
 the seasoned cyber pilot, dont let your ego get the best of you because you will have a huge learning 
 curve as well. But take the time and youll be in for the ride of your life!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: metamarty
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 6, 2005 11:20 am PT
Review:  I've been a flightsim and war game fan for a long time, but I never combined the two. I either 
 flew civilian aircraft, or I played a commander or a soldier on the battlefield. I skipped the 
 original Falcon series, because of all the problems associated with it. Now that I finally tried 
 it, I was amazed to find something that goes way beyond an aircraft simulation.
  
  This package is a combination of a totally overhauled Falcon 4 engine and loads of addons. The 
 graphics have been brought to modern standards and are satisfying, although some parts like structures 
 and some aircraft show signs of aging. The F16 cockpit is great though and with resolutions up 
 to 1600x1200, can easily match the quality we see in other games.
  
  The systems modelling is easy to describe: It's amazing that this game hasn't been classified yet. 
 It's real, nothing more to say about it.
  
  The part that is most interesting though, is the campaign engine. I can honestly say that if you 
 would actually remove the whole F16 simulator from this package, you would still have a completely 
 playable interesting game! The campaign is a game by itself. It consists of enemy and allied forces, 
 all participating in war of huge proportion. At any time, there are hunders of ground troops, aircraft 
 and naval vessels all working together to win the war. The campaign engine comes up with missions, 
 using all tactical and strategical information that is available at the moment. Of course you're 
 perfectly welcome to inject your own missions into the campaign engine. You're even allowed to 
 move ground forces!
  
  What's so interesting about this campaign, is that when you see a friendly contact during a mission, 
 it won't be an AI aircraft, programmed to fly heading 120 for 2 hours, but it is actually an aircraft 
 performing a mission that has been planned in advance and will aid in the winning of the campaign. 
 If you manage to shoot down a support aircraft, it won't mean a simple increase of score for your 
 campaign, but it means that an enemy squadron might not get their resupply of missiles and bombs, 
 which might save your home airport from being bombed. The depth of it all is amazing.
  
  The only thing that I don't understand is why so little shops carry this title. At an average of 
 $30, it's simply too good to pass by.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2005 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Im very excited to see Falcon 4 back! I know for years now there were add-ons for the original 
 game, but after a while I couldnt keep up with all the add-ons, and upgrades. Its good to see 
 a single package that brought everything pretty much together. 
  For us long time veterans of the original series, first starting up Falcon 4 Allied Forces, you 
 see a very familiar desktop, with everything, for the most part in the right places. Before that, 
 youre welcome by a very sharp video of a Viper on a mission, taxiing taking off and flying. Not 
 bad at all.
  As with the original game, there are many options to get right into the game, or setup a campaign 
 so that you can fly a very power dynamic war. The dynamic campaign is still the most powerful Ive 
 seen in any game. Its a joy to be part of a large battlefield like that. One thing that really 
 drew me back into Falcon is the new Balkans campaign. I played the hell out of the Korean campaign 
 in F4, so to be able to play a new one, is a huge joy. The Balkans isnt like anything we saw in 
 the Korean theater; its much darker, and cloudier, we many more hills and valleys. 
  Lead Pursuit, the developer, put a lot of extra work into cockpit; you now have a full clickable, 
 or Aeyes cockpits. Also, the lighting inside the cockpit is also much more refine, with better 
 dial/gauge lighting, and inferred views. Well done. The graphic as a whole, wasnt that much different 
 from the original sim, other then a much improved terrain and a very nice looking cloud and fog 
 system. That really helps the realism. 
  The AI seemed to have been upgraded also, the game seem to be a bit harder, with the computer side, 
 really kicking your butt in the campaign, if youre not careful. WARNING: Learn the game first 
 before starting a campaign. You will enjoy it much more. 
  The manual is just the best Ive seen in any flight sim, 716 pages, with great pictures, and charts. 
 The only problem is that its an online, PDF manual. Nothing but a small booklet to get you going, 
 and like any veteran knows, you need to be able to step away from the computer and read the manual. 
 
  I really love what Lead Pursuit did with this sim, I hope this time, when they say that this will 
 be a start of a electronic battlefield, they mean it. You veteran know what Im talking about. 
 The campaigns are well done, and are very huge, and I mean huge. The computer AI seems to be redone, 
 and seem to be close to what we expect in a flight sim of the caliber. One more thing I want to 
 say about Falcon 4 AF is that it seems to be very, very stable. I didnt have a crash to desktop 
 one time, in the 10 hours of so Ive played the game. Thats very nice indeed, after a hour long 
 mission. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tentera
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2005 7:24 am PT
Review:  I have played Wings Over Vietnam, which was very well-done though it needs improvement. I have 
 played Lock On, Israeli Air Force and F-22 Lightning 3. But still, Falcon 4.0 stands out in its 
 level of realism and detail. A lot of effort has been made to make it appealing and challenging. 
 This new version has not changed much, but at least it is up to date and, like fine wine, still 
 retains the old charm.
  
  I like the new addition with the Balkans campaign. At least it gives players a chance to experience 
 what it was like flying an F-16 against the Serbs in Bosnia and Yugoslavia (a little bit fictitious, 
 though) . Before that, you were stuck with just one. And that was Korea. And after a while, it gets 
 less interesting. With the new addition, one has more choice. There are now three versions of the 
 F-16 you can fly: the MLU (Mid-Life Update) version used by most NATO countries, Block 40/42 and 
 the Block 50/52.
  
  The downside is that you will not have access to the Joint Direct Attack Munition (JDAM) or the 
 Joint Stand-Off Weapon, both stars of the recent conflicts in Afgahnistan and Iraq respectively. 
 It will be good if the developers decide to include a version upgrade or patch which have GPS-guided 
 munitions. Nevertheless, if you like realistic flight simulators and the experience of dropping 
 "real" smart bombs, then Falcon 4.0: Allied Force is the game for you. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
