-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Falcon 4.0
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/falcon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 11, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 8.4, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 262 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Genre: Jet Sim
Date:     Nov 30, 1998
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
So is Falcon 4.0 the second coming of flight simulation or a buggy mess? Alas, it's a bit of both. 
 

 Nearly five years in development, the Falcon 4.0 that finally hit shelves in December is a bit of 
 a dichotomy. At times, it's arguably the most detailed, ambitious, and realistic depiction of modern 
 air war ever attempted. It's a sim that's so full of details you'll spend weeks making awed discoveries 
 of new capabilities, of minute aspects of war never before re-created in a flight sim. At other 
 times, Falcon 4.0 feels like it's more potential, more promise, than anything else. Bugs, glitches, 
 and performance problems pop up all too often in some areas of the sim, a clear indication that 
 even after all that time, the sim was slipped out the door without enough testing.  

 So is Falcon 4.0 the second coming of flight simulation or a buggy mess? Alas, it's a bit of both. 
 Sim pilots willing to explore the plethora of options in Falcon 4.0 that do work fairly well, while 
 awaiting the inevitable patches, are likely to find dozens of hours of play here. But gamers who 
 want to be able to try any feature and be assured that it will work properly will want to wait 
 and be sure that MicroProse comes through with its promised patches.  

 The promise of the sim is evident when you first open Falcon 4.0's package and are greeted by a 
 monster manual packing approximately 600 pages. The more methodical players will want to start 
 with the excellent tutorial section, which features 31 missions designed by F-16 pilot Pete Bonanni. 
 These missions will take you step-by-step through learning to handle the plane and its weapons 
 systems properly.  

 Of course, if you're more the instant-gratification type, you can skim the concise Cadet's Guide 
 booklet, jump into the setup section, activate the easy flight model, simplified avionics, and 
 exaggerated weapons effects, and dive right into the instant-action mode. With a variety of realism 
 options, Falcon 4.0 is one of those magic designs that can ease a gamer from novice to expert, 
 little by little. (Contrast this to Jane's F-15, which had arcade and expert modes, with little 
 in the way of intermediate settings.)  

 Along with training and instant-action modes, you'll find dogfight mode, which lets you set up aerial 
 encounters between up to four flights of aircraft. There's also a mission builder for creating 
 your own missions. The heart of the sim, however, is the dynamic campaign. It's here that you may 
 find one of the most engrossing, immersive simulated combat experiences ever. Unfortunately, it's 
 in the campaign that you'll run across most of the sim's current problems.  

 Falcon 4.0's campaign is set in Korea, with three scenarios that start you with your forces ahead, 
 at a stalemate, or in danger of defeat. The missions here aren't scripted but rather are generated 
 on the fly by the dynamic-campaign engine. This tracks not only the entire air war, but the ground 
 war as well. You'll see (and hear, on the radio) combat in the skies and on the ground around you. 
 That's a big part of the sense of immersion - as you head towards your own target, ground battles 
 are going on around you, contrails are above you, and air defenses are firing at flights miles 
 away. Your actions do affect the outcome of the campaign, but not to an inappropriate degree. Overall, 
 this is easily the most comprehensive dynamic campaign yet attempted, and the missions come across 
 in a very realistic way. Much of what you'll see here will blow you away: surface-to-air missile 
 sites unleashing volleys of SA-6s at attacking F-4 Phantoms, MiG-29s engaging F-15s in realistic 
 air-combat maneuvering, and artillery shelling distant ground forces. Unfortunately, even with 
 the latest patch, you'll also see wingmen returning to base immediately after takeoff, AWACS controllers 
 sending you to intercept enemy planes hundreds of miles off your course, inaccurate post-mission 
 success ratings, and the rare but annoying crash back to the Windows desktop. In fact, if you're 
 going to be playing the single-player campaign, you're better off not installing the initial patch, 
 as the program is more stable and the AI more intelligent without it.  

 Where the patch does help is in multiplayer mode. In the initial release, it was difficult to make 
 a successful multiplayer connection. With the patch, you're treated to a peek at what has the potential 
 be an amazing multiplayer experience - once the sim is tweaked. Not only can you set up multiplayer 
 single missions and melee dogfights, but you can also have multiple human players take part in 
 the campaign. Players can enter and leave the simulation at will, so those with permanent Net connections 
 can leave the sim up and running as a continuous sever. Unfortunately, there's no matchmaking server 
 available for finding other Falcon players.  

 The sim does excel in flight and systems modeling. The plane handles in an extremely authentic manner, 
 from the realms of basic maneuvering through the deadly F-16 deep stall. Be warned that with all 
 realism options on, Falcon 4.0 should pose some new challenges for even experienced PC pilots. 
 In fact, despite 15-plus years of sim experience, I broke the landing gear off my F-16 on seven 
 of my first eight landings. All pertinent cockpit systems and switches are modeled, with a full 
 suite of air-to-air and air-to-ground radar modes. The 2D cockpit is "active," so instead of memorizing 
 dozens of keypresses, you can actually manipulate the controls on the panel. Situational awareness 
 is aided in flight by multiple padlock views, as well as fixed snap views. The "check six" view 
 is a bit slow to come up, but if my experience in the backseat of an F-15 is any indication, twisting 
 to look directly behind you while strapped into an ejection seat wearing bulky flight gear is rather 
 difficult, so this may not be inaccurate.  

 Falcon 4.0 features detailed and convincing graphics, sounds, and special effects. The Korean terrain 
 isn't flashy or vibrant in color, but if you compare the somewhat hazy look with what you see out 
 the window on your next civilian aircraft flight, you'll find the effect is very accurate. Details 
 such as explosions and burning targets (especially impressive during night missions) , contrails 
 at altitude, and smoke from factories flesh out the environment. Only the occasional appearance 
 of obviously polygonal fragments or bizarre purple sparks detract from the environment.  

 Be warned that Falcon 4.0 has sent many gamers scurrying to their local computer stores to buy souped-up 
 hardware. The single and training missions and instant action and dogfight modes will run fairly 
 smoothly on a fast Pentium with 64MB of RAM. But the campaign mode is capable of bringing the fastest 
 system to its knees when visual details and simulation modeling are cranked up. My P2/400 system 
 ranged between 10 and 21 frames per second in campaign mode, compared with 25 to 41fps in dogfight 
 mode. With less than 128MB of RAM, you're likely to see slight pauses during campaign missions 
 as data is swapped to the hard drive.  

 So is Falcon 4.0 for you? Despite the bugs and broken features, I've been game-locked on this simulation 
 since the day I booted it, forsaking even the WWII sims I'd waited so long for. No other sim has 
 come so close to re-creating the feel of my one flight in a jet fighter. If you stick to the sections 
 that are fairly solid - the training missions, instant action, and dogfights - you'll keep yourself 
 busy for quite a while. And hopefully, by the time you master the plane's systems there, the next 
 patch will be out, and the campaign glitches will be ironed out. (MicroProse's Gilman Louie has 
 committed not only to patching all the major bugs, but also to keeping a team working on the program 
 for up to six months after release to add user-requested enhancements.) But if you're the type 
 of gamer who gets really frustrated when things don't work as they should, you'll want to wait 
 until the bugs are ironed out.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dkluempers
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  This is being written many years after I first got the game and I have not played it in some time. 
 I am still amazed at the realism and accuracy that the simulation brings to the PC. If you are 
 interested in getting a feel for what is like to fly a real fighter then you should try this. The 
 best thing about this sim is the fact that you really need to plan before you fly. While you could 
 jump in and just shoot aircraft for fun it is much more challenging and rewarding to play a campaign. 
 One of the best improvements was the more accurate modeling of the SAM missiles. Unlike Falcon 
 3 the SA7 shoulder fired missiles won't follow you for 20 miles at Mach 1.5.
  
  I only wish there was game out there today that felt match up to it. Only one other game came close 
 and that was Tornado. I will keep buying flight simulators in the hope that one will match up Falcon 
 4's legacy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSJamPot
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 23, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Here is a game well worth the time for all you flight types.
  
  Unfreindly to those not used to sim games, although in a way this is good since Falcon 4.0 displays 
 the absolute flight realism possible for a computer. Saying that, it is a spiky, harsh reality 
 of what flying a fighter jet would be like. But has immense detail and depth, I've played this 
 on and off for as long as its been out and still I dont fully understand it. However this is time 
 well spent, once you tire of the stage of crudely attempting to dogfight and/or attempt at grinding 
 your hindquarters along a runway and actually sit down and learn how to play, you will find where 
 the real game is hidden beneath its confusing exterior.
  
  Personally I prefer the bombing, in this you will see the graphics at their best with very impressive 
 explosions that make you feel youve actually done something rather then some statistic health decrease 
 on an object.
  
  The targeting systems are beautifully composed with such gadgets laser guided bombs that actually 
 show you a bombs eye view of the target inside your cockpit.
  
  But once you make a bang, although tempting, avoid flying through that smoke at all costs; on a 
 fast computer made at the time of the games release, particles made the computer very choppy down 
 to about 1fps.
  
  Dominates well over simpler flight sims such as Microsoft's Combat flight simulator but takes a 
 massive hit in usability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nala2624
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 13, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  This game seems like it is for those who actually know how to fly a F-14. I am not complaining, 
 I do know how. But this game is too hard and they expect you to just drop into the play of it. 
 They need a toutorial or something to help newplayers along. One good thing is that the AI really 
 know how to fly, and they might actually be a chalenge. The realism is awsome and the graphics 
 could be better, but take my wod for it, practice and you will find a great game insind of the 
 box. The only other problem is that not al computers have a Joystick port. And not all people have 
 a joystick. They need to make it to where you can play with a mouse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_hodges
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 28, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Warning this "sim" is really designed for the hardcore flight simmers and/or people with actual 
 flight experience. But it can be dumbed down for the casual flyers. Update this sim with Falcon 
 4 Superpak 4 and it's virtually a whole new game.
  
  Gameplay is complex and deep. The dynamic campaign engine is one of it's kind, constantly giving 
 you new missions- not like most flight sims that give you a set number of missions. This dynamic 
 engine sets F4 far apart and above many other combat flight sims. The menus are rather intuitive 
 and easy to follow along. Campaigns can be set from eas y to hard and you can play on either side 
 in the Superpak 4 mod.
  
  Graphically, with the settings maxed this game is magnificent. Flying low and fast along the mountainous 
 Korean terrain is a huge rush. And try it at night and your heart will be thumping and perhaps 
 skipping. There is so much detail in this sim it's just great candy for the eyes. Superpak4 adds 
 updates to support modern videocards. 
  
  The sound, more notable cockpit sounds, are the real deal. From the afterburner (crank up the deep 
 bass if you have it) to the b! tchin' betty warning system, you're strapped into the Electric Jet 
 that talks to you.
  
  Overall, you're going to be spending alot of time reading the manual. Superpak 4 mod's manual is 
 basically the original F4 manual rewritten and expanded. This is as close to flying the F-16 as 
 the DoD will probably let you. Anything closer, and you're probably flying the real deal or at 
 least their full motion sim. Anyone who is anyone in the hardcore flight sim community knows F4 
 is the modern benchmark for any future flight sim. Go buy your copy of F4 and update it with Superpak4. 
 http://f4ut. frugalsworld. com/ 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
